[{"Title":"Non-exciting but realistic SF movie","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"124 out of 184 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was amazed when reading so many bad reviews . O.K. there're no spectacular Aliens and we're not blinded by non-stop special effects. The movie has more realism than the traditional Holywood science fiction stuff. Many parts of the Mars mission were based on the NASA reference Mars mission . The Mars explorer spaceship is build in Earth orbit . There're 6 crew-members . Artificial gravity to stimulate adaptation to Martian conditions . AMEE a multi-purpose robot with aerial probe . Cushioned landing . Wearable spacesuits . Other points of realism were the accurate 'fire in space' sequence, and the computer technology used by the crew. Red Planet could have been better, but it's decent compared to most  Holywood products. Moreover,  real science fiction is a very small niche market and will never draw nor encourage a broad audience.If you're a fan of science fiction, looking for more realistic spaceflight stuff, watch Red Planet . "},{"Title":"A human face to sci-fi","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"92 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why everybody rips this movie. The special effects are very realistic, down to the pink-tinted Martian sky. The plot is plausible (for science fiction), paying attention to many small details that often make these kinds of movies farcical. Most important, it's very existential; humans simply trying to survive against almost insurmountable odds. As the struggle builds, the relationships begin to gel nicely. This IS a movie about human relationships, not Star Wars style hype. I know, there are some weak spots. The opening and closing dialog, Val Kilmer whispering all the way through, some of the dialog, etc. But overall, this movie doesn't try to do too much (unlike the abysmal Mission To Mars), and that's what makes it a success. "},{"Title":"I couldn't get enough...very original!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"102 out of 169 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I honestly loved Red Planet. I thought that Kilmer did a great job playing the rebellious yet skilled character that he was so deft at in the 80's. I also felt that Moss added another good performance that was similar to her soldier yet woman role from Matrix. The thought of not only oxygen but LIFE on Mars had not really been touched yet but it worked out greatly..think about it the actors can actually do their thing without having to wear a bulky space suit the whole time...it adds a lot of fast moving action and real drama to the movie. I also love Sizemore's performances. I guess if you like the actors and are open to a new kind of sci-fi/action plot, you at least should give this movie a shot. I loved it! "},{"Title":"A straight-forward science fiction movie","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I avoided most of the Mars movies when they came out in the past 4 years because the reviews were mostly bad and none of the trailers inspired me. I eventually caught MISSION TO MARS on TV and I was glad I didn't see it at the movies or even rented it. But now I rented RED PLANET last night and I have to say that I liked it a lot. It's much better than the hokey De Palma movie. There are a lot of weaknesses in it but even with all it's faults, the whole package worked.The problems with RED PLANET Val Kilmer is miscast. He doesn't seem interested in the story and his acting is lazy. He looks like a lost surfer dude on Mars. They should have hired another actor instead of Kilmer. Some characters were weak (Stamp and Bratt). The designs of the ship's interior were a tad cheesy. The dialogue was sometimes terrible. And the story had some major holes in it, like the idea that the ship's censors didn't detect the breathable atmosphere on Mars.But aside from those problems, the rest is fun. It's a straight forward science fiction story. If you don't like that kind of story, you'll certainly won't like this. It reminded me of ROBINSON CRUSOE ON MARS or PITCH BLACK, in the way it respected the sci-fi themes and elements without watering them down for the audience. Tom Sizemore and Carrie-Anne Moss are excellent in their roles. Some of the cinematography is excellent. And while the fx are uneven (sometimes spectacular, sometimes obvious), the overall look of the film is always credible. And the ending is thrilling.If you like straight forward science fiction films like me, you'll enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Red Planet is a great rainy, Saturday afternoon film","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"42 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Whoa there kids!  Red Planet is just a movie and in my opinion a pretty good sci-fi picture.  Yes, it is not 2001 A Space Odyssey or Mission to Mars (which I think was ridiculous).  It is not meant to be.  Maybe the characters are not fully developed but name a science fiction movie where the characters are completely developed.  The movie is called Red Planet not Who are the People Who are Going to Mars to Save Earth? and we join the action in media res which means in the middle of things so character development is not stressed in the beginning.  Good grief.  People throw around scientific, cinematic, and character development flaws with the movie instead of trying to enjoy the suspense of this movie.You are stuck on the planet Mars.  No food or water.  Someone on the crew is already dead and another is a little sketchy.  You have a limited time to get off the planet, your friendly neighborhood military robot has decided to play Seek and Destroy, and something mysterious is happening on the surface of Mars involving tiny, bio-luminescent aphids.So imagine all of that and you will get an idea of what the writers and director wanted to recreate for the audience.  I liked this movie.  I recognize there are flaws in the movie and possibly the acting but honestly I thought it was a great premise.  Reminded me of the Greek myth of Jason and Argonauts on their quest for the Golden Fleece.I would give the movie 4 stars out of a possible 5.  Before you write and tell me how inaccurate or misguided a movie-goer I am realize I have read the classic sci-fi adventures from the likes of Heinlein, Clarke, and Bradbury.  They would recognize the film for what it was a piece of escape fiction that had its moments of comedy, intelligence, and suspense. "},{"Title":"Fairly good Sci-Fi entertainment.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet builds on an interesting premise - send bioengineered algae to Mars to produce oxygen so that settlers can leave the increasingly polluted Earth and preserve mankind.  However, the algae starts to disappear, based on Earth measurements, so about 2050 a team is sent to Mars to find out why. They encounter the mandatory storyline problems - a sunflare triggers a burst of radiation which mainly disables the mothership so the crew has to escape prematurely, but the captain (Carrie-Ann Moss of Matrix fame) stays behind to try and salvage the ship, otherwise they are all doomed to be stranded on Mars.The 4 men make a very rough landing, and even with the balloons deployed, the older one gets a ruptured spleen and stays behind to die. The others make it to the home base that had been built previously, only to find it destroyed and all supplies gone. About to die of oxygen starvation, Kilmer opens his mask to find they can breath. So, the rest of the film is their dealing with one difficulty after another, not the least of which is an ice storm with 115 mph winds and minus 53 degree temperature. One by one they expire, but Kilmer gets to a 50-year-old Russian module that had failed to fire, and with a jury-rigged old radio and 50-year-old modem is able to download instructions to launch the ship.  He gets into orbit, Carrie-Ann retrieves him, they finally kiss!Kinda cheesy in many places, most of the science is very shaky, some of the funny lines are clever, others are stupid, but as a Sci-Fi film not to be taken too seriously, it is fun entertainment, especially on DVD with a good sound system. The Dolby 5.1 surround channels are used very well, and the several blasts and explosions are very energetic. Carrie-Ann only does one nude shower scene and it is near the beginning, about 8 minutes into the film.  "},{"Title":"A really great film!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"48 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Looking at the other comments i think people really have a hatred to sci-fi films at the mo.  I know that Mission to Mars was bad, i'd be the 1st to admit that......but that doesn't mean that all other sci-fi films are going to be bad.  Last year we had Pitch Black which i thought was okay.........and we had Red Planet.Red Planet came with a reasonably large budget, a really superior cast to Mission to Mars and absolutely great special effects.  The main story line in itself is not ground breaking, but the sub plots within the film give the film its real grip!A crew of 4 astranauts and 2 science officers agree to board a mission into building a new home on mars through the aid of making it a breathable atmosphere through the aid of planting algae.Then in comes your usual suprises, the spacecraft that their in hits critical conditions causing them to land on Mars earlier than they wanted to and therefore building a storyline of what they are going to do to get back to earth.The sub plot involving the crews relationship between pentigill who was a last minute choice for the mission is excellent.  Simon Baker plays the character excellently and you never know wether to trust him or hate him. The special effects on the robot AMEE were outstanding aswell, this created the suspence part of the film.I gave this film 9/10 because i love sci-fi and i thought that it was well acted and had a really decent storyline. "},{"Title":"Mars in 2000","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What a perfect rivalry this film has with Brian De Palma's Mission to Mars. Two films coming out in the same year, set on the same planet, with the same production values and featuring casts of equal talent. While both movies also feature numerous scientific inaccuracies and stupidities, each has something different to offer. If you are looking for mystique, try Mission to Mars, but if you want action or thrills, then go with Red Planet.Set in the mid twenty first century, Earth is dying, and humanity has turned to Mars as a potential replacement. An unmanned terraforming experiment has been attempted (according to the introductory narration) Months later, it appears to have failed, so a group of astronauts are sent out to investigate. They are surprised and excited to discover not only breathable air but the existence of life on the barren cold red world. When their space craft shuts down however, not only are they stranded, but they become threatened by the malfunctioning of their navigator droid 'Amee'. These few individuals must survive to carry the news back to Earth which proves that man can live on the Red Planet.I think the story works decently as a nifty sci-fi thriller. Mars in this film looks quite convincing, because the terrain closely resembles the photographs taken by the Pathfinder in 1997. The color scheme is made up of browns and tans, rather than the over saturated red from Mission to Mars. Ret Planet was received better than Brian De Palma's movie, and I can see why. Although neither of them are examples of great filmaking, I would recommend them both. "},{"Title":"GOOD, INTELLIGENT THROWBACK TO 1950S SCI-FI","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Movies like Red Planet remind me why I enjoy science fiction so much. Most sci-fi films today put the special effects first before characterizations. While that's not a bad idea (I have enjoyed several films in that vein such as Independence Day), films can become too dependent on that and that's when the fun drains away.Red Planet is a film that has solid special effects, but also a strong story and good characterizations. It was the second film released in 2000 to have Mars as its backdrop, the first being Mission to Mars. Mission to Mars, despite having top stars,master craftsman Brian DePalma directing and phenomenal special effects, was a little too pat and resorted to cliches (Not that I blame DePalma; he did the best he could with the script he had and the film wasn't bad at all)I didn't know anything about the plot and I think that helps with a film like Red Planet. It allows suspense to be created from the series of crises that spring up on the astronauts and that's a benefit. But I will say this the marketing campaign for Red Planet advertises this as your typical good guys versus evil aliens action fest. It is not. This is a more intelligent and stylish film than given credit for. It owes more to 2001 and The Black Hole or even the classic Republic serial Radar Men from the Moon than Alien. It is about ideas, not effects and I LOVE films like that.I know a great many people will hate this film. That is because popular culture has brainwashed people into thinking mass entertainment revolves around effects only. There are some flaws (mostly in technological probability and pacing in the first 20 minutes)but writer Chuck Pfarrer and director Antony Hoffman remember that great sci-fi is also about the story and characters and the result is the best sci-fi film in recent years.***1/2 out of 4 stars  "},{"Title":"Better Val than Nothing","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are worse ways to spend 100 minutes.  Val Kilmer was lots of fun, Carrie-Ann Moss actually CAN act, and the screen-writers actually had HALF a brain.  Okay, so they ignored the whole gravity thing, but at least that had a reason why the characters didn't run out of air.  It wasn't a great reason, but at least it was a reason.It plays like some mediocre sci-fi story that might have been written in the 1950's.  And next to the indescribably awful Mission to Mars, this movie is Citizen Kane.  Screenwriter Chuck Pfarrer isn't too incredibly original, but director Antony Hoffman put it together pretty decently.  An A for effort, but the movie is only a 6 or 7 out of 10, depending on how YOU feel about the actors.Unlike, say, Mission to Mars, which had a great cast working from a script written by drunken chimapanzees. "}{"Title":"not marvelous, but worth the time you spare to see it","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red Planet may not be sufficient when rated as a science-fiction, but for people who watch the movie for its plot and not with expectations of very high technology and special effects, its not a disappointing one.It starts with a slow tempo, and although the whole movie takes place far from earth, we are not blinded by non-stop special effects. Instead Anthony Hoffman gives us the story he is telling and does not care much whether he satisfies the science-fiction lovers. By staying away from the unnecessary effects, he keeps our attention on the theme.The suspense in the movie is quite good, although not many big surprises occurs.Biggest negative point for me (as a guy not interested in effects but in the way the director tells what he has to say) is Hoffman fails to show us the relationship between the crew and gives us his characters with simple out lines. I guess he knows his weakness here, and so he makes his captain (Carrie-Anne Moss) describe all her crew members one by one.Finally if you are not especially looking for a science-fiction but say you can watch one, Red Planet will not be a very bad choice. I rate the film 6, but its 6,5 actually. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film blemished by avoidable scientific blunders","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  RED PLANET is decent science fiction in a year that brought us some relatively weak competition in the genre. Outstanding special effects, a competent cast, great sound, and an artistic eye for set design are the film's strong points. After what seems like a long drought, it's nice to see the sleek Carrie-Anne Moss back on the screen. Serious, pragmatic, and physically fit, she is a natural choice for a mission commander. Some might argue that she and the other characters are somewhat wooden, but I would counter that coolness is a requisite trait in those individuals who are selected to fly such a mission. The director had to choose between verisimilitude and dramatic impact, and I applaud his riskier choice of the former.Special effects and set design really stand out and are worth the price of admission. Just when you are thinking that they are going to use the typical cop-out of artificial gravity on a spaceship, the centrifuges fail, and we are treated to some of the best weightlessness scenes ever filmed. Other reviewers have complained that fire scenes in the ship look fake, but how are we supposed to know what fires look like in free-fall in the first place? I think the f/x people did a great job in speculating on how a fire would behave in such conditions. Scenes on Mars were breathtaking, I think better even than those of this year's earlier release, MISSION TO MARS. Also, this is the first film I can recall that tried to do anything with the fact that Mars gravity is about one-third that of Earth's. I realize that low-g is difficult to simulate on film, but I do applaud the filmmakers for the small (and humorous) attempt they made to accommodate it.While I do recommend seeing this feature in theatrical release for the majesty of the picture and sound, this is not to say there aren't a lot of problems, some quite massive. Generally these relate to plausibility1. The ship design is totally outlandish. The thing is _huge_, with oodles of wasted space. There are two enormous counter-rotating centrifuges to simulate gravity for the crew; this makes the ship more on the scale of the space station envisioned in 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY. This is for a crew of six! And with all that wasted mass, the Mars landing module is not much bigger than an Apollo lunar module. Was there any kind of space travel expert to advise the filmmakers on how ridiculous this is?2. The Martian terraforming theory is completely at odds with what is known about the planet from probes that have been going there since 1976. The movie explains that nuclear weapons are sent to the polar caps to melt (actually sublime) the CO2 ice, which then acts as a greenhouse gas to heat up the atmosphere. When it's warm enough, algae are introduced to generate oxygen. The problem is that THERE IS NO WATER ON THE SURFACE OF MARS, GUYS. Algae can't grow without water. Then, there are other ecological aspects that are even more ridiculous, but to go into those gives away too much of the plot. Just be prepared to have your suspended sense of disbelief pulled out from under you.3. Stupid little script errors that a little research could have avoided. First, don't try to do CPR the way Carrie-Anne Moss did it in the film; it's completely wrong. The geneticist remarks that his work is all about genetic code, you know, A, G, T, and P. The problem is that THERE IS NO 'P'. It's 'C' for cytosine. Again, sloppy writing.Now, I realize that there are perennially dyspeptic science nerds out there who can never enjoy a science fiction movie because of this or that little inaccuracy. Trust me; I'm not one of those, and I can suspend disbelief as well as the next person. But RED PLANET just pushes it way too far, to the extent that there is compromise of the movie-watching experience. If you know little about science and nothing about Mars, you may rate the film fairly high, but otherwise, be prepared for a jolt. "},{"Title":"It is an entertaining film with interesting special effects","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Around 2050, the planet Earth is blue and brown by the action of many pollutants that make it uninhabitable. Mars is the planet chosen to send unmanned probes carrying algae can produce oxygen. But the sudden and unexplained decrease in oxygen levels motivates the first voyage of a U.S. manned spacecraft to Mars in order to solve the mystery.The title is borrowed from the work of science fiction namesake. It's a part of a trilogy of hard science fiction, the most important of the 90. That is technologically and scientifically accurate.Red Planet is inspired in equal parts on 2001 A Space Odyssey and films of sci-fi genre in the early 50's. The first source is a simple dating game more or less obvious. The second source, the development of your script, it seems outdated production except for the luxurious special effects that fill your footage.Moreover, it is an interesting story. Even the special effects are worthy of general approval, because at no point does one consider the existence of scenery on the planet Earth. It is a film that is entertaining, but that might have great qualities for its screenplay and ambiance. "},{"Title":"Fun times...","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Top notch actors, and good special effects make this film exciting. The major drawbacks is that the scientific ideas behind it all were developed by Hollywood screen writers, which of course, is bad.Someone thought it would be a good idea to have living humans land on Mars with an airbag capsule like robotic NASA missions land.Someone also thought nobody would have a problem believing that somehow the atmosphere on Mars has changed enough that humans can breathe the air.And someone decided that a Nematode was a glassy Martian cockroach that could make all this believable... (Biology tip for Hollywood Nematodes are a type of worm)These problems aside, the scenery for Mars is perhaps the most convincing of all Mars movies yet made, and there's a nice little visit to the Sojourner rover, and a scathing insult to Russian technology, which has traditionally suffered from the challenges of Mars. "},{"Title":"the better of the Mars movies","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is another science-fiction film exploring the possibilities of life on Mars.  However, the life that is found on Mars isn't really the emphasis of the film.  This film is more of a survival story, like Apollo 13, in which everything is going wrong and the crew must use every resourceful bone in their bodies to stay alive.  Most of the story is believable.  Though where the life on Mars came from (the bugs, not the algae) is kind of a mystery. (I thought the theory of spontaneous generation had been disproved!)The story has some occasional flashbacks in the narrative that, I thought, worked well.  The budding romance between Bowman and Gallagher is believable.  These two characters are very likeable, and so is Sizemore's. Moss is going to continue to grow as an actress in the film industry, mostly because directors in Hollywood are going to want her in their films.  She conveys an inner strength, like Weaver did in Alien and Aliens.  She's very sexy, yet she can easily be believable as a Ph.D like in Red Planet.  And she doesn't bring so much of a personality or ego to the screen like most stars do.  (though perhaps that's because she's just begun as an actress)There is some exciting scenes in this film, with excellent special effects that never dominate the film.  The directing is good--some scenes were quite effective emotionally.  The dialogue is good, ten times better than the dialogue in Mission To Mars, which was terrible at times.  Red Planet has some good humor too.  And Red Planet's climax/ending was far better than the hokey climax of Mission to Mars (which was conveniently narrated to the intellectually challenged).I give Red Planet three stars (or an 8 rating on here).  Science-fiction devotees certainly should not miss this one.  Nor should those who are interested in space and space exploration in a more scientific, less fictional, way.  Some of the vistas on Mars are very impressive.  However, one thing that might bother the truly scientific was the artificial gravity on the ship.  Mission to Mars used a centrifuge, which is much more believable (even though it was too small and moved to slow to be truly effective).  However, that is certainly not a major drawback to Red Planet. "},{"Title":"Something old, something new...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  	Director Antony Hoffman's Red Planet is an old-fashioned sci-fi action picture with some modern twists.   The gum-chewing, wise-cracking mechanic, who would have been a quickly-killed-off supporting character in a 1950s movie, is now the lead.  He is solidly played by the quirky Val Kilmer.  The tough-as-nails, damn-my-orders-I'll-save-my-crew captain is a woman-Carrie-Anne Moss from The Matrix.   The gray-haired old scientist-an underused Terence Stamp-has turned to philosophy and religion, where in the old days he would have been a hard-headed skeptic (that role is left to biologist Tom Sizemore). 	The premise is that, by the year 2057, Earth is so badly polluted that we are seeding the sands of Mars with algae to produce oxygen so that humans can colonize the red planet (don't algae need water to live?)-but the algae have suddenly vanished from our telescopes.  So Commander Bowman and her crew are sent to investigate.  While she orbits in a crippled spaceship, the five men (including pilot Benjamin Bratt and Simon Baker-the obligatory Guy From Brooklyn) land on Mars in a suspenseful crash scene. 	I won't give away what they find, but I will say the solution to the mystery is more like something out of a good science fiction novel than a Hollywood sci-fi movie.  There is life on Mars, but it's not a typical movie monster.  But there is the expedition's robot, AMEE, which is damaged in the crash landing, reverts to its original military programming, and starts stalking the men like a rogue lion.  This leads to scenes reminiscent of another Val Kilmer film, the underrated The Ghost and the Darkness. 	The premise may be far-fetched, but I thought the execution and resolution of Red Planet were exciting and  satisfying.  (And yes, guys, Carrie-Anne does get one brief, gratuitous shower scene.)  I haven't seen Mission to Mars, so I can honestly say that this is the best Mars movie I've seen this year.  "},{"Title":"An above average scifi thriller","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Recap Earth is dying. Mankind's hope stands to Mars. Unmanned probes has sent a type of algae to the red planet in hopes of rising the oxygen level. All seems to go according to plan, but then all algae disappear and the oxygen level starts to drop. A team is sent to the planet to find out what is happening. But as the team approaches the planet, they experience a solar proton event, and the mothership sustains heavy damage. Most of the crew try to evacuate with the landing vehicle, but crashes. The senior member of the team is fatally injured. With limited air supply they head for the pre-built habitat. They arrive, and finds it in ruins. Soon out of air, all hope seem lost. But there are good news and bad news. The good news is that the atmosphere is mysteriously breathable. The bad news is that the team's robot AMEE (on loan from the marines) suffered damage in the landing too, and turned to military mode. And she thinks the ground team is the enemy.Comment A really good scifi thriller movie, where there are so few, and only minor scientific goofs that it doesn't annoy or interfere with the story. In fact, in some aspects it is really good. Also, a lot of the scenery is really beautiful and given just enough time and space in the movie to show it off without making the movie dull. I also think there are some nice special effects and the use of them is just about right. And the sound effect when Gallagher first removes his helmet are really nice too. About the actors, all more or less known, they all do what are expected of them without making a star performance. Best is Sizemore who plays the only character with the right amount of attitude. There are one final thing, i don't know if it is intended or just coincidental. In the movie there are two old probes, one miraculously functioning, it is American, and an old that is malfunctioning. Of course it is Russian. I really hope there is no intentional meaning behind that fact.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sci Fi movies Made this decade","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have tangled with over a dozen people who said this movie was trash.. and each and every one of the viewers 1. Didn't see the movie. 2. Confused it with Tim Robbins' AWFUL Mission to Mars.BOTH MOVIES CAME OUT AT THE SAME TIME.. THE SAME YEAR.. so please get them straight. This movie is fabulous with the zero-G fire aboard the ship and the chilling suffocation struggle which Sizemore brought to new levels of frail humanity. They choke to near death only to learn that Mars has an atmosphere. This isn't the only discovery they make on this creative masterpiece, it seems you can learn a little bit about science by watching this film. Wow! And you thought that this was a no-brainer.uh uh.. Sizemore goes out with a blaze of glory in one of the most eerie suicides i've ever seen on screen. So if you think you've seen this movie.. double check it. "},{"Title":"Yes its is Sci Fi and Its not a bad movie! But not a great movie.","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While there are some mistakes made in the science parts of the movie. The movie is not that bad as indicated by a large number of viewers. Having watched both Mission to Mars and Red Planet back to back thanks to the SciFi channel M2M is not as good as Red Planet. Having watched M2M 3 times now, I would recommend RP 1st. It is a nice twist of the 1950s B grade sci-fi movies.Overall I would recommend the movie. I did enjoy Tom Sizemore and Val Kilmer. Moss's role was limited in imho and the cast was limited as it was. The movie would probably been much better if 1.) the movie had taken more time to tell the story and 2.) there had been a better job of editing. Pros cinema-photography, Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, sci-fi, Cons Lack of character development, a few sci-fact goofs (the space fire is not a goof); film editing. "},{"Title":"Yet Another Twist On The Trip-To-Mars Idea, But A Good One","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was released the same year as Mission To Mars and both movies had an interesting twist to them.While Mission To Mars dealt humans visiting the planet and dealing with the face on Mars and a previous civilization living on that planet at one time, Red Planet dealt with humans trying to colonize the planet but running into a problem they didn't count --- life still being there.I would suggest viewing both movies as companions to each other. "}{"Title":"Well-Above Average Sci-Fi Film","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I found this to be much better than average among science-fiction films, a very pleasant surprise. To its credit, it resists the temptation to overdo the violence and still keeps the viewer entertained throughout the 106 minutes with some inventive material.The visuals are good and the special-effects with the robot AMEE are excellent and fun to watch. The characters in here are neutral not really likable good guys but not bad guys, either. Also to the film's credit, the profanity is pretty low, at least compared to most films today. Val Kilmer, Carie-Anne Moss, Tom Sizemore and Terrence Stamp are recognizable names in here. I don't know if this film ever got its just due. It's better than the ratings you see here on IMDb. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining Hollywood movie.","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a very fun to watch movie, but it has some flaws The plot is basic Hollywood formula, and also there are some holes in the script that annoyingly could have been fixed by a few extra lines, But the film also has many upsides, such as a good mystery, decent suspense, and cool FX. The acting is decent too, and the hole ridden plot still manages to keep it together. In all this is a decent sci-fi film. I recommend this film to people 12 and upOVERVIEW SCORE 7.2/10 "},{"Title":"An Uneven Though Engaging Sci Fi Thriller","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The RED PLANET came out during a time when two other sci fi movies with Mars as their primary subject matter came out it is with this fascinating opportunity that comparisons abound. Unlike STRANDED (2001), the RED PLANET takes an average, somewhat predictable script that attempts to retain technical integrity with a stereotypical plot outline of survival on Mars along with some fairly manipulative plot devices and comes up with a decent and engaging movie. The weaknesses, however, intrude at moments as the death toll rises and the action, special effects and disasters mount, though some of the scenes, particularly in the beginning are shot for all they are worth even though its just sometimes unbelievable. The actors make do with their dialogue which even though there isn't as much life to some of it, is technically consistent most of the time and practical at other times. The movie is uneven, attempting to be everything to everybody - a serious technically correct movie like 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY (1968). RED PLANET even takes the computer plot and expands it in a way that is more a horror monster subgenre rather than a sci fi conumdrum that 2001 was able to maintain. A much better job of a straight forward and realistic and serious sci fi drama is captured in STRANDED. At the same time, RED PLANET strives for psychological and physical action thrills that are found in the more polished and richly produced MISSION TO MARS (2000), released the same year as RED PLANET and contains a more sci fi theme with a stronger alien plot like CONTACT (1997). Overall, the RED PLANET is true to itself and follows in the mold of other decent survival movies with not much more, but with an above average commitment to serious sci fi science and speculation distinguishing it from the rest of the pack. "},{"Title":"Aims towards realism","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies which leans towards the realistic end of the spectrum. No aliens (well, hardly any, and those which you do meet are critters which have responded to the terra-forming started by humans), and a primarily science based plot, albeit given some dramatic tension due to various horrible but moderately credible happenings fire on board, dreadful landing, robot malfunction, race against time etc.The movie is always interesting if seldom thrilling, and gives a good idea of what one imagines it might be like to be on Mars (if the NASA photos are anything to go by, at any rate).The reason why it is perhaps less involving than it ought to be is that, apart from Val Kilmer's character, none of the characters is very much more than a cut-out, just waiting for their turn to be killed by some aspect of the disastrous mission. "},{"Title":"Very Under Rated","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a great sci-fi movie. Enjoyable from start to finish. Was surprised to see the low review on here. The storyline is very engaging and the production quality is fantastic. I also recently watched Mission To Mars which came out around the same time. That movie was terrible. Such cheesy, typical Hollywood characters. Anyway, I digress. None of that exists in Red Planet, it stays focused on offering the viewer a realistic look at future Sci-Fi. Set around 2050, we see a plausible adventure to Mars. All the set designs, from the space-ship, to all the Mars scenes were done extremely well. Interesting characters dealing with the issues that arise. See this movie! you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Gem ...","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a great sci-fi gem; it was suspenseful and visually fascinating to watch. The story was pretty different from most sci-fi movies and that's what makes it such a treat to watch.Basically, the movie takes place decades in future and follows a group of scientists that is sent to Mars with a special mission find out why a terraforming process has stopped. It is the first human mission to Mars and is a desperate one because the Earth is slowly succumbing to overpopulation and pollution.Although a few of the characters are a bit on the extreme side, the story and special effects are great. The plot moves fast and things are always happening. Because the story is somewhat unconventional, it is hard to know what is going to happen next. The special effects are very well done and nicely complement the story.Interestingly, the tone of the story is pretty different than most Mars movies. Instead of an alien planet/aliens approach, this movie has a strong scientific and rational tone about it.This a great movie to watch. Because it has a stronger science feel than most sci-fi movies, it will be most appreciated by an adult audience. "},{"Title":"Good and Bad, Bad and Good.....Good Bad, Yeah that's it.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Entertaining enough - It's a good movie spoiled by some bad stuff.The Good- Surreal. At times you really a great sense of great distance and isolation. It gets spooky, especially when they encounter the field of green algae you just keep thinking 'how bizarre' and it's great. Sometimes a style that is reminiscent of Japanese cinema - Brilliant. - Colors. Great use of color - the planet for one at times seems very much that same rust red you know from real pictures. The helmet and spacesuit lights great use of orange, lime and indigo colors. - Carrie Anne Moss. Yesssssss. Yummy. - Accurate. Like 2001 a space odyssey - they did their homework.- Love the Russian spacecraft - especially the little icon of the happy space bear which similar to software even today such as the way clippy appears to help you write a letter in Word.The Bad- AMEE - stupid dog-like robot that would appeal more to a 12 yr old. It could have been really scary but you feel like someone had a field day on the cgi stuff. - Spacesuits. They looked like kids toys enlarged. - Some of the Writing. 'F*** this planet' with the bird extended - out of place and dumb. 'Ill trust my PhD' c'mon. Also, the voice of Mission control was lame lame lame- Gadgets, set design etc. Overbudgetted and cheezy, but not good cheezy. - Carrie anne moss. The scenes of her being hot were too brief.When you watch this movie, try to ignore the bad stuff, or, if you have crap taste, the other way 'round. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was so bad that I even decided to comment on it. In fact, at first I thought it was good. Honestly, for about 40 minutes I enjoyed it. Then the only character who could have brought some philosophy and deeper thoughts was silenced (I mean the old scientist guy). And the film turned into some comedy when the robot began making karate moves. Oh, come on! What were they thinking, that this would add some thrills to the movie? It was plain stupid. Period. The events were predictable, and because of that it was boring to watch. The acting was disappointing. The remaining crew members somehow don't give a thought about the others that were lost forever on Mars, they seem to be perfectly fine and under no stress. I guess there are only few good sci-fi movies out there... "},{"Title":"If you make a point, make sure it's correct!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" People who either do not watch properly, or fail to understand the points in movies that they then comment on ANNOY ME GREATLY! Val Kilmer had a cardiac arrest, that is why he is given heart massage. I dunno why he has a heart attack, probably the stress of the whole 'exiting the atmosphere of mars at a massive rate of knots' thing! I watched this film on C4 last night after reading a review that called it 'shocking'. It's not shocking, it's actually surprisingly original.The director gives us a great sense of the hopelessness of the astronauts' plight with his long shots of martian landscapes, and the plot centres on taking all the worst and best bits of mankind (as is stated at the end) and transplanting them to the vast 'arena' that is mars to see which will triumph. It's not supposed to be exciting, Alien-type action from beginning to end, it's more a study of good vs evil, creationism vs darwinism (stamp vs sizemore), questioning faith and belief, all set as far away from the normal context of these as is possible.The characters could have been developed a lot further, and Mr Stamp could have been a lot less wooden, but I think the film was a brave attempt at making a sci-fi movie with a difference, dealing with the problems with humanity and not just a lot of big, slavering beasties! The sfx were good, the kind of low-key ones that enhance a film, rather than take it over (Mr Lucas take note...). AMEE was one of the best-looking cgi robots i have ever seen, appearing mechanically accurate for the most part. The space parts were a wee-bit Babylon 5 (ie made in a bedroom somewhere), and i liked the technology (space suits, glass circuits, bouncy landing pod thingy), all looked like the kind of thing that are derivative of what we have now, we COULD have these things in 50 years time.Overall, the film ain't perfect, but it's a damn site better than 'shocking'. "},{"Title":"If you want a living definition of hokey, corny sci-fi bomb...","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Plot The world's eco-system is going down the drain, and we've been forced to terraform Mars. The only problem the terraforming has gone horribly wrong (or something like that). The solution send the cliche crew of six or seven guys and one hot chick on a mission to the Red Planet, hence the name.Just one problem ... okay, more than one problem. The first one being this that the movie is as riddled with cliches as a rabbit's cage is riddled with... well, you know. I mean, if you want to list Sci-fi cliches, this movie has them all (or pretty darn near)--the robot that goes crazy killing people, the woman saving the guy's life, all the crew members except for the two main characters being killed off one by one... you name it, we got it, with a special two-for-one on spoken cliches!The second problem? Can we say bad acting all the way around? Okay, so I haven't seen everything Val Kilmer's been in... maybe it was the fact that he didn't really have a part to speak of, which brings me to problem number three bad, bad writing. I mean, we're not just talking about Are you thinking what I'm thinking? Yeah, I think so... bad writing, we're talking about insert name here, I am your father bad writing. I mean, if Lucas could do it, so can I, right? No, man, it only works once.If I were you, I'd rent Mission to Mars instead. I mean, it sucks a sour lollipop, but at least it doesn't suck a rotten, run-over, mangled, bug-ridden lollipop. "}{"Title":"Better than Mission to Mars, but a bit unrealistic.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILER WARNING**The Earth is overcrowded, the humans planted therefore a new form of moss on the mars. The Contact became disconnected and a few investigators flew there to analyze. The Habitat became destroyed and now there are on the Red Planet, alone.The Story isn't bad and the Visual Effects aren't bad too, the only thing that disturbed me was the robot 'Amee'. A scientific robot, designed to examine rocks from mars. It's very unrealistic that a scientific robot which was designed to examine stones, moves like a cat. It's very good animated but very unrealistic, 'Amee' scours on mars like a cat, with a free will. Although, it's a good movie and carrie-ann moss plays very good. I liked it more than Mission to mars, which was horrible.6/10  "},{"Title":"Better than that crap-laden Mission to Mars vomit-fest.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It wasn't a great movie, but it was engaging. The characters had more depth than you find in most Sci Fi thrillers, and of course, Val Kilmer and Tom Sizemore were exceptional.  The matrix Chick wasn't bad either. "},{"Title":"Terence why did you let us down?","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  MINOR SPOILER The only actor who could have provided the movie with a really interesting side disappears in the first third.Terence Stamp 's character brought thoughts about God and His creation;and the actor was far ahead of wooden actors such as Kilmer,Moss and co. END OF SPOILERThe rest of the movie could happen anywhere at all in the jungle,in the desert,in Antarctica ,on a desert island ....or on Mars.It's the umpteenth story of a group of men -note that the woman,although a superior officer,stays in the spaceship - who 's got to fight a hostile environment;and the question still remainslook,who's gonna die now? THe cinematography is beautiful ,but the plot is barely entertaining. Get Christian Duguay's screamers(1995) instead "},{"Title":"Better than most people claim, better than most sci-fi movies. But not brilliant.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is received as some sort of ok-ish sci-fi flick, but I really think there is more than that. It has got some really cool scenes and sort of 'believable' technology in it. The way the crew operates the controls and does system checks is really slick. And finally a talking main computer that was very well done intelligent but with some buggy AI flaws. When the crew hits the planet it goes a little downhill the script starts to wear out. The crew is being attacked by their own robot for got sakes!. Is that the best excitement they could think of for a team going all the way to mars? The whole issue with the local biology is also kind of shaky, but acceptable still. Anyway, it sure isn't perfect, but I felled urged to let you know it is not nearly as bad as some people make you believe. Good action, good technology and some memorable scenes make it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"fair effort, worth a look","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet tells the story of a crew of astronauts sent to Mars to investigate an experiment gone awry.  It seems NASA had already transplanted algae to the planet (with the help of robots) and it thrived for awhile.  Now it looks as though the algae has died, but why? So off our crew goes to Mars and the trip itself proves uneventful; things go seriously wrong, however, just as the crew is about to land on the planet.  The spaceship is in trouble and one crew member stays behind to make repairs.  The rest of the astronauts make an attempt to land on the planet, a landing that is less than perfect.  Things continue to deteriorate until there is great worry that the mission will fail.  But does it? The cast has some fine members, such as Terence Stamp, Val Kilmer, and Carrie Ann Moss; they play their parts adequately.  The special effects are good and contribute to the overall enjoyment of the film.  While the script may not be as exciting as it should be, it will hold the interest of the viewer.  All in all, this is a fair-to-good effort that will be enjoyed by many science fiction fans and by those that aren't as well. "},{"Title":"Dead Planet","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Val Kilmer as a janitor, now why does that appeal to me so much? Because of his performance in Batman Forever?  Nope, contrary to what one might think, Kilmer is quite good in that piece of crap, better than his predecessor Michael Keaton, I thought.  I even liked him in Thunderheart and The Doors (and I hate Oliver Stone) and even the universally panned Top Secret!  It's his decimation of The Saint that makes his suffering in Red Planet so pleasing to me. Don't ever ruin tv icons, dude, or I'll root against you.Red Planet has some great cinematography, great scene fades and the red tinge to all the Mars stuff is ingenius.Carrie Anne Moss puts in a good performance but her appearance here (and in Memento) convinces me she's really nowhere near as hot as she looks in The Matrix.  The Wachowski brothers must have used one hell of an airbrush in The Matrix.The story is astronauts crashland on Mars and play a game of survival until only Kilmer and AMEE, a robot probe gone a bit whacko, are left.  Now the previews made this out to be a suspense thriller with these two playing cat and mouse but that's not the case, not until the last fifteen minutes, that is.And while I rooted for AMEE, Kilmer is still good here and Red Planet is still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"could've used more of something....","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First off, the same 6 people that would actually fly this mission wouldn't be so trendy and cool.  Makes for good fodder for the masses, but a little empty for the intellectual set.  Would've been better if the plot resembled  Event Horizon or Pitch Black a little more.  Still, it was far better than that other Mars movie, Mission to Boredom!(Mars).  For such a tragic story, your left feeling little if no sympathy for anyone in the movie....? Overall, pretty good movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi Flick","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When i heard that there were 2 movies about a trip to mars being made, I had a feeling it was a bad idea.  After seeing Mission to Mars, I knew that i wasted 8.50 and i also knew that Red Planet could not be any worse.  But it took me a year or 2 to get around to watching it.  So i rented it and watched it with an open mind especially after seeing Mission to Mars, and i must say that i was extremely satisfied with the movie.  It had its flaws, but i was entertained and isnt that what we go to the movies for?  I liked the plot of the movie..it was at times confusing but if you pay attention you will get it.  I was very impressed with Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss's performances.  It isnt too long or too short and it doesnt take long to get moving.  If youre a fan of sci fi, looking for something different, or youre just flat out bored, get Red Planet and watch it. "},{"Title":"Hard Sci Fi, Not the Usual Pablum","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet has action, tension, adventure, but without furry Aliens (see Mission to Mars) or stupid schtick. The plot is fairly dark.First off, the humans are off to Mars not in a sense of exploration, but desperation, seeking answers to help a dying earth. Everything goes wrong on the mission no spoilers here, but let's just say Murphy's Law in Outer Space might apply. The mission commander has to try to save the mother ship from massive systems failure while the crew on the planet are in danger of being picked off, one by one, but a variety of forces.This movie might've gotten short shrift since it's a techno-scientific yarn with a lot of unpleasant characters put into conflict with one another. But other than the usual scientists-not-acting-scientific and the mlitary-types being seen as all gung-ho and not disciplined -- all the usual problems in such a plot, no doubt -- the characterizations are fine. Criticism of hero Val Kilmer as not being charismatic enough or the dialogue not being scintillating enough miss the point,  and the underlying story of the comfort of civilization vs. the cruelty of nature. The story moves along in a fairly sprightly manner after the usual exposition in flight, and the adventure of survival.All in all, a lot more of a true science fiction story than any of the contemporary space yarns that came out around the time it did, and I expect it will wear a lot better over the years. "},{"Title":"An action packed suspenseful thriller.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is a thriller about the first manned mission to Mars.  When things go wrong, the crew always finds a way to survive.  The movie holds in suspense with good special effects and fairly good scenery, but could be better in the end. "}{"Title":"Poorly executed Sci-fi thriller!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I was kinda hoping that the critics might have been a little harsh on this film. I was always curious, and I did want to check it out! Now, I realise why the critics slammed it. From the start, the characters were under-developed and uninteresting, and the storyline was extremely predictable. 'Red Planet' had an interesting cast though with Val Kilmer, Carrie Anne Moss, Tom Sizemore, Terence Stamp and Benjamen Bratt. None of them added anything to the film, and Terence Stamp's character was completely wasted and barely developed. There was also no chemistry between Carrie Anne Moss and Val Kilmer. The editing seemed sloppy at times, as well as some of the visual effects, which looked very computer generated. In the scenes on the desert, I swear i could see reflections of some the crew as well. Most of all, I just couldn't get into the story, or feel anything for the main characters, especially our hero! 'Red Planet' lacked the tension it should have had, and it just simply wasn't engaging enough. Funnily enough, one reviewer states that 'Red Planet' was a suspense film and not a science-fiction film. Well, it lacked suspense for me at least, and I would classify it as a Science-fiction thriller if anything. How could 'Red Planet' not be science-fiction? Its based on the future with advanced technology! I would suggest that this reviewer find a different argument when defending his reasons for liking the film! Either way, the science-fiction part was okay, I'm not bothered that some people don't think maps will be like the ones in 'Red Planet' in the future. How do they know the future? Although I did think the computer talking back was a lame joke, i do have to have some suspension of disbelief when watching any science-fiction film. 'Red Planet' science-fiction elements were okay, but the suspense part was completely non-existent and the story lacked the engagement and the performances needed to make a good science-fiction thriller! The editing and some of the effects disappointing as well! ** out of *****! "},{"Title":"shoot the editor","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  About 10 minutes into this film I said to my husband 'Hang on, did that make sense, or was it just a badly timed cut??' He agreed it was a badly timed cut. And there are loads of them. It's not that bad a movie, really - not great, but not bad. But the editing sucks.I would also agree with what other reviewers have said about lack of character development. I gave up trying to figure out who was who after a while and it didn't make much difference to the story!!! "},{"Title":"what's wrong with these people?","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'd have to say that this is one bad movie. First of all they jump into the plot way, way, way, too fast. I could not even know who they were talking about in some scenes, because they didn't talk much about the characters. Another thing, the technology is way too advanced for only being a little bit into our so called future. I know it's sci-fi, but they should make the technology a little less advanced. I mean come on, a computer screen that bends as easy as paper? or a computer that can comment on how well a captain fixes a situation? some things are a little too advanced if you ask me. Same with the space ship that they  are in, a little big? Then that robot that is freakishly huge for what it's supposed to do, it looks like an overgrown AIBO with weapons. "},{"Title":"Naaah...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It starts of really well, this one. Scientists search Mars for a new place to live. The future of humanity rests in their hands. With them they have this little gadgetmoblob of a machine, lend to them by the marine-corps. It looks kinda like an electric cat, and it's very well done, computergraphics-wise...And then they have problems... And then the machine goes beserk... And then they discover something on Mars...It all must have looked great on paper, but there's really nothing to the story. It just draws out forever, and as there's little character - in the characters - nothing draws you. There are a lot of flaws, which could have been avoided, by studying physics AND biologi. This is annoying also.I give a 6 for okay effects, and a good buildup. Still, this one is less than viewable, unless you've been drunk the night before. "},{"Title":"Turkey Planet!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet epitomizes everything I hate about mainstream movies today. A stupid plot and script that a smart twelve year old could out-write, shallow interchangable characters who you don't care whether they live or die, and a predictable climax. Top it all off with lots of (very ordinary) special effects, cos that's ALL we want in a science fiction movie, right? Eye candy.I'm sick of being served up crap like this and being expected to ACCEPT it. NOT GOOD ENOUGH!! Even Val Kilmer looked bored out of his brain with this turkey. But not as bored as you'll be! "},{"Title":"Whew... this is INTENSELY GOOD!!!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hah! got your attention! -)No, this is not a good movie. In fact it sucks. Yeah, sure there is some good acting in it, but what more do you expect from Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss; and the FX are incredible!But where is the original story line? Where is the suspense? I am not going to knock all the plot holes (others before me have done that exceedingly well), but just the idea of bugs eating the algae that was sent to Mars... What did they live off before that? The algae were sent there only 20 years before the mission, so they could not have evolved into these O2-creating marvels of evolution... Even if you look at it from a faith point of view (cheesy way to explain things, which is presented early in the movie), they would still have had to survive somehow...I commented once on Mission to Mars. (if you want to check it out look up Morpheus-20... I lost my password. -)) The gist of that comment was that M2M was INCREDIBLY bad!!! (I cannot emphasize incredibly enough) But that movie had some entertainment value anyway... From a pure B-movie perspective. Even though I wrote that nobody should see M2M (written in the heat of the moment), I still want people to see it, especially after seeing Red Planet. This movie has nothing. Absolutely NOTHING!!I am usually one for letting people make up their own minds about a movie, despite my derogatory comments, but I cannot in good conscience recommend anyone to see this movie. It would just feel wrong...I'll refer to my comment on M2M Don't see this movie! Instead see 2001 and/or Contact. You'll feel better for it!!! "},{"Title":"Among the better sci-fi of recent times","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The usual technical flaws are there of course (even half a century from now movie electric circuitry still hasn't invented fuses and you get lots of sparking. The Russian escape vehicle looked big enough to lift off the moon, but not Mars, etc.), but it's good sci-fi, miles better than Mission to Mars. A couple of times it seemed to teeter off the rails into B-grade (robot behaving a bit too Alien-ish, bugs burrowing into flesh) but it held onto plausability. The plot was entertaining enough and, if you got rid of the space-jock, the characters were good. The special effects were tops. I'd give it 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Great, but Not Bad Either","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film seems to fit somewhere in the middle of sci-fi films.  It's certainly not in same class as the Star Trek films.  On the other hand Red Planet is certainly better than Mission to Mars or Lost in space.  There are certainly many flaws if you pay any attention to details but, it was ok to watch. 6 out of a possible 10!!! "},{"Title":"Suspense, good story line, Val Kilmer don't bring this film up to Great but it was a fun movie.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the film but found it a little too cowboyish. I like science fiction that is plausable and pointing toward an elevation of humanity.  This film does okay with a believable story line but is no great shakes at making humans look like they get beyond the shoot em up style.  A little violence goes a long way.  Val Kilmer was good, but I liked him better in First Sight and Thunderheart.  He didn't get to develope who he was or why they sent him on the mission.SPOILLER followsSomeone qualified to go on a mars mission to take care of technical repairs is not exactly a janitor and the film seemed to be trying to appeal to people with low self esteem and a chip on their shoulder by making Gallagher out to be a pouting maintenance man brought along to fix things. Come on, most missions take a mechanical or electrical engineer along.  In fact all the characters seemed a bit edgy about their right to be on the mission and acted jealous and resentful of the others.  Not what I would expect of a space mission crew.  Of course I am a Star Trek fan and expect more.  I still enjoyed the film.  "},{"Title":"Good premise squandered by a first time director","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  `Red Planet' is a sci-fi movie that meanders about in search of an identity.  Is it an action flick, a monster movie, a suspense thriller, a love story or a philosophical treatise on the meaning of life?  It tries to be all of these at one point or another and doesn't do any of them exceptionally well.  There is plenty of meat for the hard-core sci-fi lover.  The premise is intriguing.  A desperate human race that has ruined its own environment tries to seed the surface of Mars with algae to create an oxygen atmosphere.  Our heroes travel to Mars to see how the experiment is working and of course, they get hit with every calamity possible once they arrive.  The experiment succeeded but spawned unanticipated consequences and naturally, on top of all their other troubles, the robot guardian designed to protect the crew decides it would be more fun to hunt them down and kill them.The problem with the film is the presentation.  First time feature director Antony Hoffman's pacing is ponderous, making the film seem much longer than it is.  I was surprised to see that it only ran an hour and 46 minutes.  I was sure it was over two hours.  The philosophical angle is superfluous as is the rivalry between some of the crewmembers.  The visual effects are good, but not up to the standard set by `Mission to Mars', though the story here is better and more believable than M2M.The acting is good, particularly Carrie-Anne Moss.  Moss gives her character resourcefulness and toughness without losing the vulnerable side.  Val Kilmer seems unsure how to play his character.  He alternates between bold action hero, and philosophical weenie.  His performance is decent, but I have seen him much better (`Ghost and the Darkness', `The Doors').  I put much of the responsibility for this on the director, since Kilmer has proven he has the talent to handle a strong dramatic lead.  Tom Sizemore is excellent as the geneticist who is desperately trying to figure out the mechanism for what is happening on Mars before their time runs out.I enjoyed this film in parts and yawned through others.  I rated it a 6/10.  In the hands of a stronger director, it could have been a powerful film. "}{"Title":"Thrilling and satisfying","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet isn't a perfect sci-fi film, but it definitely is worth seeing for thrills.  Here, we see how a group of astronauts and scientists (6 of them) go to mars to make it inhabitable, but the plan goes up in smoke. Much better than the Mission to Mars bad film that came out in march, and has anything you would want in a science fiction thriller, but possibly might've been even more classic if in the 50's.  Val Kilmer delivers the best.  A- "},{"Title":"Should be called Worst Case Scenario","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is an exhausting movie to watch. At every turn, the worst possible thing happens, then it gets worse with multiple troubles piling on simultaneously ever faster. The bad luck is relentless and unremitting.There are a number of places I could not sustain belief. One was when the astronauts came across the unexpectedly ruined cache. Surely earth would be monitoring its status by radio.After finding a 1200 baud modem, suddenly CD-quality voice communications became miraculously possible.Mars inexplicably had breathable air -- never before detected with even the most sophisticated instruments.The ultra-trained astronauts mistake the locust-like life of Mars for nematodes (tiny blind worms).The life support system gives only seconds of warning to change tanks before asphyxiation.It is as though none of the equipment or communications gear was ever tested in any way. Nothing works.The renegade robot is appropriately weird and terrifying, though no one ever explains why a Mars explorer robot would be trained in guerrilla warfare and had no off switch. It breaks off attacks to allow other troubles a crack at the heroes, with no explanation why.The flesh-eating locusts are creepy and quite believable. They must have spent a bundle on getting the special effects just right.They survive the -150 degrees F Martian night with their faces and ears exposed. Even a Mongolian yak header from the slopes of Everest could not do that.What's the problem? Don't most sci fi movies completely ignore the laws of science? Yes. The difference is this one tries hard to be realistic, set in the near future. "},{"Title":"Better Than Average.","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Despite agreeing with most of the criticisms published here, I actually quite enjoyed this movie. Critics seem unjustly harsh and may well be 'purists'.There are some pleasant little plot twists that are indeed predictable. For example; when Kilmer's character demonstrates the potential killing prowess of the robot Aimee, you just know that we are being set-up for a future conflict. Something that dangerous would almost certainly entail a remote master de-activator in everyone's kit. And as someone else has pointed out; if the atmosphere was dense enough to breath, it would have been detected by sensors. Indeed; it would have been clearly visible from the ship. The complete destruction of the base station is never adequately explained. How could a moss-munching beetle have the ability to rip open metal? But still, there's no hokum, unlike that pretentiously over-blown 'Mission To Mars'. The characters represent an interesting mix, not dissimilar to those of the 'Nostromo'. Some of the set-pieces are extremely nice. I particularly liked the acrylic roll-up screens, which are said to be the next big thing in home entertainment.I've seen this movie two or three times since it was released and have never felt cheated. I didn't expect too much, but got a little more than that. Sure; it's propped-up by its props, but what sci-fi movie isn't?Don't be put-off by the purists. There's some fine, charismatic actors doing a decent job with a second-rate script and some mostly nice effects.Rent it and give it a whizz. "},{"Title":"Will appeal more to science fiction magazine readers than to science fiction movie watchers","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Traditionally, science fiction movies and television, and science fiction books and short stories have appealed to different audiences. science fiction movies and television often have very little science, but are rather fantastic adventure stories depending for their appeal upon action, acting, and allegory. By contrast, while science fiction books and short stories retain action, a great many have had slightly awkward characterization and somewhat contrived plots, but also are based on far more science and technology. Red Planet reverses this tradition entirely. The strong point in this film is in the visual effects, which are spectacular, and the science and technology are head and shoulders above most science fiction movies, but everything else suffers. Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss both show great evidence of talent, but their performances are choppy, and the other performances are not so good at all. The cause of the problem is obvious. Neither the director nor the screenwriters have much experience, and it shows. The plot is not pulled together well, and the inexperienced director is either unable to extract the best performances, or unable to edit them properly. The effect is of 2001 a Space Odyssey, re-edited from the outtakes, visually and scientifically strong, but not a harmonious work of art.This movie could be an under-appreciated gem however, for the right person. The plot and scientific elements are not so accurate so as to be probable science, but they are as good as it gets for hard science fiction on screen. If you can put up with indifferent acting and somewhat contrived plotting, the comparative soundness of the science and the great visuals will make this a winner. "},{"Title":"Great production; missing plot","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is as great a production as it can get. I found the science to be fairly accurate and not in the least hard to accept. (E.g. the flexible screen/monitors are not yet a reality but there is work being done in that area.) The biology (for terra-forming Mars) seemed reasonable to me. But actually I don't focus so much on every jot and tittle of the science of a sci-fi.A mission to Mars goes wrong and now the stranded astronauts have to survive. That's it. ... yes, that's it. A complete misuse of a great production.Another thing is that there is no human drama involved. One of the weakest moments in the movie is when Kilmer and Sizemore are discussing finding God. Kilmer doesn't say anything like I'll miss him. (meaning Stamp). Pretty weak if you ask me.The real star of the movie is AMEE - an autonomous device that is as cute as she is intelligent and clever. I wish I had her! I kept thinking why didn't they make a real sci-fi with AMEE doing cool stuff!?!? Very disappointing. 6/10-ZafoidPS I gave it a 6 since the production was excellent - the movie itself is a very disappointing 5/10.-Z "},{"Title":"MUCH BETTER than the host of bad reviews","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a GOOD movie - not superb - but GOOD. Most of you are dead wrong by calling it a lame duck.I watched this movie without any expectations, great or small, not having read any reviews yet. This movie has been flogged and battered beyond belief, certainly way beyond my comprehension. Because it's actually a good movie! Not just 'better than the reviews', but a GOOD movie. I'm not usually so baffled by reviews, but here's one where I don't get it. It has several weak points, which is why I took off a couple of points from my rating. I would give it a 7 to 7.5/10, but kicked it up to 8 here just to make a point, really. What people seem to be saying  1) It's silly FALSE. 2) It's boring FALSE. 3) It's full of scientific inaccuracies FALSE. So you see why I'm scratching my head here.The critics are generally wrong here people (although Roger Ebert got it right this time - he gave it a 3/4 stars). For those of you out there who like a decent sci-fi flick, which to me should involve a somewhat believable story based on a projection into the future of some aspect of current scientific thinking, plus suspense, this is a good one. It's not perfect, but the faults don't detract much from the enjoyment. Another point I enjoyed was the attention paid to details. The equipment used makes sense, the comments made are believable and coherent, the physics is properly accounted for in most cases (within limits of some artistic license of course), Certainly it's FAR better movie than, say, Mission to Mars. Also MUCH better than the obscenely ridiculous Armageddon for example, which got its share of criticisms, but not like Red Planet's organized barrage of negativism. Sad.So there are my three cents. It's a good movie, especially for fans of true sci-fi. It DOES suffer at a few points from a little too much Hollywoodism, but its qualities outweight its faults in this case.Rent it and expect the worst - and you'll be VERY pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Proof there is no hope for mankind","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I asked my friends if we should go rent a movie and their channel surfing ran across Red Planet.  And whoa, it's Trinity (Moss)!The movie opens with the characters heading for Mars until a mechanical failure starts reaking havoc.  The rest of the movie is how they overcome this initial setback.  In other words, what should have been a brief attention grabber was turned into an entire plot.  There was absolutely no attempt to segue into something the viewer might actually find intriguing.Character development is non-existent save for awful chatter about the meaning of life at the beginning of the film.  Hint if you found this scene intriguing, you might be devolved enough to enjoy this film.  Oh, and apparently there's some sort of rivalry going on between two of the characters and one pushes the other off a cliff.  You'd think this is a setup for something later on in the movie.  You would be wrong.Extremely plastic effects.Robot buddy malfunctions and kills people.  An old cliche that can still work if done right.  This movie is an example of how to do it wrong.Science-wise this movie is only rivalved by Independence Day's use of a laptop computer to 'upload' a virus to the alien ship.  I'm not exagerating in the least.  They stumble across an old russian satelite and count themselves lucky when they see it's using an (quote) off-the-shelf-modem. Then proceed to attach what amounts to a cel phone antenae and are once again able to communicate with trinity up in orbit.  Great to see we'll still be be v.90 compatible in the future.  At least Independence Day didn't take itself seriously as this film attempts to do.Along the way they run across some sort of lifeform on Mars but the idea is never explored in any intriguing way.  The finale pits Val Kilmer against the robot basically.Think of the movie Alien.  The ship has a mechanical failure and the android goes nuts.  At some point we catch a glimpse of the aliens but then Ripley has to kill the android and the movie ends.  Add really bad editing and cliche, totally unconvincing computer effects.  You've just seen Red Planet.Oh, there's one pointless semi-nude scene with Trinity (moss).  She's taking a shower but it's all fogged up.  That was almost a reason to watch this film.It's clear that half the actors wanted out of this project shortly after it started, or were paid a lot of money to beef up the cast by putting in 15 minutes or so.  That's the only way to explain their early and totally meaningless deaths in the film.Avoid.  Run.  Stab yourself in the neck with a pencil.  Whatever it takes to not see this film. "},{"Title":"...still one of my favorite movies to date","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Most people who were old enough to go to the theatre around 2000, often mistake this movie for that other Mars movie that came out at the same time. Red planet is often confused for Mission to Mars, which was horrible...HORRIBLE! Red Planet, is a great, realistic movie about where things could potentially go in the future. Scientists do believe Mars is able to be terraformed/ made to be habitable, using similar methods. Sure, there are some trace Sci-Fi elements that make the movie more exciting but over all, it provide a realistic outlook into space travel, the effects certain traumas could have on us, arguments about religion vs science and trying to find that dividing line between the two etc. It begs a lot of the questions that would eventually come up in human space travel. "},{"Title":"It doesn't take a rocket scientist","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red Planet really is not a sci-fi film. It's science leaves much to be desired. Rather, it is an entertaining action flick with some decent characterization and a good heart. If you can get over the scientific impossibility of most of the plot, you might enjoy yourself.Carrie Moss and Val Kilmer both do well as, respectively, captain and engineer on the earth's first manned Mars mission. They voyage to Mars with a small crew to investigate what has apparently gone wrong with earth's attempt to terraform the Martian atmosphere by cultivating algae. Let's not even talk about all of the problems with this scenario. The stakes are high - humans have essentially destroyed their environment on earth and are desperate to find a new place to live. Mars seems the only hope. Predictably, things start going wrong with the mission... No spoilers...Director Anthony Hoffman managed to make a film which is in many ways a lot better than Brian DePalma's plagiaristic pastiche Mission to Mars. I remember when these two films came out and wondering what brilliant studio execs made the decision to release two commercial sci-fi thrillers based on our first manned Mars mission within a few weeks of each other. Hoffman's film is more original, more entertaining, better scripted, and the characters are more interesting. Both films are about equally plausible, though DePalma's is more obviously a fantasy.It does not take a rocket scientist to detect all the little problems with this film, but it doesn't take a rocket scientist to make a decently entertaining film either, and red Planet does succeed in the latter. "},{"Title":"Much, much better than the Mission to Mars.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps the storyline isn't the strongest side of the picture, but on the other hand the producers did not spoil it with tons of visual effects which is often a feature of many movies with no sense in them. Nevertheless, fx are really impressive here. What I liked in this movie was the technical details - astronauts' suits, flexible displays, mother-ship interior, cgi stuff on Amee, etc. Many of those gadgets are near to come and some being tested in real life. Eliminating some funny scenes - Russian spacecraft's computer menu and how fast Mr. Kilmer has connected his old radio unit to that computer (the existence of algae on Mars and Marsian bugs seem to me more credible), I would approach this movie as quite a detailed and practical attempt to model future mission to the Red Planet. I saw this picture for the third time and still think it's one of the best sci-fi scenes made since 2000, especially concerning Mars stuff. The soundtrack is awesome too. "}{"Title":"Distinctly unexciting but passable if you don't expect much","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When scientists on earth realised that the air was slowly being irreparably poisoned they launched algae to Mars to begin generating oxygen.  Years later the process seems to have reversed and a ship is launched to find out why.  The arrival in orbit is greeted by a solar flare that damages the main ship and strands all but the pilot on the surface of Mars.  The robotic probe is damaged and switches to military mode - hunting the crew.  They discover that the air is breathable but still need to get off the planet alive.One of two Mars films made at roughly the same time, this film is the lesser of the pair (although neither was all that).  The plot varies wildly between science and action, but does neither that well.  The action side is mostly covered by crises in space and the robot Amee going nuts.  The space stuff is pretty good and the effects work reasonably well, but Amee is not that good; that subplot seems unnecessary and the effects on the robot look a touch silly.  Attempts to make the film dramatic and tense don't really work and it never really has a strong core to work from.The scientific stuff is of potential interest - especially in the week when Bush announced plans to build a space station on the moon to then send men to Mars.  However the whole idea of the doomed planet etc is never really explained (probably because it can barely stand up on it's own) and things happen on the planet just to move things forward.  Considering the film is book ended by a global problem I was surprised that this side of it wasn't more of a big deal.  It should have been more gripping and more thought provoking as an idea - life on Mars? But it wasn't.The cast try hard but none of their characters are really ever expanded above the level of `fodder'; hell, for the majority of them I couldn't even tell you their role on the mission!  Moss is OK in the lead and does well in her solo role in space.  Kilmer is not that good at all, but in fairness I never really liked him as a leading man so am biased.  He is too light for a part that could have done with a spark to lighten it up.  Sizemore has a meatier role and is good in it but Bratt and Baker are pretty unmemorable. Stamp adds a bit of supposed weight to the film but really only spins some philosophy and then croaks!Overall this is not an awful film just a pretty pointless one.  The film is neither exciting nor interesting.  The combination of ideas just seems like a basic plot was added to until it had enough to fill the running time with stuff.  If you have to see one of the two Mars movies from this year, I'd suggest Mission to Mars is better (albeit not great either). "},{"Title":"Good Martian tale showing you should be careful with your robot.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mars is very much on our minds at the moment as  the Beagle 2 and Mars Spirit probes are in the news. I had seen comments about this movie mostly hostile but decided to give the movie a viewing recently. As yet I've not been able to get my hands on the novel but certainly will try to read it. Having seen the movie twice I can only say it's generally very good. There are the required ingredients tension, suspense and a plot line.Basically, another one of those save the earth stories set in 2057. I was struck that one of the characters spoke of web site hits and thought surely by 2057 technology would have moved on. The mother ship,  Mars 1. of course having reached its destination has to land a crew to investigate what's happened to the oxygen so carefully nurtured from algae planted by special probes. The solar flare disaster scene was done splendidly but I would imagine such an event would have finished the mission before it had befun. On the whole the players were  good, though Terence Stamp didn't really have a chance to develop his character. Carrie-Anne Moss and Van Kilmer played a good team.Technically, special effects super, the low gravity  fires were good, I thought the video screen map used to navigate the Martian surface was excellent as was poor AMEE a much misunderstood super robot, who through no fault of his own, has had his circuits damaged and gives the crew a little problem. The Cosmos lander used as an escape vehicle was too much though. To expect anything made in Russia to work perfectly after 60 years was stretching imagination a little. Anyway see the movie, for in its genre a sci. fi. movie about Mars it must move to the top.  "},{"Title":"Annoying, talkative computers rule the world!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You've most likely read lots of negative reviews by now, and for the most part I agree with them.I have seen some attempts to put a positive spin on this film by declaring it accurate science fiction.  Could this be an attempt to justify money spent on a spectacularly bad film?  I think so.Luckily, my version was taped from HBO.  So I don't feel too bad about sitting through over an hour of computer voices that never shut up and sound like early macintosh text-to-speech programs.  Even after wishing and hoping and praying and crossing my fingers, the computer voices never said In an effort to save you time, which is the main purpose of computers, please append the phrase 'is malfunctioning' to each of the following  the ship, the artificial gravity, the oxygen system, the blacklight system, oh to hell with it...  commencing poorly orchestrated rock music soundtrack sequence.That's right!  The blacklight system!  It's a good thing the blacklight system was put on board, otherwise all those flashy neon colors would have never showed up on film properly.I promise I'll stop nitpicking soon, but let me ask you thisLet's say you're going to mars...  Your main purpose on mars involves the atmosphere.  You can only bring one of the following, which do you choose?A)  Some sort of instrument to analyze the atmosphere. B)  A crazy robot attack dog. C)  The one and only attractive female between here and earth.I know what you're thinking, bring the attractive female!  But alas, they leave her behind, and must have forgotten A as well, bringing only the crazy robot attack dog.I will spare you further details.  I suggest that instead of watching this movie you1) Wait for Rendezvous With Rama (Morgan Freeman, David Fincher, need I say more?) to come out sometime in the next few years.2) Keep your science fiction craving mind busy until then by reading Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson, which absolutely blows recent sci-fi movies away. "},{"Title":"Better than the other Mars flick...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...but still not very good. The space scenes seem rather boring, and I don't know if it was our theater but everything inside the spaceship seemed to be too dark to see anything.The good things Certainly the shootings on Mars. Very stylish version, I liked the red tones and the barren landscape.The story does not seem to know where it wants to go - there is the main plot about the oxygene and the algae, then there's the mad robot who seems not really to fit into the main plot and then there's Carrie Anne Moss in the orbit fighting for survival - a not very tough fight obviously, because all she has to do is to kick some control panels and voila, everything is online again...Like the story, the music does have no real focus as well - sometimes it's a classic score, sometimes it's rock music, this simply does not work for a space opera.Still, it's a movie that's okay to see. Don't expect too much, and you will have some decent entertainment... "},{"Title":"Good story, great cast, awesome special effects","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a nicely thought out effort about a popular theme in science fiction -- using Mars or some other planet as a refuge from a dying Earth.  The story is believable (mostly) and is fleshed out by a hard working cast. The special effects are completely transparent and do not upstage the film.  A great, complete immersion film "},{"Title":" Nice  Job  Space   janitor ","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The population of Earth has spent its life taking from it's mother without regards to consequences. The farther man goes into his future, the more aware of his mistakes he becomes. This film is one of a dozen which depicts what will eventually happen to the inhabitants when those mistakes catch up with apathy. The year is 2025 AD and Earth has sent it's first planetary probe to the Red Planet. It's mission; to discover why it has refused to sustain an artificial atmosphere. A team of six, including a multi-functional, multi-purpose, mechanical robot named 'Amee' is selected and sent. However as the ship approaches its destination, an unexpected solar flare, disrupts the carefully planned mission, forcing the five man crew to eject prematurely to the hostile, lifeless, planet. Now begins an immediate and desperate objective; to stay alive. Val Kilmer is Robby Gallagher, the Machnical Systems Engineer who proves that when machines go bad, it's important to have someone who knows how to fix or combat them. Benjamin Bratt is Lt. Ted Santen, an ego driven pilot who finds it's hard to be humble. Tom Sizemore plays Dr. Quinn Burchenal, who searches for a reason to questions he knows have an answer. Terence Stamp plays Dr. Bud Chantilas, an engrossing astronaut who expects more out of the mission than mere science. Carrie Moss is Kate Bowman and Simon Baker is Chip Pettengill. The film is believable enough and the space crew's enemies are not confided to those expected. One, they brought with them. The further one proceeds into the story the more harrowing the dangers become. *** "},{"Title":"A fantastic suspense thriller (not sci-fi)","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is so easy for people to find excuses not to think.  Case in point people who see this movie, all the way through, and think it is a sci-fi film.  Obviously, they weren't paying attention.  Just as the original Alien was not sci-fi; it was horror and Aliens was not sci-fi; it was action, Red Planet is not sci-fi; its a suspense thriller.This movie, when viewed as a suspense thriller - which is what it is, after all, is great.  Sci-Fi is merely a subplot here.The photography was brilliant, and conveyed the vast emptiness of an alien desert beautifully.  Acting was great, and the direction and timing was perfect - a great suspense thriller.It is just disturbing to me to see so many people call this sci-fi. Independence Day is sci-fi.  This is not.  If the action took place in a forest, and they were being hunted by a bear, trying to reach a helicopter, no one would call it a nature film.  It would be called a suspense film. Seeing a space ship and technology and yelling sci-fi is a poor excuse for thinking.In any case, nothing presented in this film is science fiction. Spaceships that travel to Mars in 6 months are not science fiction.  A spacestation is not science fiction.  Advanced robotics are not science fiction.  This is all real science.  Transporters and warp drive, they are science fiction. Death Stars and Lightsabers, they too are science fiction.  Films like Star Wars and Star Trek require an active suspension of disbelief.  There is no need for that here.  Everything presented in this film is possible with today's technology.  Was Deep Impact a science-fiction film?  No.  It was a disaster film, in the same vein as Towering Inferno or Earthquake.SO STOP CALLING IT SCIENCE FICTION AND WATCH THE FILM FOR WHAT IT IS A SUSPENSE THRILLER!!!!!!I just would really wish that people would stop making unqualified remarks. It is so easy to rip apart something you don't understand instead of taking the time to actually delve into the subject matter and give it fair analysis.  That said, if you want to see a good suspense thriller, this is it.  If you want to watch a good sci-fi movie, check out anything written by Asimov or Bradbury. "},{"Title":"A good Sci-fic movie.......","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"               Although there aren't much movies about space science yet the movies have made are nice. Red Planet is also good movie. It start is not so good but it turns good as the movie goes. It is a very little cast move. Only 9 or 10 actors are in this movie.                Set in 2057, a divers team of astronauts travels to Mars to investigate human living conditions on the Mars because Earth becoming unlivable for human beings. But the conditions get bad and bad for them when they lands on Mars including a bad spacecraft's equipment, and increasing tension among the crew members.                Although the script of the movie is good yet there are certain things are unexplained. But as the movies is based on just images and articles provided by NASA one should clearly understand the idea. Recommended for those who love to watch science-fic, adventure and action. I give Red Planet 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Needs Oxygen","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Genres are defined not so much for what they are but for the effect they have on us. We expect a summer action picture to thrill and have no regrets if we forget it immediately. Science fiction is all about embossing itself on our minds in a lasting way, sometimes through finding a familiar pattern and twisting it in unusual ways. I can still recall certain elements of `Forbidden Planet' after almost 50 years, and of course `Alien,' `Blade Runner' and `2001.' Some of the `Star Wars' visual noise sticks with many people. I even remember some elements from `Mission to Mars' that I expect to keep forever, like that amazing shot where we zoom into a ship through the window and then -- in the same motion -- around the astronaut and engaging in what he is doing. This outKubrick's Kubrick. Also our tour of the spinning disk.This film has many of the right pieces, but none of them are used to effect. There is no impression made at all. The only setup that comes close is the scene where exploding bugs stream out of a body, but it is not rooted in any imaginative context. Kilmer is not a bad choice his Doc Holliday (and to a lesser extent Jim Morisson) were lasting impressions. And not too many actors can actually do that. But here, he is a man without tools. I wonder why any decisionmaker would invest in Ms Moss. She's as talentless as Sharon Stone.Creating that coherent, alternative vision vision is the job of the director. I am convinced that there are at least a dozen directors who could take this same script and basic effects and make a killer film. Tony Scott, for instance. Just imagine it it makes the time spent less of a waste.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Movie on Mars","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought it was an interesting enough movie or I wouldn't have bought it. It may not be a 4 star movie but it was at least worth 2 and 3/4 stars. Or a 7 out of 10. The only thing that troubled me is the scene where they've landed on Mars and finally made it to the base. They find it all torn apart. The thing I don't understand is how all of these intelligent men can see the pieces of material from the wreckage and that, MOVING BACK AND FORTH. Now. What is causing these pieces of material to move back and forth? Could it be um, hmm.. AIR? None of them seem to realize this and it's only by the time they have run out, inside the suits that Val Kilmer's character hits his visor accidentally, causing it to come up, and he realizes HE CAN BREATHE!I find it hard to believe that I've never seen this mentioned not one time before, and could not find it at this website in the Goofs either.However all that aside I thought the film interesting enough, with good performances from Moss and Kilmer and most of the other actors. "}{"Title":"Unspectacular at first but gets steadily better","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a group of astronauts who go to Mars for a mission, but the mission goes horribly wrong, and they are stranded on Mars with no food, water or air.The first impression of Red Planet is poor story telling, poor acting and poor special sets. In the first half of the film, the story telling is fragmented, suddenly things happen for no reason with prior explanation or prior hinting. All of a sudden, there is a solar flare, causing equipment not to work, but there is no explanation of what or why. I am particularly disappointed by the acting, as they plainly read out lines with no emotion or urgency. As a result, even though the crew encounters a lot of emergencies, there is little thrill or engagement. It's almost laughably bad.The second half of Red Planet is significantly better, as it concentrates on the emotional side. The story and the story telling improves, and the film becomes engaging and touching, and it makes up for the unspectacular first half. Even though the special effects and the sets are so simple and basic (that high tech map they use on mars is just a piece of aluminium plate for making ventilation ducts), Red Planet is an acceptably entertaining science fiction. "},{"Title":"Red planet","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Im sorry.. Im sorry to all those that thought this was SF. I own everySF movie ever made and read 5000 SF titles. This is NOT a great 'MARS'flic'. \ Mediocre is a good start. but it goes down hill from there.I LOVED sizemore in flics like 'Relic' He has a natural Persona that we can all love. Like Oldman in in 5th element.. 'a natural.'Red planet is '''ho hum nothing on mission to mars.. where Robbins is just Fab.Light SF.. ie 'its an element of plot'Nik "},{"Title":"Acceptable sci-fi until believability finally flies out the window .......","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red planet works on several levels. The visuals are really stunning, the character development is not so overly rushed that you don't know who's who, and the story progresses fairly well. This is a very low key sci-fi, resembling the somewhat superior Stranded. The usual crisis after crisis occurs like clockwork, but there is interspersed some very welcome humorous dialog. I especially thought that a misbehaving robot as the nemesis was better than the usual sand worms, and the scientific jargon was fairly interesting. The only criticism is with the preposterous and totally unnecessary happy ending. If Val Kilmer had simply taken one for the team, a semblance of believability might have survived. - MERK "},{"Title":"Mindless sci-fi, leave your brain off hook.","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This isn't a great movie. It doesn't have great acting. But it could have been done a lot worse. I enjoyed watching it, just for the sheer entertainment value. I wouldn't rent or buy a copy, but if it's on TV, I think I'd watch it again ). The movie shows that it there as a use of technical advisors to make the story sound plausible, but that's no reason to watch it. It's a typical space mission movie that has overused Then do it for me line. The effect are cheesy at some points and quite amazing at others. If you aim your hopes low for this movie, you'll enjoy it. It's not epic, it's just a bit of mindless sci-fi. Someone needs to think of a drinking game based on this movie.Eric "},{"Title":"Atmosphere","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hurricane on mars is so impressive, a great moment in the film. Scenario is little tricky but ambiance is there and we feel a really pleasure to land on planet mars. The excitement is at the top. Music is on service of action loudly and strange It is really a movie to see. Actors are very good. It is a film you must collect in your sci fi archive. Most subject on mars thematic are not so realistic as there. The religious and mysticism are very intensive. It is really a must and it dates from 2000, so it i very symbolic. Also we do not have ugly aliens on there, it is very psycho mind and i cannot avoid thinking about this incredible moment where they approach anywhere among a tempest that suddenly raised from anywhere too. "},{"Title":"Vomit served in a cup of gold","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What can I say? I really feel sorry for these actors.This movie lacks in plot and characters development as hell. None of the characters is particularly likable so you will never care if someone dies or not.Special FX were OK but that robot seemed taken from Star Wars, or even worse, from a computer game! And those kung-fu poses were just laughable!OK. You want some nudity? Here is Carrie-Anne! But I hated her. Too bossy and mean! Wait. She is the commander, that's why she is bossy. Yes, you can be the commander, but that doesn't mean you have to be a bitch. I wanted her to die! Oh, as for the nudity, it was only a bare back for 3 seconds.I will not say anything about oxygen on Mars but be aware of the implausible science in this movie. Also this film is full of clichs, just to mention one, the overused CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) that Hollywood directors seem to love! and where the patient recovers magically as if he/she was only sleeping. If you don't know, CPR is not something so easy to do and after that the patience is very weak and even has ribs broken and other complications.With all the high-tech this movie seemed to be very good, but if you don't have a good plot and characters all that high-tech is pointless. Make you a favor, avoid this movie at all costs! "},{"Title":"Surprised the avg rating is so low...","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From start to finish, the movie gave me delightful images, kept me in suspense, and had me enjoying the performances. While not the blockbuster movie you'd stand in line on opening day for, it was the perfect movie to sit down to just before bed with a cuddly cat and a big bowl of popcorn. Doesn't anybody rate movies based on entertainment value anymore? It was fun to watch. Does everything have to be billion-dollar special effects, infinite surprise plot twists and Hollywood's hottest stars for us to enjoy a film? I think film buffs are becoming like drug addicts... we've been on the juice so long, that it takes a super-powerful hit to even keep our attention. "},{"Title":"Red Planet Expect the unexpected","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Red Planet' is, most of all, a clever story. The acting is average, however, nothing extraordinary, and the same goes for the special effects. Yes, there are actually a lot of special effects (though not emphasized so much as in a stupid blockbuster movie), but quantity doesn't substitute for quality. It's in the face of this that you still have to realize it's a clever story, as I said. The plot twists are intelligent and well-timed, not of the sort that you can foresee. At times you wouldn't even see something's coming at all. It does catch you off guard, and that's very good. And the way the story develops shows interesting angles on a number of basic subjects including murder, love, survival and so on. It's a sci-fi, but while there are some cool things to show for the fans of the genre, too (take the landing scene for an example), perhaps it has more to offer on human relationships. Still, as a space movie, too, it's very imaginative and could be likened, say, to a future Apollo 13 mission with no guarantees of anyone making it back - remember, it hasn't taken place yet. "},{"Title":"Dante's Inferno","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I got the chance to watch the film back in 2001, a year after it came out and simply to say that I liked it more than I expected. My expectation was that it was gonna be a sucky story with a sucky casting with sucking visuals. So happens that it was all thrown away just as the story was into full gear, now most people including I know very well about what it is gonna happen like the whole AMEE going wild and no oxygen business but hey...its a film to enjoy and not a film to judge so harshly upon.It will start off slow, mainly because Im guessing the directory wanted the audience to know each of the characters on hand instead of knowing them later in the film which to me is good. From their on it only gets better, now Im not an expert but the fire scene's with no gravity looked the most realistic fire scene ever and other science within the film seems pretty dead on. The character development is actually not bad but not good either...it in between. The whole clich of the crew dieing off one by one while their on Mars is not bad either. The music in this film is not bad, and I like personally Graeme work from Pitch Black and Red Planet including many others.At the end, I would say its a cult classic in my own right's and I enjoy this film pretty much. If your one that is bored and nothing to do then pick up this over looked science fiction film to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Mellow Mission to Mars Turns Interesting...","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I can never thoroughly explain to people (or myself) why this is one of my favorite movies of all time. I own it and have to say it is one of the only movies that I ACTUALLY watch repeatedly. What I can say is the acting is first rate. Val Kilmer is Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore is funny and charming. Simon Baker (now getting famous) does a great job of playing a weaselly guy who falls apart. Carrie-anne Moss is sexy and confident similar to the Matrix, Ben Bratt is intense and pitch-perfect. This movie is just a tight little package of what a movie should always be well-paced, superbly acted, solid plot. I agree with one of the other reviewers it just came out at a time when there were so many other Hollywood movies about space and Mars in-particular.If you missed this movie the first time around and want to watch a realistic, entertaining and well-crafted movie about space go get it. Better yet, pick it up out of the $8.99 bin and just buy it. If you're a fan of good movies you'll probably find yourself watching it more than once. "}{"Title":"A Sci-Fi movie worth seeing","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Geez, I'm amazed at some of the negative reviews of this very watchable movie. I'm reminded of the time I saw Lord Of The Rings with a friend who complained through the whole movie 'why did they leave out (this that or the other thing from the book)?' I made a point of NOT reading the books before seeing the movies so I could enjoy them as different experiences.Ditto with this movie; I just enjoy it for what it is. I'm a lifelong die-hard Sci-Fi fan, and I agree that a lot of really bad Sci-Fi movies have been made over the years. I'm often disappointed in movies that I had a lot of high expectations of going into the experience. But I don't expect every Sci-Fi flick I see to be the be-all and end-all Perfect Experience that lots of other folks seem to expect. This is a perfectly good movie with a good cast and story line (granted not the most original in the world) with excellent special effects. But if you expect perfection...well, I don't know what to recommend, except to warn you that you're gonna be disappointed a LOT in life... "},{"Title":"Stupid manners","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Oh gee! Astronauts are bitching to themselves about problems and to each others about understanding subjects. They are nihilistic, naive and out of control. Self-destructive and instable. I said about Ghosts Of Mars that it is has bad manners with a grin.http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0228333/usercomments?start=14 With this you can drop the grin. This movie serves only and utmost those people who like to bomb other people about their bad self-image. It just irritates and confuses others. The movie has no realism because it's makers are ignorant and foolish (as mentioned). I like the effects and the cast. I didn't want to watch the movie to the finish. "},{"Title":"Russian Rockets?","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At one point in the movie (which I won't mention) Gallagher chuckles about cheap Russian rocketry blowing up.Now I feel that I should say that I'm Polish, and am definitely not the first to defend the Russians. In fact, my country is now one of the world's biggest supporters of the United States. But this comment was just silly! Before the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Russians were always ahead of the Americans in terms of space technology, and this includes American (i.e. German) rocketry*. To name only a few records they hold, they put the first satellite in space (Sputnik 1), the first probe to the far side of the moon, the first probe to Mars... And they did a far better job at keeping a scientific agenda behind their activities; they had the capabilities to send men to the moon much before the Americans, but their procedures called for sending an automated probe to do any job before a human was sent.The American Apollo programme, however, was only concerned with showing up the Russians, by bypassing time-consuming safety procedures, and blindly charging on towards their scientifically redundant goal of landing a man of the moon--even when their rockets blew up, killing the astronauts on whom they had spent millions of dollars to train.*About that comment on German rocketry, try googling Wernher von Braun. He was the German scientist who headed the Nazis' rocket programme during World War II, which put the first rockets into practical production. These were used to bomb London, and killed many civilians. When the Russians were nearing Berlin, the German scientists were terrified, and decided to surrender themselves to the Americans. Then, against all international laws, the American government, without hesitation, paid these men large sums of money and offered them international protection, turning a blind eye to their parts in killing hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians, so that they would build for them a space programme that would show up the Russians'.American engineering? Unfortunately, whatever marvels America claims to have brought to the world were conceived and designed by foreigners. With all due respect, I feel it's about time that American film producers, and perhaps Americans in general, stop being so arrogant in their ignorance. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but very silly old-fashioned sci-fi","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Released in the year before the setting of Kubrick's incomparable eponymous masterpiece 2001, this flick makes an interesting point of contrast. There is a similar attempt to create a sense of realism in space technology which even includes 2001 style rotating toroid centrifuges. A contribution to which being 2001 style inclusion of corporate logos ( e.g. Toshiba ). There is a referential HAL moment when the robot AMEE watches the crew discussing her destruction and decides not to cooperate. There are attempts at a spiritual profoundity in the philosophising of the character played by Terence Stamp ( who I invariably confuse with Jeremy Irons ). However, there is a fundamental polar opposition between the two movies.Kubrick declared that he wanted to make the proverbial good science fiction movie. In other words, something fundamentally distinct from the regular B-movie efforts of the fifties and early sixties, such as The Conquest of Space or Forbidden Planet. A work that would be thoroughly researched and designed from the facts up, rather than starting with an adventure scenario and then hanging picturesque design around it. In that ambition, Kubrick undoubtedly succeeded. there is nothing in 2001 that does not make scientific or technological sense.On the other hand, Red Planet represents the modern equivalent of exactly the kind of movie that Kubrick was seeking to render history. From the very beginning, as it sets out in the use of an intrusive narration which Kubrick specifically denounced as un-cinematic. A narration which outlines a completely ridiculous scenario that the mission to Mars was part of a plan to find a new home for Earth's 12 billion people. So, are they going to ferry 12 billion people to Mars? The use of an airbag lander, whilst topically derived from that seen on the Pathfinder Mars probe landed at the time of the movie is technically inconceivable for a manned vehicle. In fact, NASA has already abandoned the device, planning in the next round of missions to break the vehicle's descent and hover it at 10 metres altitude. By contrast, the landing in Red Planet is mind-bogglingly crude. Admittedly, this was portrayed as an emergency measure. But who designs an emergency measure that we know 80 years beforehand will not work? Then there is that emergency. An emergency, OK, in any plot that can be thrown in. But here we have in fact SEVEN unexpected emergencies all occurring in the space of a few minutes The solar flare radiation burst, the fire resulting, the loss of orbital stability due to atmospheric venting, the fire in the descender requiring jettison of the undercarriage, the bad landing on the back up system, the fact that it's miles from target and that that base in itself has been unexpectedly shredded.On the other hand, we also have a string of ridiculously implausible strokes of good fortune. For a start, that the crew just happen to be within walking distance of an ancient radio. Then that they are ALSO within walking distance of a Russian vehicle. Then the weird fact that the ascender on the Russian vehicle had not been used. Even though it turns out to have been entirely usable! So we have three landing points within walking distance of each other on an entire planet.Added to which we must wonder why an unmanned sample vehicle would have aboard it an operating console with a VDU and Windows-like user-friendly operating system complete with decorative GIF's?Then we have the fundamental premise that environmental calamity spells doom for humanity. Many thing's pose a hazard to our future. Many reasons exist to explore space. But atmospheric pollution and global warming are not one connecting to the other.On the other hand, the idea that the Terraforming of Mars could produce a breathable atmosphere in less than a few centuries of activity, Nematodes or no Nematodes, is daft beyond measure. And what about the atmospheric pressure? Where did all the extra atmosphere come from? These things aside, the movie is very nicely designed. The space suits are great. They remind me of the designs for Zero X in Century 21 comic, circa 1967. The sound of conversations within the helmet is very atmospheric.Best of all is the robot, superbly threatening and vividly realised. I would expect that in the distant time that this movie is set this might be the only feature of it that doesn't appear ludicrously old-fashioned.Regard this movie as our present-day equivalent of an old sci-fi B-movie and just enjoy the fun. Otherwise, reflect on how little progress there has been in cinema since 1968 ( when 2001 was released ), if any. Above all, Red Planet is much better than the risible Mission to Mars that came out at about the same time. "},{"Title":"Bland but watchable sci-fi epic","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" RED PLANET Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDS2050 Sent to investigate the failure of a science project on Mars, a group of astronauts become stranded on the 'red planet', at the mercy of a dangerous, malfunctioning robot.Antony Hoffman's good-looking space opera is a bland but watchable enterprise, toplined by Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss, Benjamin Bratt and Terence Stamp, in which a group of disparate characters are cast adrift on an alien world and forced to endure a series of life-threatening crises. Hoffman and his scriptwriters (Chuck Pfarrer and Jonathan Lemkin) pull few surprises out of the hat, and some of the computer-generated visual effects are too fake-looking to make much of an impact, though performances and production values are uniformly fine. Released at the same time as Brian DePalma's equally lacklustre MISSION TO MARS (2000). "},{"Title":"Problematic but enjoyable if you squint your eyes and don't think too hard about it.","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This came out about the same time as Mission To Mars and a glum European effort with a similar theme, and is the best of the three. It has excellent set and costume design, great special effects and future-tech porn, some nice plot gimmicks, and some strong performances. But boy, does it have problems.1)The attempts to discuss the role of faith and belief in Gawd vs. science and technology fall flat and display all the depth and insight of a Bazooka Joe comic. Even a magnificent actor like Terence Stamp can't make the theme work with the tin-foil depth of the ideas in the dialog and character exchanges here. If the writer and director really wanted to pursue this idea, they should have had Stamp's character go at it with Tom Sizemore's character for 5 or 10 minutes. That would have been something to see, even if it did bring the movie to a halt. You can say that this theme is hard to do justice to in a Sci-Fi Adventure film. I say that if they couldn't do the theme justice, they shouldn't have brought it up.2) I don't believe the character interactions and dynamics for a second. Val Kilmer's character (the 'space janitor') is made a figure of fun, and jeered at by the co-pilot and geneticist, when he's the one that keeps the SHIP running? I DON'T THINK SO. Tom Sizemore's character makes a lewd remark toward the ship's female commander in the middle of a mission under military command and isn't shot, clapped in irons or kicked in the balls? Not in a million years. The terraforming expert turns out to be a 'weak sister' and tries to leave the surviving crew members behind after he 'accidentally' kills one? Oh, please! 3) Many, many plot holes. We've got this multi-billion dollar vessel built for months of travel in deep space, but it can't handle a burst of hard radiation from the sun, which fries its circuits. What were they expecting in deep space? April showers? NASA somehow deposits an automated, self-sustaining habitat station on Mars previous to the manned mission, but doesn't equip it with any alarms or signals or status monitors to make sure it is online and working...and also doesn't equip it with any CAMERAS to show the forces that destroyed it. Wouldn't NASA put some external sensors on the stupid thing if it was that important to the mission? The crew wears high tech space suits that closely monitor their vital signs, etc...but apparently the suits can't tell if there is any oxygen in the atmosphere around them, so they almost asphyxiate before the big plot twist 40-50 minutes in. Wouldn't that be a handy function for a space suit, so you'd know when it was safe to take your helmet off in an airlock ? And that's just the what I thought of in 2 minutes.4) Some really annoying performances in the first half of the movie. Tom Sizemore and Benjamin Bratt are king sized irritations and distractions in most early scenes. This could be a function of the conceited blow-hard characters they play, but every time they were on screen, I wanted to thump their heads against the nearest wall. This was probably a deliberate choice on the part of the director, but the fact remains that I liked Sizemore in other parts, but I hate him here, at least for the first half of the movie. And Bratt is a good looking guy, but gives the least nuanced performance in the film. Saving graces Terence Stamp exudes tremendous dignity and gravitas for the limited time he is in the film. I want to grow up to be just like him. Sizemore's character redeems himself and turns out to be something of a hero. The scenes where the lander attempts entry and crashes have a nice stomach churning intensity. The scenes where Moss is attempting to jury-rig the damaged ship back into operating condition have a lot of energy and are very 'Apollo 13' in feel. The war/recon robot moves nicely and convincingly, and is very scary and intimidating - you really do believe that it could kill the entire crew in seconds without any fuss. Kilmer has several great lines which he delivers well, especially near the end when he is trying to jumpstart the Soviet lander.Not in the same league as 2001 or even 2010. But if you must watch a recently made movie about Mars and you aren't too choosy, this one looks great and is good, shallow fun. "},{"Title":"Needs a re-write badly!","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie suffers from what older screenwriters like me (I'm from the old school of good writing, LOL) call stupidity. Let's see why duh, NASA is a technological juggernaut of its own self, why is a MARS probe robot made for them by THE MILITARY? The story does not tell us that mars will be colonized by warring nations--why is the robot a perfect killing machine then?duh, there is NO WAY to produce ARTIFICIAL GRAVITY with any extrapolation or for-see-able technological level that NASA even knows of--what's with the AG on the ship then?duh, HAL9000/Star Trek computer systems? Sarcastic ones? SO, let's re-write this one properly Kilmer, Stamp, et al, go to Mars. They find the planet strangely devoid of air seeded decades ago. They land(NO SOLAR FLARE improbability--a REAL one would have burnt the ship to cinders with radiation--because there is no atmosphere to shield it from that much radiation)in a wind storm, which destroys their lander. On Planet, they find a wind storm has destroyed their prefab shelter. One of the HUMANS goes nuts because they don't have enough oxygen to survive. He runs off. One of the crew, a hyper egotistical jerk with a fear of rejection and disapproval, goes off in a snit. The nut kills him for his oxygen cylinders.Kilmer and Stamp and Sizemore(the 3 heavy hitter actors billed) find the dead guy, but not the nut. The nut comes back at night, killing Sizemore, by puncturing his suit and causing a gangrenous wound to grow. He makes it look accidental, but again, the air tanks are gone. Next morning, Kilmer and Stamp find something horrible has happened on Mars, with the bacteria sent to create air--it has mutated into a corrosive, sort of flesh eating organism, which normally lived off the ice on the planet's poles, and with organic compounds in the soil--now it has eaten Sizemore! They cannot kill it off--it's all over the planet which is why the place has breathable air in the first place. The bacteria is a sort of penicillin/yeast thing that if cooked, could be eaten(mushy and cardboard like, but edible) They discover breathable air, because THESE bacteria are aerobic (needing/creating) air--like plants. They find the nut--he has gone totally around the bend. He is in a near catatonic idiotic state, babbling and such. He sees them, and runs off a cliff, paranoid that they'll kill him as punishment or to get his air cylinders. Then, Stamp and Kilmer find the Russian lander. They cannot both make it back, so Stamp elects to stay on planet--he will survive on food and other necessities sent down by parachute by Kilmer and MossMoss calls Kilmer and Stamp my heroes, she reveals her attraction to Kilmer, and they radio earth to send a rescue team and supplies, ASAP.End of Film!THIS is what could have been! alas, Hollywood has to screw things up in the name of MTV music noise,video eye damaging epilepsy inducing camera work, and dumbed down plotting for the single and double digit IQ audiences made up of teens and 20 somethings, TOTALLY ignoring the millions of intelligent(read triple digit IQ) citizens out here in we have money to spend, so make good films-land! "},{"Title":"Good golly is this an awful movie!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some sci-fi movies are good. Some sci-fi movies are bad, but they are *SO* bad that they are good in a Mystery Science Theatre 3000 sort of way.This movie is neither of those; it's just plain bad.Here's how you should approach this movie Watch the first reel, stop the movie, and then write down all your predictions of how it will all play out. Predict which characters will live and which will die, and what casually-dropped hints will come back as major plot features later.After the last reel, check your work. The odds are that you'll have scored 100%; the movie is *THAT* predictable. And the worst part of it is that it wastes a huge amount of time getting to the proof of those predictions. Even when you know, even when it is a dead-bang *CERTAINTY* that, say, Hint #3 is about to be activated, the movie rambles around doing nothing in particular for about five minutes before it actually happens. I guess the only thing to do during those interminable lulls is to go get popcorn. Or maybe you could get a better movie. Or a worse movie. But not this movie.I'd have given it a zero except that IMDb doesn't go that low, and I suppose the competent visual effects deserve something. So I'll be charitable and say 2 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Is it a goof or is this the film?","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This comment should actually go into the goofs section, but since I can't post there I'll do it here. I just saw the final 15 minutes of this piece of **** and the sheer stupidity of the scene annoyed me so much I had to write this.So picture this, final scene... Val Kilmer's character is almost dead and floating around outside the spaceship. Gets picked up by brave heroin who saves him from dying and floating around in space forever. Remember this is a weightless, no-gravity situation. She drags him into the spaceship and as she starts taking of his space suit as to reanimate him, she gets told she has to put him upright???? Why? What's the point? Putting somebody upright in a weightless situation? Can you imagine I switched channels.  "},{"Title":"One of the lamest sci fi movies ever made...","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that this is one of the most sorry-assed excuses for a science fiction film ever produced. It's incredible that they raised millions of dollars to make this (and snagged a very high class group of actors including Val Kilmer, Carrie Ann Moss (The Matrix), Terrence Stamp, Tom Sizemore and others). Red Planet would not stand up as a movie-of-the-week on the Sci Fi cable TV Channel, so it's astonishing that an anemic script and flat-line dialogue made it to the big screen.One of two Mars themed movies released about the same time (the other wasMission to Mars with Tim Robbins), this is by far the worst of the two...and that is saying a lot, because Mission to Mars was corny and lame. At least it had a kind of plot, and the actors had more than one facial expression.There can't be any spoilers here because there barely is a plot Astronauts go to Mars...they get killed off one at a time by random events...one astronaut manages to escape. The END. The sole female astronaut has to stay in the orbiting space ship the whole time, sending female sci fi equality back to the stone ages. The special effects are quite poor and would not be very remarkable these days on a weekly TV series, let alone a big screen movie. There are no big ideas here, only little well-used ones that are cribbed from much better films (the robot creature who goes evil, etc.). And the scientific gaffs are appalling -- the astronauts run out of oxygen, and as they began to gasp for air, they open their helmets and LORDY, it turns out that the Martian atmosphere is totally breathable. DUH. I guess they didn't need cumbersome spacesuits at all! (Now ask yourself How could earlier unmanned Martian space probes have missed this critical detail?)That's pretty early on and pretty much how this movie lost me. If this was what a young person were to see labeled as science fiction, then NOBODY would ever be interested in it and it would die out as a genre.Conclusion one of the dullest movies in any genre that it has been my sad experience to sit through.  "}{"Title":"Mission to Mars","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  RED PLANET (2000) **1/2  Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss, Tom Sizemore, Benjamin Bratt,Terence Stamp.  Not so bad sci-fi flick set in the not-too-distantfuture with a small crew of astronauts on a mission to Mars todetermine if life there is sustainable for a resource depleted Earthwith some intriguing circumstances to endure.   Fine detail via visual effects and better than expected screenplayby Chuck Pfarrer and Jonathan Lemkin even if it is all too familiarin the genre.  (Dir Anthony Hoffman) "},{"Title":"Puzzlingly bad","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's the middle of the 21st century. Owing to unspecified problems with pollution, humanity is doomed to extinction within a short time unless Mars can be colonised. Lest there should be any doubt about whether the extinction of humanity would be a good idea or not, the cast of characters includes a philosopher who is there to tell us that it certainly wouldn't be. What would happen to History? What about art and music? and what about people who died for freedom? If humanity disappeared, it would all be for nothing! Well yeah, good point, never thought of that. Neither, apparently, have the folks at Houston, who only provide one manned mission, one spacecraft, no back-ups, no measuring equipment for use on arrival on Mars, in fact very little beyond a robot hound that switches to Military Mode (i.e. attack your companions mode) as soon as its circuitry is jarred. But it turns out that, silly as it is, this 2001 HAL rehash is actually the only halfway interesting element in a puzzlingly bad movie, which breaks every beginner-level screenwriting rule in the book for no apparent reason beyond a strange kind of deathwish.For example, the old don't tell, show!, found in the first chapter of every writing manual I've come across, receives short shrift in the first two minutes of this movie, where we are _told_, by the ship's commander-cum-narrator, what each crew member's salient personality trait is for the remainder of the film. Which is just as well, because the acting is so lifeless that without these character sketches it would be hard to tell the male leads apart. The same complaint could be levelled at the plot, which shows very little other than a lack of direction and control. If you are going to rework _Alien_ and have your characters picked off one by one by a terrifying foe, make it ONE terrifying foe and not an apparently random confluence of killer robot, bad temper, bad luck, nasty prawns and a ruptured spleen. Some of the plot elements are potentially strong enough to support a certain amount of interest and atmospheric tension - the mystery of the disappearing algae, the sinister and brooding presence of Life On Mars, the nemesis robot, the guilty conscience of one crew member - but there is no overriding shape to the plot which gives any one of these elements enough prominence at the right time for it to really impact the audience. Every time something new happens, there is a sense of a desperate scriptwriter reaching out for the next fallback fix to stave away boredom. Hence we get cliche after hackneyed cliche - the bumpy crash-landing, the heroic you guys go on without me (_twice_), the homicidal robot, the race against time (at least three races against time, for good measure), etc. Last I looked, there was a little more to creating a film than just assembling a checklist of ingredients that worked in other films and throwing them all together in a hopeful pile.Yet that's all this film does. And it contains enough hilarious gaffes (e.g. the puzzling solar flare that reaches out to Mars but misses Earth, the walking-distance proximity of all these old but still-working space probes, the insect-like Nematodes, the killer robot that conveniently has second thoughts first time around, the ludicrous suggestion that people in 2057 will have web sites and listen to The Police and the Stones, the breathable atmosphere that somehow went undetected by all previous missions, etc etc) to make this a kind of landmark in bad science fiction. For that alone, and for the red-tinted photography and the camp cuteness of robot AIMEE's disco moves, I suppose I can stretch to a 1 out of 10. But that's being kind. If you have a choice between seeing this film and watching a line of ants carry a currant-cake crumb from behind your fridge to a crack in the wall, go for option 2. "},{"Title":"A crap movie","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've been warned, that this movie is a piece of crap. But honestly - I have not been prepared for it anyway! I am interested in cosmonautics, astronomy, computers etc. So I was able to consider the film according these aspects. And result? The whole movie is a heap of nonsenses and idiotic solutions. I know only one movie even worse than this one - Armagedon.So - are you a fan of science and/or technics? Ok, don't watch this film, you would risk a heart attack or at least a deep disgusting.(I voted of 2 for the movie- just for quite good visual effects) "},{"Title":"The Right Premise...","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... But a poor execution.Possible Spoilers Ahead.Red Planet had potential to be a better than average sci-fi flick... instead, it followed the road to cliche, and got stuck in the mud on the way...The movie falls apart from the point there's the obligatory malfunction in the spaceship forcing a rocky landing - they just couldn't land normally for once, could they?Things get worst when the crashland suddenly turns a robot into a killing machine that starts hunting the astronauts one by one do we really need this version of Hal9000? Again?The astronauts look shelter in a base camp they know it's there - only when they arrive do they realise it's all wrecked - but by whom?It turns out there are some alien insects eating this algae the humans spread over Mars to make it habitable, and they also eat the base camp...Furthermore, one of the astronauts go psycho and thinks of doublecrossing - perhaps that'll be improve his chances of suviving? ...The movie had so much potential they could have avoided the usual cliches and turn this into an exercise of suspense and horror - three men isolated on a hostile planet, with killing insects and a robot after them... the feelings of claustrophobia and mistrust and madness could have been more developed, but they opted for fancy sfx and a silly script, and got a B-movie...6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The movie falls apart right about the same time that the ship does.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with Red Planet is that there is too much known about it before it begins, and this is not only because of previews, but also because of common sense. About halfway through the film, for example, there is a lengthy scene of completely false tension, where the three survivors are helplessly watching their oxygen timers count slowly down to zero, knowing that they have nowhere to go and nothing to do but wait to suffocate. Obviously, we know throughout this entire scene that all they have to do is take off their helmets and start breathing, because if they die like that the movie's over. I suppose some tension might be derived from the fact that THEY don't know they can breathe the air on Mars yet, but since we're a thinking audience, a scene like this falls flat because we already know they're going to survive.I liked some of the things in the movie. It was pretty interesting when they finally arrived at the base on Mars and found that it had been completely destroyed, and the conflict was introduced very early as the ship begins to break apart as soon as they arrive into Mars' atmosphere, forcing the team to split up for the rest of the movie, but then you realize that every bit of power failed on the ship and yet they still have gravity.Earth has become so polluted that humankind needs a new home, and nations around the world have combined their knowledge and money and space travel capabilities to launch this completely English speaking crew into space to test out the possibility of humans someday living on Mars. Algae has been launched there over a period of twenty years to try to build up an atmosphere of oxygen, but all the algae seems to have disappeared, and one of the mission's objectives is to find out why. I like that they came up with an interesting reason for the algae having disappeared, but I don't like the fact that the screenplay pretends that there can be breathable oxygen on Mars, while an entire Earthful of humans are sending up a manned spacecraft into the atmosphere and don't realize it. Missions like this are not cheap. No spacecraft, manned or not, is sent to another planet without extremely detailed knowledge of that planet's atmosphere.(spoilers) That was a hell of an oversight, but I liked that the movie didn't just have them meet some hugely disappointing Martians for our heroes to escape, but the villain that IS presented, while creative in a sense, is even worse. The mission included an exploration robot named AMEE, which for some reason comes with a `Military Mode.' I guess this is done in case they should run into any Martian terrorists during the mission. And since AMEE comes equipped with detailed knowledge of the weaknesses of human anatomy, it seems that her designers were concerned about HUMAN Martian terrorists. Not a lot of thought put into this aspect of the movie. Obviously, not a SINGLE person on the crew sent to Mars read the sticker on the back of AMEE, which clearly read, `WARNING SEVERE SHOCK OR JARRING OF THIS ROBOT WILL IMMEDIATELY TURN HER INTO A TERMINATRIX.' On top of that, Red Planet contains probably the biggest loose end that I've seen left loose in a movie since Planet of the Oops in 2001. Evidently some multi-cellular organisms have evolved on the surface of Mars (feeding on massive fields of algae, yet another thing that the stupid humans on earth didn't notice), that eat just about anything digestible that they come into contact with. Two crew members are lost to them, but not before two of them (note, the number required for breeding) can be captured in a steel capsule to be taken back to earth and studied. Just before one crew member succumbs to the little critters, he tosses the capsule to the one member surviving(Gallagher, played by Val Kilmer), insisting that he bring it back to earth with him.At this point, it's perfectly natural to expect that they would have one more uprising just before the end of the movie, or that they would stow away on the ship and create havoc on Earth, like that spider did in Arachnophobia, traveling back to America in that coffin. Instead, Gallagher takes the capsule and the creatures are gone from the story completely as though they were never even there. When the crew took off their helmets and found a breathable atmosphere that no one ever knew about until then, I thought THAT was an oversight, but this, THIS violates even the most basic rules of story writing. One of the first things that you learn about writing stories is that every scene must have a reason for being in the story. If it doesn't, take it out. The fact that the creatures play no role in the outcome of the movie renders their existence in the movie meaningless beyond just having some fancy special effects showing some creative Martian creature. There is so much that could have been done with those animals, which is why it was so disappointing to see them just disappear like that. Things like that are only excusable in movies that promise sequels, or movies that show the creatures remaining as a way to signify an amusing false sense of security, like in Little Shop of Horrors. I just don't really foresee much chance of a sequel to Red Planet.As a science fiction film, Red Planet is entertaining and fun, but there are oversights like the ones I've mentioned that just show that not much thought was put into the screenplay, and something like that alone can completely ruin an otherwise decent movie. The performances all around are more than satisfactory, there is a lot of focus on characterization and the interaction of the crew members and the problems that can arise from questions of trust and questions of faith in machinery that has never been properly tested before the mission (since it was never sent into space until the mission), but there's nothing worse than being impressed by some parts of a movie and slapping your forehead about other parts.The movie provides a great Martian landscape, it contains a thrilling landing scene, in which the pod carrying all of the crew members sprouts huge air bags on all sides to provide for a relatively soft landing, only to roll right off a cliff, and there is even a question of God and religion to add to the complexity of the plot, but there are unfortunate shortcomings that really slow the movie down and prevent it from being as good as it should have been. The talent was there during the production, it just seems like both the script and the final film needed to spend a little more time in the editing room.  "},{"Title":"Good Kilmer and Moss Sci Fi","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is a good movie carried by Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss.  Robbie Gallagher is the most developed character in the movie and Kilmer plays him wonderfully as a quirky, likable guy.  Moss' Commader Bowman and Stamp's Chantilas are the other interesting characters.  Unfortunately, Chantilas is the first to die.  Being a likeable character, a later death would have been more effective on the audience.  The remaining crew members are all flawed or have annoying character traits, so we don't regret seeing them go at all.The story itself suffers from the fact that they've tried to make it too dramatic.  In the opening of the movie we learn that Earth is polluted and dying, resulting in our need to colonize Mars.  If I recall correctly the movie is set in the 2020's.  That's far to near the present time to be credible.  There's no way that we're going to pollute the planet to that point in 20 years. Once on Mars the team has trouble with their recon drone, AIMEE.  When the drone reverts to military mode and starts killing the team, it's a little like every Alien rip off we've seen, but she does get rid of several of those annoying crew members, so it's all good in the end.Whatever short comings Red Planet may have, it's an enjoyable Science Fiction movie that tries to keep grounded in reality.  The technology presented in the film doesn't seem that different from what we have today, which helps our suspension of disbelief, which is having difficulty believing that Earth is dying 20 years from now.  Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss make a good duo, and the film may have benefitted from giving the two more screen time together.  If you're a fan of Science Fiction, Kilmer or Moss, check out the movie. "},{"Title":"What We Should Do When We Go To Mars. Make Gravity !!!!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie shows the true facts that when we go to Mars we should do what 2001 A Space Odyssey shows we need to create gravity how they did. Rotation drums can, In many space fantasy movies such as Star Wars, Star Trek and more I used to love I now hate. I love true science movies Apollo 13, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and others that show that real science facts as much as they can. These show the Drama I like. When we have sending man up in space for over a year it can hurt him bad when he gets back. If we send a person to Mars when they get there the gravity of Mars will be their downfall. As you understand science more and more you can see what I mean. This movie may not be in your favorite list, but I sure hope that NASA understands its meaning. If you are a true science fan not just a science fiction fan then you can really like it. I sure they make others similar to it dramatic but at least with no going to far into the future, no aliens, no fantasy gravity machines like in Star Trek and others. Then we will see the truth maybe then we may get more teachers, scientist, and more. "},{"Title":"*BORING* movie (no spoilers)","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is BORING. I watched it on TV and couldn't keep myself awake. I had to flip the channels during the particular bad scenes just to keep myself from dozing off. Overall, the movie did have a plot, so it can be watched. The question is why would you do that and whether you have better things to do. "},{"Title":"Lifeless Movie","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is about a team of scientists sent to Mars to determine why previous unmanned terraforming missions were failing. The plan had been to seed Mars with microorganisms that would create an oxygen-based, breathable atmosphere. At first the plan was working, then suddenly all the oxygen, and the organisms disappeared. So send in the humans. Not exactly a promising premise for a science fiction picture. My guess would have been that the reason was something mundane like an arithmetic error. As it turns out, that would be more exciting than what is actually going wrong.I don't want to give away the movie's big secret, so let's look at the cast of characters. They're a typical crew braggart, professor, heartthrob (both male and female), and the heroic guy who can't possibly survive to the final credits. Except that these guys are terribly diluted, dull, and boring. You could care less for their plight with the possible exception of the Carrie Ann Moss character. Too bad she falls for Val Kilmer.In summary, Red Planet is one lifeless, dull, and colorless film. Skip it.  "},{"Title":"One of the poorest Sci-Fi movies I have ever seen","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    Well, I guess the title does say pretty much, doesn't it?  Despite the pretty well known actors you get to see here, the movie is one of the worst of its kind. The story is really boring, and the quality of its moral content can not cover the lack of any real action. A few words about the story would be well in place, I consider. Some spoilers in the sentences and phrases which will follow of course.    We have this crew, on this rather unspectacular looking spaceship, which has the destination Mars. Problems appear when they have to leave the ship, and despite the fact that the situation on board the SS seems to be lost, it is not so, and at the end, incredibly the spaceship is the only way out.   The few losers who get to go on Mars have their amount of trouble...base is all wrecked, one of them is a coward, and of course we get some pesky Mars bugs.    At one point we get to find out that their only way out is a Russian probe, or something like that, which didn't get to get back to earth. As usually there's a problem here to. Only two men fit in the thing, and we have three guys in distress.! From my point of view, this problem never existed. It was so obvious only two or less would get to the thing...and the problems weren't over there either, but of course we get a happy end.     So, after this story which is worth 0$, you would have the actors, which sadly do not compensate for the 0$ worth story. Tom Sizemore, Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss...nothing! It's the same thing.    Certainly, you could not expect much from such a story, or from such a subject. Space Sci-Fi movies are not very innovative any more, and I'm still waiting for the One which will give them a new start. Don't know who that is though.    Special effects...well, I've seen better. It's simply hard to find something good at this movie...the idea with God and with science is again old stuff, and it does not make you feel really any more intrigued on the story.    This is one of the worst movies I've seen, but I can still find ones which are half as good as this one. For those who want marks, it's a 5/10. "}{"Title":"Nice sci-fi yarn","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie Red Planet is a pleasant sci-fi yarn.   For once we get a science-fiction movie with a female star, who does not go out of her way to out-macho the males. Welcome change!This second recent sci-fi movie is also, like K-PAX, quite restrained, compared to the frenzy (that) Hollywood was dishing out during the past few years.Relaxed recounting. Easy-to-get-along shipmates. Clear headed well-trained and well-informed crew who obey instantly the commander's orders when the emergency comes, without unduly questioning her authority or competence.Except for hero-sole-survivor Val Kilmer's antics, I find the behaviours of most actors quite believable, within the circumstances.Indeed, there have been countless precedents for the injured older scientist with a ruptured spleen to urge his crewmates to leave him and go on.One guy getting angry at another, and accidentally pushing him over the edge, is common behaviour.  Doing it literally - over a cliff - is a bit much.  But still within the realm of done things on Earth. So I applaud the writer who insured the man's remorse came out in the form of over-sensitivity, while the three survivors covered from the storm in a makeshift cave.The only hard-to-believe part was the behaviour of the mechanical rover AMEE. That she would have been implanted with a dual chip, giving her an alternate warrior behaviour, is consistent with what the world now expects the violence-crazed Americans to do.But there the logic fails. If/when accidentally activated, the violence chip would act at once, and totally.  Not play games, through harming one, going away, and then stalking the three survivors.  That artificial-to-the-internal-logic-of-the-story sub-scenario only aimed to prolong the suspense, and to provide hero Val Kilmer with a clever way to obtain a source of power (to start the launch sequence of the Russian exploratory vessel) when he would need it. Too much artifice, way contrived into fitting with the main story, and therefore the only major weakness I find with this otherwise fine sci-fi yarn.  "},{"Title":"Excuse me?","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder what the point  by making this movie was? It seems to me that it lacks about everything that makes a good movie work. There is hardly any plot at all (other than let's go to Mars and see what happens to the oxygen).The acting is almost non existing. At least it seems that way, I never get a feeling of any inspiration of any of the actors. Plus that it never actually feels that they are on Mars or in space at all. It's kinda hard to explain but it feels like they're in a studio the whole time... Sort of like the ruins in Full metal jacket which seemed build up not torned down.I'd say stay away from this movie cause it'll only make you depressed2/10 "},{"Title":"Go to Mars to avoid to avoid this dire mess","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh goody. A movie I strongly disliked..Plot? Let's all go to Mars. It's being terra-formed with algae so it will have an atmosphere that can breathe. Uh-oh we've got there and our ship is damaged. Let's crash land. Uh-oh we're morons and have a military robot who will kill us with us (why? Why?!!?!?) Can we escape? What happened on Mars? And does anyone, on the whole of planet earth, give a damn about the people in the movie?Acting.. Was something wrong with Carrie-Anne Moss? Was she forced into the movie somehow after being in the two excellent movies `The Matrix' and `Momento'? Val Kilmer, vanished actor that he is, could still do better. His character has about as much personality as a brick. The other characters wrap themselves around their thin line one descriptions with a numbness that makes you fall asleep watching them perform. Go back to your soap operas boy. The cast seem to sleep-walk through all their roles, working on minimum energy. As a result I find it hard to even distinguish their bland faces, let alone feel any remote empathy with their lifeless roles. They're more alive when they're dead it seems.Directing? Oh dear. Tell me Antony Hoffman. do you know that movies need excitement? That we need to be wrapped up in the moment? So why then did you choose to make this movie so mind-numbingly dull that I just about prevented myself falling into a catatonic sleep? What's with the bland musical numbers for a start? What's with the confused camera work that makes it hard to follow the action sequences? Why is there no tension anywhere? What are you doing? Interesting to see you've not directed since this tripe. Can't say that's a bad thing.The only thing the movie does even remotely okay is the attention to the laws of physics. It's got a shade more realism than the traditional `Armageddon' camp. Still it's as dull as hell and not even worth a moment of your time. If it's on TV, and you're bored, stick a fork in your eyes so you don't accidentally watch it. Abominable. 0.5/10 (0.5 for the mild concessions to science). "},{"Title":"No crying aliens! *whew*","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ** Spoilers below **I saw Mission to Mars in the theater, and rented Red Planet - just finished my 2nd viewing and read a bunch of these posts... I'll try to say what hasn't been said yet. Positives1) NO CRYING ALIENS a la Mission - I nearly did a spit-take in the theater thanks to that scene. And the Hollywood eco-preaching was hardly noticeable... I think that's a good thing (?)2) On a second viewing, Armageddon was unbelievably ignorant - oh, the pain! I can suspend my disbelief to allow for earthlike gravity on Mars, but NOT a stinkin' asteroid. Sci-fi doesn't have to be perfectly scientific; but RP did OK here.3) Fire in space sequence accurate! Hey folks, remember the fire on MIR? Anyone watch PBS? All fire needs is oxygen - no gravity required - and it can form weird floating globules. (See the book Dragonfly by Bryan Burrough, about the MIR disasters.)4) AMEE the robot - lots of complaints like why didn't they just delete the military mode? Gee... it's a mission to figure out what went wrong on Mars - shouldn't we have some kind of just-in-case protection? It makes complete sense. You'd rather they wear pistols?5) Poster andykleinendorst complained about too-advanced computer technology... oh please! It wasn't nearly advanced enough. We nearly have that technology NOW... pick up a science magazine, dude.Negatives1) Even with oxygen, Mars would still be WAY too cold - even in sunlight2) So the bugs create oxygen, fine - where will we get the nitrogen that makes up 70% of Earth's atmosphere?3) We seem to totally forget the lessons of the past, and abandon redundant computer/landing/liftoff systems (as with most future-space-exploration movies)4) Isn't it convenient that the farthest distance they travel on Mars is 100 km? Not too far, planet-wise - and they nearly crushed poor Sojourner when landing!5) The cliff scene is just done terribly... contrived with forced dialogue... later, a totally wasted opportunity for a great subplot6) Carrie-Anne Moss manages to be a turn-off as a female (bleah!) AND an actor... but the love scene was still better than in The Matrix (*gag*retch*)Overall... it has its problems, but RP is generally believable (the bugs are much more original than any Big Bad Martian Threat). Why was the mission deemed a success? Call it a successful failure - like Apollo 13 (the reality, not the movie).Red Planet could've been better, but it's decent compared to most of the intelligence-insulting nonsense Hollywood thinks we want. "},{"Title":"What did they expect?","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was a good film, though you can recognize every great sci-fi film made before. A little bit too much subjects involved (crime, love, environmental pollution, action, science). But the only thing that puzzles me REALLY Why the **** do they take a deadly military fighting robot up there? I almost expected Sojurner to rise as a mutant monster! BTW, this would not be the first time Star Trek - The Movie... "},{"Title":"wow..","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i couldn't believe it when i saw it, i watched it twice, the end i mean. unbelievable. lets get this straight, he is suffering from lack of oxygen...so what does lady do? thats right, SHE PUMPS HIS HEART!!! Ha Ha Ha, oh you stupid Americans, when will you learn. first aid obviously isn't a priority over there. the world would be a much duller place without you though. with only the french and germans to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Really really bad...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is rare that you can take four capable, popular actors, toss them into a movie, and get such wretched results.  Red Planet has been out for years, but because of bad reviews, I didn't get around to seeing it until last night.  I quickly discovered how correct those bad reviews were.  This movie goes absolutely NOWHERE.  I won't even describe the events of the film, because there really aren't any.  You can easily sum them up in a few sentences.  Four capable actors (Kilmer,Sizemore,Moss,Bratt) totally wasted their time with this.  In recent years, three movies have been done about the planet Mars  Mission to Mars, Ghosts of Mars, and this.  I thought the former two were weak, but this one makes them look like Star Wars in comparison.  As far as I know, this is the last we have seen of Val Kilmer.  Is his career really THIS dead?   "},{"Title":"The Movie that proves the point...","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  that science fiction will never make it in Hollywood, because anything approaching science in a movie is seen as dull, boring, lame, and directionless by the audience.  Ask most movie goers to name a science fiction movie and they'll likely spout off Star Wars, despite the fact that it is a fantasy movie.  You see you actually have to have science to be considered science fiction, and the closest the Star Wars series gets to science is muttering some vagaries about metachlorians being responsible for the Force.  This movie, on the other hand, has a plot totally dependent upon the science in the movie and one of the central questions in the story is actually a purely scientific puzzle what happened to the oxygen producing algae on the planet and why is there a high oxygen content in the atmosphere despite its disappearance.  With central plot points like that you quickly put the dim bulbs that constitute the majority of movie-goers world-wide asleep.  I'm not saying this movie was a paragon of science fiction purity, but it is one of the closest attempts in recent memory.  That being said, I found this movie to be entertaining, with an engaging plot, serviceable acting, spectacular visuals, and interesting characters.  The most ridiculous thing in the movie, the crazed, killer military robot, was obviously added by studio execs and marketing types at the last minute before filming to try and make this movie play like more of an actioner. Why?  Because they know this fact as well as I do real science fiction is a small niche market and will never sell to a broad audience.  Given this knowledge, the fact that this script ever got greenlighted for a big budget production is extremely surprising.  All I can think is the writer must have blackmailed the producer, who was desperately searching for a Mars movie to ride the anticipated Mission to Mars wave. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but Entertaining","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The entire film was very predictable, but in the same way it was enjoyable. Even though I guess what was going to happened, the dumb humor kept me entertained. Simple pleasures for simple mind I guess. If you're looking for something new and original, don't what it. If you want some laughs, here's 100 minutes to have fun. "},{"Title":"Carrie Ann Moss saved the day","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The beautiful Carrie Ann Moss was defenitively the best feature of this film.Mostly doing to the fact that she managed to be the only performer in this movie that could act. Val Kilmer isnt normally a bad actor(absolutely perfect in The Doors) but he was a lousy one in this movie.Maybe he's mind was focused in he's salary and nothing more. It wasnt a bad film at all...But it was lacking in some very important elements like a more profound plot and some sort of chemistry between the romantic couple of this movie(Carrie and Val).By far I prefer seeing her with Keanu. Loved the photography,the special effects on the mechanical Amme and the final scene was ok. I give it a 6,5,because I got to see a beautiful woman crying. "}{"Title":"What a shame...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It could actually be interesting, if it wasn't for the ultra-lame plot and terrible acting / character development. And when I say terrible acting I mean TERRIBLE, I've seen better acting in kindergarten musicals. I mean all the talking, was it supposed to have any meaning? were there any hidden messages I didn't notice? or was it plain dumb? it sure as hell wasn't the least bit interesting. All along I felt like shut the hell up and show some nice Martian scenery, you have nothing to say anyway... And the robot, don't get me started on that one! it's fighting moves looked like a drag-queen in the 70s. Now to the positive yes, great 3D effects, very convincing looking planet / spaceship. Made me wish I was there (no, not really). Hard to believe it's possible for Mission To Mars to be better than anything, but it was better than this one.3/10  "},{"Title":"Up yours, Science!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The worst series of space disasters since Gilligan hit the LAUNCH button in FAR-OUT SPACE NUTS. The misadventures begin when NASA chooses a crew that can be portrayed by Val Kilmer, Ben Bratt, or Carrie Ann Moss. But these brave explorers MUST be competent, cuz they all have one name like Madonna or Prince, names like Gallagher(no sledge-o-matic though), Burchenal, Pettengil, Chantilas, and Massengil. I thought maybe the names were anagrams for Crappy ass movie but no such luck.For the first six months of the mission, things are relatively uneventful, which already strains the suspension of disbelief. I for one know that being trapped on an enclosed space vessel with Val Kilmer for six months would shred all vestiges of MY sanity. One more African cave story Val and so help me... These pre-Mars scenes are used to establish non-character. Terence Stamp, much better as General Zod or in the Limey, comes across as cold and rather robotic, despite being described as the SOUL of the mission HA ha, we know this movie has no soul. Surpassing Stamp as detached is Moss, the mission leader, an actress born to play a corpse. And then there was Kilmer. Looking like he just encountered a swarm of angry bees, the unusually puffy Kilmer turns in his stock I don't know what planet I'm on, let alone what movie performance. The others are expendable from the get-go, Benjamin Mr. Julia Roberts, at the time and the wimpy guy. Argh, just recounting these scenes is hurting me.Immediately upon reaching Mars things go from contrived to worse. A gamma-elf-flare whatever totally wrecks the ship, forcing all the men down to the planet and leaving moss to tend the homestead. They boof the landing thanks to hotshot pilot(is there any other kind?)Bratt, and Stamp ruptures his spleen fatally. Now terribly low on oxygen, the survivors try and make it to the pre-established Mars base, only to find it trashed (probably by Martian delinquents). While they're waiting to die of suffocation, Wimpy knocks Bratt off a cliff and...geez...I could go on...but...disaster after disaster, any one of which could be the basis of a movie, carnivorous exploding fireflies, a vicious ice-storm, and IMHO the lamest an ex-military robot that gets set on kill and goes after the astronauts. I mean, why leave the killemall programming on the mars probe robot? Couldn't the space have been used for something better?Maybe the filmmakers thought this convoy of mayhem made for an exciting adrenaline roller coaster of thrills! as Joe Blow of the Houma Examiner might say, but personally, it just was lame and sad. At the end, when Kilmer actually flicks off Mars and goes F**k this planet I am in complete agreement with him. I am Kilmer and he is me. This ain't no Robinson Crusoe on Mars folks, at least that had a monkey and Adam West. Peace. "},{"Title":"It had potential!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say?  This film had a lot of potential.  The story, or at least the idea, was interesting..  The effects were great, and the amount of thought and detail that went into set design and costuming and all of that stuff was admirable.  But the story ultimately let it down. Firstly, there is not nearly enough character development.  You just don't care about these characters in the slightest.  Things were rushed, and the sudden romance between Commander Bowman and Gallagher the janitor just made me scoff.  Boohoo, he's gonna get left on the planet...pass me the toenail clippers.The only good things about this movie are the music, the art direction and photography.  But as we know all too well, dem don't make a movie... I'd advise against wasting your money.    "},{"Title":"A nice idea, but I hated the dog.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is the second of the 2 films about Mars that was made in 2000, on a technological level it is better then Mission to Mars, but the idea that a native moss eating giant aphid can exist on Mars was just the plain old Hollywood monster, as was the mechanical dog.  The story minus the two villians of the film was belivable with the novel twist of there being air on Mars.  The romantic aspirations between Val Hammer and Carrie-Ann-Moss hardly gets going before our intrepid heros reach Mars for the usual highlights and dangers.  The Martian landscape though was superb, full marks the the production crew, the escape in the Russian sample rocket is good, as is the overall special effects, including the nice touch with Soujouner. But I felt the cast didn't have much of an opportunity to develop their characters as much as I would have liked.Of the two Mars films this was the most visually impressive and not a 'Face' in site, but was let down by taking some libertys with real facts about Mars.  "},{"Title":"Waited for it to improve...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...but it didn't.Two actors whose work I enjoy - Terence Stamp and Val Kilmer - couldn't save this rather poor story from its lack of characterization and its many scientific errors.In case anyone thinks Well, so what?, I'd just like to remind them that this genre is SCIENCE fiction and so it should go without saying that you need to get the science right - or at least believable.  The misuse of the term Nematodes (non-segmented worms) had me groaning, quite apart from the rest of the gaffes (like the wrong symbolic letters for the amino acids involved in DNA).I'd almost swear there was a hidden agenda here - the spiritual comments coupled with the poor science shriek of something being (not quite) peddled, as if someone wanted to do a bit of science-bashing but couldn't quite get their facts straight.  I half expected the old (and very wrong) chestnut about Man being descended from monkeys to be hauled out for an airing... (The suggestion is that Man and Apes have a common ancestor, in case you were wondering).Terence Stamp always does an excellent job of being Bad, so it was a little disconcerting to find him as a philosopher here - a little like finding Bob Hoskins, the best London gangster ever, in a movie as a priest (A Prayer for the Dying).I'd have found this film a little more credible if Terence had been an antagonist, but perhaps he was trying out a new persona.  He managed that quite well, I thought, in Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (another Oz-based movie).Since the film was shot on location in Coober Pedy in Australia, my guess is that Val Kilmer's red face may have been partly due to the climate, but either way it was a departure from his usual good-looks type roles and an interesting experiment if it was.Carrie-Anne Moss I remember from the Matrix (a movie that merits being seen several times in order to understand everything clearly, which isn't the case for this film) but this was no Matrix role for her.  Somehow her character wasn't quite believable - nothing like Sigourney Weaver's Ripley in Alien et seq.The film also lacked the kind of macho action (not my favorite) that might have been expected from the writers, given their credits - not a patch on Predator or Terminator, although in some respects the elements were there (just not exploited).All in all, not an atrocious movie (not so bad as to be B-A-D), but not a really good piece of entertainment either. "},{"Title":"Trying to paint the planet red&#133;","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is the kind of movie Hollywood has been making a lot lately excellent starting idea, decent actors, good special effects, technically competent, but dramatically as dead as the planet it's set on. You know there's a problem when so much of the dialogue happens when the actor's mouth is either off-screen or far away, or the actor is back to us that usually means that they had to add patch-up dialogues to make up for a lacking scene, to artificially create a previously non-existing story line, or just because they're plain out too cheap to re-shoot or shoot a scene which would enhance the movie.Certain parts are, at best, awkward, like Carrie-Anne Moss' romantic flashback between herself and Val Kilmer it seems to be coming almost entirely from left field and is a clumsy addition. Baker's comment, to himself, that `it's been 2 hours' while Kilmer is working the 20th century modem, could have been uttered looking at the camera it just showed that the filmmakers had no alternatives to let us feel the time passing.On more theatrical level, the characters are uninteresting, except for Stamp, who dies quite fast unfortunately&#133;Although predictable most of the time, I would be lying if I said that the movie is entirely without any kind of merit as I said, the initial idea was great, the search for a way home is quite expertly illustrated, the algae theory is almost fascinating, and the last rescue scene is worth the view. Besides that, go see Mlis' Voyage Dans La Lune&#133;  "},{"Title":"better then pitch black","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  val kilmer is terrible in this red the face hes so bloated and carrie ann moss deserves better film roles she was good in memento and the matrix but the film is good and the robot killer in it is good too the storylines new and nice the action is very good but i wish for more gore but the stars were a shame its not the best sci fi ive seen but its an ok  "},{"Title":"This film is too long and too over-plotted.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The basic premise of this film isn't bad in the future Mars has been seeded with algae and everything has been going according to plan when suddenly the algae disappears. A mission is sent to Mars to find out what has happened to missing algae. I won't reveal what happened to the algae because that would be a spoiler, but I will say its not a bad premise. However its not enough to build a feature film on. So the producers padded the film with various mishaps the crew encounters while wandering around on Mars. There is also a subplot where the missions commander is stranded aboard the crippled spaceship. Terrence Stamp appears briefly as a philosophical scientist who dies soon after the crew lands on Mars. He is okay in his role, but it is a role that could have been omitted.Carrie-Anne Moss who plays the missions tough babe commander delivers the film superfluous and pompous opening and ending narration. Carrie-Anne Moss, at least from watching her in this film, may be the single most unappealing actress in films today. She has a kind of cold school marm temperament. The big romantic clinch at the end with Val Kilmer is one of the most awkward love making scenes I have ever watched.  "},{"Title":"What was it? was it a movie or a love story? duh!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Was it a movie or a love story? It was slow in the start but went down hill after the first 45 minutes. I agree poor attempt of a Sci-Fi movie!!Thanks "},{"Title":"A Daring Work of Robot-Oriented Spaceman Filler","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When a movie's script has nothing to say, there really is nothing that can save it.  Acting can't save it.  Costumes can't save it.  Cinematography can't save it.  Radical politics can't save it.  Flag waving can't save it.  _Red Planet_ is a film dedicated to answering the age-old question, Well, can a robot save it?This a question that has been answered many times before, and by better robots than this one.  The answer, conclusively proven, time after time, is, no, a robot can't save it.How about Val Kilmer?No, Val Kilmer can't save it, either, _Red Planet_.But he was in _Top Gun_!  Remember?Yes, I remember.Well, didn't you like _Top Gun_?That's not the point.You didn't like _Top Gun_?  What are you, some kind of Communist?Look, _Red Planet_, I liked _Top Gun_, but that doesn't change the fact that you still have nothing to say about anything!Okay, let's get back to the robot . . . And so on, and so forth.  It's a movie without a script.  It's got a robot.  You know the drill. "}{"Title":"Nothing special...","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just finished watching this movie and i thought excuse me?This movie wasn't anything that special to be honest, i just didn't either feel for this movie, or think too much of it. It just didn't have any redeemable features which i could relate to and in the end, it just made me want to go back to bed.The characters in this movie, if i can be blunt, were a total mistake. Why the hell did they put so many in there?!? I could understand such big names as Val Kilmer, and Carrie-Anne Moss, but other people like Terence Stamp just baffled me? WHY were they there? They attempted the impossible, they put too many people in there and then thought that we would love them, when in reality you just streched the fabric of the movie so far that i couldn't understand why you would even bother in the end (The other thing which i didn't like about this movie was the fact that it didn't seem to be based in science *enough.* I like movies which are based in Sci fi, and yet somehow remain plausible, it just made me wanna scream sometimes, for exampleIf there was enough oxygen for there to be a viable atmosphere, then the sky shouldn't be red anymore, the only reason that the sky is red in the first place is lack of oxygen! It should have turned blue in relation to amount of oxygen in the atmosphere.That one was of the things which really annoyed me, other things which annoyed me was the simple fact that this movie was it was a mediocre attempt at something which has (probably) been tackled better in other movies! I didn't dislike this movie, but at the same time i CERTAINLY didn't love this movie, i thought that there could be alot to say about this movie, but this isn't the place for that type of language!I would have rather put something else on than watch this if i'm honest with you, i haven't seen anything *this* dull for some time ( "},{"Title":"Another harrowing *yawn* space rescue","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here we go again with the Lost in Space routine. Once again the viewer is saddled with the female commander this one is being beaten to death who refers to her subordinates as 'boys'. This sexism would have created some bitchy dialogue had the roles been reversed. There was simply nothing new offered with this, instead we get the same old are they gonna be saved? space junk. I did like AMEE....could use that baby at home to protect my comp and big screen.  "},{"Title":"Reasonably good Sci-fi fare","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen most of the Sci-fi movies released since 1975, I have a pretty good idea of what makes a good Sci-fi movie versus a bad one. Most of the comments I could make have been made by others, so I won't be redundant. I will say that I think that Red Planet has the best space suits I have ever seen, and I'd love to get ahold of Val Kilmer's! (I love protective suits with helmets.) That said, it's a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Cliched, but not in a horrible way","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet uses just about every cliche in the book. However, it is possible to use cliches in a good way. After all, they wouldn't be cliches if they hadn't worked before. Because there's really nothing new here, it's not a great film by any means, but it's not bad either. The plot is fairly generic. But even though you have a pretty good idea how it's going to end, it's still interesting to watch. Red Planet still has some genuinely suspenseful moments despite it's predictability.The characters are probably not as developed as they should be, but they are more developed than a standard summer action movie. There were a few times when characters were talking that I felt like the audience should have learned more from the scene that they did. That makes those scenes go by a little slowly. There is some character development that works a little better though. And when there is action, it's well done. Also, all of the actors do a pretty good job. Carrie-Anne Moss falters a bit near the end, but that's my only complaint about the acting.Technically speaking, Red Planet is extremely well done. The Martian landscapes are incredibly well done. I don't consider myself shallow, but even if everything else about the movie had been absolutely horrible, the effects would still have made it worthwhile. Luckily, everything else is at least decently done. Red Planet is a good guilty pleasure film... especially if you like sci-fi. It's not really original at all, but it's still a good time overall.Rating 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Earth is polluted, we try to terraform Mars, but something went wrong, so we send a mission to find out why.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an interesting view on how a first human mission to Mars would go. I think Mission to Mars was a better movie.  In Red Planet, some of the special effects aren't that great, and content was a little odd.  Biggest pet peeves  distance in kilometers, but windspeed in MPH; no account for effects of static on equipment; bad zero gravity effects.Otherwise, an interesting story, aside from some apparent lack of emotions. "},{"Title":"Something very bad happened when this film was edited.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An above average movie, but not by much.  This film was badly edited and the attempts to develop the characters by use  of flashback sequences at inappropriate moments, spoilt this film for me. Saying that its not all bad, beautifully shot and realistic looking to boot, good tension when the crew are marooned on the planet. The ending was a bit of a let-down though but I'm sure we are all used to that in most Sci-Fi these days.Worth watching at least for the visual/sound effects and the cool robot. "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible editing","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is not a bad movie, I would say it suffers from bad editing. In particular the flash backs would have made much more sense at the start of the film in a non flash back form. Its as though the film makers thought the audience was too stupid to remember them if they were at the start of the film and they thought the audience could not make the connection to how they relate to the current scene. And why was the fight scene between chip and bud changed to make it look like an accident? As I said bad editing&#133; Terrible, terrible editing. 5/10  "},{"Title":"50's Sci-Fi Fun","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is escapist Sci-Fi at it's best.  The premise of the movie doesn't really make a lot of sense.  The Characters are pretty straightforward, the dialogue is a bit cheesy at times but overall the movie is fun.  Red Planet is not your thinking person's Sci-Fi, its the fun action/adventure Sci-Fi that you grew up watching when you were home sick from school when you were a kid.  This movie is 1 part Aliens, 1 part Starship Troopers, and 2 parts 2001 a Space Odyssey if that helps.Red Planet plays more like a Twilight Zone episode and it doesn't attempt to take itself as seriously as Mission To Mars.  The special effects in Red Planet are top notch and while the acting performances are nothing to write home about Val Kilmer and Carrie Ann Moss supply us with some nice eye candy.  Terance Stamp (General Zod from Superman I&II) turns in a nice little performance as an astronaut searching for God and Benjamin Bratt plays a real jerk of a first officer. "},{"Title":"PLEASE!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To anyone who compared this movie to Mission To Mars, how can you say that it's better than Red Planet?Mission To Mars had the typical Hollywood-style plot, with big effects and bad photography, and no attempt at character psychology. And I went to see this movie with the best intentions, because Tim Robbins was in it and I still can't believe he chose to star in such a bad movie (at least to his standard).OK, some of you out there may not have liked Red Planet, but you have to admit there were some efforts photography is excellent, and the screenwriter did try to develop his characters (personally I think he did it pretty well). And Carrie-Ann Moss is really good in that movie, confirming the high expectations I had after seeing The Matrix and Memento. So some of the plot is left unexplained that's what happens in real life, especially when you go in outer space, I would guess.So to all of you I just say, go watch Mission To Mars and Red Planet back to back, and you'll see there's no confusion as to which is better. "},{"Title":"Effects comments","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you watch SF movies because of the cool effects, skip this one. The only effect that is worth seeing is excellent animation of the robot (although at the first scene with robot, it's hand somehow sinked in the metal floor). But other, like fire, space scenes are totally unrealistic. "}{"Title":"Not that bad actually...","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this last night. After all the overwhelming negativity in the reviews I read about this movie on IMDb, I was half-expecting something closer to `Plan 9 From Outer Space' or `Manos Hands Of Fate'. Must be some kind of mob mentality; once the reviews get started on a negative thread they take on a life of their own&#133;Seriously, it's not that bad of a movie. Not that great either &#150; I'd give it a 6.5 on a scale of 1 to 10.Bad features include lack of character development, cheesy dialog obviously Gen-X directed, complete disregard for physical constraints of the Martian surface (surface temperature, gravity) and time required to significantly alter the composition of a planet's atmosphere.Good features wonderfully filmed, the effects are decent; there is a very good tension-building device with the robot and some decent humor (i.e., first urination on Mars, etc.).I'd put it somewhere between `Lost In Space' and `Mission To Mars' in terms of quality. Definitely worth the $3.50 rental but not a film you want to see again anytime soon. And not deserving of overwhelmingly negative reviews.  "},{"Title":"Trash Planet","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  'Plot' spoilers...The wooden door of my house would probably have given a more convincing portrayal of a guy trapped on Mars with a killer robot on the loose...This movie is so clich'e ridden it's not funny...it's insulting.1) Ship goes to Mars,  encounters a problem,oh no, 2) Must get to the surface, killer robot on loose,oh no,... 3) Must escape, we're dying one by one,oh no, .... 4) All seems lostbla bla bla etc etc....Total Junk.... 0/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie last night after hesitating since its release to buy it. And I must say I'm glad I didn't buy it first. I am a great fan of Val Kilmer and sci-fi movies, but I like a good story too. And this one hasn't got one. The few things that made this movie watchable, was the robot Amee and some of the other special effects. The soundtrack was also pretty good. I am hoping for better days and better roles for Val.  "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars is better","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't waste your time watching it. Red Planet has a very cool locations but nothing more.. I thought this movie was better than Mission to Mars, but now I pick up Brian de Palmas flick. On second thought, try to find and watch Robinson Crusoe on Mars..That's a smart movie about people get trapped in another plane "},{"Title":"Under-rated.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An engaging and very different view of Sci-Fi's love affair with Mars. Some very interesting thoughts and ideas married to some splendid special effects. Worth watching for a better than average if slightly quirky Sci-Fi movie. "},{"Title":"I didn't find a bad movie at the video store, it found me.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The box art and video trailer sucked me in. Cool! I thought, Val Kilmer and Carrie Anne-Moss fight a sadistic robot on Mars, count me in! I should have never picked up that video box. Not only does the camera crew appear more often than the robot, but the movie offers absolutely nothing in the way of anything interesting. The dialog seemed as if it was written by a 5 year old boy, and the whole film was clearly shot in Bakersfield with an orange gel over the camera lens. This movie is truly a rip-off. I got the feeling that after they made the first 10 minutes of the film, somebody lost the script and editing equipment and they had to wrap up filming the same afternoon.  "},{"Title":"This thing did not know what it wanted to be","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Just watched this thing last night (glad I rented it in lieu of paying for the theater)  Man, what a waste!  Spoilers follow, so if you don't want to see what stupidly happens, stop reading.1. the film starts with a basicly good premise, create O2 on Mars so that we can live there.  This is done in a way that may be even plausible. Something goes wrong and we are sent to investigate (ala 2001, mission to mars, etc.) 2. The ship has problems just as they are about to launch to the surface...yeah like we haven't seen this cliche before.  So the chick stays in the ship and manages to fix it while the guys go down to the surface (of course the lander also malfunctions and they miss the landing spot.) 3. On the way to a habitat that has been somehow set up for them, they arer running out of air, they reach the habitat which has been destroyed (WHICH IS NEVER EXPLAINED) and slowly run out of air while consulting high tech gear that can tell them the layout of the land, the composition of the soil, but not that the air is actually breathable. 4. The robot that comes with them goes nuts (again, we've seen it before) and tries to take them out.  Forcing them to run for their lives through martian bugs (?) and find an old spaceship that landed (sucessfully) 50 years ago and fix it so they can go home.The robot is not scary, so its not a thriller or horror movie; the characters are boring, so there is no drama, and the banality of the story is such that I'm surprised it got off the paper stage.  Folks, there is no reason to watch this movie.  I actually was more interested in studying for one of my law exams than watching this and that should say something "},{"Title":"Plotless and Pointless","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It appears an attempt was made to create a science fiction film that didn't rely on special effects and actions to save the day.  The casting brought some good actors together, but without a decent script, there's nothing to work with.The movie's plot is paper thin, and slowly paced.  The characters are never developed nor do we ever feel a sense of identification with them.  The characters simply trudge from one crisis to the next until the movie mercifully reaches its predictable conclusion. "},{"Title":"Oh deary me...","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Sizemore (top lad), that bird out of the Matrix, Val Kilmer (batman) and Terrance Stamp (old man) bumble haphazardly through uninteresting moral dilemmas, dreary explosions and token 'disasters' whilst all fighting over who gets to say the worst lines. Sizemore is a top-drawer actor, and this shines through, but it's about all that does in this turd of a film. Brings a whole new meaning to the phrase 'motion' picture... "},{"Title":"Painfully boring characters derail Red Planet","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some really good special effects and some moderately exciting sequences . . . however the characters were so unmercifully uninteresting that I had difficulty wanting to spend any time with them. (Let alone care what happened to them.)The villain of the story was a really cool looking robot that accidentally went from surveying mode to military (i.e. killing) mode.  Why don't they ever just remove the military programing in these movies.  You would think that was the safe thing to do.  Of course, we've seen this happen on countless occasions, so even though the effects and design of the robot was well done, its antics were as uninspired as the characters.  So they go all the way to Mars to combat a man-made machine.  What a waste. "}{"Title":"Which is worse? Red Planet or Mission to Mars?","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet and Mission to Mars two clones in the film industry, but very different tooAbout the plot, Red Planet is a high-tech movie in 2050 about an expedition to Mars in order to investigate the nearby mysterious planet. Mission to Mars is a not-too-far-in-the-future movie about an expedition to Mars in order to investigate the nearby mysterious... have I already said that? )Well, Mission to Mars may have a better plot than Red Planet, but that's piece of cake, 'cause Red Planet has NO plot at all. I mean, in the first movie, all the religious background and the moral intention are quite interesting, also the end. But in Red Planet there's no more plot than landing in Mars, fighting with robots and aliens, and escaping from the planet. That's all, I have resumed the film in one sentence. Pretty plain, isn't it?Talking about the characters, in Mission to Mars, Brian de Palma focuses the action in the characters, their feelings, their religious thoughts... So we could consider this science-fiction film also moral, with sensibility. On the other hand, Red Planet is more high-tech, with robots, spaceships, aliens, etc., more popcorn movie.And finally the special effects, Red Planet wins in this part, because all the interesting thing of the film is centered on the special effects. AMEE, the expedition robot, is brilliant, and also the spaceship, the Mars surface and the martian lifeform too. That's the good point of Red Planet. However, Mission to Mars also has quite good SFX, but don't shine like in the other production.So, after going through all the differences, we must conclude in one thing Both films aren't brilliant, they aren't interesting and cool enough to keep the audience IN the action. I have seen both film at home, and that's what I think about these two films, to watch at home, better if someone pay the rent of the films for you! 6/10 "},{"Title":"THIS IS PURE WASTE OF TIME","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought mission to mars and alien ressurection were bad,but this one is even worse,it has a great cast that has a small participation,terence stamp has a 6 minute participation and carrie anne moss is there just to get the audience to the theaters.The Mars scenes are pathetic,they look like as if they were shot at the grand canyon,and the special effects...sorry...special defects are the worse since jason and the argonauts,the plot looks like it was made by an 11 year old child,the great villain of the film is a broken robot called amee,bla bla bla bla bla bla,how does films like these manage to get out of paper?i do not know,neither i want to. "},{"Title":"What's negative and positive in Russian?","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  CAUTION  SPOILERSThis film, while somewhat disappointing, had some fun elements that I enjoyed.  But I would like to complain about some aspects of it.  What follows may seem irrelevant at first, but trust me.A few years ago I bought a small, rechargeable hand-held vacuum cleaner.  The nickel-cadmium batteries have long since worn out, and will no longer hold a charge.  I opened up the device, removed the battery pack, wrote down whatever numbers were printed on it, and searched the Internet for replacements.  It proved a daunting task to figure out the vital matters of size, voltage, configuration, etc.  I had plenty of time to search, but I never quite found a site that offered the means to get it right.  This is a simple household appliance we are talking about.Now imagine being on an alien planet, hunted by a murderous robot, trying to figure out instructions in Russian (which you don't understand) on the energy requirements of a complex piece of foreign space hardware with which you are absolutely unfamiliar.  You extract a battery from said robot while it is trying to kill you, with the intent of using it on the foreign space vehicle about which you know nothing and whose directions you can't read.  Because you are running out of time, and have only a minute or two to work on it, you cannot consult with anyone else about the battery problem.  What are the odds that the battery could even be connected with, let along match the voltage requirements for, the Russian space hardware?  I'm obviously not a techno-geek, and I think my ability to suspend disbelief is greater than average, but due to personal experiences this example of ludicrously-stretched credibility irked me particularly.Another complaint I have about `Red Planet' is the characterizations of the crew members, an assortment of eccentric, moody young jerks that would not be out of place in a `Real World' episode.  It is obvious from the scenario of `Red Planet' that space travel is still considered a highly dangerous occupation.  That being the case, the collection of immature, wise-ass stereotypes depicted would never be chosen for the task at hand.  The exception to this is Chantilas, played by Terence Stamp, who is dispatched early and in the least dramatic way possible, so that the young and hunky space-dreamboats in the film can more easily dominate it.The costumes, scenic designs, and effects are generally good, but the digitally created robot and swarming bugs effects were not really convincing.  Eight years ago `Jurassic Park' featured digital creatures that looked like they existed and moved in the real world.  Unfortunately, I haven't seen it done quite as well again since then, and these digital effects, while rendered well, look almost as cartoon-like in their movements as cell animation.Overall, not as annoying as `Mission to Mars,' but not the excellent science fiction film many people are looking for.  Too bad.  "},{"Title":"Good; would be great if the pace were a bit faster.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read the reviews on IMDB before watching the movie, and decided to watch it anyway. A half hour in I was thinking, gosh this is pretty good, what were the other reviewers so disappointed by? The dialogue is pretty good, and yes there are some cliched statements by Mr. Chantilas (Terence Stamp) about religion, but I have some news for you real people say stuff like that all the time... people like to make speeches in real life.The downside of the movie is that about halfway through the excitement deflates somewhat. I think this would have been a really good movie if the pace and tension had been increased about 20%. There were some surprises but at times I could predict what was going to happen for the next 30 seconds or so. Even so, there were a lot of little things that made me like this movie the cast, the special effects / eye candy, the sense of desolation on Mars, the way the characters interacted, and most of all, the little animated astronaut bear.It's no masterpiece but it's pretty good; I wouldn't want to pay $17+ to see it in a theater but I'd recommend it for a rental under $5. You'd be lucky to get this as an in-flight movie. And yes, if you have a decent home theater setup, this movie will make you happy you do. "},{"Title":"Don't miss Amee","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The bad news is  They probably blew all the budget on the robot (Amee) and the cast (Kilmer, Moss), not much left for the proper story and character development.The good news is The robot in the movie is a piece of work, it worth a movie itself. I reckon we are going to see more of this idea in the future. "},{"Title":"A story about one of the biggest problems mankind will face","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie, and decided to see what people had said about it here. After reading through these, I just had to write.First off I did not think this movie was that bad, I would give it a 6/10 to 7/10. Someone asked where the water came from for growing the algae. Well I think this was mentioned in the movie as well, but there is water on Mars. Terra forming of Mars has been talked about a lot, and algae was one possibility. Some one thought it was convenient that they got the radio. I was actually impressed by this, as the Mars Rover project (where they got the /modem/radio from) was fairly recent. Someone said that they crashed near the habitat. I don't call 40 or 50 km near at all. I think the story did a good job explaining things. The ship was untested, as was everything with it. The things that went wrong make sense. The fire scene was very well done. I don't normally respond to the jibes that films get here, but I felt most of these were unfair. One of the roles of sci-fi is to show possible solutions for future problems. I think Red Planet took that to heart. To call it bad sci fi is just not fair. To be quite truthful, and I know I am going to get flamed for this, Star Wars was a story set in space, Red Planet was a story about space. I am not knocking Star Wars, but I think that is what a lot of people thing of when they think of as good sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Honestly, it's not that bad","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All the critics panned this film, so we avoided it at the theatre. Not  much was on pay-per-view tonight so we opted for Red Planet. OK, it's not Lawrence of Arabia or the Shawshank Redemption, but it's a heck of a lot better than Mission to Mars and half the dreck that Hollywood has put out this year. Yes, there are a gazillion technical details that I could punch holes in, but it wouldn't help or hurt the basic premise.  I would've liked to have seen the Chantilis character developed a little better and less of Burchenal, but I don't think it would've made it any better or worse, either. Overall, about a 6.  You could do much worse. "},{"Title":"Telescope sci-fi","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIn the year 2050,a small group of explorers,led by Carrie Anne Moss doing her sterdiest Captain Janeway impression,crashland on Mars (not many other planets that would justify the title,huh?)and begin running out of oxygen.However,as they wait to re-establish contact with their captain,they begin to realise someone,or something,is after them.Director Antony Hoffman's feature certainly has lots of engrossing cinematography and effects,but unfortunately,an uninvolving story and cliched characters make this about as interesting as a brief peek through a telescope.** "},{"Title":"Above average sci-fi","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although plot holes abound in this film, many of the criticisms voiced by reviewers here are not valid.  For example, someone complained that the dates don't add up.  Well, the film says that by the year 2000 it was becoming obvious that we were poisoning the Earth (it is), and then the film is set in the year 2050, and it says terraforming has been going for 20 years prior.  That seems plausible.  Someone complained about the warming of Mars, but this was explained by one of the characters in the scene where they are running out of oxygen in their suits.  The film shouldn't be expected to explain all this, but it did.  The coincidence of the chosen landing site being relatively close to some previous probes' landing sites seemed all too convenient, and this was never explained, but there are plausible explanations maybe it was intentional, to supply the crew with some extra resources, or maybe this was just a good area of Mars for landings (but look out for the cliffs!)My biggest nitpick with the film is that a nematode is a worm, and the PhD in Genetic Engineering who identified non-worm creatures as nematodes should have known better.My other big problem with the film is its implausible sequence of disasters.  Most recent films seem to suffer from this.  Like in Perfect Storm, it's not enough that your boat gets hit by a big storm - prior to that you also have to suffer through a man overboard due to a freak accident, a great white shark *onboard*, and a rare rogue wave.  Well, same thing here, you suffer radiation from a solar flare and later the destruction of everything you need to survive, and as if surviving on an alien world with no food and no water is not hard enough, you also find yourself under attack from some of your own equipment.  Come on.Speaking of no water, why weren't they eating/drinking the ice that rained down in the ice storm?  It was water ice, wasn't it, or was it carbon dioxide ice?Let's focus on the positives.  The computer images of the planets and spaceship are absolutely gorgeous, and the computer animation of the 'bot does a better job of suspending your disbelief than the old stop-motion model filming like in Terminator(1).  As far as science fiction films go, this one is above average - not nearly as good as the Matrix, but not nearly as bad as Mission to Mars or Screamers.  The acting is good.  The exotic beauty of Carrie-Anne Moss is a bonus. (I wonder if her exotic looks may be Marfan Syndrome.)  The core of the plot is vaguely plausible.  The repeated theme of no, no, you go on without me and self-sacrifice is interesting, along with the contrast with the selfish approach.  Go in with low expectations and optionally a suspension-of-disbelief ale, and you may enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've just read a bunch of extremely negative reviews here - many of which mention details that are wrong, mind you - and I can't figure out why people get so hot under the collar about it all.Why did I like it? For starters, it was darn refreshing to have a movie that DIDN'T have a villain. Some reviewers kept looking for one. I think they've been programmed by Hollywood to NEED one. Second, it's simplicity was equally refreshing. Again, some reviewers complained that it was too simple. At some point, don't you get tired of movies that build one subplot on top of another until you AND the movie itself can't keep anything straight?Most of the complaints involve the willing suspension of disbelief. Things happen in the nick of time; coincidences and luck are paramount. Why can some people suspend their disbelief for similar movies but not this one? Even a movie like THE PERFECT STORM, based on a true story, had more compound crises than RED PLANET. Finally, it seems to me that deciding if it's good or bad based on how hot Carrie-Anne Moss looks speaks volumes about what a viewer really wants to get out of a movie.  "}{"Title":"Geez, what a bunch of whiny know-it-alls...","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess a lot of people feel strongly about science fiction movies, enough to spend hours dissecting it and putting the results of their lab exercise out on a public web site.  Whew!  what a smell...I enjoyed this movie.  It had a good cast, some interesting character development, excellent special effects.  OK, holes in the story you could drive a truck through.  But it certainly was not bad enough to warrant the heated multi-paragraph bashing sessions that appear under Comments on IMDB.  "},{"Title":"Excellent casting...average and predictable script","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While Red Planet has been greatly underrated, it has one damn fine casting and a very commendable plot to make me put this movie before last years Mission to Mars.While Mission to Mars enjoyed much more success than Red Planet, I really do think that the crown should be handed over to the latter.Pretty cool special effects, amazing detail on the mini robot too. But overall seem to have done a better job than Industrial Light & Magic for MtM.Certainly rent this movie if you are not ovally convinced, but although some of the dialogue was a tad weak...the overall plot was pretty good.Red Planet - 6/10Mission to Mars - 5/10 "},{"Title":"** Worse than Mission To Mars","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Humdrum space adventure that makes the other Mars movie of its year Mission To Mars seem like Shakespeare. Val Kilmer leads an impressive but wasted cast as a member of a group of cosmonauts in the year 2057 who embark on a mission to the red planet to find out what exactly happened to a backfired atmospheric reorganizing project initiated by terraformers twenty years prior. A few of the usual pitfalls ensue power failures, lack of natural resources and everything getting saved in the nick of time before the clock counts to zero, but apart from that, there's not really all that much that happens. How can you possibly make a multi-million dollar film about five people on Mars and still manage to have them do nothing but sit around? Even the deaths of the various lesser members of the cast seem incidental and happenstance more than integral parts of a scary story. If the characters were being explored in even the most meager of fashions perhaps the mellowness of it all would be more forgivable, but as it seems that all the actors are just posing for the cameras until their agents can get their hands on some better quality scripts there's really not much to do except bear it with them. Val Kilmer does a hackneyed job of his character, at once putting on a ridiculous voice to signify that he's a high school geek but at the same time building his musculature up (and then saying somewhere in the film that he's not a jock; WHATEVER!) and spray-painting his hair a Euroclub blonde. A subplot about a robot that goes haywire tries to preach about the dangers of giving morality to artificial intelligence, but as the machine is injured in a fall (instead of actually choosing to go bad) this also begins to be more of an excuse to kill time instead of teach anybody a lesson. Even if Mission To Mars' plot outcome was the most ridiculously inane thing to happen in a movie all year, at least something happened in it. The filmmakers also committed the dire sin of casting ultracool action babe Carrie-Anne Moss as the commander of the spaceship and then leaving her trapped in a room for the ENTIRE film!! WHHAAAT? One gets the impression the film would actually have been interesting had she been allowed to get down onto the red earth and be among the people. Oh well, better luck next time.  "},{"Title":"Good Action Thriller, Although A Little Confusing...(small spoilers inside)","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie, I found it to be somewhat akin to Mission To Mars, which was probably the whole point. This was good for thrills, chills, and a few good laughs, but it was a bit confusing in places, like how did they get air on Mars? And what were the little bug things that ate Burchenal? Where did the water come from to grow the algae? But it's worth recommending. 7\10 "},{"Title":"Started out good and then petered out.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My biggest problems with Red Planet were that the plot didn't go anywhere, it was full of cliches and had huge plot holes.*Spoilers Ahead*Why does every space film have to have the ship suffer a crippling accident at the last moment? Why do they have to have a Robot that was provided by the military, and which is just waiting for the chance to go berserk? Why do they discover they can breathe on Mars at the last possible second? Who do characters have to die for no apparent reason? Why is there always one coward ready to sacrifice the others to save his own skin? Why is there conveniently located old hardware that has exactly what they need?I liked the first few scenes on the planet where they wonder what happened to the algae and the habitat, but after that, the movie just sort of lost focus. I was hoping that there would be some amazing revelation that would explain it all, unfortunately, all you get are some bugs, which are just a sub-plot introduced while the survivors are running from the stupid killer robot.Plot holes; How did they plan to get back to the ship anyway? The part they jettisoned didn't look like it had any engines on it. Where did the bugs come from? If they were already on Mars, what did they live on? Why are there hatches all over the main ship that open directly into space with conveniently placed restraining harnesses nearby? Is that so if the crew gives a disappointing performance you can flush them into space at moment's notice?  "},{"Title":"Is it me, or did this movie just suck?","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet, with all due respect to it's director Anthony Hoffman, and the crew that worked on this steaming cow patty of a movie, is just a piece of pointlessly contrived melodrama, that ended up engulfing the Blockbuster coupon for a free movie rental that I used. The plot, if there is one, stars Val Kilmer as the lowly maintenance guy on a space mission to Mars. Earth is dying and in need of natural resources very soon. They send the astronauts out to search for life on the red planet. But, ha ha, the mission goes awry on Mars and all the male astronauts are left stranded on Mars while the lead female character is stuck up in space trying to repair the ship that's blown up (I hope I didn't reveal too much). Some astronauts turn against each other, a majority die, and the movie's real villain is a robot that they brought on board and space cockroaches. The film doesn't have an antagonist that may have made this movie at least seem interesting. Instead, it's just lame and mediocre. It's waste of class like Terence Stamp and Tom Sizemore, and good actors like Benjamin Bratt, Kilmer, and Carrie Anne-Moss, this film is just bad. No wonder the studio didn't put any extras on the DVD because what the hell's the point? No one will buy it. Not worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"Miles better than Mission to Mars!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is miles better than the similar Mission to Mars. For a start, this one has some action in it, and a good musical score. The special effects are well done, and Carrie-Anne Moss is excellent as Commander Bowman. I give this movie 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good flick, much better than Mission to Mars","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so this movie won't win any really prestigious awards, I'll give you that.  Still, simply because Mission to Mars, which arrived earlier than Red Planet, was a waste of time and money for the most part, doesn't mean this piece of scif-fi should be overlooked.  The storyline was solid, there was good acting, the special effects rocked (AMEE in particular), there was a good bit of suspense and surprise, and it was fun to watch.  Kudos to Carrie-Anne Moss here, who did a great acting job and delivered a wonderful narraration for the beginning and end sequences.  So what if the ending was typical Hollywood, boy gets girl, saves planet, etc, I still enjoyed it.  Real moviegoers shouldn't let things like this ruin the experience of watching a movie, but look at the whole picture instead.  If you haven't seen Red Planet, do so now. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, interesting plot, cool f/x","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I notice that few other voters liked this movie as much as I do, so let me point out what made me want to own it**Watchability - To own a movie, I have to want to take it off the rack and spend a couple of hours with it.  If I only watch it once every three years, why bother shelling out the cash?  I watched this twice when I rented it - a rare thing for me.**Acting - I think everyone did a great job of letting us know the characters - they don't change throughout the course of the movie, but by the end you realize that they defied your expectations - I like that.**Plot - I love Sci-Fi that comments on the way we live right now - it's a snapshot of our times, and when done well, can be emotionally turbulent.  While RED PLANET falls short of the mark for Awesome Sci-Fi, it is well-done, and I particularly like the way it comments on, but doesn't try to solve, the big theme of the human condition, destiny and why we're here at all.**Special F/X - This is a movie where the f/x don't carry the movie, but enhance it.  Yes, there were a lot of computers used to make this flick.  BUT, unlike many offering out there, I feel that it wasn't done for the sake of the technology, but to create a feeling of where we as a race could be 50 years from now - voice control, holography, robots, etc.  most of this is here now, so to see it taken to the next logical step (or two or three) is exciting.  It makes the future depicted by this movie seem not just possible, but probable.  So there you have it, my little opinion. "},{"Title":"A good slice of hard sci-fi hokum.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is strongly reminiscent in style to George Pal's 1955 classic Conquest of Space, in its attempt to accurately depict the future of  space travel during the first manned flight to Mars.  Technically the film is faultless &#150; the surface of Mars has never been so beautifully realised on celluloid before and I could easily have believed that it had been filmed on location.  As for the plot &#133;.. Well I'm happy to say that the sfx compliments the action perfectly.  The major sfx scenes are sparingly used for an explosive beginning and ending.   The middle section dealing with the  fate of the crew stranded on the planet is engrossing and offers a number of clever twists and turns to a familiar plot.This is a good movie for the more thoughtful sci-fi fan. "}{"Title":"Tragic","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even Val Kilmer couldn't quite save this movie.Sad as it is to say, it's true nevertheless.I thought Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss, Terence Stamp .... how bad could it BE?!?Just goes to show that one should NEVER judge a movie by its cast.....The only movie this could be likened to is Marooned (the Apollo 13-like bomb from 1969).The not-insignificant talents of all this movie's cast were completely overshadowed by bland, hackneyed screenplay and stilted, confused directing.Watch this movie if you've just had some teeth removed- When the effects of the novacaine wear off, this will bore the pain away.I never thought I'd say this about a movie with Val Kilmer in it, but this was pretty crummy. "},{"Title":"Great Movie to Interest Young People in Science","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This may not be a wonderful Sci-Fi epic (and I know since I've been a Sci-Fi fan for over 25 years), but it is an interesting Sci-Fi movie that makes you care about the characters and science in general.  I know I saw my kids' eyes light up watching this movie and it inspired a lot of scientific curiosity.  That alone made this movie worth it.  I also liked it but it wasn't one I'll watch over and over again (still much better than the disappointing Mission to Mars).They did make some factual errors as IMDB calls them, but God help us if movie makers make a MISTAKE in a movie!  For those of you who dissed this movie because of those factual errors, all I can say is GET A LIFE and stop taking notes while watching movies.For the rest of us, this movie is an all-around good movie (when a Sci-Fi movie interests my daughter, I take note).  I'd give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Poorly done","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This one almost similar to Mission to Mars and the difference is, this one only interesting at the last 30 minutes and the first one hour is so dull and empty. It seems that the plot has been totally empty and the movie is very quiet.I do not simply enjoy this one when seeing the planet which has cloud at the top. The red planet is not eerie enough. Although the props are all red at the background, it is only noticeable at night of what colour did the crew wearing.The story should be make differently, put more action at the beginning and attention to the sci-fi part at the beginning and this make this movie an enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"underrated; worth watching","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although it's usually compared unfavourably with Mission to Mars (which in turn is compared unfavourably with 2001), Red Planet was far better than I expected. The special effects were excellent. The cast worked well together. The story kept me interested.The major problem with Red Planet was that it tried to be too many movies at once. It's at basis a crisis movie -- as in Apollo 13, absolutely everything that can go wrong for the intrepid astronauts does -- but it tries to introduce *too many* crises. First it's the breakdown of the main ship; then it's an injury; then it's a murder; then it's lack of oxygen; then it's communications; then it's a killer robot; then it's alien lifeforms... and so forth. Whereas Mission to Mars had a fairly clearly-defined focus (the unknown force that wiped out the original mission) Red Planet seems to keep leaping from problem to problem just as a way of keeping the excitement level up. In this respect it succeeds, but the drawback is that every aspect of the plot gets only brief and superficial treatment.Still, this movie is worth your while. It's expertly filmed, and always nice to look at (yes, even when Carrie Anne Moss is off-screen). And although the plot may leave you slightly confused and dissatisfied, you won't likely be bored. "},{"Title":"What a stinker!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I knew better than to rent this, I *knew* it!. I have only myself to blame, because I was thinking, Gawd, it can't be that bad. Ick. It was worse! Boring, stupid, repetitive, implausible... Hmmm, running out of adjectives.Why doesn't Hollywood ever hire real science fiction writers to write science fiction? At the very least, it would mean avoiding the monster plot holes and cliches. And a real writer, hopefully, would have avoided all the endless heroic speeches You go on without me; I'll just die here for the mission. How many times do we need to hear that one in a single movie? Ick.I wonder how many of these actors -- seriously good actors like Terence Stamp and Carrie-Anne Moss -- are going to list this stinker in their q.v.A couple of others here have commented on the really obvious plot holes; my favorite was the spoiler alert ending, when Kilmer manages to not only bleed *exactly* the correct amount of fuel off the little ship (without any measurement devices), but to launch at exactly the right second, in exactly the right location on the surface (apparently) to end up directly opposite the mother ship. Jeeze, if NASA could do that, we'd already be living on Mars. (Not to mention how handy it was to hook everything together; we all have experienced those universal connections between computers, right? Especially computers from different decades and different continents. Right.)The movie's not even lame enough for cult value. Boooooooooooring. "},{"Title":"Terrific tenseness.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My favorite scenes were the ones with Commander Bowman and her relationship with her SpaceCraft, and Gallagher's relationship with his robo-assistant Amee, especially when she malfunctions, and becomes a killing machine.I really saw a love affair with Gallagher and Amee throughout this film.This film is worth watching.  Although, the character interrelations were not tight enough, and didn't really connect with the movement of the plot, the time element keeps you tense, and waiting for the next catastrophe. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Yawn","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A weak plot made this movie nearly painful to watch.  I'm very glad I waited for the video.  A good cast and special effects weren't enough to save what could have been a good movie.There was too much stuff that was uninteresting (the whole boring trip TO Mars) and not enough of the good stuff (AMEE and those strange bugs). It was also hard to overlook some of the mistakes, too.  The bio expert gets the DNA material wrong?  The commander gives CPR that looks weak, to say the least.  How it could revive anyone is beyond me.  And how long did that launch and recover take?  He did all of that without oxygen, yet came to after just a few punches in the chest?  Oh, and they're going to take bugs back to earth that resemble robots and, though they supposedly feed on algae and produce oxygen, it sure looked to me like they also feed on blood!  Even Gallagher admits 'they eat everything.'  Sure, so let's take a few to earth.  My favorite character was Chantilas.  They killed him off far too early.  Why did they get rid of the interesting character and leave the ones you don't know much about and don't care anything about at all?  Good sci-fi, as Star Trek showed <g>, should always save the main characters and kill off the extras!This, along with Mission to Mars, make two very boring Sci-Fi attempts in a year.  <yawn> "},{"Title":"One word...boring","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's just me, but when I rent a sci-fi flick or action flick (seeing as it's categorized under both) I like to see at least something going on! You see the characters sitting around.  Sitting around some more and then about 5 minutes before the movie ends the action starts.  Ummm, isn't that kinda late to have something FINALLY happen?I was really disappointed because the previews looked really cool.  Guess I fell for it when they use all the good parts for the trailer clips to make it SEEM like the movie is half-way entertaining.Definitely no award-winning acting or effects in this sleeper. "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was definately one of the worst movies I have ever seen.   I know the atmosphere was supposed to have been changed by the algae or something, but breathing on Mars?  Give me a break.  Also, didn't the writers know that 50+ degrees below zero is kind of cold for humans to survive, especially without a hat?  I mean, their breath wasn't even steaming.  The whole story was so unbelievable.  Jump starting a 50 year old spaceship????  Val Kilmer was great in Tombstone, but this stunk! "},{"Title":"Pretty good with a different approach to Mars","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by some of the comments on this one.  It seemed, those that hated Mission to Mars liked this one and vice versa.  I saw Mission to Mars and I enjoyed it.  I also enjoyed this one.  The main plot was a little slow but it was a believable film.  They were fairly close to what would happen in space although they did take a few liberties with the physics of the some of the scenes.  They were needed to make the film flow better.  Some of the sub-plots I felt detracted from the film and could have been left out.  However, the idea of terra-forming Mars for human colonization was good.  The makers also left a few mysteries for the viewer to think about.Overall, this one is worth your while.  Good special affects, and pretty good plot line.  (7 out of 10) "}{"Title":"Saved by the bugs","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From the very beginning, the script struggles with killing everybody off in a not too incredible manner in order for our heroes (who happen to be in love with each other) to return safe and merry. The actual point of the mission is fumbled up in some vague attempt striving towards action and can only be picked up if you're wearing magnifying glasses. Overall it's a pretty lame movie and if you're not into the whole Sci-fi genre with octagonal doors opening with a Star Trek inspired pssht sound, forget this one.For us Sci-fi fans, it's worth the time; perhaps not the money&#133; "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer is the year 2000s Captain Kirk","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely for Sci-Fi-Addicts!If you like Star Trek, youll love this flick starring the sexy Carrie-Ann Moss and the worlds most outrageous screen star ever Val Kilmer.It is no more than an extended, kind of naive episode of Star Trek. But thats all it needs to be.It doesnt pretend to be anything it aint, like De Palmas crappy MISSION TO MARS did last year.Let me give you some good advice see this one on a cloudy sunday afternoon, together with your dearest movie buddies!Try it out, it works marvelously. For great, neat fun, call on Val and Carrie!Thanks also for Terence Stamps cameo!Nice movie, everyone! "},{"Title":"Held promise - seems like it needed work","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently caught Red Planet on pay TV when I stayed at a hotel.  I found it to be a vastly superior film to its competing conceit, Mission to Mars (no, no, no, no, no, no...) - well, that wasn't a hard task to accomplish, but the science in Red Planet is much more solid, and the acting of course, is much better (although Carrie-Ann Moss' bookend speeches and Terence Stamp's watered-down philosophies of faith and about the fate of our world seemed a little too hokum for the mood of the movie (still better than Kim Delaney's absolutely awful flashback speech in Mission to Mars - gawd, how could these otherwise talented and principled actors make such a trash heap of a movie? Ugh.))It holds promise, but it lacks consistency in tone.But it has a good story, and if you do decide to rent this movie when it comes out (I suggest you do, because you can see the movie holds some promise and it does have some intelligence behind it) I'm sure you'll notice that it sets itself up for a sequel, which frankly, might not be a bad idea for this movie and concept (it would be an opportunity to make a truly high calibre Sci-Fi pic, instead of a so-so one, and improve this one's concept immensely).I found the ads and even the posters are a little misleading - it's not as action-packed or Alienish as they may suggest. "},{"Title":"Dear God","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh please stop saying things like  It wasn't that bad, because it WAS. No sorry, it was worse. Apart from a somewhat talented cast given absolutely nothing to do or anything interesting to say (the rock with Made by God bit was as deep and philosophical as it got) , effects that have been seen done better on numerous occasions, a plot that was utterly plot less, what really got on my nerves was the utter IMPLAUSIBILITY of it all.Now I love my sci fi, but if you are going to base a story in our universe, please respect a few basic facts about it.I fell out of my seat laughing when the solar flare hit them. It was just so CONVENIENT, so as to pathetically turn it into some sort of disaster movie. It also looked like a wave of molten lava or something, when a real solar flare would be as invisible as the wind, albeit a lot more devastating to your cell tissue. And since Carrie Anne Moss bravely stood her ground in the control room, shouldn't she have been suffering from massive radiation sickness a few minutes later? I won't even mention the fact that they didn't get any warning.Well they nicely got over the gravity problem in the whole ship (top bottom, centre, etc.) by just spinning a few rings of it around.Then we come to the robot. Another stunningly convenient piece of drivel. Costs a zillion dollars, gets a bang on the head and starts to kill everyone. Waaaa (sound of a projectile vomit).Then a Mars that can increase its atmospheric pressure from under a hundred millibars to presumably something around a thousand in a few decades just because a few insects are farting oxygen? This is a planet for christsake, not a thermos flask.And why wasn't the change in oxygen levels detected during their journey? And why do they burn the only remaining raw materials left to them (what was left of the habitat) instead of attempting to make a shelter. And how was a little circuit board the size of a palm pilot with no discernable power supply whacking out enough zip to be detected on Earth? And why were they taking it out of Sojourner instead of Pathfinder, where the high gain antenna was really located ?(this is nit picking, I know, but it is just one example of the million times they just weren't bothered with reality) And why did the Cosmos launcher work now, when it didn't 30 years earlier? And why does it have such a stupid looking interface with a teddybear? And why was Carrie showing us her cleavage in the cold of deep space (not that I minded..one of the few bright moments!).And why do films this bad get to be made when there is sure to be more interesting stories out there about the planet that don't insult any sentient being with a brain bigger than a gnat.Christ, I can hear the producers now, when some intelligent being suggests making a film version of some part of Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy. Naw, wouldn't sell, we've already done this generation's quota of Mars films. Pity they were all crap.  "},{"Title":"Po-faced, lifeless Kilmer vehicle, enlivened by Carrie Anne Moss supporting turn","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The reviews which you may have read about this film are more or less on the money - Whenever the camera finds Val Kilmer (Which is predictably often), this is a fairly tedious slice of would-be serious cinematic SF.Evidently, the makers of this film were looking to emulate the balance between portraying a matter-of-fact presentation of space travel and sheer visual awe which made Kubrick's 2001 such a timeless classic.  Unfortunately, they have rather sabotaged their own efforts by concentrating the core of the movie on an uninteresting intergalactic shipwreck story which descends in due course towards an tiresome exercise in guessing which crew-member is next for an unpleasant death at the hands of an angry, unseen enemy (An enemy, which in the end, seems to have escaped from an old X-Files episode).  Simply, the script doesn't actually give the cast anything dramatic or engaging to work with - Terence Stamp should really stay away from working in SF blockbusters, as Red Planet gives him about as much to do as George Lucas did in Star Wars Episode One.  Similarly, Benjamin Bratt and Tom Sizemore are decidedly in the shadow of Val Kilmer, their Nasa-lite Brainiac science fellas being shown-up and out-witted constantly by the lead actor's deadpan, near-narcoleptic, slacker 'Space Janitor'.   High points?  Well Carrie Anne Moss fans (There are an increasing number of us) will delight at her splendidly tough-minded, smart and independent turn as the mission leader - Sensibly, the filmmakers cut back frequently to her attempts to save a crippled ship hanging in orbit above Mars, perhaps realizing that this sub-plot should have been the major focus of the film.  Noticeably, the effects and production design here are eye-popping and vastly more interesting than the dull goings-on planet-side.Overall, a wasted opportunity, but one that might be worth a look on the no doubt imminent DVD release. "},{"Title":"Is this really the unconquerable human spirit?","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Carrie-Anne Moss is jaw-droppingly beautiful, and she can act. OK, I've said that. Now let me add that if human interaction during future space missions really turns out to be as petty, bickering, egomaniac, clich-driven, selfish, corporation-and-military-ruled as it's portrayed in this movie -- or, on the other hand, as syrupy and cavity-inducing as in *Mission to Mars* -- I can't wait for the human race to be *really* replaced by machines. Or at least for a sci-fi movie where the next HAL 9000 clone is finally allowed to do the right thing -- i.e., ditch the blabbering idiots into vacuum and take charge of the mission without further hindrances the way it was meant to. At least it'll be rid of people whose idea of starting up a spaceship is banging a fist on a control panel. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie really rocked!  Zubrin would be proud.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Red Planet and I must say that I really enjoyed the movie. Fine, the plot was not the most exciting but the effects were gorgeous and the science was accurate as far as I could tell.  I just read the Case For Mars by Robert Zubrin, one of leading scientist advocates of a manned mars mission, and the movie lived up to the science explained in the book.  I must say I loved the movie, being a space geek and all, coz it lived up to almost the real thing.  So all sci-fi fans and advocates of a manned mars mission, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"A good Surprise","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had a very good surprise with this movie, because the other movie of Mars of the year (mission to Mars) it was terrible , and i thought this is similar but not this time its a good movieThe best of the movie ,the visual effects they were wonderful ,and without forget the AMEE robot and above all of course Carrie Anne Moss , More Pretty even than in the MatrixI dont understand the disaster in the American box office, when rubbish like The Grinch has a smash hit.This is very recommendable movie for sci/fi fans "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they make out...","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so most of the events in this film have little to no rhyme or reason, and the typical Christian babble from characters who can't tell the difference between well-applied resourcefulness and miracles is present and accounted for, but few films aren't guilty of one or both of these slip-ups. Right from the beginning, we are shown how much we're going to have to suspend our disbelief in order for this film to work. Terraforming Mars in a matter of a couple of decades in order to provide an alternate place for ten billion humans to live is hysterical enough, but the idea that the leaders of the year 2050 wouldn't attempt to seed more than one planet is ridiculous.I'm about to reveal key elements of the plot, so don't come crying to me if you haven't seen the film and read past this point. You might actually thank me for it later, anyway.The idea of a landing module hitting the surface of any planet from that far into the stratosphere without killing every passenger within is too ridiculous to contemplate. That is why the Apollo landing modules all had retro-firing rockets for use during their landing sequences. A gravitational force of less than half that produced by Earth might not seem like much when one is walking on the surface of the planet, but it is a hell of a lot to anyone who happens to be stuck inside a landing module that has been dropped from the outmost extreme of that planet's atmosphere. I'm not the only one who laughed aloud when Terence Stamp was the only actor to be written out with a ruptured spleen. And what was up with the tiny amount of oxygen that the astronauts brought with them? As far as I can remember, the original moon landing brought enough oxygen for at least twice as much time as they actually spent there.Roger Ebert is right - this is just a typically hole-riddled 1950s plot with a 2000 budget. It's silly, it's goofy, it has all the thought of an episode from Beverly Hills 90210. I could have written them a better script than the alcoholic babboons they obviously used. But there's more than enough eye-candy (Carrie-Anne Moss' only real reason for being in the film) to keep the interest level above minimal. This film will be worth renting when it comes out on DVD, but don't bother trying to watch it on the Very Hazy System. You'll lose at least 50% of the whole reason for viewing it in the first place. "},{"Title":"biological inaccuracy?","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The insect-like creatures in the movie were referred to as nematodes. Nematodes resemble worms and do not possess legs.  If the purpose of the seeded algae was to oxygenate the martian atmosphere, these nematodes were denuding the planet of algae and hastening their own demise.  Their excretion of oxygen would be self-limiting. "}{"Title":"Sci-Fi Flick Has Its Moments","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Prior to seeing this movie, I had heard a great deal of negative reviews about it. It is not the best science fiction film ever made but all-in-all, I liked it fairly well. First I felt that all of the performances were surprisingly good. Both Moss and Kilmer turned in credible performances. The special effects were both good and bad. Some of the shots of the computer-animated insects on the red planet were out-and-out laughable. However as far as the shots of the planet itself and the space vehicles, they were well done. Terrence Stamp's role was too brief. The story was fairly good but not without some holes in it. Basically this movie is good but not great. It is worth seeing. Oh, by the way, Carrie-Anne Moss in a skimpy white tank-top can only make your day better. "},{"Title":"A Pair of Surprises...And That's Just About It","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only surprises in RED PLANET are tucked neatly in Carrie-Anne Moss's flightsuit for the first twenty minutes of the film.  Whether these are a natural gift or an acquisition remains a mystery.  However, Ms. Moss allows them to be displayed in a manner indicative of a proud new owner.  They are just about the only thing that keeps the movie alive during its final third.  However, since a ship in deep space on emergency power is likely to be COLD, not hot (Witness APPOLLO 13), Moss braless under a thin tee shirt seems more a dramatic ruse than anything else. RED PLANET is strictly stock characters and formulamatic plot.  I imagine the screenwriters though they were being cleaver naming Moss's character Bowman, but a reference to 2001 makes this film seem even more lame than before. The film has great special effects.  Too back there are too many illogical elements driving those effects (More about that in the SPOILERS section). NOTE TO CGI technicians  Next time you create a CGI robot, remember to program in some mass and inertia elements.  AMEE, the robot of RED PLANET, moves like a cross between a dog, a scorpion, and ALIEN.CAUTION  SPOILERS AHEADWhat really ruins RED PLANET is the stupidity of its plotting.  Just prior to entering Mars orbit, the ship encounters a solar flare powerful enough to nearly destroy it.  Since Mars is MUCH further away from the Sun than Earth, shouldn't this flare have done enough damage here first to have Earth send a signal to the spaceship immediately before it arrived at Mars?  Of course, were the flare only in the DIRECTION of Mars, Earth would be undamaged.  HOWEVER, Earth stations should still have sent a warning.  MOST CRUCIAL is the malfunction of AMEE. Hasn't anyone in Hollywood heard of a remote control ON / OFF switch? Kilmer should have had one on his arm viewer.  Besides, it is MOST likely the Marines would have removed the search and destroy hardware from AMEE, because it would add weight, and the added cost of potential loss. Finally, we come to the Nematodes.  Since they consumed algae and EXCRETED oxygen (enough to make the air breathable), there should NEVER have been an initial loss or reduction of oxygen.  Certainly, once the Nematodes had produced enough oxygen to breathe, spectrascopic analysis from the earth or the spaceship would have indicated this.I give this movie a 6, based on the special effects and Tom Sizemore's witty performance. "},{"Title":"B-Movie Sci-fi","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet was a bit muddled in its story telling, but it was a good movie.I, however, was aided tremendously but Roger Ebert's review which stated that Red Planet was, at best, a 1950's Sci-Fi B-movie with a 21st century budget.With that proviso, the movie opened up to me much more easily. I didn't expect Oscar-caliber performances, but was pleasantly surprised by Carrie-Ann Moss, Tom Sizemore and Val Kilmer, whose work I haven't followed since his disappointing turn in the Bat Suit. You could tell that no one was working at the outside of their abilities here, but the result of their work was adequate and entertaining.As far as a story goes, I enjoyed the plot tremendously. The science was well crafted and engaging, but the characters seemed to be only half-sketched charicatures of reality. Personally, I could have done without some of the digressions into action movie cliches, (the skulking killer, the last ambush, the impossible rescue)and thought that the flashback information could have been handled better in some other fashion. I think if the story would have concentrated on the science and characters and not so much the conventions and happy-ending syndrome, it would have been a much better movie. However, as it is, the movie is a pleasant dive into familiar waters.  "},{"Title":"Lemmings and sheep all follow the leader...","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... as do IMDB users by the look of things. How is it possible to read all the reviews of Phantom Menace or Mission To Mars and read things like, oh it was fun! I don't mind if it had lots of plot holes, it was fun.? But once a few people start to say they hate a film, watch them all follow. Then of course, reviews start turning up here all saying that the Russian craft was from the 70's - not true. The film was set in 2050 and the Russian craft was from 2020.This is a good film. A first time director made this film under adverse conditions. Good on him. One thing lacking from most Hollywood blockbusters is the idea of cause and effect. Usually things will happen just to further the plot, rather than because it is the natural effect of what has already happened. Not true with Red Planet. Set up and pay off worked great. Terence Stamp should be derided for not taking a stand over his character - any actor can suggest new dialogue. Otherwise, a great cast doing a great job and a fairly neat script which was predictable (So what film isn't these days?)but suprising in it's details. "},{"Title":"Warning - Save your money","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS**A previous post said predictable, that is an understatement. Anyone with an IQ equal to Forrest Gump will be able to tell who is going to survive before they even land on Mars.This is boring dreary and illogical. The flaws have been well covered by others.I found this on a par with the dreadful Mission to Mars. It seems hollywood has caught Red Planet fever. In in its rush to cash in on Nasa's recent acheivements they have left out vital elements in their movies. A believable plot, an interesting story, some sort of suspence.SpoilerKilling of Terrence Stamp right off sucks, the best actor of the lot. A waste of talent. And the disarster just before entry to Mars, straight out of Mission to Mars. "},{"Title":"Mars bore!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What is it with Hollywood and space fads?  It was the whole moon thing, and now it's seemingly Mars.Although not as bad as the mind-numbingly dull Mission To Mars, this is all the same rather dull and uninteresting, and it dragged on towards a very predictable finish.The special effects were OK, and Val Kilmer wasn't as bad as he usually is - but I'd still give it a miss anyway. "},{"Title":"Good, but not spectacular","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While it is far from perfect, neither is Red Planet as bad as I was led to expect from the reviews I've read. The directing was even, the editing was good, the special effects were good, the acting was in all cases decent; the weakest element was the story - the science was poorly researched, and the plot had some fair-sized holes in it. The main problem with the film is, it isn't a blockbuster. I think a lot of people went in expecting a blockbuster, and were disappointed when they didn't get one. If you go in expecting a solid, entertaining film, and not a film that will make your jaw drop, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Still confused...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film last night and I am still confused as to what the critic in me would call it. Either it is a moderately successful attempt to be entertaining, or a really stupid excuse for a science fiction film. Paul Verhoeven's Total Recall is still the best film to ever be set on Mars, but with the competition that is out there right now, you could be forgiven for thinking this is only because nobody else can make a good one (this is not the case - Total Recall is excellent on its own merits).Things started off well enough. The explanation of what mankind has been doing up to the moment the film begins is concise, clear, and a plausible scenario, especially given the number of alternative engines that have been supressed in favour of the obsolete internal-combustion model. The flight to Mars was also well handled, with the usual arguments between crew members and methods used to cope with the isolation and boredom of being in the same spaceship for over six months being well handled. But something goes amiss once the crew reach Mars. SPOILER ALERT First of all, the solar flare. I realise that it would be hard to build a spacecraft that is everything-proof, especially when nobody has used one for the stated purpose before. But surely the designers would have anticipated some adverse environmental reactions from the planet and the solar radiation that bounces off it and made some allowances for it. After all, the whole mission supposedly carries the fate of humanity in its hands. If that was the sort of thing I was up against, I would have made sure the spacecraft could withstand the equivalent of a nuclear strike on an outdoor toilet.Then there's that landing module. I'm sure it was designed solely as an escape pod, but the first manned mission to the moon had better landing capabilities than that. People have rolled in cars for about a thousandth as many rotations and been killed by it, so the fact that only one astronaut comes out with a ruptured spleen while the others are perfectly fine is just an insult to the intelligence. A real group of human beings subjected to that much violent rolling and shaking would suffer too many complicated fractures for a single man to survive.Then there's AMEE. An exploration droid with an artifical intelligence that the astronauts must kill in order to get something necessary for their survival that is never mentioned again in the whole film. It then proceeds to go into battle mode and perform a series of ridiculous gymnastics in order to break a single astronaut's rib. I cannot remember the last time NASA built anything with a combat mode. Were they expecting to stumble onto the set of Total Recall or something? Had they cut this element out of the script before shooting and just stuck to the bugs, we would have had a much better film.Which brings me to the bugs. Bugs that eat the algae NASA tried to seed the planet with and excrete oxygen. A neat solution to the problem of oxygen limitations in the suits, but not a particularly credible one. The fact that these insectoid lifeforms also consume an unspecified tissue within the human body and excrete that as oxygen makes the AMEE robot all the more embarassingly redundant. And just how did they do all that damage to the colony structure that was set up for the astronauts' arrival? Do they eat steel and excrete that as oxygen as well? If they built AMEE in anticipation of hostile organisms, surely they would have been some kind of defense system into the colony.Don't even get me started on the method they use to escape Mars. The only thing I know of that was created in the 1970s that I expect to still work fifty years from that time is Black Sabbath's music.On the positive side, Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, and Carrie Anne Moss do well with what little they have been given. Tom Sizemore in particular lifts the standard of the film from a self-contradictory mess to a watchable human drama. Val Kilmer was only a step above phoning in his performance, but he does give the other actors reasonable feedback to base their peformances on, which is not an easy task. Carrie Anne Moss was mostly redundant, but her interaction with the ship's computer kept the entertainment factor in the film from going to waste. The special effects were well realised, and Coober Pedy really is an excellent choice as a location to film events that supposedly take place on a desert planet. These elements keep Red Planet watchable, but that really is about it - watchable. "},{"Title":"weak plot!!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found the movie disappointing because of a number of glaring omissions which simply cannot be ignored. If the story were pure fantasy,  common sense could take a back seat - but this movie attempts to be realistic.....However the scenic views of Mars are pretty impressive - canyons, valleys etc etc  and convey a sense of desolation...and the special effects are OK. On the whole, below average.Among the blunders, a) a crew member who is a skeptic of science and spouts philosophy and religion and God. This is a very embarrassing person to have on a hi-tech Mars mission!! The movie also harps about the existence of some mystical power beyond science, mandatory in modern Mars movies, but there is nothing mystical here beyond the inanity of the plot and many avoidable deaths. b) Another crew member is a crook and murderer and even by observing his basic behaviour he wouldnt be allowed on such mission. c) This one is a beauty they take to Mars a robot designed to hunt and kill human beings, utterly incapable of identifying friend or foe.....what is the point of this unneccesary danger???****WARNING SPOILER, VIEWERS YET TO SEE MOVIE MAY SKIP THIS*****d) A 50 yr old Russian Cosmos lander (1970' stuff) all waiting ready and primed for Gallager to escape in the final moments. Well, firstly it is Russian, secondly it is all rusted, thirdly Cosmos was an unmanned, DISPOSABLE Mars lander! e) The crew are launched on Mars and find the Habitat (where they are expected to stay and eat and breathe), utterly destroyed and in tatters - and seals their doom. Later, Cmdr Bowman is shown viewing the tattered Habitat via telescope from her orbiting spacecraft and bemoaning the fate of her crew. If only she had CHECKED OUT the Habitat  BEFORE she launched the crew???? Glaringly obvious....criminally negligent. f) Oxygen atmosphere was created on Mars in merely 20 years  sending algae there!! Whoa!! It took many millions of years for earth to have a breathable oxygen atmosphere, converted from carbon-di-oxide. **************************  "},{"Title":"Decent Action / Suspense, Thin Plot / Acting","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Carrie Anne Moss in the shower was worth the price of admission for me. Minus her 'talents', the movie was your run of the mill cheesy action film. Everyone's in constant danger, only the select few will survive to see the end of the picture.  No surprises, no profound revelations.  I saw a 1000 showing, I'm writing this review and going to bed.  I doubt I will ever again waste a serious thought on this movie.  It wasn't badly done, but it wasn't anything to write home about.  Just 2 hours worth of polished hollywood entertainment with nothing underneath the costumes and lights. "}{"Title":"Wasn't so painful after all...","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well just saw this, and I was pleasantly surprised given not one decent review ) Ok, no Oscars for anyone, but a cute chick, muscled hero, and a psycho robot - what more can you ask for a 10pm nothing on TV visit to the movie theatre ?Comment (literally) heard coming out - Wow, at least it was better than Mission to Mars - exactly the same comment was in my head at the same time.I was actually pleasantly surprised about how little was hard to suspend belief for, except for that concluding sequence (Trying not to spoil it).As for the previous comment regarding Cmdr Bowman and another well known SciFi movie - heck I thought that was funny as hell -) It dawned on me as I was leaving the theatre, and had to come onto IMDB to check the spelling and the role ) I suspect teenagers won't make the reference at all ?Winton "},{"Title":"Pay check","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Poised to be another Event Horizon by publicists, fortunately this movie does more than that.Potential.  That's all I can say about it.  The story had so much *potential*, but, alas, it gurgled, spazzed, flopped around on the deck a while and then simply died.  I was sorely disappointed.There was acting, but a rushed script made for no characters to act, and in a last-breath attempt to give it some depth, it calls for Commander Bowman (Carrie-Anne Moss) to party au naturale in the head (bathroom) with Gallagher (Val Kilmer).  A sequence that did nothing for Commander Bowman's character except to add some sleeziness normally associated with predictable sci-fi/action thrillers, and was totally wrong for an actress the calibre of Carrie-Anne Moss.As for everyone else, just call them the equivalent of the Red-Shirted Crewmen in Star Trek, or the nameless uniformed guard that stands next to the villain in a cop film.If you're looking for dazzling special effects (save for a few simple technical fallacies having to do with physics in a zero-G environment), go ahead and see it.  Spectacular!But, it will leave you feeling like you missed something. "},{"Title":"Okay, but not great","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, the more I think about this film, the less enthusiastic I am about it. My initial reaction was that it was an enjoyable, reasonably scientifically accurate (at least compared to some previous films), piece of escapism. However, as other have pointed out, there are some serious scientific flaws. On the other hand, it is much better than most of the recent sci-fi fare to which we've been subjected. For example, the absolutely atrocious BATTLEFIELD EARTH, MISSION TO MARS (good first half, bad second half), and the poor SUPERNOVA. In any case, I wouldn't say it's a waste of time or money (especially if you can indulge in a bit of suspended disbelief) "},{"Title":"Not at all shabby!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It may be a bit of a special effects vehicle and a bit short on scientific integrity, but Red Planet is a good story, beautifully shot and thoroughly enjoyable. Trouble is, I can't really say why. There's not a whole lot of action and a fair bit more could have been made of the various story strands, but the whole thing hangs together. Put it this way, I didn't check my watch once to see how long there was to go. If you were put off sci-fi by its predecessor, Mission to Mars, this should go some way to getting you back in the groove. "},{"Title":"A reasonable, beautiful film","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red planet is an interesting movie. Not great, but good and certainly worth watching.The plot is not mostly reasonable from a scientific point of view, there are no hugely stupid things that happen that would never happen in real life, unlike so many other sci fi movies. That's not to say there aren't any problems with the science, but mostly it makes sense.The visuals are amazing, you get the feeling of actually being on Mars. The story involves clever people instead of huge slimy aliens or other silly artifices, which makes it different. "},{"Title":"More of a documentary than an action movie","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found that with the exception of a few really amazing action sequences, Red Planet played out more like a documentary than a sci-fi action movie. The pacing was generally slow, and a lot of time was spent flaunting the Martian scenery or providing techno-history, some of it real, some not. That's not to say I didn't like this movie, I think I may have been in the mood for this kind of documentary-style exploration flick.Compared to Mission to Mars, this movie is at least twice as good.  For whatever reason, the normally A-class actors in Mission gave the lousiest performances ever.  Along with an absurdly fantastical premise, that movie had all the ingredients of a flop.  The Red Planet cast on the other hand, all played their parts believably, even if the movie wasn't too demanding of their skills.You won't regret seeing this movie on a cheap night, but you might not want to spend 10 bucks on it.  I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Well researched and entertaining.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a huge sci-fi fan, I watch lots of sci-fi movies. I thought this movie was a typical Hollywood science fiction movie, where a group of scientists were sent on a mission to save the fate of human kind, only to be challenged with one disaster after another. However, it delivered. It is well directed and acted. The science aspect of the movie was also well researched. There were enough questions posed to make it interesting and satisfying. Overall, this is a good sci-fi movie for people to spend 2 hours in the theater.  "},{"Title":"Better Than Mission to Mars","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was better than I expected.  Now, it wasn't amazing, and there were some moments that were pretty impossible.  The idea of the algae, though, struck me as pretty clever.  The special effects were good, the acting was good, and with many parts of the movie, the suspense was real. Unfortunately it takes a little while for the suspense to build up, but it does.  The fact that I liked it better than Mission to Mars made me bump up the rating a star or two from what I would normally give it.  Good fun. "},{"Title":"Better Than Mission to Mars","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was better than I expected.  Now, it wasn't amazing, and there were some moments that were pretty impossible.  The idea of the algae, though, struck me as pretty clever.  The special effects were good, the acting was good, and with many parts of the movie, the suspense was real. Unfortunately it takes a little while for the suspense to build up, but it does.  The fact that I liked it better than Mission to Mars made me bump up the rating a star or two from what I would normally give it.  Good fun. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red Planet was disappointing. Starting with the designer spacecraft interior, lacking the functional realism that would be found on a real ship. What's with the exterior lights on the rotating hubs?The real problems with Red Planet was casting. Carrie-Anne Moss played the male lead, and Val Kilmer the female lead. Carrie-Anne, the Commander, saved the ship, made all the decisions and rescued Val Kilmer. Val Kilmer's character, a minor crew member, was the woman-in-peril who needs to be rescued. While crossing the desert, he whines that he cannot continue, and Moss needs to coax him to persevere. Val is allowed to be resourceful only near the end. Throughout the movie Val speaks in a passive almost feminine voice.The producers and directors were trying to create a fresh new sci-fi movie by reversing the sex roles. It didn't work. Someone like Sigourney Weaver might have carried it off, but Carrie-Anne Moss' character lacked the depth to make it believable (no disrespect to Carrie-Anne who was wonderful in The Matrix.) "}{"Title":"Underrated, especially for sci-fi fans","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a fan of science fiction (and I mean TRUE science fiction, not just effects-loaded tent-pole movies) then Red Planet is definitely worth checking out.  I wanted to see this movie, but went in unenthusiastically, due to the poor advertising campaign.  The promotion surrounding this film made it look like it was about a killer robot, who turns on the crew, but this turned out to be only a small part of the story.  I also thought that the astronauts' spacesuits looked more retro (ie, Alien) than futuristic. However, RP turned out to have it's share of positives, and I enjoyed it much more than I expected.Mars is astoundingly convincing in this film.  It looks exactly like the pictures sent here from the Sojourner back in 1997, and the director thankfully takes his time showing us the caverns, rocks, and landscapes of the planet, much more so than 2000's earlier Mars-movie, Mission to Mars. It is very believable--if we didn't know better we'd think that the movie was shot there.  The colors and tint from the surrounding atmosphere are also quite accurately portrayed, according to what we know, of course. People might complain that there isn't much characterization in this movie, since the characters have standard motives and backgrounds.  But at least they have different and believable personalities, accompanied by decent performances.  This is especially true of Val Kilmer and the always reliable Tom Sizemore.SPOILER WARNING;SKIP THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE!I was at first disappointed when the astronauts removed their helmets, and found the air breathable, as a result of the algae growing portion of the terraforming process.  Terraforming is a fascinating and possible concept that is extremely complicated.  It would probably take hundreds of years at the least to even get it started.  And even if there was oxygen on Mars, it would be too thin for humans to breathe.  The removal of space helmets also poses another serious danger--Mars' insubstantial ozone layer.  Standing on the surface of Mars, an unprotected human would freeze to death at the same time his blood boiled, or something to that effect.  It sure wouldn't be pretty (although it probably wouldn't be TOTAL RECALL either.)  However, I soon forgot about this falsity as the plot progressed, and the characters met the living inhabitants of the planet--insect-like animals, creatively and believably constructed.  They looked real, and seemed to fit our description of the organisms that could possibly live on Mars.The presence of some true science in Red Planet at least excuses some of the film's fictional liberties--scientific facts aren't altogether blatantly disregarded and ignored here.  They are disguised and hidden when they interfere with the film's drama.  The film does, for example acknowledge the length of time the voyage to Mars would take, and (humorously) the effect of Mars' low gravity on human visitors (something that M2M again failed to do.)Red Planet is interesting and entertaining, even if it isn't the cosmic action film that some may have hoped for, or avoided because it apparently wasn't.  Hopefully it will get more attention on video and DVD.  Grade B  "},{"Title":"Gives scifi a bad name","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What were they thinking.  They pulled every bit of garbage out of the bottom of a waste basket, piled it up, cut out anything that might have been substantially good, and sat back and called that a movie?Val what were you thinking? "},{"Title":"pretty cool movie! I would get it on DVD","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was suprised. I really thought that this movie would be bad, but it was actually pretty good. It is just as good as Mission to Mars, but the two can't be compared. They are two different movies. I am going to say a possible spoiler so be warned, but I really thought it was cool when they used parts of the 1997 Pathfinder. Also the special effects were really cool. I really don't remember much of the end of the film, because I saw this with a few friends and it was like 1230 when it ended. I was half asleep, but I kept awake to watch the movie, because I wanted to see the ending. I would definetly buy this on DVD when it comes out. Go see this movie, I don't think that you will be disapointed. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, people, I even do not want to compare this movie with Mission to Mars -- this one is MUCH better. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes sci-fi. It has some flaws but to my opinion it is worth watching. I put 8/10 for it.  "},{"Title":"Better than Mission To Mars","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Giving us a little more bang for our buck, Red Planet gives us a Mars mission that hold a little  more menace than the previous Mars film.  The effects are good, the look of Mars is good and I  especially liked Val Kilmer.  The story is interesting, but the lines that these actors have to say  are quite times, dull and lifeless.  The always engaging Carrie-Ann Moss spends most of the film  trapped aboard the ship while the rest of the crew is down on the angry red planet playing hide  and seek from their robot drone, who's been turned on in angry mode and is bent on destroying  them all.  Some of the scenes during the first portion of the film seemed to be truncated, like  they were not able to play themselves out fully.  Red Planet has some good ingredients in it, but  it seems to be only half baked.  It was better than Mission To Mars, but it could've been  better.               "},{"Title":"You already saw this movie, so don't see it again","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The earlier reviewer djnichols hit the same point that hit me I wish that plagarism was a crime (or at least painful).Some SPOILER stuff to follow...Just about every device in this film was used before.  Why does the only spaceship in space need anti-collision blinking red lights? (Star Trek(s), Lost in Space, etc.)  The spinning centrifuge supposedly creates the gravity, but we never see the curved floors as in 2001.  In fact we see flat floors as Terence Stamp pedagogues to Val Kilmer.  And when the gravity kicks on it does not come on slowly as the centrifuges begin to spin again, rather it comes on like a lightswitch.  If (instead) the gravity is magnetic, then why is glass held in place?Why do the flashbacks have to be scenes we already saw?  The movie isn't that long.OK, so the Mother Ship gets hit and the crew has to bail out in the landing craft - Starship Troopers did it better.When the landing craft hits and rolls (based on actual science) you get the best special effect - however the we're safe - no we're not was done better in The Abyss. (The crane's on its' way down to you)Carrie AM was great but no professional female officer is going to stand naked, arms akimbo, and give one of her troops an eyeful.  If this was a seduction attempt on her part, OK, but, obviously it wasn't.  Seeing the naked back and side of breast is another Oh, heck, I could see that on NYPD Blue rip-off.  Carrie AM working braless in a tank-top, oh, lemme think, Alien? Aliens?  Carrie AM does CPR from the 60s (precordial thump a la George C. Scott in The Hospital) and w/o the breaths.  Hooking her feet under the girder was at least an attempt at reality.And we are to believe that this crew hits Mars w/o a sensor for oxygen or CO or CO2 levels?  They did not have to pull out tricorders but, you mean to tell me that they do not have one sensor until Hey, lookee here, I can breathe. Puhleeeeze.Killer cockroaches was done using plastic bugs in Damnation Alley and CG in The Mummy.  The bug coming out of the mouth was in The Abyss.Supposedly these bugs destroyed the modular home, with some assistance from the wind.  Was that it?  Then who threw the girders fifty feet away? Ripped and shredded foil - OK, but heavy steel torn as if a bomb went off?  Help me on this one.AMEE was a great concept but no one is going to leave a military mode in a service robot.  That's like leaving Spitting Cobras in a day care center. Lost in Space (TV and movie) used the robot turned against us device as was Hal in 2001.  The final showdown with AMEE was right out of Aliens with our hero whipping a coup de grace on the attacker.  But hey, learn from Terminator - how does a measly punch and fire destroy this battle-droid? At least Val Kilmer did not call AMEE bitch.  Then the remote sensor (see Empire Strikes Back, or the TV dud Viper) hits like a mortar round and Kilmer is unscathed.  Then he pulls out the battery that just happens to be the right voltage and amperage for an ancient Russian (Soviet?) craft that has full-color Misha the Bear indicators for low battery.  Yeah, sure, right.AMEE was (seriously now) very eerie and scary as she moved like a jungle cat but the squinting eye and kung-fu stance made her lose all credibility.Mars has ice. Total RecallThe crew getting picked off one-by-one is The Dirty Dozen, Predator and how many others.The guy who runs off gets killed - Jurassic Park, Raiders of the Lost Ark and scads more.The guy gets the girl - ten thousand movies.At the end, I thought that perhaps the bug might come out of Val Kilmer's mouth just after the CPR appeared to be successful or that the cockroaches would defoliate Earth, but no such Oh, S**t surprise, instead, the credits rolled.And in case you think I liked the movie, no one, and I mean no one, is going to sing Nineteenth Nervous Breakdown as they are wounded, low on air and yomping towards an uncertain horizon.  They are going to sing Men of Harlech, Long way to Tipperary or their college fight song.Rent Total Recall instead.Brewski-2  "},{"Title":"Cool Sci-Fi flick","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is a great launchpad for Anthony Hoffman's career as a director. One of the best debuts I've seen. Also, Carrie-Ann Moss is stunning in this role and it gives her more room to exercise her talent than The Matrix did.There's a lot of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the movie and both the good and bad sides are portrayed. Finally, a Hollywood director gives an optimistic look at one of the most controversial technologies of our time. The technology in the movie is pretty convincing esp. speech recognition, electronic paper and virtual presence.A great job by Pixel Magic, Digital Domain, Metro Light Studios and Flash Film Works. Breath taking sceneries, the scary extinguishing scene and the pictures of Mars from orbit are simply awesome. If you like sci-fi flicks this is the one to watch. "},{"Title":"It's not good... but I liked it anyway","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think there should be a system in Hollywood where one director can finish his or her film, and then hand it off to someone else who can take a fresh look at it, see what things work and what doesn't, and fix it up. This is one of those movies, one where there is a lot of promise... a lot of unrealized promise. If someone could have taken it and shaped it more carefully, I think it could have been a lot more interesting.If you've seen the trailers, this movie looks like We crash land on Mars, and then our robot doggie comes and kills us one by one. What it really is is Obstacles One Might Face When Journeying To Mars. The main characters just face one hurdle after another and keep going, and not one thing emerges as the biggest challenge. Thus, this movie has more of a road movie structure than suspense or action structure. Which is fine, you just have to get used to it. I personally found it enjoyable, in not terribly exciting. You could do a lot worse.THERE ARE SPOILERS FROM HERE ON OUT>>>>>There were some opportunities that I thought were really wasted, the biggest being Carrie AM's shooting out into space at the end. She is cooped up in the constricting ship the whole time, while Val is on the ground, with the tension constricting around him also. When she shoots herself from the confined ship into space--with the accompanying choral music--it's exciting, but it more hints at how really enthralling it could have been had the entire movie been shaped better. This scene really could have been the orgasm of the film--where all the built up tension is suddenly and thrillingly released, with a symbolic rush into space--but it just wasn't handled carefully enough to come off as well as it should have. Maybe some other film will use this better.Carrie AM is very good in this. I would like to see her get more dramatic parts. She is strong without being a ball-buster, and projects intelligence. Val Kilmer is one of my favorite actors, not because he's always that good, but because whatever he does, he makes it INTERESTING. His performance here may seem flat, but I think he's just decided to play this character as a low-key guy-- he IS the space janitor, after all. I think the archetype of this movie is in boys' initiation rituals into manhood. Val is the least mature member of his crew--he's the janitor. He has a flirtation with the only female in the film, but cannot complete it. There is a father figure who offers spiritual guidance. Then he is exiled to a planet with no females, and his father figure is taken away. He must endure a number of trials; seeing his friends turn on each other, trying to survive, etc. He begins to absorb the spiritual lessons offerred by the father figure, and has to slay a monster (the robot) at the end, before he can return to the female, matured, and ready to complete his connection with her. So little really happens in this movie, and when it does, we're so distanced from it, that the sybolic elements really come to the forefront. It's just too bad the whole thing couldn't have been shaped better to do this more effectively.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Thanksgiving turkey is early","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Absolutely the worst movie of the year.  Boring, stupid, and pretentious. Don't waste your time or money on this turkey.  There were easily 6 dozen things I hated about this movie and the biggest set of them was in the story logic category.  The writers must have thought the audience was a collection of six year olds who know nothing about Mars or space travel.  "},{"Title":"GOOD FOR THE SHORT HAUL","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After you've had 40 years of reading, and have done some writing in the fantasy-sci-fi area, you have a different perspective than when it's all new to you.  When a good sci-fi flick was done,if at all, about 8 years apart, then I would have killed for Red Planet.  Today, however, the anti is way, way up and I expect a lot more from a movie.  And I can usually get more from the many guys making their livings in the sci-fi and adventure fields. Sci-fi should be as full of meaning and excitement as, for example, Raiders of the Lost Arc, and have as much depth and meaning as Babylon 5. Nowadays, I want more out of my chosen gendre than Red Planet delivered.  The main fault was lack of a real story. Sorry, but it was just a snapshot or just a graham cracker when I like full course meals. "}{"Title":"It was good!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie more than most other big budget Hollywood films I've seen recently. One of the things that pleased me was that there's a neat part in the trailer that I didn't think was going to show up in the film, but it did - right near the end. It's the first time I was able to enjoy a scene in a trailer and still be surprised by it in a film. It was also interesting visually. My favorite moments are probably the ones where the astronauts are first landing. The story feels like an old-time piece of science fiction (at least, from what little old-time science fiction I've read); I think Roger Ebert said that too. And he was right about this being a good picture.  "},{"Title":"Lesson learned from this movie never train the robot as a green beret.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A freak accident (a solar radiation storm, really weak plot device here) sends most of the crew, minus Ms. Moss who stays in the ship the whole time -- with her own problems, never fear -- scurrying towards Mars where a crash landing causes the navigation robot to malfunction. Unfortunately for the cast, the robot was originally programmed as a military weapon, and begins going thru the steps to eliminate them. Unfortunately for the viewers, almost all of us were hoping the robot had been set up by some nefarious third party to assassinate the crew as he/she/it did not want them to find something on Mars, but, no such luck, we were stuck with one haywired doohickey trained to maim. Still, a much stronger plot device than the solar radiation storm, and as uncomplicated as the plot is, much more believable. Good points of the movie 1) realistic flight model for the space scenes, was very pleased with the special effects crew on this one as we seem to suffer from the airplanes in space physics movies and TV have wrongly loaded our subconciouses with. 2) The robot!! If nothing else, rent this tape just to see this cute little killing machine go thru it's paces. The special effects guys came thru once again, and spent a lot of time designing and implementing this one. All in all, not great, but not terribly bad. Low A rating. "},{"Title":"Terrible film...","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just awful. The notion that the survival of the world depends on these people is absurd. The characters are sloppy, emotional, careless, and somewhat unstable. Can you imagine the psychological testing that candidates for a mission like this would endure? The finalists would be calm, secure, businesslike, and professional.Cliches abound (just like that one) and everything is painfully predictable. Things are spelled out in the most elementary way, and the plot points are obvious. Please don't waste your money "},{"Title":"Being stranded on Mars would be better than seeing this film","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Golly, Val Kilmer is talentless. What better place to dump him than into a movie that wouldn't challenge his acting ability anymore than it challenges science, plot development, character development, or logic. There's no need to go through the details as so many others have done, just know that where the usual conventions of this genre pop up, such as scary monsters, brutal serial deaths, barely plausible love interest, failing machinery, and the usual slasher/chaser c**p hardly show up at all. That could have been a good thing except that they weren't replaced with much else. The movie ends up with very little on which to feed. It's so boring that we were the last to leave the theater, not for reading the credits as usual but because I had to regain enough consciousness to stand up.Save your money, go clean your room instead. Or take out the trash. Either will be far more fufilling than suffering through Red Planet. "},{"Title":"Lots of holes in this plot...","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, this was an okay movie.  Don't go into it expecting a great movie, however.  There were just too many questions left unanswered.  Many of the scenes leave you going, Huh?  Especially after the movie when you try to piece together what you just saw.I went to the movie with friends, and I like Kilmer and Moss.  However, neither of them could save this movie.  It is definitely not a thriller/horror/action movie.  It only qualifies as a sci-fi in my book. There are a few decent action sequences, little-to-no horror (scary) moments, and the thrill was less-than-thrilling.The movie had potential with a strong cast, but the plot was so simple and uninspiring.  Go see it at a matinee or in re-release for a couple dollars, but don't go buy a full-priced ticket. "},{"Title":"Great cast, disappointing script.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  RED PLANET has a wonderful cast- Val Kilmer, Carrie-Ann Moss, Tom Sizemore, Benjamin Bratt and the invaluable Terence Stamp. It also has some good special effects- and for once they serve the story. The movie doesn't rely on them too heavily. The problem with the film is that the story seems to lack drive. Here we have a group of people stuck on Mars with no water or food, with insurmountable environmental odds, a crazed robot after them and no way to get off the planet, and yet no one seems really concerned. The characters, despite everything the actors bring them, lack any real depth. We have the philosopher in Terence Stamp, the scientist in Tom Sizemore, the female commander whose stronger then any of her men in Carrie-Ann Moss, the coward, who is more evil then he looks and the know it all mechanical guy in Kilmer. But that's about as far as the characters go. RED PLANET is not a bad movie- and is certainly better then the terrible MISSION TO MARS, but the story betrays us. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Better than Mission to Mars","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is the second movie to come out this year about a trip to the planet Mars, and it's alot better than the first movie Mission to Mars which came out back in March. The problem with Mission to Mars was that, despite good special effects, it was too slow too often. That's not the case with Red Planet. This new Mars flick has the excitement that was basically lacking in Mission to Mars. Plus, the special effects are better, and the story is more interesting. Red Planet features a trio of good performances by Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, and Carrie-Anne Moss (from The Matrix). However, the three other performances in the film aren't developed very well and come off mediocre at best. Red Planet is not the most spectacular science fiction movie I've ever seen, but it's a good one. American moviegoers should give this film a chance. It's opened in fifth place at the box office this weekend with a disappointing estimated gross of $9 million. Don't let this opening weekend gross make you think that this movie stinks. Go see it. I'm sure that after you see it, you'll agree with me that it's a much better movie than Mission to Mars. I know I did. And it deserves to make more money than the earlier movie too.*** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Worst movie about Mars I can remember","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just dreadful.At least Mission 2 Mars, while far from being a sci-classic like 2001, managed to entertain in a hokey, 1950-ish way. That movie had likeable characters and a plot that, while laughably unrealistic, was at least entertaining.Red Planet pretends to be hard science-fiction, where scientific facts and plausability do not take a back seat to story. However, the film plays out to be just as ludicrous as Mission 2 Mars. The characters are given little time to develop, the acting is dead (save for Tom Sizemore who hasn't been more likeable than in this movie), the special effects are HORRIBLE, the music is gut-wrenchingly-bad, and the whole movie leaves you thinking so what? Without spoiling too much, let me assure you that nothing amazing or fantastic happens in the story. It's very, very dull. "},{"Title":"No character development and over-commercialization, but otherwise OK","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There is no character development in this movie.  For the first five minutes, I was trying to keep track of who does what, but don't bother, it's not necessary.  Also, look at everyone's outfits.  They are littered with logos from companies.  You'd think this was a movie about race car drivers. Anyway, the movie does present some interesting premises and provide for a bit of imagination.  You might want to wait for it on DVD. "},{"Title":"Ok - A Good Rental at Best","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Red Planet this past weekend. I have to say that I was entertained but overall it was the acting that kept the movie going. Overall, the story was very boring. I won't go into detail about what the movie was about but I feel it could have taken less than an hour to make the movie. At times it was suspenseful but most often very predictable. Val Kilmer played a very good role as did Carrie Ann Moss (you might remember her from the Matrix). In closing, as mentioned I feel it is a good video rental, but paying over $8.00 at the theatre is pushing it. "}{"Title":"A better pure Sci-Fi than Mission to Mars","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, there is the inevitable comparison to the earlier released Mission To Mars. Here is how I sum it up Mission tried to be a realistic story but ended up with gobs of implausible events and actions to mess up the works. Red Planet tries only to be a 'classic' sci-fi film of the kind we don't see much of now-a-days. Except in its computer enhanced look, it harks back to those old black & white films of spacemen landing on the unknown planet, finding something unexpected, then having their numbers whittled down while they race to save the day using only their native resources. In the regard I thought Red Planet to be a pleasant surprise. SPOILER ALERT The quickie spoiler Earth has been sending probes to mars for years, trying to seed the planet with algae which will convert the atmosphere to one with more suitable chemistry for humans. The experiment seems to be working, but then the stuff mysteriously disappears, and a crew is hurriedly dispatched to investigate. Things go wrong, and the commander is left stranded in orbit on a disabled ship whilst the rest of the crew bail out to the surface, expecting to hole up in an existing habitat from a robot mission. Both parties (in orbit on on the surface) lose touch due to landing damage, a couple of crew die of injuries, the military robot (hastily brought along for its navigational capabilities) goes into it's 'kill everyone' mode, the habitat turns out to have been ravaged and devoid of foodstuffs, and the race begins. The commander (Carrie-Anne Moss, in her best Sigourney Weaver-in-Alien resourceful mode) battles against time to restore enough functionality to the ship for a return trip home, thinking that the guys below are dead. The guys meanwhile think she's dead, and that their time is numbered (remember the robot stalking them one by one?). As their number dwindle, the hero (Val Kilmer, depressed by the loss of his buddies and by the supposed loss of his secret beloved in orbit above) outwits the robot, finds an early NASA probe and salvages its radio to re-establish contact with the commander above, then hightails it to find a larger Russian probe, abandoned but capable in theory of giving him a lift back into orbit for a ride home if the boss can manage to fix the ship. In the process, of course, he discovers the secret of the missing alage and the barren habitat, both of which will save the day for Earth if he can just get off the planet alive!The film's basic plausibility is decent, at least within the standards of this kind of science fiction. Most things are suitably likely given the genre. There are a few things that really stretch credibility (why would they have every put THAT on the ship unless they knew this unlikely scenario was going to happen?), but still the crap-o-counter was reading lower than with Mission to Mars.The film's script has been called bland, wooden or just plain boring. I thought that there is nothing wrong with people talking to themselves when they are basically alone, and astronaut types are not required to spew witty lines when in a crisis situation. The dialogue served its purpose, but was not the main point of the film.There are some cool things. The landing of the pod with its air cushion balloons, everything about the military robot, the finding and use of the NASA probe, the cute yet somehow foreign user interface on the Russian probe, and of course the answer to the algae question.I give it three out of four stars. "},{"Title":"It was good...","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Like most people I have been waiting for this movie since the drek of Mission to Mars was released.  I wasn't disappointed.  I actually enjoyed Red Planet.  Okay it wasn't perfect and one of the most interesting characters died shortly into the movie; but the movie was good.  It was an interesting take on the first step on Mars, with great visuals and pretty good characterisations.I recommend seeing this movie, it's fun and interesting... and best of all it isn't Mission to Mars. "},{"Title":"The funnest space movie in a long time","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  'Red Planet' is probably the most entertaining movie set in space since 'Armageddon'. Don't stop reading there just because I said that... 'Armageddon' was one of the worst, most shallow films I've ever seen, but it was entertaining as hell. Same goes for 'Red Planet', though it at least did have something below the flashy exterior, unlike 'Armageddon' and pretty much every space movie since 'Capricorn One', especially the disappointing 'Mission to Mars'. That something was an urge to become a better film, to break away from the over used scenes and space cliches. All the elements were in place, great direction, a capable cast, good dialogue, lots of action, only it's too much like the other recent space films.The plot is more plausible than most space flicks, a bleak vision of the future, where humans have depleted all of the Earth's resources and must find a new planet to colonize in order to survive as a race. The planet they decide upon is our neighbour, the 'Red Planet'- Mars. Since the early 2000s, they have been sending probes to Mars filled with algae to promote growth and allow the atmosphere to become more Earth like. Everything seems to be going well until the year 2050 when all of the algae begins disappearing and the oxygen levels drop without any explanation. NASA (presumably, even though it's only referred to as 'Houston'), has planned the first manned mission to Mars, consisting of six people, to find a possible cause for the recent problems on the planet. Once they land, the pieces slowly fall into place, revealing nothing less than sheer terror.The casting was very good, getting the perfect combination of talent (Terence Stamp, Carrie-Anne Moss) and star power (Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore). The inspired direction by newcomer Antony Hoffman also helped rise it above the norm, same goes for the exceptional sound design. To really appreciate the sound in this movie, you have to see it in theaters, and if it doesn't at least get an Academy Award nomination in that field, I'm sure a lot of people, including myself, will be disappointed.If nothing else, 'Red Planet' is a whole lot of fun, with good special effects and some funny one liners from Kilmer and Moss. A good film for a Saturday afternoon matinee, and if you miss it in theaters, then you're not missing all that much. A treat for your senses, but not your mind.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Considerably better than Mission to Mars, but still lacking something...","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, seeing that I had to wait 7 months for the other Mars movie came out (aka Red Planet), I was anticipating that tonight would prove that this movie *was* how it was anticipated to be better than Mission to Mars.  And it was.I saw this movie with my dad, who is not an easy moviegoer...any movie without war or extensive action is not good enough, but I was really into it.  The special effects were very well-done and quite imaginative, especially the maps and the action sequences.  Looking into the future has never been so well-developed than this movie, in my opinion...very imaginative.  The cinematography was pretty good...it creates a pretty unsettling environment for the viewer, which is probably what the director intended it to be, which is a harsh environment for these characters.  Speaking of characters, Carrie-Anne Moss, Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, and company give pretty good performances, but they did the best with what they were given, and that is the second part of my review.There are some parts of the movie that don't have the best writing and dialogue that could have been delivered.  Like said, the actors used what they got to their best.  Some of the character development was not as extensive as one would want it to be...never got to really get into a character's shoes.  Especially Kilmer's role.  I've never seen him in action as the space janitor, but I know he has that occupation by what the characters say.  Also, getting back to action, I will admit that this movie does lack in action sequences.  Nonetheless, this is made up by the special effects and the climax of the film.Bottom line  Good movie, great effects, exceptionally well-done by the actors, but don't expect too many action sequences and deep character development.  Recommended to sci-fi fans and people who despised of the earlier Mars movie.  8/10P.S. Try not to sit in front of an annoying teenage group and behind a coughing old lady!     "},{"Title":"beautiful , but this is the only really good word that i can say","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  yes the special visual effects are incredible AMEE was made really very interesting . but other things are empty no nice story it's not interesting. actors there was only 6 or 7 but they played as good as they can i don't have a word against their play the director was ok too but story and lazy of ppl who gather information just made me get really nervous .russian spaceship . the robot that sayin' the russian words speaks russian but american accent . then next the words on screen hahaha that was funny cyrillic alphabet but there's no words like there was in russian language . do u thing that the word with pronounciation vgdjkom can have equation of 25 i don't think so and what that bear that cried and ... ahh whatever that showed how lazy they're and that they don't respect their works . i think that in movie too few action with AMEE but it was one of the interesting things in this movie but again just beautiful that's it . i'm disappointed i waited for this movie about 7 month and nothin' . and trailer was too stupid . ok i think i gotta over this review and i'm sayin' that my grade from 10 i gave only 6 . thanks for reading .  "},{"Title":"NOT Mission To Mars","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The most important thing is that this film, Red Planet, is NOT Mission To Mars. Even though this is the second Mars movie of the year 2000, this one is done better. It isn't great, but it's entertaining. I didn't want to laugh continuously or get up and leave like in Mission To Mars.There are some problems with the script, like underdeveloped characters and some unsettled plot details, but if you go in expecting to be entertained with some eye candy and special effects that do look pretty cool, then you'll have a good time.Because, hey, nothing can be as bad as Girlfight. "},{"Title":"Red planet which turned out more green and blue actually...","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Compared to Mission to Mars, which was also released in 2000, then Red Planet pales. The storyline in Red Planet is just simply too far fetched to be anywhere near the other movie.The story in Red Planet is about an expedition sent to Mars to try to figure out a way to save the dying Earth. But the mission quickly goes awry and it becomes a desperate race against time.Storywise, then Red Planet wasn't as captivating or thrilling as Mission to Mars was. Sure, it had its moments, but in overall it didn't fare all that well.There weren't all that many special effects throughout the movie, which sort of was a shame, because it could have brightened up the movie, now that it was failing on its storyline. However, one of the special effects that should be mentioned as being fantastic was the fire in zero gravity. That was really impressive, and the movie is worth watching for that scene alone.As for the acting, well I can't claim to be a fan of neither Val Kilmer or Carrie-Anne Moss, but they were actually doing quite good jobs in Red Planet. It was a shame that Simon Baker wasn't given a more outstanding character or a character with more impact on the story, because his talent was far from utilized in this movie. And the choice of Tom Sizemore, well that just baffles me - enough said.What didn't work for me in Red Planet was the fact that there was breathable air on the surface of Mars. And if these algae and insects were creating breathable air, wouldn't it require a much, much larger area of algae covered ground? And as such, wouldn't that green patch be noticeable on the surface of Mars from space? The costumes were quite interesting, as was the interior of the spacecraft. Although it was a bit too futuristic compared to its functionality. But hey, it looked cool.Mars itself wasn't really convincing, especially because (as I just mentioned) that there was breathable air there. And, similar to Mission to Mars they had failed to take into consideration the gravity issues, that it differs from Earth. And also during the ice storm, wouldn't you be able to see people's breath clearly as they exhale? Visuals are important when making a movie such as this.I am rating Red Planet 4 out of 10 stars, because it failed in overall to pass as a Sci-Fi movie with potential. It was just some nice landscape shots with a mediocre story that had rather large holes in the story. Not the brightest moment in Sci-Fi cinema. "},{"Title":"Space Janitor....","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Earth is dying.A new colony on Mars could be humanity's only hope. A team of American astronauts, each a specialist in a different field, is making the first manned expedition to the red planet and must struggle to overcome the differences in their personalities, backgrounds and ideologies for the overall good of the mission.When their equipment suffers life-threatening damage and the crew must depend on one another for survival on the hostile surface of Mars, their doubts, fears and questions about God, man's destiny and the nature of the universe become defining elements in their fates....Red Planet can be viewed in three different ways.The story of a fight for humankind, with lots of beliefs being questioned and coping with ones self.The other Mars movie where the robot goes mad during the final act and Kilmer drops the F-Bomb.Or the film thats famous because Sizemore and Kilmer fell out big time and the hatred oozes through out the film.But either way you watch the film, you cannot deny how mundane and boring the actual finished project is. Many people compare it to 'Mission to Mars' but look closer and it's better to compare it to the other space movie released that year, 'Supernova'.Both were devoid of story and/or characterisation, and both had an online 'ally' going nuts at the end.Kilmer puts in his usual performance, and the rest of the cast look bamboozled as to why they are actually there.2000 wasn't a good year for movies, save a couple, and this furthers my proof. "},{"Title":"Worst ever","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Have to agree with ldrawcaB above. This a good movie, if you are 12 yrs old. Though even a well educated 12 yr old today will be able to shoot holes in it. The movie is so full of clichs it is like one of the sci fi films I saw back in the 50s. I watched it as I like C A Moss and also Kilmer. First the old guy scientist turned philosopher (why is he (Stamp) there, maybe to lend some gravitas?) is left to die 'philosophically' after a catastrophic landing including falling down the equivalent of the Grand Canyon, which BTW would have killed everybody due to the G forces involved, who needs an old guy anyway? Then another one, I forget who, is pushed or falls off a cliff by the bad guy. Then bad guy is eaten by beetles, where did they come from? There was also no food before the algae grew. Then Sizemore commits suicide because the beetles are eating him. Leaving of course the handsome hero who has the romance going with Moss to escape, on an ancient Russian probe, without oxygen. He survives zero oxygen space for a ridiculously long time, how? BTW astronauts usually have instruments which can tell them the O2 levels without having to take their helmets off!! Plus we can detect atmospheric gases from space probes on any planet. Then there is the 'science'. The highly advanced space ship cannot survive a solar flare, without blowing out all its instruments. They, NASA would not see that coming! Then it catches fire everywhere after the rest of the crew has left and Moss successfully puts out the fire single handedly, and the ship still functions perfectly! After she lets all the atmosphere out of the ship there is still O2 enough for the return trip to Earth, that's odd oxygen usually explodes in fires. Then the enormous habitat is found to be totally destroyed along with its oxygen and food, though oddly its fuel is still there so they can make a bonfire of it. Not surprising as it seemed to be made of aluminium foil. But how did it get there in the first place and why did they not notice it was destroyed on their approach to Mars? We can read number plates from satellites remember, and Moss sees the fire started by Sizemore from orbit. As for the robot which has military capability, what happened to 'we come in peace' and Asimov's rules about robotics? What is it supposed to fight on Mars and how is the invincible and amazingly agile robot so easily overcome by Kilmer so he can steal its battery to power some antiquated Russian technology. I could go on but why bother. With today's knowledge about space technology there is no excuse for making such an old fashioned movie in 2000. "},{"Title":"people in space for the masses","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *contains one very mild spoiler*I'm so surprised by the comments comparing this with Mission to Mars. This falls far short of M2M in so many ways. Bottom line, if you like it Hollywood style this is for you. If you're easily wowed by dated special effects, half-arsed acting and the sheer sight of people in space, this is a great watch. If you want a far superior science fiction flick, let alone far superior film, Mission to Mars is a great choice. Red Planet comprises of many inaccuracies, poor script, predictable developments and is at times, laughable at how bad it is. Carrie-Anne Moss drops a purposeful few lines to recreate a Matrix moment, the robot does kung-fu and the rest of the film bores. What else can I say, this'll kill time if you're out of anything decent to watch. "}{"Title":"I wanted my time refunded","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This started out looking promising but disappointed. There were some really interesting ideas which could have made a great story if somebody who knew anything about story writing had written it and more convincing actors had played in it. The gosh oh golly of the tech was insufficient on it's own, and I'm a big fan of gosh oh golly tech. There were no particularly likable characters. There was nobody to identify with. The movie has the feel of many 1950's science fiction novels written by people who actually knew a fair amount about science, who had very creative vision of what future and alien technologies could hold and the implications that such technologies held for society, but no idea of plot. Unfortunately they focus so heavily on the technology they lack anything of interest in the storytelling department, and what is passed off as a plot is merely a set up for displaying the next bit of gadgetry. "},{"Title":"No Barsoom here","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am of two minds about RED PLANET. One tells me it is a reasonably realistic portrayal of our first Mars landing, with the addition of the AIMEE subplot to spice up the action. The other tells me is it is a mistaken attempt to do a sci-fi flick without the usual alien monster. Either way, I would not recommend watching it, but I will say it has a moment or two. In particular, the final showdown with AIMEE, the renegade robot, is pretty harrowing if totally unbelievable. And the business about the patch of Martian earth and what happens to it is worth a look (I won't say any more about this for fear of giving it away). Meanwhile, I will say Val Kilmer is miscast. Tom Sizemore is miscast. Carrie Ann Moss is wasted. Watch MISSION TO MARS instead. It follows a similar plot line but then goes off on a pretty wild 2001/CONTACT tangent for its climax. And while I am not a Tim Robbins fan, I will take him over Kilmer for this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"makes Mission to Mars look like a classic","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is absolutely awful. It has very few redeeming features, although the special effects are quite well done.The dialogue is so poor that I suspect George Lucas may have been involved and the plot is full of what can only be described as a series of incredibly fortuitous coincidences.However, my main problem with this film was the terrible science. The idea that in a few short years algae could produce an atmosphere with enough oxygen in it to breath, yet too thin for the crew to detect, is arrant nonsense.Nematodes are worms. Not insects! Even if they could evolve into insects (a very dodgy evolutionary path) it would take millions of years.Science fiction is, by its nature, fiction. However, the point of *science* fiction is that it should be at least vaguely plausible/theoretically possible, otherwise it is simply science fantasy.This just assumes a level of ignorance about science in the audience which is frankly insulting. It's suggested that die-hard sci-fi fans will like it. I think that most sci-fi fans will have a level of scientific knowledge that will make them the people who dislike this movie most of all.As the title of this comment says, this film makes Mission to Mars look good, even though that's also pretty dire. One to avoid. "},{"Title":"Mediocre mission to the Red Planet","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A group of astronauts are sent to Mars to solve a mystery to find out why efforts to modify the Martian environment for human colonization are not working. Is there a problem with the machinery? With the idea and its execution? Are invisible Martian Creatures responsible?The science in this story is limited, although the Martian scenery is superior. The script is not too exciting or involving instead of building upon the possibly intriguing colonization premise, it restricts its scope to a routine survival plot, which lacks any unique surprises. A berserk robot tries to add suspense to the movie, following in the line of Hal 9000, except this one is mobile. It sometimes is the most effective killing machine in the cosmos; but at other times it's a scrapheap of inept metal that's about as dangerous as an aluminum can. It all depends on whether its intended victim is a big star or not.The acting is quite good for leads Val Kilmer and Tom Sizemore, but the script cripples them. Other actors try, but their lines just leave them flat on their faces in the Martian soil. The cautionary resolution of the initial mystery works in the context of the story, but is disappointing.Watchable, but certainly not a landmark epic of sci-fi. Just OK. "},{"Title":"Not the right stuff","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie steps where angels fear to tread an attempt to attract women to a sci-fi flick.Hence it puts a women in charge of the mission who even refers degradingly to highly skilled engineers and physicists etc as 'you guys'.See, this kind of derogative verbatim would quickly undermine any authority a women would have over a group of 5 highly qualified men 'off the right stuff' over 180 days. Maybe that's why it's set 50 years ahead, making up for the unlikely scenario. And lo and behold; the woman undermines her leadership authority by engaging in a romance with a crew member. Not too credible, or is it? You decide! That aside, there are several other issues that in itself undermines the movie's authority 1) The spaceship needs to be 'parked' manually between two moons as the female commander proudly accomplish. Of course the entire trip would be automated and run from Houston. No room for a quick human error here.2) It is not likely that such a mission is endeavoured based on a hit an run chance of avoiding a solar storm as occurs and which disables the proud ship. Either adequate protection would be enforced and/or the 'space weather' would be taken into account in the last hours by space 'meteorologists', 'parking' the ship on the backside of Mars in case of any outlook to a solar storm, which can already be predicted based on sun spot activity.3) Given the oxygen level, even though the men could endure the max temperature 20 C (68 F), it's unlikely the could survive the night with the helmet off (for breathing after the stored O2 ran out) as the temperature drops to a minimum of -140 C (-220 F).4) The silliness of the robot-going-killer Amee, a highly advanced machine manufactured to withstand combat situations yet malfunctions after the ballooned landing, subtracts further from the credibility of the movie. I kind of guess it's metal would brittle at the nightly temperatures, but allow for technological advances. Then again it's unlikely it would fail after a planned landing using balloons with some foreseen bumps.5) I also didn't like the very foggy, unprecise and extremely belated report of 'life on Mars' which the sole surviving 'guy' accidentally reports in a side comment at the final rescue. Any astronaut would surely alarm the spaceship immediately of the sensation but waits until the final minutes. Besides, he vaguely reports 'it eats through everything' - given they want to move inside the spaceship, partly made of the same material as the eaten spacesuit was made of, I wonder how they would keep the bugs from eating the spaceship and the cannister it's been captured in? 6) The probability of the 'guys' being caught in the only ice storm on the planet is? 1 to some millions? 7) Given the alleged ice storm to under -50 C, I wonder how both bugs and algae survives? Lava I could understand, but bugs and algae? 8) Out of nowhere on the surface of Mars, the 'guys' can suddenly solder to produce the radio? Solding tools from where? and the power source?9) Even more surprising is the roll of tape the 'guys' produce to support the astronaut with the broken rib.The list of improbabilities goes on and on.Credits earned for great landscaping and good visual effects and the design of the spaceship.Summing up I would say a good effort by many was wasted on a weak script and a leading female with no screen authority to support her role. "},{"Title":"So, terror lies in outer space... what else is new?","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I sat down to watch this movie, almost praying(I'm not a religious man... but if I was, I would have been praying) that this wasn't going to be yet another one of those run-of-the-mill sci-fi flicks that tries to convince us that the danger will come from outer space... it's not enough to blame other people, or even other countries... now, we have to blame our problems, our inevitable demise on something as intangible as alien creatures? When will we humans learn to admit to our guilt? Granted, this film features some admitting of the blame in the opening narration, in that it's made clear that humans destroyed the earth through pollution, making it impossible to survive. Apart from that, the film lets us have that nice distance from the danger... it takes place in space, and it's not even our fault. Oh how tired I am of such superficial, simple-minded science fiction. What happened to the era of truly good sci-fi? William Gibson, Philip K. Dick, Isaac Isamov... the list goes on. If you want some talented sci-fi(granted, Gibson is more cyberpunk than sci-fi), check some of their works out. Anyway, back to the film; there's really nothing new here. The plot is the old 'at a new place, seems deserted, oh no, there's danger'. The pacing is so poor, you have to wonder if the editor and/or the rest of the crew was actually asleep while making the film. The acting is pretty much unimpressive, despite the big names in the cast(who have all proved themselves elsewhere, I might add). The dialog is dull and clichd. Actually, the whole film is terribly clichd and stereotypical. If you have more patience than me(I couldn't bring myself to actually pay attention to even a few minutes of it in succession... and I'm a huge fan of science fiction), you can play a game of 'count the clichs'. The action is dull and uninspired. The special effects are decent. In conclusion, I'm very happy I decided against buying this back when I had the chance, and instead waited until it made it to a TV broadcasting, since it clearly isn't worth my money... not one cent. Avoid this one, unless you just want to watch it for the actors(not worth it, in my opinion). I recommend this film only to big fans of the actors. Sci-fi fans, skip this one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Any man who puts his life in the hands of a bunch of batteries is an idiot OK Sci-Fi film.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red Planet starts with a lengthy & boring monologue by the Captain of the Mars-1, Kate Bowman (Carrie-Anne Moss). Bowman explains that by the year 2000 mankind has begun to overpopulate, pollute & poison our planet faster than we could clean it up. We ignored the problem for as long as we could, but by 2025 we knew we were in trouble & began to search for a new home, Mars is as good as anywhere I suppose. For the last 20 years we have been sending unmanned probes with algae bio-engineered to grow there & release oxygen. We are going to build ourselves an atmosphere we can breathe. After 20 years it seemed to work, then all of a sudden the oxygen levels started to drop & we don't know why. But we are going to find out by sending a manned mission to Mars. Bowman's crew consists of Robby Gallagher (Val Kilmer) who is a mechanical systems engineer, a co-pilot Lieutenant Ted Santen (Benjamin Bratt) & Dr. Bud Chantilas (Terence Stamp) who is the chief science officer. Joining them are two civilians, Dr. Quinn Burchenal (Tom Sizemore) who is one of the worlds leading bio-engineers & Chip Pettengill (Simon Baker) who happens to be a terraform expert. They are also taking along a military robot named AMEE which stands for Autonomous Mapping Exploration & Evasion. After travelling through space for 182 days the Mars-1 reaches it's destination, Mars. Unfortunately radiation caused by a solar flare badly damages the Mars-1, the crew have just 6 minutes before all primary systems shut down. The crew manage to put their spacesuits on & make it to a small escape pod, except Bowman who has to stay behind & manually launch the pod because there isn't enough power to launch it automatically. After the escape pod is safely launched Bowman manages to repair the Mars-1 all by herself by messing about with a few wires, clever girl. The escape pod lands on the surface of Mars & promptly falls over the edge of a cliff, once the pod completely stops it becomes clear that Chantilas is badly hurt & will not be able to travel any further. The remaining men only have seven and a half hours of oxygen left in their tanks, the algae that should be present isn't. Adding to their problems AMEE has been damaged during the crash landing & gone nuts, reverting back to her military mode. Things look bad for the mission as AMEE isn't programmed to take prisoners, the men have no food, water or means of contacting anyone & are running low on air... Directed by Antony Hoffman I thought Red Planet was an OK time waster but nothing that really sticks in the memory. The script by Chuck Pfarrer & Jonathan Lemkin moves along at a reasonable pace & isn't boring, but it does contain situations which just didn't sit well with me at all. What's all this solar flare causing damage to the Mars-1? We have spacecraft now which can withstand this sort of occurrence. And what about this breathable air nonsense? If they can detect that the oxygen levels are falling then why can't they detect that it's also breathable? We could do that now as well. Who built that run down complex they come across? It states that they're the first manned mission to Mars & that they had previously only sent unmanned probes. Maybe I missed something along the way. When Burchenal cause the massive fire that kills himself & the alien bugs & Bowman can clearly see from space why is Gallagher completely unaffected even though he was standing mere feet away from him? Surely he would have been caught in the explosion as well. Why take a military robot along with you? Why not a moon buggy that you could drive or something like that? How did Bowman manage to repair the Mars-1 so easily on her own? I also thought Red Planet was a bit patchy in places, AMEE is only in it sporadically which is bad because she's just about the best part of Red Planet & the characters aren't developed that much. Having said that if you ignore some of the silliness & stupidity Red Planet is quite entertaining to watch, but at almost 2 hours long it probably could have done with being a little shorter though. The special effects are generally excellent, I especially liked the ultra modern cool looking AMEE. It's well made throughout with nice production design & sets, the acting is OK but nothing spectacular. Overall I was entertained & there isn't anything really wrong with it when you consider it's just a big budget Sci-Fi action film, there are much worse out there. Worth watching but just don't expect anything particularly deep or meaningful, decent enough. "},{"Title":"For the Viewer, an intolerable Cruelty","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" To be short and to be precise (I would have been shorter, but IMDb.com insists on ten lines at least) One of the worst films ever produced in the Sci-Fi-Genre. The script is full of clichs, the actors are weak, characters are one-dimensional, the story is as illogical as a story can be. Especially terrible was Terence Stamps character. He plays the skeptic with dubious philosophical insights; characters like this don't live long. Special effects were the best part of it. Everything else was an intolerable cruelty for the recipient. One of the very few films that I just couldn't stand watching to the end (the others include 'EDtv', so you probably know what I mean). I really appreciate film as an art form, but 'Red Planet' a drawback for that affinity. "},{"Title":"Really quite bad","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet was, like Mission to Mars, a failure. In both cases there is a solid budget, a number of relatively big name actors (though not really good actors, apart from Sinise in Mission to Mars I guess). And in both cases there is failure.In Mission to Mars things would be OK, were it not for the pathetic departure scene where no one seems to believe in the scene and actually look like they're going to start laughing any moment now. And for the pathetic gene-decoding sequence where we're told that a chromosome is missing at the end of the ADN chain (when a chromosome is MADE of ADN...). And actually the closing sequence with the Martian is quite moving, very De Palma-esque. But overall the impression is that a good deal more editing was needed, which is why the film got about a 5 average (vs. a potential 8-9 had it been properly edited)In Red Planet the ambitions are clearly more modest, more down to earth (no pun intended). And so in Red Planet I guess we are not disappointed in that there is no moment in the film where we are allowed to think that maybe things will improve from here. So the film gets a 5 (and never looks like it could have had more than 5).But because Red Planet does not even try to be intelligent or sensitive or noble ar anything, I guess this makes it the worse film of the two.Both can be avoided. But if you really want to watch one, pick Mission to Mars.  "},{"Title":"Fun Planet.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A fun movie that was much bette than I thought it would be. The action is never over the top, the acting (Val Kilmer, Carrie Anne Moss, Tom Sizemore) is top-rate, and the script, though shallow, is fun. This is just a good waste of two hours.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea wasn't too bad, but the story needed a lot of help.  The characters seemed out of place, and the details of the mission were very hard to believe.  With such an important mission, they didn't seem prepared or focused on the job.  The story grew more and more predictable as it went on. "},{"Title":"Oddball cast mars a decent sci-fi story.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The basic premise behind this movie is fairly interesting.  Earth is dying from polution, so Mars is seeded with algae to produce enough oxygen for colonists to live on.  Something goes wrong so a crew, the first manned exploration, is sent to find out what happened.   It could have been a pretty decent movie, but the cast just doesn't fit the characters they play.  Val Kilmer is right as the hero of the mission and Carrie-Anne Moss is good as the commander of the ship, but the rest of them just look out of place.  Terrence Stamp, Tom Sizemore and Benjamin Bratt as astronauts?   There are too many egos and not enough team players for an ensemble movie like this.Terrence Stamp is the most interesting character in the film, naturally, but he's also the first to be killed off (mercifully for him, I'm sure).  That's what this kind of film is all about - the group encounters problems and are eliminated one by one.  And that's where the movie fails because it falls back on a standard plot device that's been used a million times.  The science fiction is just windowdressing.The ending is really poor too.  Can a man who just had a heart attack survive the g-forces of an orbital takeoff?  And the prologue delivered by Moss is trite and just added on to let you know the movie's over and that yes, Kilmer is a hero.Would have been better with a nobody cast and an intelligent plot twist. "},{"Title":"Reaches unmatched depths of inaccuracy","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet seems to be based on the premise that it's science fiction, so we don't need any science facts. I've seen some pretty stupid sf movies before, but this one outdoes them all. Did the producers deliberately try to make it as scientifically inaccurate as possible, or did they just not try at all? I mean, we're not dealing with difficult concepts here. They only had to pick up a basic biology textbook to find that the bases in DNA are A,T,C and G. Any sort of dictionary would have shown how totally absurd the label nematode is for the arthropod-like creatures shown. And surely such an important mission, built by a technology so advanced that they can afford to waste ship space on things like showers, would have anticipated possible problems and included some fairly sophisticated landing gear (not to mention teaching the team members proper CPR techniques). And a massive solar flare all the way out near Mars? Etc, etc, etc.After establishing its credibility at somewhere well below zero and having practically no plot (just a compilation of cliches), the film then fails to have any sort of point. Particularly puzzling was all the congratulations at the end for accomplishing the mission. What exactly did they accomplish? I give up.  "},{"Title":"Better Dead than Red...","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After the King / Queen comment about sex. Red Planet blows.  Ithought I was going to be consumed by the good guys when I feltfluid running down my chin. Unfortunately, I discovered it to be myown drool after sleeping through the film...To bad, death would have been better.  "},{"Title":"An anxious mission to Mars is filled with desperation.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How many times will we travel to the angry 'red' planet and realize that the trip is destined to not be perfect. This movie has a better than average cast; eye opening scenes; pretty good special effects...but uh, oh...abort, abort! Sorry, the story is not just stale; it evaporated. Earth is threatened by pollution in the mid 21st Century. An expedition travels to Mars to test ability to sustain life. The mission falls apart and the movie itself is begging for your attention.Most impressive of the cast is Tom Sizemore. Along for the ride are Val Kilmer, Benjamin Bratt and Carrie-Anne Moss. Miss Moss seems to  provide less than should be expected. Bob Neil (Voice of NASA) is about the only sign of stability. Don't get me wrong, this project falls a bit flat; but there is plenty others that don't get this far. "},{"Title":"No intelligent Life","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An aimless meander across someone's cosmos. Who would seriously crew a space mission with a scientist who was reconstituting himself as a theologian? I'm looking for the stone with 'Made by God on it' drones the ever-wooden Mr Stamp - well gee buddy don't hold your revisionist breath - they've been looking for that since before the spanish inquisition. I smell the hand of a born- again something or other in the dialogue department. Time for another clear out I think - bad film. "},{"Title":"Tits, feigned philosophical tension, and boredom.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A pinch of spirituality, a touch of soul, and a pinch of God do not a good movie make.From the beginning, this film has problems.  Apparently we have destroyed Earth to the point where it is almost unliveable.  BUT, if we spray a bunch of algae at Mars, it will create a one dimensional ecosystem that will be an improvement.  Err, tear it up and start over.It attempts to have a pensive mood, a creative mix of flashbacks that are vaguely relevant to the plot at any given point.  None of these flashbacks have any value whatsoever.  They are no more than vain attempts to add substance to a movie as vacant as outer space.Ugh.  I want my money back. "},{"Title":"B movieish","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a big budget B movie.This is the reason for it's uneneven feel.Good cast but the bad story,sreenplay and script did not inspire better acting performances.Kilmer,a very talented actor, seemed to just go thru the motions on this one.Still,his presence added quality to this super B movie sci-fi.This was certainly not done as well as PITCH BLACK overall but the special effects here was quite a treat particularly the grand tour of the Martian surface.This was the main coarse of the movie anyway and in this regard it delivered indeed.There were some quirky CGI effects still here and there but they did a geat job with the landscape CGI.Irritating loopholes which could really have been avoided but unfortunately was not but such is typical with B movie productions.This movie is a must for people who want to see Mars up close and for fans of Kilmer and for die hard sci-fi fans.The directing job was average and they really could have created a classic here if they just had a better script and screenplay.......  "},{"Title":"Not half bad.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All right, there's a LOT of better sci-fi out there.  But this one ended up being a lot better than I expected.  It's the little touches like the astronauts reminding each other that they've got online interviews with schoolkids that I enjoyed.You want to see Iceman, Trinity, and Dynomutt together at last, you rent this movie, you get your money's worth. "},{"Title":"Yeah, right!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Typical Tinseltown commercial product. Red Planet is about some guys and a babe who go to Mars and, of course, there are malfunctions, talking computers, monster thingies, people die, robots freak out, blaa, blaa....etc. Bottom line Red Planet takes some second tier stars and some second rate effects, just good enough to get some nominal reviews, a silly but suspenseful story, and milks the public for the buck. The film has absolutely nothing special going for it and is just another Hollywood product which many will enjoy and many won't. For sci-fi junkies only. "}{"Title":"A posh attempt that should have been a much better movie","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a sci-fi fan, this provides palatable enough evening viewing but hardly worth breaking a leg to see. If you're not a sci-fi fan, stay at home. Red Planet is  mission-to-mars-that-goes-wrong film and has well-made sets and a few interesting moments, but generally it lacks suspense and could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Throwing in my 2 cents","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I felt compelled to comment on this movie, after reading the only review on the Web site.  Although the viewer liked the movie very much, they unfortunately compared it to Mission to Mars, which had I not seen this film before commenting, would have turned me off.  Mission to Mars pales in comparison to this film, for many reasons.  The script, and thought behind Red Planet were extremely well thought out.  The sets, and the equipment really looked possible for 2050, the setting of the film.  From beginning to end, every time something new was added, I was amazed at how believable it really was.  In all, a wonderful science-fiction film, in the true meaning of science-fiction.  Science, fictionalized only because it hasn't happened yet-yet it could happen. "},{"Title":"Not again...","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yet another Man's messed up Earth B-Movie billed as a blockbuster feature. These things are a dime-a-dozen as Sci-Fi Channel Originals. What do you expect, they're owned by NBC. They even had to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the one in charge was a women, I guess bras aren't used in outer space, eh? For the record, I've worked for women many times and never minded it at all, even my wife's older than me, but this crud has got to go. I don't need some over-sexed producer setting up the female leads with all but a wet T-shirt contest to prove to me she's a woman. Duh.Now, how about inconsistencies? Where to begin? The first glaring one is You don't need to remove your space helmet to know that there's a substantial atmosphere. The sky would be blue, at least as blue as here. And besides, we can tell what Mars' atmosphere consists of by spectrum analysis, from here. Why couldn't they while orbiting a few hundred miles up? Bah!How did the Hab (Habitat) get jacked up so bad? It looked like it was abandoned in a park in the middle of Los Angeles at night. All that was missing was a bunch of moronic graffiti saying Dope was here, yo and other idiotic babblings.Why would a Russian, or any other space probe, need a visual and audio interface, millions of miles from where anybody could read it?B-movie sub-plot; The probes battery was dead, just like the car the poor would-be victims of an evil US government/corporations mutant weapon. Of course, something happens to save the day, a battery is scrounged from another abandoned vehicle in the nick of time. (groan)A radio transceiver that they scrounge from somewhere to communicate with their bra-less commander, is obviously a sub-chassis from another larger component, doesn't appear to have a speaker or microphone of any kind. They're just talking into the side of an aluminum box. (sigh)There's much more, but I don't want you good folks to be as bored with my prose as I was with this, er, movie. I'm just glad I waited to see it on TV instead of wasting a buck at the Dollar Movies a few months after it's release. There was some interesting or amusing parts, a thin T-shirt on Moss (Hey! I didn't say I didn't look), the final encounter with AMEE and the F/X was of fair quality. So, it gets a little more than a 1. "},{"Title":"A cast gone to complete waste","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ''''Spoilers ahead'''What do you get when you combine an admirable cast, place them in space, more accurately on a new red planet, give them very little chance of survival, basically leading to turning some of the cast against each other and stir it all with special effects. Sounds pretty good. Hmmm, wonder what happened somewhere in between, oh that's right, you have to give them a reason(and a good one at that) to go visit the planet in the first place(well we have thatapparently Earth is dying so people come up with the idea of populating Mars; this is the first expedition to the Red planet)OK, so far so good, some glimpses of nudity and a fancy looking killer robot(that is definitely going to get more screen time later on)later they get to their planetbut hey, what's this; no algae to be found, and it was supposed to grow in abundancy, producing oxygen for the people to breathe. Well, it's getting a little boring, let's throw in some action to make the crew leave their fancy big ship faster. OK, did that, the oldest of the crew consequently dies, but the important thing is the rest get to find out what happened to the sea weed. Not yet they don't first they have to find some means of oxygen 'cause they lost it all in the landing scene and are running out of it fast. Well, no luck guys, the planet's atmosphere is consisted mainly of carbon dioxide, and that's no good.But there's supposed to be a space station somewhere near them so they quickly head in it's direction only to discover that it has been completely destroyed. Tough break, and only about 15 minutes worth of oxygen left. Well, this is it, no chance of survival, so let's kill some crew, it doesn't matter; hey, that guy was responsible for the hard landing, now's his chance to pay. Throw him off the cliff, he called you a wimp. Only 1 minute of oxygen left, and apparently the death is somewhat painful. There goes the first one; and it's Val Kilmer, jesus these guys aren't kidding, he's really going to die, what a strange movie, who's going to fill the remaining hour or so. Just kidding, the quick-thinking hero opens his space helmet with one push and gets all the oxygen he needs from the newly formed atmosphere.Wow, those algae are really something. Providing so much oxygen and nowhere to be seen. The crew mourn for the dead crew member (the killer explains he committed suicide) and soon embark on a new task to find a working radio transmittor since the landing destroyed theirs. What luck, the space vehicle sent way back in 1997 is only 5 kilometers away from them. What a small world. After successfully establishing communication with the female who remained on board the heavily damaged mother ship the crew explain the current situation. Very good, but there's another problem;I can only stay in orbit for so long, or else we can't make it home, so hurry up. There's an old Russian ship in the vicinity. It should get you back. Wow, another ship right around the corner. let's go guys. Oh, but thepreviously mentioned fancy looking robot we brought along has turned psycho on us. We have to hurry. There's an ice cold storm so the crew find a cave, but the killer steals the map to the ship. No problem, the robot gets him, only two people remaining. They rush to the ship, but what's this, algae, but how, oh well, at least we can solve the mystery now. See these small unfriendly looking bugs you're standing on, they like algae, they ate every single field of our weed. And watch out, they're eating you too!!!!! Only Val Kilmer left. He rushes to the russian ship and gets it going; only one problem, the bear says it needs a battery. He's doomed for good. Where is he going to find a working battery around here. I mean, sure there have been plenty of coincidences on this planet, but a working battery, c'mon. Oh, and there's that robot again, I can hear him crunching,looks like he found me too. Wait a minute, he's powered by a battery, I'll just take his.  See, that wasn't a big problem was it, the teddy bear is happy with the new and compatible battery, so he's on his way. And a good thing too, had he arrived a couple of moments later, the woman would have already turned the mother ship back to Earth. Thank God.Val Kilmer says F..k this planet, I say f..k this movie. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Great Acting and Great Story Plot","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie a few times and it was great all those times, i liked the story very much and i think a lot of people did too because it was original and it was just a great movie for anyone, i usually dont like movies set in outer space but i made an exception for this one. "},{"Title":"fast paced true sci fi with lots of eye candy","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet succeeds where so many sci fi flicks have failed.  It has the high concept special effects of 2001 without the tedium.  It has realistic, tense action scenes without needing a contrived fantasy war with evil aliens like in Starship Troopers.  It has spiritual and emotional underpinnings that don't bog it down in the mushy sentimentality of Mission to Mars.  The characters are human and flawed without becoming the helplessly pathetic neurotics of Operation Ganymede.  Best of all it has brains, but you don't need to be a graduate student in physics to understand it.Without giving too much away the plot runs like this Earth is decaying from environmental pollution.  Mankind must colonize or die out.  So Mars is terraformed with polar ice melting nuclear detonations and oxygen producing algae.  Suddenly the algae disappear.  A ship, this ship, is sent to investigate.  Nothing at all goes as expected and Murphy's Law becomes the norm.If you like Star Trek, you'll love Red Planet.  This movie may not go into excruciating detail to describe the science involved, but it is based on hard science.  The characters can't simply blast their way from one problem to the next.  They have to think their way out.  Human frailties turn out to be just as dangerous as the planet's inhospitable climate.  Courage, resourcefulness, and quick thinking take precedence over laser beams. I had a great time watching this.  See it on the big screen before it's gone! "},{"Title":"The Martian Chronicles","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If the life of natural things, millions of years old, does not seem sacred to us, then what can be sacred? Human vanity alone? Contempt for the natural world is contempt for life.  Edward Abbey A terrible science fiction film by director Antony Hoffman, Red Planet opens in the year 2056, with Earth facing an ecological crisis as a consequence of pollution and overpopulation. Hoping to start afresh on a new planet, humans begin seeding Mars with atmosphere-producing algae. Overseeing such operations is Kate Bowman (Carrie-Anne Moss), commander of a spaceship sent to monitor oxygen production on Mars. To her surprise, life has begun evolving on the once barren planet.There have been a number of science-fiction films set after an ecological collapse (Silent Running, Wall-E, Lost in Space, Interstellar, Mad Max, No Blade of Grass, Pandorum, Snowpiecer, The Colony etc). Like most of these films, though, Red Planet simply uses its premise to string together a collection of formulaic action sequences. We thus watch as crewmen go violently insane, are attacked by CGI creatures and robots, sacrificially die to save others and as various emergencies befall a spaceship. With a nod to Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, the film also attempts to get philosophical, several characters tangentially discussing atheism and creationism. These conversations are trite and terribly written. By its climax, only actress Carrie-Anne Moss, whose character's name is itself a nod to Kubrick, has escaped with dignity. Beautifully sculpted by Darwin's hand, she's a more interesting piece of evolutionary synthesis than anything else in Hoffman's film. Val Kilmer co-stars.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Mission to Mars and Pandorum. "},{"Title":"The Green Slime  has turned Red.","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Except for one guy who late in the film sacrifices himself for snoozer Kilmer, none of these characters come off as mature let alone comrades in arms. The pacing of this flick is heavy handed and the characters are barely worth empathizing with. I don't know anyone's name except the oft-shouted Gallager! There's a lot of breath wasting profanity and whiny interplay with the just for cheesecake woman crew member showing an I'm smarter than the men attitude and the rest of this bunch ready to flip off their need to persevere their lives for this mission (whatever that was). I don't care anymore. I am watching this to pass the time until Sci-Fi channel airs Star Trek First Contact next. "},{"Title":"No rootedness","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At its time, all those 13 years ago, the film probably went by on its, for the time, palatable effects on a big screen, decent cast not totally phoning it in and fairly simple story of Martian exploration. Watching it now is to get the sense that in another 13 years it will be looked back as amusedly as It - Terror from Outer Space or any number of those 'guys in a tin can pretend to fly in space' sci-fi films of the 50's.It's truly bad. The story is as silly now as it was then, the science and technology as ludicrous (a robot with ninja moves!), the performances as theatrical. But what really has sunk it, I think, is the handling of cinematic space.Films set in space only bring to the fore, with more clarity than usual films, cinematic space as the main anchor of a story-world. 2001 got right a set of notions about the gravity of things in space, the viewing gravity that creates immersion, so every extravagant thing down the road was rooted in our first having been transported to space. I'm eagerly anticipating Gravity as the new template in this field.Here everything feels phony.An unfortunate contrast with the closing theme, so to speak, which is how god, what we call god, is the willingness to not give up, on close ones and otherwise, and this willingness is nothing else than not losing track/sight of the presence of another human being in space, a matter of persisting vision. When the female captain in the end hurls herself from the main vessel, attached to merely a chord, to recover the sole unconscious survivor, this should have been a powerful moment to capture this commitment, had we been rooted as firmly as they are. "},{"Title":"Boring Start, Uncompelling Action, Slow Moving","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Earth is suffering from environmental damage. Mars has been slowly terra-formed as an alternative home. However it is somehow losing oxygen. A space mission is sent to discover the cause. The spacecraft is damaged by massive gamma radiation burst and the crew crash land to investigate Mars.It takes too long to get the movie going. There is too much tech talk without any magic. They don't even get to Mars until after 30 minutes. They spent too much time talking on the spaceship. I think we're suppose to be awed by all the spaceship special effects. It's not that special. Most of the start could easily be thrown out.The action is confused and rather uncompelling. It doesn't get any better on the ground. It's a slow moving grind. The orange look, the helmets, and the buzzy voices all make for a tiring watch. Watching people slowly suffocate is really boring. Having Carrie-Anne separated from everybody doesn't help. The climax (if you could call it that) has no suspense. It is completely uninteresting. "}{"Title":"Not Awful But Not A Great Movie Either","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With a cast featuring Val Kilmer , Carrie Anne Moss and Tom Sizemore and with a script by the screenwriter who wrote NAVY SEALS you might expect this movie to be an unlikely fast paced action adventure . It's unlikely alright but it's not much of a fast paced action adventure!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!! I instinctively felt that this movie started off in the pipeline as a thought provoking intelligent Sf movie based on scientific fact but the studio intervened to make the most of box office potential and this injures any integrity the movie might have had A bunch of 21st astronauts travel to Mars to find out what's wrong with the terraforming experiments . The stakes are high because Earth is a dying planet due to pollution . This draws one to ask if it wouldn't be simpler and cheaper to get the Earth back into good health ? I mean if humanity has the technology to terraform other planets surely they could regenerate the home planet ? The cost of travelling all the way to Mars and colonising it must be prohibitive ? We also have a ridiculous explanation of how to terraform Mars - By growing a special type of algae on the surface of the planet . Hmmm so what about an atmosphere then ? That can only come about via massive quantities of water and  A type of algae that gives out oxygen wouldn't be enough to bring about an atmosphere and at no point in the movie are we shown any oceans That's the main problem with RED PLANET , we're treated to plot twists that aren't explained . The survivors of a space fall soon find their oxygen supplies running out and one of them decides to end his suffering by opening his helmet only to find that the planet does have an atmosphere . Wouldn't equipment on the mother ship have noticed this long before then ? The mission commander also points out that there's an ice storm coming like it's a natural phenomena to Mars . Again ice storms would only happen if a planet has an atmosphere something the commander takes in her stride , and despite everything no one ever realises that Mars is a low gravity planet I guess I'm being pedantic because in some places RED PLANET is scientifically correct and this causes the audience to notice when the movie decides to ignore facts when the story suits it . It's not a terrible movie and comes across a bit like SATURN 3 meets SCOTT OF THE ANTARTIC with high production values but it's not the greatest movie you'll see this week "},{"Title":"Is this worse than Mission to Mars?","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've had a real dilemma since seeing Red Planet.  For this year, which was the worse movie, Red Planet or Mission to Mars?  It's a tough call.  I gave both a 2, feeling the sometimes fun special effects saved each from being Plan 9 level.  But, these are both truly awful science-fiction films. What is so amazing is how both turned out to be just about the same film. Both are based on the big accident when we get there plot line. At least Red Planet avoided the Faces on Mars nonsense of Mission to Mars.  But, the idea that we can have massive terraforming efforts going on on Mars including a built habitat without noticing lots of life forms, dramatically increased oxygen levels, and everything else this movie just pops out of the woodwork is so moronic as to be just about Plan 9 level.  As if that wasn't enough, we throw in the killer robot/military hardware run amok standard plot line #17 just for good measure.I have long wondered at the workings of Hollywood.  Two completely separate groups both decided to make a bad Mars movie in the same year?  How does that happen?  "},{"Title":"Much better than Mission to Mars but not good either","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"29 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think it will take about as much time to see a good film about Mars as it will take mankind to land on it. Although this film is much better than the (oddly) bigger box-office hit Mission to Mars it still lacks a lot. OK Carrie Ann Moss and Tom Sizemore are good in their roles, but the plot is just too predictable at times. The biggest compliment though goes out to Val Kilmer who on his own earned one of the points I give this film.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"OK kiddie-oriented sci-fi","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Val Kilmer and crew land on Mars with the idea of terraforming it, the way we have terraformed some of our deserts. An algae is planted and supposed to help with an overpopulated, worn-out Earth, but something happens to the algae. And it doesn't help when the crew runs low on oxygen and faces a very bad storm. Worse yet, a mobile robotic device imbued with artificial intelligence goes haywire and tries to kill Kilmer. Carrie-Ann Moss costars, and mercifully has a shower scene. Kilmer, like Gary Sinise in MISSION TO MARS, has been miscast and it shows. The film was made and released at the same time as MISSION. I prefer MISSION, for all its faults. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very entertaining sci-fi adventure...a bit slow in spots, but overall very enjoyable...Val Kilmer was a believable hero and Aimee, an effective good girl gone bad.  The rest of the cast turned in credible performance as well. This was a good evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Very good, worth owning...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this movie for the second time on the weekend, there is no denying it. This movie is good. Is is fun, tense, and genuinely entertaining, both in dialogue and action. Val Kilmer is not my favorite actor, but this is a role he is capable of, and took on well. Carrie-Ann Moss is a great actress, with a lot of skill and emotion in her acting. Tom Sizemore is very funny, and Ben Bratt is just another pretty face in the cast. The special effects were very well done, and not just a splatter of art on the picture, like Mission to Mars. This movie is very good, and I definitely recommend it as a buy. "},{"Title":"EXELLENT!!!!!!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i thought that this was a realy good well planed film although it was not very popular,it was a great story and val kilmer did a  great job at playing his charactar as always,i'm not a great fan of tom seizemore but his charactar brightened up the film.the soundtrack is also exellent. "},{"Title":"Sci fi movie with heroes and heroine","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet was highly entertaining to me because it was not the usual run of the mill sci-fi movies. It has a simple and believable story where the cast played out an interesting mixture of characters, with no shortage of a ego-maniac, spiritual guy, a hero and a heroine. While the visual and sound effects were stunning, it was the strength of the acting that impressed me most. The audacity and self sacrificial acts portrayed in the movie touched my heart. "},{"Title":"A subtle, smart and beautiful film that keeps your interest and does not substitute flash for content.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think this will be spoiler stuff but beware anyway. This film did all the things that I have wanted from scifi films of late but have not gotten.  Look if you are looking for a lot of explosions and flashy effects go watch something else.  The story is interesting, the characters involved and the special effects subtle but very well done and totally believable.  The technology depicted in the film is what one should reasonably expect for a time set only 50+ years from today. My only fear was put to ease when I realized that the robot was not the dominate focus and the problems were not supernatural in nature. If you are into a thinking mans scifi film go see this beauty. "},{"Title":"HARD SCIENCE FICTION AT ITS BEST!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  RED PLANET is a very pleasant surprise, easily the best science fiction film of the year and the best since THE MATRIX.Unlike that film, RED PLANET is not non-stop action, though early and late sequences in the film are indeed thrilling.  Long dialogue scenes are less than convincing, and I'm not sure what space program would put these mostly neurotic misfits on such a crucial, Earth-saving mission (though much the same could be said of THE MATRIX's characters).  But all that is secondary to the over-arching vision.RED PLANET is a story of initial planetary pioneering, much in the tradition of DIE FRAU IM MOND (1929), DESTINATION MOON (1950), and ROBINSON CRUSOE ON MARS, the wonderful 1964 B-film that is the movie's clearest predecessor. Unlike the far-future, faster-than-light space operas that are likely more fantasy than science, all of these films deal with with the more realistic perils of space travel -- 1) there is no air; 2) people under pressure in tight confinement get on each others' nerves; 3) things (mostly bad) happen; and 4) there's no 911 in space.Mars has perhaps evinced the greatest sense of wonder of any heavenly body over the centuries.  RED PLANET pays tribute to that wonder in a throwback to early science fiction as the planet looms like a bloody blot in the sky and then becomes a jagged, rusty wasteland, threatening at every turn, with superb cinematography by Peter Suschitzky.While maintaining a relatively simple storyline, the movie has truly creative variations on the science fiction canon.  **Possible Spoiler Alert** In what film have you seen a spectacular zero-g fire?  Or the the unique solution of air bags to land a capsule?  Or a robot malfunction that is threatening more because of the crew's desperate circumstances than anything else?  Or the Macgyver-like use of previous space missions?  Or a truly creative concept of life on Mars -- a far shot from the little green men of WAR OF THE WORLDS or the execrable MISSION TO MARS.  There also many plot twists which keep the film fresh and interesting, with even a new turn on the traditional love story.Carrie-Ann Moss puts in a superb performance as the flight's, no-nonsense commander, evincing a character much softer than Ripley from the ALIEN saga. Tom Sizemore and Terence Stamp are excellent, as usual.  Val Kilmer is less smarmy than usual.Overall, RED PLANET's greatest accomplishment is putting the sense of wonder back into the most ordinary space travel.  And that is a WONDERFUL thing. "}{"Title":"Too good","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's one of the bestest movies on Mars just like Mission to Mars(very perfect) you should see it. You'll enjoy it and you won't be disappointed for spending 2 hours at the cinema for this movie. Or even on video, dvd or tv. "},{"Title":"Here comes a billion dollar campfire. At least it's good for something.","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The second of the Mars based box office bombs released in 2000, Red Planet is maybe - just maybe - worth a revisit by some who were irritated by it back on first viewing. Once knowing that this is not going to be some action packed alien movie, that it's a survivalist drama that tips its hat to 1950s sci-fi schlock, that cares about its characters, then there's a decent popcorner experience to be had here. This is not to say it's a genius entry in the sci-fi pantheon, because it's not, the same problems still exist; Terence Stamp is woefully under used (seriously they could have got any low paid character actor to play his role), some things either don't make sense or are left unanswered, and of course it still drags in the middle as the boys chatter away on Mars whilst Carrie Anne-Moss is up at base station fretting and suffering erectus nippleus.Yet there's fun to be had here, some nutty science marries up with nice photography and splendid set design, and the makers know what sort of picture they want to make. Where Mission to Mars sunk under the weight of its own pretensions - trying to go all elegiac and important, Red Planet nudges and winks and asks you along for the ride. So get on board and take it for what it is, a pretentious free zone with good human drama at the core. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I understand why movie critics may have not liked this film. After all, they probably don't understand the underlying science for every part of this movie. They haven't read Robert Zubrin's A Case for Mars, they haven't read some of the classic works in the field of colonization and terraforming, and they have little love for 'science fiction' movies in general. But for those of us that have put for than a sound bite's worth of thought into the subject of manned mission to Mars, Jupiter and the outer planets, this movie is an almost wish come true.  "},{"Title":"What a boring planet Mars is.","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Of course it's not a qualification for a science-fiction movie to be exciting and there are many slow, yet great science-fiction movies but Red Planet is obviously a movie that aimed for the entertainment, rather than being clever and deep with its meanings or realistic.Problem with this movie is that it's a real lackluster. The movie just could never grab my interest and basically I couldn't care less for any of the characters, despite the fact that they are all being played by some great and well known actors, such as Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss, Benjamin Bratt and Terence Stamp.The story also isn't really a credible or realistic one. The whole AMEE thing...please give me a break! The movie could had definitely worked out with a better and more clever thought out concept. For a science-fiction movie the story is simply lacking in its fundamental things. It instead uses the more standard clichs you could expect from a movie like this. There basically is very little original about Red Planet, when you're already familiar with the genre.The movie is basically about a ground crew on Mars, all dying one by one in some very stupid and also predictable ways. This is basically the only excitement the movie has to offer. Some of the most interesting characters die to soon, while the least interesting live on for too long.For most the special effects are good, though they are certainly lacking in certain sequences. Nevertheless for 2000 standards it's still acceptable. Mars itself is obviously looking as if it was shot on location somewhere in the dessert, which it was. Most sequences were shot in Jordan and Australia but who knows, maybe it really looks like Mars, I am no expert on that subject.Basically I'm not surprised director Antony Hoffman never directed a movie after this one again. It's way too standard and not surprising or exciting. In his defense, it was also the first movie he ever directed by the way. Red Planet became a big box office bomb, grossing only about $15.000.000, while costing more than 4 times as much to make.Just like the other 2000 'Mars' movie. Mission to Mars, this is not really a movie worth seeing. At least Mission to Mars still had some memorable moments thanks to the Brian De Palma directing. This movie on the other hand is very forgettable and lacking in too much.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Rewrite and Carrie Take More Clothes Off","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"30 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadWhy do you think she spends the last half of the movie running around in a wet nighty? How about the shower scene? Her acting sucks badly. That brain dead monotone like she is balancing her checkbook? In the MATRIX, they poured her into that outfit for a reason, Carrie Anne stunningly beautiful and commensurately devoid of acting ability. She sounds so insouciant she could be Spock's wife. When Kilmer is biting it, and he is signing off she sounds like her misandrist daily magazine just went bi weekly. Please, who was the casting wizard who made her lead actor in the movie. Put Kilmer in front, idiots, even Sizemore towers over this Matrix midget. If you are looking for the number one reason the movie went down the crapper take a good look; Carrie Anne never was lead actor of another movie ever again. We saw this replicated with SALT another box office disaster; sorry, the misandrist demographic just not big enough to sustain 90 pound, muscle challenged, bad acting leads. The script is just awful; it was the second reason it bombed. Let's have them walk across the entire surface of Mars for the whole movie chased by the most boring, non scary robot. Sizemore and Kilmer do competent jobs, as I said if you had made one of them the lead, instead of the undeserving Moss, who had made far less movies, the film might have done much better. This boredom is not lightened by singing a crappy Stones song, or showing us urinating in lower gravity. Thanks, that is too much information. The drama, in the ship, with the fire does not work because Moss cannot convey fear or any other emotion; she is total insouciant boredom. We stop caring soon after the movie starts. Everyone wonders about Stamp's character, they know they are in trouble; hence, let's make him a philosopher to add some metaphysics to this pile of crap. It does not work. The film fails because of the painful synthesis between a boring, slow narrative on Mars blended with Deer in the Headlight's woman up in the ship. Her acting has to be seen to be believed. The ending, where his brain is without air for say ten minutes before revival, did not help things. Hey, maybe he wrote the script? There was good chemistry between Kilmer and Sizemore which makes us wonder if we had a better actor as Captain, one who could act, what the movie might have been. Like Salt, the PC agenda, you know we must all have our little red books, just obliterates the movie; oh well, just so the right action groups are appeased. This is why American cinema is so terrible. All the ways reality must be bent to make sure our butts are not swinging out there in the wind. The movie puts the B in boring. Yes, her body is hot but she was a dreadful, untalented actress and she had no business being in that role. I was glad the film bombed; I suspect the other actors behind her that deserved that role, secretly, shared my enthusiasm. Let's give the lead to the most talented actor regardless of the categories that must be filled, shall we? I love when they do this and it bombs; go ahead, we will not go to the movie, idiots. "},{"Title":"Predictable But Entertaining","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's not a bad science film but it's not a good one either. I liked to a degree - for the entertainment value. I think it's good for a one time watch if you like science fiction movies.********* Spoiler *********** It's a predictable movie - a group of scientists on a desolate planet (Mars) and they have a sentient robot with them AMEE. Something will have to happen to cause drama and action with the isolated group and what better to be the enemy than their own AMEE that turns on them. To add more to a space drama you will need to have something to go wrong - in the case of this film it's the oxygen running out.***************************** In spite of the predictability of the movie it is a good watch for those who have not seen the film. It is entertaining.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Disagree with RebrandSoftware, movie is great","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have to disagree with RebrandSoftware, for many reasons They DID bring the atmosphere analyzing equipment and all. All the equipment was on the equipment stage which they had to jettison( you obviously didn't watch the film carefully), and their mechanical crazy dog was their navigation unit and was damaged at descent so it went haywire.. I think you sir are too much of a nincompoop for such an accurate movie. According to your review you payed no attention to the film whatsoever. I personally loved the film, it was pretty accurate with some small goofs, it had good acting and a good and realistic plot, I mean think about it, we pretty much killed the Earth by now. People in Peking can't even breath there any more. 9/10 for inaccuracies and plot holes "},{"Title":"Dead Planet.","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red Planet (2000) Dir Antony Hoffman / Cast Val Kilmer, Carrie- Anne Moss, Tom Sizemore, Terrence Stamp, Benjamin Bratt About as bad as Mission to Mars. Plot regards a small crew deep in space on their way to Mars where they are ship-wretched. From there it is recycled mayhem as crew members die horribly by a mechanical creature that they created. Visual effects are striking and director Antony Hoffman does his best but the story is lame. Some of the crew die early. Terrence Stamp ruptures his spleen on the fall from space. Perhaps it was an easy method of getting off the set. Benjamin Bratt is accidentally pushed off a cliff, perhaps by somebody who couldn't stand his performance any longer. Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss and Tom Sizemore are wasted. They are on the screen the longest, which makes them the bravest considering how embarrassing the film is. Amee the mechanical dog malfunctions and runs rabid just like the screenwriter does when he put pen to paper. The only purpose the film serves is to repeat the same old story and market the production as if intelligent people couldn't see through the dimwitted scheme. Like the mechanical dog, the screenwriter also malfunctioned and ran rabid with crap we have seen countless times. Perhaps this film should be used as a doggie treat for a pound full of mechanical dogs. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"All Kinds of Downsides, but Still Watchable","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Apparently, NASA itself basically disowned RED PLANET. That is, they declined to act as consultants because of the film's egregious scientific inaccuracies. I did not learn about that until after I had naively watched it for the first time. Then, when I watched for the second time, I realized how horrible the screenplay is. All of which is a shame, because there are some really nice visual effects and cinematography, and the assembled cast of actors is very good. The general story itself is not bad. In fact, it is quite compelling, but the devil is in the execution here, and the execution is less than stellar.However, in spite of all of that, I still find RED PLANET to be a rather enjoyable viewing experience. What can I say, I love stories about Mars exploration, and this one has enough for the eyes to reward the looking. The competitor/sister film MISSION TO MARS seems to have a better reputation. If nothing else, I find myself wanting more of these types of stories, and there is something to be said for that. "},{"Title":"Failed attempt at realism, too much god, not enough science","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While I found the characters generally likable, the movie spends too much time with useless pondering about god, while not even attempting to justify it (eg., the philosopher character claims that science has no answers to the interesting questions, but never mentions what these questions are) Additionally the ship they ride is highly unrealistic in its design, even the redundancy we build into all our spacecraft now is apparently lost in the near future. Electronics are apparently also catastrophically lacking any kind of shielding from the radiation we know is hazardous in space.This movie would have been more successful if they had consulted with some actual scientists about the workings of reality. "}{"Title":"See Val.  See Val run.  Run, Val, run.","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Great cast turning in good performances; good direction with a snappy pace; great visuals well-edited - -and the worst dialog I have ever heard in a science fiction adventure film. This isn't even comic-book stuff, this is Dick and Jane first-grade reader crap. The screenwriters are confused, they think exposition and drama are the same thing - wrong! Exposition only gets you to where the drama unfolds as thoughtful commentary on the exposition and as expression of it's underlying emotional content. But without drama, there is no emotional content; failure to recognize that makes this is the most emotionless adventure film I have ever seen, and the 'themes' of the film (e.e., the possible discovery of god's existence - which is childish over-reaching for an adventure film, BTW) are mushed into the exposition without any thought at all.And of course, in a film so dependent on dialog, all this weakens the typical B-movie story something fierce.Will producers please read their scripts carefully before throwing money away on a mess like this? "},{"Title":"Stone-faced Kilmer & co. visit Mars just so they can do dumb things and annoy the viewers.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yet another idiotic modern sci-fi, high on budget but low on intelligence. Already the intro's narration is sub-par, suggesting that what will follow won't be joining the sci-fi movie Olymp. The biggest point of annoyance appears soon after the commandant of the first manned mission to Mars is a woman. A photo-model type female, in fact, in charge of five men. Sure, why not. The left wing Hollywood's PC-ists are tireless; after trying to convince us through numerous movies and TV shows that nearly all of the best judges are black women, it was time to convince us that the space exploration of the future will be dominated by (white) women. And roads will be built by three-legged apples. The second in command is a Latino, played by Bratt. Hell, so where are the Asians and the Eskimos in this little band of astronauts?? Why did they forget to include an astronaut who is Nepalese? The American Nepalese community will be appalled, and rightly so. In a way I am glad that a movie with such a dumb set-up turned out to be as dumb as it did.This film has it all astronauts acting like teenagers and rock-stars, astronauts who hug their bible before and after taking a leak, astronauts engaging in bargain-basement philosophy, a lousy undramatic soundtrack, plot-twists and plot-devices seen and heard a million times before, and dialog right out of Hollywood's school of 90s blockbuster school of writing. Out of all the dumb things, the robot Amee really takes the cake; we have here a mission to Mars which is purely scientific, yet they bring along a robot which is skilled in killing more people than Rambo could ever dream of. Just because posers Kilmer & co. decided to switch it off (or as Kilmer puts it, kill it) the robot suddenly turns against its masters with an instantaneousness and eagerness unrivaled in all of film's evil rebel-robot world. Usually a robot serves a useful purpose before it turns nasty - but not this one; Amee's only use is as that of a bad plot-device. One would think - logically - that if the mission includes a black-belt robot then at least the crew would have guns or something. Wrong. No guns. No intelligent falls of a cliff, either. Bratt gets pushed off a cliff for the stupidest reason imaginable. In this movie even a fire isn't logical when Sizemore commits suicide he creates a huge fire-like explosion which could be seen from the planet's orbit - but guess what Kilmer is unscathed, in spite of standing only meters away from Sizemore! It doesn't get any dumber than this. Or...? Well, close. Kilmer giving Mars the middle finger and saying F*** this planet! is quite a legendarily stupid line which can rival any from Armageddon or Independence Day.The movie even has the oldest sc-fi clich around the there-is-only-space/oxygen-enough-for-two-but-there's-three-of-us shtick. So trite. But what really seemed out of place was the religious chewing-gum-level philosophizing; they even have a character (Stamp) who doesn't care much for science (any more) and babbles about God any time someone would listen. "},{"Title":"Blue-Skying Salmon Sky","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The OTHER Mission to Mars. In March 2000, Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins, under director Brian de Palma, went to Mars ignorantly. In November of that same year, Hollywood synergy (read as plagiarism) sends Val Kilmer, Carrie-Anne Moss and director Antony Hoffman to the same planet just as ignorantly.In 2050, Earth is such a wasted tramp of a planet that humankind is considering Mars as its next rape. A scout ship is sent to the red planet &#150; but here's the twist instead of sending well-trained, staid scientists and astronauts, they sent a bunch of actors. Trying to pass as scientists seeking answers to overpopulation, their uninformed arguments, insufferable stupidity and specious philosophies tell us they're really seeking Golden Globe nominations.Val Kilmer is the maintenance jockey (the least scientist-y of the ersatz scientists), Carrie-Ann Moss is the ship commander, (breasts a-strainin' against her sweaty commander t-shirt), Benjamin Bratt the womanizer, Simon Baker the Weird Guy, Tom Sizemore is Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman and Terence Stamp is a pontificating pain in the arse.Stamp pompously opines, I realized Science couldn't answer any of the really interesting questions. One wonders which science he studied, as ALL science answers exactly that. Either this failed Nietzsche has no clue on Scientific Method or he never asked any really interesting questions&#133; or he was always just a religious nutjob who was trying to find the Scientology mothership out here.Smart-mouthing their way to Mars like glibness is fueling their ship, one of them says, The hope and survival of mankind rests on us. Gee, I hope not.*Red Planet*'s serviceable plot involves stranded humans trying to think their way out of a situation that keeps throwing up obstacles &#150; in this case, men landing on Mars with their escape craft damaged and air running out. It could have been a very interesting crisis had the SCIENCE actually been in this FICTION. Instead, like Chantilas not asking the interesting questions, this movie studiously avoids the interesting science, writers Chuck Pfarrer and Jonathan Lemkin creating a Science FANTASY that makes up rules as it goes along; the worst offender being Tom Sizemore ludicrously rationalizing how there could be breathable air on Mars, to explain the rank stupidity of everyone taking their helmets off so that we could see their pretty actor faces. ... From there, it is a low grav downhill ride.Who are the science consultants on these movies? Is anyone being consulted at all? One astronaut pushes another off a cliff, yet though they all have their helmet radios on, the pushed guy never thinks to scream into his radio, Hey, this asshole pushed me off a cliff! When Moss is giving Kilmer CPR in zero-gravity, the computer instructs, Stand him up, Commander &#150; but how will that help in zero-gee? As in every movie that presents a moral dilemma (here, only one person can survive, the others have to sacrifice themselves) it ends up being not so much a dilemma as the story neatly excises the good guys who would have had to battle amongst themselves for the ride home (so there is never any REAL sacrifice).The stakes are ramped up for no reason at all when Kilmer's panther-like robot, AMEE, goes into KILL mode, enabling the killer who pushed the guy off a cliff to get his just desserts; other good guys die so that they won't have to draw straws; and Val Kilmer &#150; as was pre-ordained by Romantic Ending Protocol &#150; spends a languorous six month ride back to Earth humping the commander. "},{"Title":"Weak, mediocre attempt at sci-fi.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have not seen Mission to Mars yet, so I can't make any comparisons between this film and that film.  I just saw this film at a free sneak preview, and although I already decided I wouldn't pay for it if I had to, I figured, what the hell.  They were giving out free soundtracks and T-Shirts to those that came, so I was already in pretty good spirits about the movie.So the movie started, so far so good.  My friends are asking me if I wanted to leave.  It was only 10 minutes into the film, not enough time for me to detect anything wrong with a film...for me anyway.  About 30 minutes into the film, I realized why it was free.  An hour and a half into the film, I realized this thing was never going to end.  I was just waiting for it to end so I could leave.  Whatever the makers of Red Planet were trying to make fell flat halfway into the movie, and shortly after that, I realized it died and was never going to come back to life.  The rest of the movie wasted time and failed to excite or entertain me.I'm usually very patient with films, so don't gang up on me and tell me that long films with very little action bore me, because it's not true.  If Red Planet had something to say, I'd be very interested and enthused.  Red Planet was lacking plotwise and although the characters received a lot of screentime, I never really understood who they were.  I think they were trying to develop the characters after years of sci-fi films that go for the effects and overlook the characters.  Despite their efforts, they failed.  On a technical note, Red Planet is superb.  The effects and photography are very good, and the aura of sound will knock your socks off!  However, effects and sound are not essential to storytelling.  It's interesting that Carrie-Ann Moss was in this film.  She hardly does anything, and her lack of humor is never really explained(I don't know how I could've missed an explanation, but I did).  Also, she was in The Matrix, another effects and sound bonanza.  However, The Matrix had developed characters, and it had a plot, which is what made it work.I wouldn't call Red Planet a terrible film.  It's technically superb, and they did try to make a good film.  And even if nothing happens in a film, that doesn't bother me.  The problem was they forgot a plot and didn't know how to develop the characters.  Without those essential elements in a film, it can make a film with a promise a long, boring failure.  "},{"Title":"Great FX can't disguise unbelievably dull movie with no plot","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the sound and picture but ultimately felt this movie was a complete waste of time. None of the characters were painted in any kind of detail, making it impossible to identify with them in any way. The only attempt at a plot was to introduce a malfunctioning robot, a somewhat cliched homage to 2001 Space Oddessy or what? Ultimately, the movie goes nowhere - it's eye candy but incredibly dull eye candy that just becomes one big yawn about half an hour in when you realise it's not actually going to ever go anywhere.Frankly, the state of affairs where plotless junk like this can attract stars who just don't get any opportunity to act, and can somehow elicit big budgets for special FX that do nothing to the movie, epitomise all that is depressing about the state of Hollywood's output at the moment. "},{"Title":"Really, really, really stupid","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For a movie to have two terrific looking terrific actors like kilmer and Bratt and for me to give it 2/10, it had to be really bad.  This one is hideous.  Take every outer-space cliche you have ever heard of, mix in the corniest dialogue from the worst episodes of Lost In Space and Battleship Gallactica.  Throw in what I will charitably refer to as a self-consciously and ludicrously eccentric character played by Carrie-Ann Moss, and you get an idea how abominable this waste-of-time this is.  Avoid. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know Mission to Mars? This is worse! Apart from the nice graphics this movie pretty much sucks. The storyline is so ludicrous and Hollywood-like that it's a farce. With its lame action and plastic characters, Red Planet fails on the same points as Armageddon, but isn't as fun. And Val Kilmer just ain't Bruce Willis.It's a shame that the big Hollywood budgets aren't spent on proper science fiction instead of low end space action like this. "},{"Title":"Average movie. Worth seeing for Carrie-Anne Moss","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe I paid (pay per view) to see this movie. Wait until it hits HBO or Showtime. The plot was virtually non-existent and to the extent there was one, unbelievable. Poor script, acting was mediocre (especially Val Kilmer who was trying to be spiritual I think but it didn't work) except for Carrie-Anne Moss who did a great job with the poor vehicle she was in. She also looked terrific. Have to admit the special effects were very good (I didn't think they were great, a word we toss around so as to have it lose its meaning) and kept the movie barely interesting for me to watch. Sound was very good too. If you have two hours to waste, and don't mind, then see the movie. A bad or average movie is sometimes good to see. That way, you can appreciate the real good ones that come out. "},{"Title":"Not awful, but pretty friggin' bad","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I will not waste the effort to give detailed commentary. Look at all the negative comments, average them out, and you'll have my opinion. This is all I'll actually sayGenerally great effects and sound, bad everything else. "},{"Title":"What A Disappointment!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie deserved to tank at the box office (budget-75 million, world-wide take-26 million, as of April, 2001). The one good thing about it was the special effects, other than that, not too much. Rather than take the time coming up with a proper script, the writers just threw together every space-based cliche that's come out since the fifties.  The acting was no better. Terence Stamp was the only one that appeared to try to give his character some depth, the rest just showed up and hit their marks. In my opinion, if you want to see it, wait for it to hit cable, and save yourself the rental fee! "}{"Title":"If this is Mars, I don't want to go","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well atleast Carrie-Anne Moss is hot .. because it's the only good part about this movie. I don't remember Val Kilmer being so stiff, but he makes Keanu Reeves look like Mary Lou Retton. The movie is really out there, so out there that it makes no sense to the viewer, and by the way they read the script it made no sense to actors either. "},{"Title":"M2M is better","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a prime example of how a movie needs more than just special effects to be entertaining. It needs acting, and it needs a good story.Red Planet has a decent dollop of the former, yet falls way short of the latter. It's a shame to see good actors stuck in a bad story, but they manage to keep this one mildly interesting. Plus we get to see Carrie Anne-Moss as naked as we're ever going to see her! Other than that, Mission to Mars has this movie beat in terms of storytelling.5/10   "},{"Title":"Utterly predictable.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film had absolutely no suspence at all. You knew the ending almost completely after the first few minutes. My wife and I played 'what will happen next' with 100% accuracy. The special effects were nice, although someone went a little overboard with the lens flare. I guess it was a new plug-n for 3D Studio max at the production house. "},{"Title":"Utterly predictable.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film had absolutely no suspence at all. You knew the ending almost completely after the first few minutes. My wife and I played 'what will happen next' with 100% accuracy. The special effects were nice, although someone went a little overboard with the lens flare. I guess it was a new plug-n for 3D Studio max at the production house. "},{"Title":"Ouch.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good idea gone bad. The acting was fair, but the plot was iffy to begin  with. The problem was the end. I can suspend my disbelief for one or two impossible  situations, three on a good day - but 7? The end was ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Red Crappet","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I don't have actual numbers in front of me, but I'd venture a guess that Hollywood successfully crafts a quality sci-fi movie in about one instance out of every five or so.  Well, Red Planet is firmly entrenched in that 80% cinema-poop margin, having absolutely nothing going for it aside from a cool CGI killer-robot and spacebabe cleavage.  Semi-feasible plot? What's that?A 20% success rate is pretty abysmal.  Why the moviemakers can't figure out how to make a non-terrible sci-fi action flick on a more regular basis is what I wonder.  These box-office bombs are not cheap to make, for one, so why aren't they learning from their past mistakes?  And, moreover, it's not as if there isn't plenty of decent source material out there - check your local book store for proof of that.  Of course, the sad part is even when they have decent source material (for example, David Brin's The Postman), they end up fouling it up miserably (for example, Kevin Costner's The Postman)...Watch this movie only if you're looking to be frustrated. "},{"Title":"Incredibly STUPID movie.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is absolutely one of the stupidest movies it has ever been my misfortunes to see.  The plot, such as it is, is horrible.   The acting is passable, and the special effects are fine, but it's a really stupid movie, with plot not following its original direction not at all.  STUPIDITY overwhelms everything else. "},{"Title":"I understand what they were trying, but it didn't work.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The colors were great and the sound wasn't that bad. Some of the special effects could have been better also. I don't know what production costs were so I won't give them too hard a time. Now onto the acting. Wow, horrible. Tom Sizmore, as always, was a redeeming quality. And let's face it, Carrie-Anne Moss did look phenomenal. There was zero depth here. It was a sci-fi flick though. A weak one at that. I would recommend renting this but not purchasing it at all. "},{"Title":"Ho hum.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I will agree that the production and cinematography were good and the acting was fine, but not good enough to carry the script.I have a few problems with Red Planet --1) The setup (Earth is dying, 10 billion people move to Mars?) requires way too much suspension of disbelief (especially the ending!!!!)2) The scenes of mars with lots of clouds in the atmosphere?3) It is just too slow, and didn't hold my interest enough.  Some of the twists would have been good sub-plot elements, but needed more story.I gave it a 5 (of 10), and it is worth seeing ... if you don't have anything better to do.  Just be prepared for a slow plot and some bad science. "},{"Title":"DISAPPOINTING BORE","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was stupidly sucked in by the previews to this and expected to see a REALLY COOL MOVIE.WARNING! MAROONED ON SPOILER PLANET!I went in with above-average expectations, and what did I get? Complete mind-numbing Boredom. Once Mars-bound, the marooned astronauts simply sit around waiting to die. So much of this flick is dedicated to them just waiting to die, it quickly becomes tedious. To keep the audience from falling asleep, we have a military/navigator robot called AMEE hunting them down one by one to kill them. And what do our heroes do? ...they just sit around... waiting for her to make them die too. The crew of the (very) mobile space station were boring and uninspiring, especially Val Kilmer's Gallagher. Carrie-Anne Moss played her character well though, despite the completely unnecessary naked shower scene (*why* was it put there at all?)This flick borrows heavily from others, notably the tedious Mission to Mars. One scene that is simply unforgettable - how could you stick a whole bunch of airbags to a ship lander which hits the ground at 1000 miles an hour, then starts spinning and bouncing down hundred meter cliffs and expect the crew inside to survive? One positive Mars Sceneries are beautiful! The algae-produced breathable atmosphere was too impossible for me to digest. The predictable End Act was a disappointment. The End End Act was a typical Hollywood cliche. But by then, I didn't really care. I was just... waiting for the flick to end. CONCLUSION? You may find it more enjoyable to watch paint dry. Otherwise rent Pitch Black instead, at least that has more action.  "}{"Title":"So little time, so much to film...","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see Red Planet because a friend had told me the book was superb and wanted to see the film. While the cast was great, I was disappointed to see obvious signs that this was 'the film of the book'. The writers tried to get far too much into too short a space of time, and as such an excellent story was portrayed in a manner that lent no depth to the characters and made very little use of some superb ideas. I don't want to spoil the story for anyone, but there is a robot whose role in the plot was vastly underused. This was a real opportunity to inject some emotional strength in the form of fear and it was passed over, which is true of a lot of the potentially emotional moments in the film. About to die? How irritating. That's the impression you get from the ship's crew, and I got the feeling that the actors were more than a bit fed up with the whole affair and just wanted to finish the scene and get down the pub. Terence Stamp was horrifically underused and a lot of the dialogue lacked any kind of depth or observation. The film as a whole picked up a little towards the end, which is why I gave it 5/10 as opposed to a lower score, but overall this was a big disappoint as it could have been so much more... "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time and money","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Movies are supposed to be unadulterated escapism for 1.5-2 hours of your life, you take a seat and for that time you are Indiana Jones, Luke Skywalker, The Terminator, or Neo.  A movie about my life would be more interesting than any of the cardboard cut-out characters lives in this movie. I'm not saying my life's exciting, gee, I'm writing comments on a movie website think about it. Some say this movie was better than Mission to Mars (another utter timewaster). No, both of them rank alongside Battlefield Earth as the worst Sci-fi movies ever made. What happened to Val Kilmer's career? He was such a great prospect to become a superstar, and then he made movies like The Saint and At first sight and now this. I used to be a huge Val Kilmer fan. (Not now)  "},{"Title":"A posh attempt that should have been a much better movie","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a sci-fi fan, this provides palatable enough evening viewing but hardly worth breaking a leg to see. If you're not a sci-fi fan, stay at home. Red Planet is  mission-to-mars-that-goes-wrong film and has well-made sets and a few interesting moments, but generally it lacks suspense and could have been much better. "},{"Title":"They should have left the movie in outer space","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I tried but I just can't find any compassion for this movie and still sleep at night.  The plot is thin and undeveloped.  It bills itself as science fiction but has neither science or even fantasy.  It is not a fast moving action movie it just sort of leaps, like a drunken frog, from one problem to another.  We have a fire here and breakdown there and an insane robot trying to kill them..none of which has anything to do the plot which is something about saving the earth from itself. But they are so busy fighting fires and the robot they forget that and so will you.  Sorry movie goer's that is as kind as I can get.   "},{"Title":"Waste-of time all around.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this in an excellent theater with swivel seats, a decent size screen, and a sound system that will blow your brains out. It's a good thing too since there seemed to be nothing else going for the movie at all. Loosely referring to it as the most Unoriginal and derivitive and predictable piece to come along in years, is just about on the money. Bowman being in charge of the ship and AMee predictably loosing it (we always add a Military/destruct mode to our environmental robots) isn't reminiscent of any other well-known movie. I could go on like this but just suffice it to say that the characters tell it all...one and two dimensional, full of unfinished business (most of which wound up on the cutting room floor) and other than the specials for the robot, you're just wasting your time and money. "},{"Title":"More anti-scientific, male bashing garbage","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Within the first 10 minutes, a character dismissed the whole scientific process that would have produced the very ship he was on, followed by an approving depiction of the female commander's arbitrary and unfair sexism. A waste of a good idea. "},{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie expecting a sci-fi, apocalyptic action movie since that's how it's marketed. I was disappointed! They probably meant to do that kinda movie, but failed. The premise is good, but that's just about it. After things go wrong they just continue to go wrong but through some miracles end up great anyway, and some things are never explained. (although I can't give you an example without spoiling) The characters are all very difficult to get a grip on, no real depth or anything. The effects are just as good as one can expect from a sci-fi flick, the camera work is decent, the humor is absent most of the time (except for a few one-liners) but it all fails to deliver an interesting movie. I was just glad when it was over! "},{"Title":"Space Disaster!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The second of the 'Mars' movies of 2000 (preceded by 'Mission to Mars', and to be followed by 'Ghosts of Mars'), 'Red Planet' has a top-notch cast in a cliched rehash of elements better utilized in other films. This is a shame, as SF literature about Mars is so rich and varied, you wish someone would adapt a classic novel, instead of 'creating' such derivative nonsense!Earth of 2025 is on the brink of ecological suicide; in an effort to provide a new home for humans, unmanned spaceships have begun terraforming Mars, sending oxygen-producing algae, as well as creating a habitat for a manned mission. Finally, a massive space-constructed craft is dispatched to complete the work. The crew consists of efficient and beautiful commander Carrie-Anne Moss; hunky but arrogant pilot Benjamin Bratt; sensitive, philosophizing doctor Terence Stamp; opportunistic, wise-cracking bio-engineer Tom Sizemore; over-sensitive dweeb technician Simon Baker, and sweet nonconformist 'mechanic' Val Kilmer. Rounding out the crew is a robot loaned by the Marines, nicknamed AMEE, which looks like a rejected 'attack-bot' design from 'Robocop', to perform surface experiments. If these characters all sound like stereotypes...they are!When a solar flare seriously damages the spacecraft, in low-Mars orbit, Moss is forced to send the crew down to the surface, while she attempts to save the mothership. Then the problems REALLY begin!Without giving away any of the spoilers, let me just say that you'll see plot elements lifted from 'Event Horizon', '2001', 'Outland', 'Terminator', 'Pitch Black', and many other SF films. The sad thing is, 'Red Planet' doesn't improve on these elements, it simply rehashs them! Even the planet's surface recreates the 'Death Valley with a red filter' look of 'Robinson Crusoe on Mars', (it was the one element in 'Mission to Mars' that impressed me; Mars LOOKED unearthly!).I hate knocking this film; I'm a big Val Kilmer fan, and really had high hopes that this would be a big hit for him. But I have to be honest; 'Red Planet' should have been much better! Sorry, Val! "},{"Title":"A different kind of Sci-Fi...","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ****WARNING Spoilers ahead. Don't say I didn't warn you.****I am glad I paid only 4.50 to see this latest Sci-Fi movie to come out of hollywood mainstream.The ActingCarrie-Ann Moss despite being in one of the best Sci-Fi movies in a while is not a big enough star, yet, to carry an entire film if they aren't going to give her other competent actors. Fortunately for Ms. Moss I didn't see any trace of Trinity in her character for this movie. Terrance Stamp was well the saying is there are no small parts only small actors but he may as well have not been in this movie. What I saw of him proves that he can act as grandfather to the other characters. The rest of the actors in the movie are fodder for the bad guy save one. Val Kilmer. Val Kilmer's performance is does not stand out in any way. To me he hasn't been in a good movie since Thunderheart. That's all for the acting.The Plot.From the previews you would think that the CG dog/robot thing (AMEE) would have more of a major role in the movie a la Alien. This is not the case. Instead the enemy is nothing more than cockroaches (a creature similiar to) that eat algae and produce oxygen. They go down to the planet to find the prefab home they were going to use, destroyed. They tell us that it couldn't have been an ice storm but then never do anything else to try and determine what happened. Instead they decide to trek across the desert to a 25 year old broken Soviet made probe. The red shirt Star Trek virus ensues and Val Kilmer is the only one to make it to the probe. Every once in a while AMEE is heard but not seen. Basically this is a Sci-Fi drama. There is little to no action by my definition.The Effects.The effects are impressive. AMEE looks really great. The orbiting space station/ship at no time looks like cheap CGI. This is worth 2 or 3 IMDB stars.The Verdict.I give it 4 stars. The acting could have been better given the cast potential. Carrie-Ann Moss, Val Kilmer, and Tom Sizemore have all been in movies where their performances were more impressive. The plot has been done and over done before. "},{"Title":"String of space cliches and plot holes, but the scenery was cool","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I left this movie shaking my head at all the illogical and bizarre things in this movie. Would a mission to Mars get launched without knowing the condition of the on-planet habitat? How could astronauts get lost when GPS is so easy to deploy? And the little slimy human-eating bugs, the insane robot and the shower scene are complete cliches, and looked just as tired and worn as one might expect. I did like the scenery, though. "}{"Title":"Will be a good DVD surround sound demo disk but terrible credibility!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although I am not a Sci-Fi fan, I was attracted to this movie by a name cast, specifically, Terence Stamp, Val Kilmer, and Tom Sizemore. The basic plot involves a mission to Mars prior to eventual colonization. The cast was disappointing overall. Only Kilmer's and Carrie-Anne Moss's roles had any real meat.  Tom Sizemore was a total miscast as a scientist. Benjamin Bratt lived up to his namesake - a brat. The special effects were the usual menu - explosions, rocket thrusts, re-entry fireballs, etc. Probably the one sound effect that will attract home movie buffs with good surround sound systems will be the sound of a propeller driven search device used by AMEE the robot in the movie. My main complaint with this movie however, is the implausible events that come up at every turn. The writers not only stretched credibility, they broke it! I wouldn't pay to see this movie again, but I may buy the DVD for the special effects and surround sound, the same reasons I bought The Matrix.  "},{"Title":"Keep your expectations low","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're looking for a thoughtful, intelligent movie, you'd better look elsewhere.  If you're looking for a reasonably painless way to spend a couple hours, you might want to give Red Planet a try.  Just be sure to leave your brain at the door.After suffering through the dreadful Mission to Mars, and seeing the terrible trailers for Red Planet, I had the lowest of expectations walking into the theatre.  Red Planet wasn't quite as bad as I feared, but it was pretty close.Red Planet is basically a big-budget disaster flick, with a bit of slasher flick thrown in.  While it was certainly more exciting than Mission to Mars, it did suffer in comparison when it came to motivation and explanation. While Mission to Mars went into tedious detail trying to explain away all its unlikely plot elements, Red Planet doesn't even try.  It serves up plot contrivance after plot contrivance, without attempting to explain why things happened, or making any effort to make those things believable.  I can't go into too much detail, since that would give away too much detail of the plot of the film.  Suffice it to say, for virtually every time you find yourself thinking How or why did that happen?, just keep on wondering, because you sure won't get any answers from this flick.If you're the type of person who can enjoy a movie where things simply happen (and can keep a straight face when a killer robot exhibits a flair for the martial arts), you might enjoy Red Planet.  But if you want to see a good, suspenseful movie with people getting picked off while stranded on an alien planet, well, go rent Pitch Black or Alien. "},{"Title":"Through rose-colored glasses...","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Warning  One or two SPOILERS follow...I took in a matinee showing of Red Planet today (10 November). This film was in competition with Mission to Mars to be out first in 2000, but lost.  As it is, Red Planet is in many ways even worse than M2M, which was a space dog itself.  The story of Red Planet is as thin as the Martian atmosphere, and the characters have as much depth as an overnight frosting of carbon dioxide.  My 'implausibility meter' was almost always in the red -- in keeping with the film's title and with the tint of the surface imagery.  Some of the visuals were pretty, though, and sometimes I wanted to overlay their soundtracks with a good piece of music by Steve Reich or Brian Eno. Overall I got the impression that the film was most probably conceived as a commercial vehicle for Carrie-Anne Moss, who made a strong presence in The Matrix.  If I'm right, her strengths were effectively diluted in this film. There is virtually no authentic science expressed in Red Planet.  Imagine science as just one of the khaki colors of a mercenary incursion on the movie-going public.  The known facts of Mars, space, and space travel are treated mostly as inconvenient details that are glibly ignored or warped.  Like in the odious but sometimes hilarious film Battlefield Earth, we are expected to believe that fragile decades-old equipment left on the surface of Mars (i.e., the American Sojourner rover, and a fictional Russian sample-return spacecraft) can be jury-rigged for a surprise victory over adverse circumstances. Yeah, right. The chief science officer (Terence Stamp) was, at the very beginning of the film, characterised as the soul of the mission.  (Hello?  What does this mean?)  As an atheist I was a bit intrigued.  But it turned out that this meant that the science officer had left science for philosophy in his search for God.  He is also the first crewmember to die -- apparently because of a scriptwriter's vain attempt to lend some poignancy to a vacuous plot. Except for one mildly interesting positive comment by an improbably cast 'gene-coder' (Tom Sizemore), science was otherwise demoted several times in mock-serious asides that made the scientific method seem to be inadequate as an approach to illuminating the details of the universe, let alone its essential nature.  I guess the message is that only conservative Republicans and Democratic Vice-Presidential candidates can be effective space explorers...  But, most probably, the story was designed simply to be accommodating to the religious right and to the scientific illiteracy of most people.  The chill of space is warm in comparison.  "},{"Title":"predictable and hackneyed","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a paint-by-numbers movie. It hints at depth, but the critical insights must have been edited out. What's left is typical sci-fi/horror/action fare. A motley band goes to explore a remote disaster site. As soon as they arrive, things go unexpectedly wrong, and they have to struggle to survive. The hostile environment claims its victims one by one. The plot is completely contrived and seldom believable. Everything in this movie can be found in The Abyss, Aliens, Starship Troopers, and 2010. "},{"Title":"One word Predictable!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Everything that could possibly go wrong in this movie does go wrong.  I guess all it takes to make a feature film is good special effects, lots of action, death, and the pathetic love story where the guy (I mean Hero) ends up with the girl in the end.  *YAWN!*  How about something ORIGINAL, please!  "},{"Title":"Why?  Why did they even bother?","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"41 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so 1) predictable 2) formulaic 3) unscientific 4) stupid I walked out of the movie shaking my head, wondering why did even bothered? What were they thinking?  This movie could have been a bad made-for-tv movie or a bad episode of Stargate - but the idea of thinking people should pay for this?!?!?SPOILERS ABOUND AHEADThe anti-science in this movie just makes the entire movie Soooo hard to swallow.  There are several other user comments regarding how ridiculous the 'gravity' on the spaceship was.  Or setting the AMEE 'navigation' robot up w/ killer capabilities, getting the 50 year old modem to work, and on and on.  Add to that  Humans last hope is terraforming Mars.  So they send up unmanned drones to 'seed' the planet.  And they leave sensors for O2. Nothing else. No flotilla of orbiting satellites to get telemetry.  No command system.  No visual.  In the late 20th century NASA was able to get live VIDEO from an unmanned rover and THOUSANDS of telemetry points from Mars probes. (well, until they crashed...)  But a half a century later 'Houston' couldn't dedicate any more resources that O2 sensors FOR THE ONLY HOPE LEFT FOR EARTH.When the crew gets to Mars, they are stunned to find that there is breathable air there.  Guess the scriptwriters forgot that the entire reason for sending the crew was because the readings from the sensors said the O2 was dropping.  Hmm, Mars inflicted amnesia?This goes on and on.  The escape aboard the Russian rock carrier was the only really funny part of the movie.  It takes an incredible amount of work to get a ship to have enough power to get into orbit w/o killing everyone aboard. (1960 rockets killed the test animals inside.).  So here we've got this old clunker that allows humans to withstand orbit velocity!   The air available in the spacesuits is also funny.  Early in the movie Gallagher has no air left.  All gone.  By the end of the movie he has enough to fly off into space.  The trapeze 'rescue' by Bowman at the end also makes a mockery of the laws of physics.PLEASE save time and money and take a nap instead.  You'll feel better for it.  "},{"Title":"If the Devil's in the details, this film's a cesspit of pure evil.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"17 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS**There are so many other negative comments about this movie that I can't believe I'm writing this.  But it was SO bad that I just gave Red Planet my first 1 rating on IMDb.  That by itself led me to write this.  I wasn't expecting much at all - and I was STILL disappointed.  I thought that a sci-fi film with Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss couldn't be all bad, despite what I'd heard.  Ha!  It insults the viewer.  I try not to nit-pick movies, but when the errors JUMP out at you for the entire movie, it's unforgivable.  Even Mission to Mars was better.Some of the visual effects were adequate, but overall this movie fails miserably. The premise was weak, the plot was cliched, the script was dull, the acting was poor, and the physics/science was WAY off throughout.  About the best part of the movie was the gratuitous Carrie-Anne Moss shower scene. But it's really not worth watching just for that.I disliked this film from the start.  A decent movie at least needs a good premise.  I stopped the tape 5 times in the first 5 minutes so I could rail against the totally lame, error-filled, and illogical premise of Red Planet.Supposedly, by the year 2000, humanity is starting to realize we've so polluted the Earth that the only alternative for humanity is simply to find a new home.  So we began a 20-year program of algae seeding on Mars, to create a breathable atmosphere.  But something goes wrong, and the algae are suddenly dying.  Our heroes will have to go to Mars to figure out why, and save humanity.  It's only sci-fi, and they need some reason to go to Mars, but this premise bites.  The dates/years don't add up, and there are several other obvious holes and lame assumptions too.  Any moron should realize that it would be a million times harder to terraform and colonize an entire plant (in the very near future no less) than it would be to just fix the environmental problems we've created here on Earth.I thought the movie might still be worth watching, despite the weak start. Nope.  They just threw in every cliche and hackneyed plot device they could dredge up from other movies, and tried to make it work.  But they didn't put enough passion, effort, or plot twists into any of it, and an awful mess was the result.  There was NO suspense; NO surprises.  I knew what would happen in almost every scene.  I never cared enough about the characters to even really sympathize much with their predicament either.********  SPOILERS   ********OF COURSE, as the mission nears Mars, a huge solar flare virtually cripples their ship, to the point the crew must abandon it.  One person (Moss) must stay behind and manually initiate the escape sequence for the others.  They have to jettison their invaluable navigation robot on the way down, but it only gets slightly damaged on impact. By the way, it just happens to look like a giant feline terminator, has a combat mode that it gets locked into when the crew, to their detriment, tries to deactivate it later.OF COURSE, the lander module crash-lands, but the crew somehow survives, and manages to crash very near the (previously constructed) Mars habitat, which contains food and oxygen.  But when the crew reaches the habitat, it's been destroyed.  In orbit, Carrie-Anne manages to repair the ship enough to return to Earth.  She assumes the crew is dead.  But they manage to make contact JUST IN TIME, via a 50-year-old modem no less, that was conveniently located nearby in some old abandoned equipment.  Right!  (Similar to the improbable upload of the virus into the alien computer system in Independence Day.)OF COURSE, they discover, as they are running out of air, that they can somehow breathe fine on good ol' Mars after all.  LOL.  But it doesn't really matter, because they have no way to get off the planet anyway. EXCEPT for the old Russian probe that failed to return to Earth 50 years before.  It just HAPPENS to be nearby too.  Wow, it's a small world after all!  But there won't be room in it for everyone, so one person will have to stay behind.  But we know that their nav robot-turned-killer will make that problem moot, unless the nasty Mars bugs eat them first.  (Can anyone say, The Mummy?)  Turns out the bugs ate all of the algae from the terraforming project, and produce oxygen themselves, which is why the crew can breathe. That doesn't even come close to accounting for the temperature and pressure changes, etc., that would be necessary for humans to breathe unaided on Mars.  But Hollywood thinks we're all MORONS, right?OF COURSE, then Kilmer (sole survivor) can't get off Mars after all, because the Russian batteries have died.  In one of the few mildly interesting scenes, Moss talks to Kilmer when it seems he must surely be left to die. Can you say The Abyss? (Although far less moving.)  As Moss prepares to leave, Kilmer realizes he can use the robot's battery to power the probe's launch, if he can get its battery while it's trying to kill him.  He does just that, with NO problem, and launches the probe, into JUST the right orbit to rendezvous with the main ship, JUST in time!OF COURSE, Moss must go EVA and snag Kilmer with a tether, and once inside she must perform CPR to save him.  (The Abyss again!)  At least Val brought a couple of bugs with him, to take back to Earth to be analyzed.  Yippee, he's a hero!  OF COURSE, nothing is really answered - there are tons of loose ends.My description almost makes the movie sound like it could be mildly entertaining.  Sorry.  It isn't.  1/10.  "},{"Title":"It's all about the boobs / Finally! A worse Mars movie than Mission To Mars!","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"7 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" (No SERIOUS spoilers! Just playing safe!)From start to finish, this film is LAZY. Research is non-existent. Astronauts (and presumably scriptwriters) are too ignorant of past missions to know the name of Pathfinder! (That rover, what's its name is one reference.) The geneticist talks about writing code with A, G, T and P! (It is C not P.) How little effort would it take, to get such basics right?Why did non-fans of science try making a space movie?What an insult to the audience this travesty is.If you watch, enjoy your eye candy, the gleaming white futurism and the boobies. Stop with the dishonest reviews. Wanking to this film ISN'T anything to be ashamed of, but dishonestly praising the film for its artistic integrity IS!Even Mission To Mars had fewer errors, better dialogue, more point, and fewer people killed by bad science. I almost feel like watching it again, for a dose of sanity.Of course accurate science isn't everything in storytelling, but a bit of authenticity wouldn't go amiss. This science is so bad it would actually distract me from a decent story even if there were one; as it's only down to laziness I won't excuse that.When characters are saved or lost on the basis of fantasy, it does detract from my ability to care what happens next. There are no real, well-constrained problems to ponder, to guess how characters might survive; no judgement can be made of likely outcomes, on any basis but the most fundamental rules of narrative Has a character been bad? Have they been redeemed yet? Will redemption require a noble sacrifice to save their fellow crew? Such basic (and vague) narrative rules are obeyed, but no peril nor solution is feasible, giving the whole story a pointless, vacuous feel.So don't confuse this space fantasy with science fiction; there's not a bit of science in it. We have unexplained artificial gravity, vanishing when the power does! It's only set in 2025! The FIRST manned Mars mission uses a ship like a futuristic luxury yacht inside, with ample floor space and bright white light. With Carrie-Anne Moss's side-boob shower shots so early, and unashamedly blatant nipple shots later on, it's certainly pleasing to look at; just don't expect plot that withstands any scrutiny. Examples follow...The opening's as clumsy as any set-up could be, giving a vague nod to the half-baked reasons why our blue- green ocean planet could be a less viable habitat than the destination &#x96;- a red dust-bowl with an atmosphere 1% as dense. A case of bad predictions? Well they claim the world was poisoned, beyond being saved, as early as 2000 -- the film's release date! However pessimistic your outlook, to suggest starting again on Mars is more hopeful than improving things on Earth is the kind of stupidity you can only learn in college. What a shame the makers had to cram in the popular ideology of the day. Is it not enough that humanity has a more certain future, the more worlds we colonise? We never know what the future holds. Would it be unrealistic to open with a mission to colonise Mars, without the drivel? Is it not something we want to do anyway?Ridiculously (and inconsistently) advanced technology with thin, generalised narrative themes, combined with those hot booby shots, convinced me this film was aimed not at a science fiction audience but at men who need to expand their porn collections. Lately we've been separating works of storytelling art from works of boob art, which I think represents positive progress for both. Had we made so little progress in 2000? Was this film behind the times? I pity boys of 14 who saw this with family, especially their mums. Even boobs could be wasted on those poor lads, who may have simply cringed &#x96;- a real shame.The characters are 2D and, for astronauts, astonishingly anti-intellectual and ignorant according to their unbelievable dialogue. Watch this film if you're too drunk/stoned to care about storytelling, and if you know no better science than the lazy researchers in the production team. Otherwise don't waste bandwidth - - let alone money -- downloading.Powering down to the planet at such an angle requires no equations to see its wrongness! Any intuitive understanding, or just a good eye for Angry Birds Space, is plenty!Technical restrictions on plot, regarding fuel and so on, feel inconsistent and arbitrary; they're cumbersomely received from the dialogue.This is the opposite of hard science fiction; it won't get people thinking about what advances might be possible, in what order; it won't make children draw space factories at Lagrange points, served by elevators from the Moon; it'll only provoke, Wow! It looks really cool!, from the slow-witted and serve as masturbation fodder for Moss fans.Oxygen is the only acknowledged problem with breathing on Mars. Oxygen is found mysteriously higher than expected, thanks to plot elements I needn't spoil; this nod to the problem might appear sufficient to a poorly educated child. No mention is made of pressure, except to convey how bad a cyclone will be at one stage -- 840 millibars, lower than in any storm on Earth, higher than any pressure of atmosphere Mars could ever retain. Plus it conveys nothing, unless we know the usual Martian pressure for comparison. (It's presumably elevated above the natural half a millibar.)Many review it just to declare that they don't understand all the bad reviews. Lack of understanding is indeed necessary, for anyone to think this movie good.Some say it's feasible compared to other science fiction! WHAT other science fiction?! Star Wars was more credible! What do we know about technology a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away? Most of us know enough about our own solar system, and modern technology, to chortle at this cacophony of lazy errors. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the Worst Movies I've Seen in My Life","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm an avid science-fiction fan and I enjoy movies about space travel, especially if it's about traveling to the Mars. This movie is so unwatchable that I barely cared about what was happening to the characters.The movie is not engaging at all and the characters are all unlikable,even the actress that played Trinity in the Matrix looks completely bland in this horrible movie. The sets are all poorly made and even by the standards of 15 years ago, the special effects are disastrous;considering there were fantastic movies like the Matrix and the Terminator 2 around at the time.I'm sure my judgment has not been influenced by all the successful science fiction movies I've seen during all these years. I even enjoyed Mission to Mars. At least that movie was emotionally engaging, but this one is just horrible. By the end of the movie, my nephew and I were laughing out loud at how horrible the movie was and we both thought its only redeeming quality was the girl's space suit near the end of the movie, which was much more attractive than the ugly suits the characters had on all the time. This movie is not even eye-candy. It is just terrible. Do not even get me started on how unrealistic and unscientific it was. Avoid this movie like the plague. "},{"Title":"And I thought Mission to Mars was bad!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This one just left me with my head shaking.  As the closing credits started rolling, I knew that I had been cheated and that one had been put over on me.  I think the best way to describe my thoughts about this movie is that if I could add, modify or delete one thing, I would put a disclaimer at the beginning of the movie that it sucks, and that the audience would be best served by walking out and theater hopping to another movie, any other movie. The movie theater would obviously not be too happy about it, but if you bought a few bucks of c**p in the concession line I'm sure they would be willing to look the other way a time or two.  The problem is that with such a disclaimer at the beginning of the movie, most people probably wouldn't believe it and wouldn't do anything about it, but if the disclaimer came at the end of the movie, by then everyone would know it already, and it would be too late to switch movies or ask for a refund.  The movie theaters frown upon giving out refunds for rotten movies as they would quickly go bankrupt. What to do?The story here is a simple one.  Earth is on the verge of destruction because of human's misuse for centuries.  With only a few years left of earth remaining viable for humans to live on, a crew is sent to Mars. Probes had been sent to Mars to bombard its surface with algae which would grow from the CO2 on Mars to produce oxygen.  Then perhaps humans would be able to inhabit Mars at some future time.  The crew being sent is there to find out how the algae is doing and verify if humans will be able to move to Mars.This movie was just plain awful.  I still don't understand what we need all of these space movies for, but Hollywood keeps making them as if we care. This latest version of space exploration could possibly be the worst yet. Most space movies aren't very good, but if you are dead set on seeing one, go check out Rocketman.  It's not the most realistic of space movies, but aside from Apollo 13, it is probably the most enjoyable.  In Red Planet, there is just nothing here at all.  The acting is pretty bad and you will be hard pressed to find a worse screenplay out there.  I don't understand why Kilmer wanted to be a part of this, and Moss doesn't belong here either. This should never have been made, let alone mass marketed to the public. Red Planet is an excellent straight to video production that will hopefully just go away or fade into the reservoir of rotten movies.  With the exception of a couple of cool special effects and Carrie-Anne Moss with no clothes on and showing as much as possible without getting an R Rating, there is nothing worth watching here.  Just do yourself a favor and never see this at all.  Don't pay full price, don't pay discounted price, don't rent it, and if someone else does, just kindly excuse yourself from the room to vomit. "}{"Title":"One of the worst sci-fi ever","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seduced by the flashy, brilliantly edited trailers and very promising cast, I went to the cinema to see the red planet with great expectations. What a boring 106 minutes it was.The Red Planet is a mission mars movie, yet there is no aliens, no mystery, no high profile action, not a huge destruction of any sort. The entire movie is based on a dog shaped robot which runs berserk and why he did, don't ask me.Man, this is supposed to be a sci-fi, not a documentary film about a misfortuned mars expedition. The highlight of the movie is the innumerous swarming small insects which is the only alien species in the whole movie. From the very beginning the movie is full of long cloggy dialogs and pointless conversations which leads nowhere. Men die one after another in despair, either running out of air or succumbed to a wound by the natural causes.To the end of the movie, you expect a surprising twist or some sort of action which never actually comes.If you happen to go to the hall to see the movie, bring along your pillow and pijamas. You will be cursing yourself if you hire or buy the red planet. 1 out of 10 just for the sake of Val Kilmer, Moss and Seizemore. "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a budding script writer, this film gives me great hope - if crap like this can be made into a film, then the crud I write will make me a fortune.The plot does not hold together. We are given a ( lengthy ) explanation at the start, as to why all this is happening, and this is where it starts going wrong. Your left thinking - So what? If there ever was a case for 'Show, Don't tell' this is it. From there on it gets worse.The characters are paper thin and never developed. Why this bunch of idiots are chosen to save mankind is never explained ( or shown ).The special effects, are not that special. Very good use of red filters, but thats about it.Music. Well yes there is some well composed music. It gives you a clue as to what you are suppose to be feeling - tension, happiness etc. Unfortunately, because the rest of the production is so bad, it is all lost in apathy.The big question is, what genre is this film? Sci Fi - no, the science in this is so flawed it couldn't be. Basing it in the future does not make it sci fi. Thriller? Not a chance. The plot is so predictable, being thrilled is the last thing you can hope for. Romance? Nope, although they tried. Comedy? Ah. Maybe I approached this film all wrong.... "},{"Title":"Horrible garbage","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is simpleminded, stupid, and too complex all at the same time, and totally pointless throughout.  Carrie Ann Moss tries hard but her character is  ridiculous and is by far, the most understandable character in the film. Actual resources were allocated on an A budget to put garbage like this together.  Hollywood has much shame to bare with this one. "},{"Title":"waste of time and money","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am normally a fairly easy going person when it comes to critiquing movies, but Red Planet was TERRIBLE. I left feeling completely ripped off, and I saw the bargain matinee showtime. I have read other people's comments and I basically agree with most (or perhaps all) of the negative comments, I just wanted to add a few more glaring technical inaccuracies to everyone else's lists that I just couldn't ignore...I suppose it is possible that my comments will SPOIL the movie for someone, but I think that the movie is spoiled already (ie...rotten). If you haven't seen this movie yet, don't bother... If you must watch this movie then don't read ahead IT MAY SPOIL IT FOR YOU.Hmmm.....where do I begin... Well, there was one part of this movie where I actually laughed outloud (and I don't think the directors intended this reaction). This was where the geneticist was talking about writing code (human genome)....they actually said that the bases were A, T, G, and P. P?!? where the hell does that come from (and no, that is not one of the bases in RNA, that would be U). I think I learned about that in my high school biology class. Another thing is when this supposed scientist is analyzing the flesh eating beetles and says that they are some type of nematode. That's very interesting, since nematodes are round worms. There were so many other problems with this move that I just don't have the time or energy to bitch and moan about them all....most other people have already touched on them anyways. I felt that this movie insulted my intelligence, had little to no character development, and just plain sucked. I actually found myself rooting for AMEE. "},{"Title":"A veritable plethora of Swiss-cheesiness... but with more hole than cheese.","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What's dumber than a box full o'rocks?Apparently, a tincan full o'rocket scientists!Warning major MULTIPLE SPOILERS alert! Seriously! A bunch of 'em!We'll gloss quickly over just a few of the many opening idiocies - that, in order to generate enough atmosphere to (momentarily) overcome the natural gravitational leakage of Mars, the algae would have to eat nothing but rock, cover the entire surface of the planet a foot deep and probably run through every drop of water in both polar ice caps in about a week; that this air would last about another week after the algae died; that the main spacecraft was so poorly designed and badly shielded, it couldn't handle being smacked into by a simple wave of solar radiation and maybe a few piddly micrometeorites; that their emergency so-called landing system was among the most moronic concepts NASA ever dismissed out-of-hand without a second thought - and move right on to the biggest bit of REALLY astounding stupidity....Okay, so they've crash-landed on Mars. They now have a trudge of unknown distance ahead of them, a severely limited air supply and a colleague with life-threatening injuries. (At this point in the script, they're not yet aware that the Habitat has already been trashed. More brainlessness - like simple telemetry couldn't have told them that before they even left Earth??) But, not to worry, they've also brought along a sophisticated piece of hardware which can probably save ALL their lives. The AMEE unit is entirely self-powered and self-propelled, can run at speeds approaching 50 clicks an hour and has servo motors clearly serious enough to carry a pretty hefty load, particularly under Martian gravity.Like, maybe, a wounded man in a spacesuit, for example...?But is this brain-trust (more like brain-rust!) smart enough to use it properly? Sadly, no. Not even their engineer, Val Kilmer, thinks to simply say, AMEE? Would you please run on ahead and find the Habitat, then come back and guide us to it while carrying Professor Ruptured-Spleen, here? Oh, and, while you're at it, please bring back some full air tanks and a water bottle or two. There's a good girl...She was a borrowed military device. As clearly demonstrated later on in the storyline, a major part of her original design intent was, specifically, recon and intelligence-gathering - locating potentially hidden things in completely unfamiliar terrain - not to mention protection and support of her assigned squad of personnel. Her subroutines, especially as twitchy as they were after the crash and subsequent rebooting of her military protocols, would've been thrilled to pieces to be given a REAL mission! (...a whole 'nother folly, that any such inherently-dangerous and patently-USELESS-on-Mars software was left on her harddrive, simply inhibited, not COMPLETELY WIPED, as any SENSIBLE engineer would've done before even allowing her aboard!)Instead, these geniuses sign their own death warrants by actively conspiring to waste some of the precious little time and oxygen they have left DESTROYING their Ultimate Personal Assistant, just to get at her navigational subsystem, separately extracting her power supply, then improvising a connection between the two with clip leads or bare wires or spit-and-chewing-gum or something, so they can hand-carry the resulting half-assed armload of Rube-Goldberg'd junk across untold kilometers of Martian landscape.Excuse me?!?!? Seriously!?!?!?!? What the *bleep* kinda *bleep*ing sense does THAT *bleep*ing make????Oy, *bleep*ing vey!Personally, I'd MUCH prefer to simply FOLLOW said navigational system as it frolics on ahead of me, rather than screw it up with a screwdriver and lug it around myself. That's just dumber than TWO boxes of (Martian) rocks! Suspension of disbelief?!? I had to practically lynch mine and string it up to sit through the rest of this silly film. A plot with this many holes in it wouldn't even make a decent window screen - they're so HUGE you could sling a cat(-shaped rogue robot) through 'em! "},{"Title":"Did not like it enough to stay in the theater!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Red Planet is a long, bad and boring movie that was not worth the time and money spent at the theater.  The characters were forgettable and one-dimensional.  The plot appeared to be a series of contrived disasters designed to show off special effects.  It is hard to believe that most of this movie made it past the cutting-room floor.  It is far too long a vehicle for showcasing special effects and a few interesting shots of Mars.POSSIBLE SPOILER! SKIP THE FOLLOWING LINES IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS MOVIE!The most interesting sequences in the movie were the robot that went beserk and the destruction of the spacecraft that strands the astronauts on Mars. Other than a chance for contrived mayhem, was there a good reason for either sequence?END OF POSSIBLE SPOILER.Most of this movie threatened to bore the audience to sleep or to talking while the movie was running.  I left the theater before the finish of Red Planet, and did not care enough about the movie to find out how it ended. I would rate Red Planet in the polls as a 0 out of 10 stars, if that were permitted by IMDb.  Do not waste your time and money on Red Planet at the theater.  However, if you really liked Mission to Mars, you may like Red Planet.  If you appreciate good science-fiction, AVOID THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Bad Planet","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is amazing just how awful a film can be.  But Red Planet does just about everything in it's power to make sure your intelligence is insulted and your emotions left untouched.This is one of those movies that seem to be made up as they went along. Characters come and go haphazardly, they say things that make no contextual sense.  They'll react to someone someone else says in inappropriate ways. The director will throw in psuedo-flashbacks to try and justify what is about to occur, even though they are obviously just extensions of previous scenes.Imagine a Val walking into a room and surprised by a naked Carrie-Anne. After a bizarre exchange of words, Val walks back out the same door. Clearly they had him walk in only to do the scene... he was never doing anything there.  It's so obvious you just have to laugh.When people die, you don't care.  Their deaths make no sense.  The relationships between the characters are not merely forced they are basically written on their foreheads because neither the writers nor the director had any clue how to make them apparent any other way.As for the science fiction, it's basically all fiction.  Granted, it's a movie.  But the laws of physics are pretty well documented.  Nothing makes sense.  Solar power that works in the dark.  Solar flares that tear ships apart.  The inability of scientists to ever DO any science.The worst, in my view, is an absurd plot device where a scout robot has a military mode that turns it into a psycho killer at a flip of a switch (literally).  Why, in the name of all that is sane, would such a thing exist!?  You know instantly when they show you this switch what is going to happen.  And when it does, only the characters seem the least bit surprised...certainly not the audience.  But then it goes on to attack in ways that defy logic.  It could clearly wipe them all out, but instead decides to wound them to slow them down.  Could this have possibly made sense to those writing it?There is no skill whatsoever in this film making.  It is as bad as Mission to Mars.  Which means, of course, if you liked that movie you'll like this one.  It has the same lack of intensity, logic, common sense and characters. But at least the whole premise is equally absurd.  You'll be glad to know, though, that at least none of the inane lines in this movie are as bad as M2M's They are us, we are them!  Small blessings.David  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you have any self respect and value your time and money, then you will do all that is humanly possible to, not only avoid this movie, but to warn at least 15 other people not to see it. This is easily one of the worst flicks of all time and I've seen thousands. I would go into detail, but I don't want to depress myself. Stay away from Red Planet. "},{"Title":"don't waste your time","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is terrible. it starts off bad and only gets worse. i really dont understand why there are so many bad sci-fi movies. and i thought that mission to mars sucked, well it looks good after seeing this. it was cheesy, predictable, and they didnt even bother to check their science. don't waste your time watching this movie, it was painful. "},{"Title":"Tries to be an intelligent action/thriller.  It fails.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****For sci-fi thrills and chills, Red Planet is definitely not a choice of recommendation.  This silly and dull sci-fi adventure delivers a good case of eyestrain and tedium, rarely (more like almost never) gets the pulse-pounding.  It's a throwback to 50's sci-fi films, with a lot more action and violence, but even that doesn't make it any more enjoyable or less bland.The flim's story line is basically a mixture of Mission to mars, Pitch Black, Lost in Space, Armageddon, and even a little of 2001 with its metaphysical and philosophical discussions (that really only adds to the silliness of the whole thing; I mean, my goodness, some character actually states he hopes to fina rock on mars that says made by God).  Taking place in the year 2057, Earth is in a crisis after decades of pollution and overpopulation.  The solution create oxygen on mars, and terraform the red planet to make it suitable for coloniztion.  To do that, scientists grow different kinds of algae there, which will in turn develop oxygen.  The plan does initially seem to work as the years pass by.However, after a while, the level of oxygen on mars has slowly been declining, so a team of scientists is sent to figure out the problem and fix it.  Leading the expedtion is Commander Kate Bowman (Carrie-Ann Moss); who is assisted by co-pilot Santen (Benjamin Bratt); scientist and philosopher Bud Chantilas (Terence Stamp); mechanical systems engineer Gallagher (Val Kilmer) who is also the least respected of the group; and along with civilians Quinn Burchenal (Tom Sizemore), a genius bioengineer; and Pettinal (Simon Baker), and expert in terraforming.The journey to mars goes by smoothly until they are near the planet, and their ship Mars-1 is damaged by a solar flare, which results in the immediate evacuation of all the men on the team to the surface of mars.  While Bowman desperately finds a way to bring the men back, the others must find out what's causing the depletion of oxygen, figure a way off teh planet, and hold off AMEE, a mechanical robot shaped like a dog which was damaged in the crash landing, and is now in full-military mode, and hunting down the crew one-by-one.With a story that involves saving the Earth and journeying to mars, Red Planet should have been full of tension and adventure, but with the exception of a few brief tense moments, there's hardly a moment of genuine suspense.  When the plot does eventually get interesting, which is in the last 20 minutes, it ends too quickly, and the resolution is hardly satisfying.  The story itself is a little too simplistic-and at times quite idiotic-for a film that strives for intelligence.Speaking of the idiocy, there's a good amount of cringe-inducing dialogue adn plot holes present throughout.  For romantic tension and character developing dialogue, we get Moss coming out of the shower nude with a peeping and abashed-looking Kilmer, who hands her a towel, while she tells him to think of her as his sister.  There are logic flaws such as how Bowman mentions the Mars-1 will be the first manned mission to mars, yet you have to wonder who built the habitats for the team to live in on the surface of the planet.  Sure, it could have been done with robots, but that hardly seems efficient (not to mention the fact that when they arrive, there aren't any signs of robotics), especially from well over a hundred million miles away.  And correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe I heard Kilmer say he and the survivors have to walk 100 kilometers in 19 hours, which is blatantly impossible.  The script's greatest flaw may actually be in what it doesn't choose to do.  The film would have been more interesting had Bowman also landed on mars, thus creating some possible gender tension, but director Antony Hoffman opts to take the easy way out, wiht Kilmer taking command of the crew while Moss sits around trying to communicate with Houston, revealing cleavage in tight-fitting shirts.Red Planet is more action-oriented than its counterpart Mission to Mars, but these scenes are surprisingly dull.  Maybe it's because of the lack of a truly formidable threat that's responsible for the lackluster pacing.  Sure, AMEE is an interesting robotic design, but as a villain, it's weak.  Also, not to give too much away, the space insects that appear in the finale (which also make brief appearances throughout the whole film if you look closely) are initially frightening, but the plot turn is barely developed.  The film is rather predictable, and it doesn't contain any sense of awe or wonder, which is rather crucial to a movie of this genre.  The musical score from Graeme Revell does help a bit in creatind tension-if only in a superficial manner, but if you listen closely, many themes in the score are almost identical to the soundtrack of the sci-fi thriller Pitch Black.  That's not truly a big surprise, considering that Revell scored both films (though it's far more effective in Pitch Black).Is there anything in the movie that's not bad?  Well, for an 80 million dollar production cost, the special effects are fairly good.  Some of the imagery of mars is occasionally breathtaking, but these scenes feel a little too obviously constructed to block us from paying attention to some of the dialogue.  To be fair, it somewhat succeeds in doing that for a couple of moments.  For laughs, there is a rather humorous scene involving the first urination on mars.  Other than that, it's a pretty humorless affair.The performances from the three leads (Kilmer, Moss, Sizemore) are decent.  Sizemore is probably the best, playing a scientist convincingly.  Kilmer and Moss are not bad, though there's an unlikely romance that develops between them in the last 15 minutes.  It's more annoying than dramatic, and it only insults my intelligence even further.  The other acts are much worse.  Benjamin Bratt is annoying as usual, hence his last name.  Simon Baker is unconvincing as the man who goes over the edge, and Terence Stamp has hardly enough screen time to determine the quality of his performance.The characters simply aren't memorable.  Hell, I could barely remember half their names.  They are either underused, unpleasant, or simply unlikeable.  Any attempt at character development from the three lead roles comes virtually from their ability as performers, not from the script, and even then they still mostly come off one-dimensional.  You know characterization is off in a script when first-person narration is used to describe everybody's personalities.Red Planet may please die-hard sci-fi fans, or it may enthrall those who have seen few films of this sort, but it's too thinly executed, shallow, and dull to be enjoyable for those looking for a truly entertaining sci-fi yarn. It would be better if you saw Mission to Mars or Pitch Black instead, two far more enjoyable and similarly plotted films.  "}{"Title":"Worst Movie Val Kilmer Ever Made","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love Val Kilmer, but this piece of garbage is easily the worst thing he has ever done.  It is really rock bottom.  His colleagues are total dweebs.  Carrie-Anne Moss is abysmal in every scene she is in.  None of the characters make any sense.  None of their actions make any sense.  The special effects are cheesy.  But, just to show there are no absolutes, the sound dubbing was technically excellent.  Unless you rent a video to hear terrific sound dubbing, avoid this catastrophe like the plague that it is. "},{"Title":"oh dear - dross","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dross. Pretty much sums it up. I rarely give a film a 1, but this is truely terrible. There is little storyline, poor screenplay, and very un-engaging characters - after having been a big fan of the matrix and Carrie Ann Moss I was very disappointed to see her in such a poor film.If I had seen this at the cinema I would have walked out - at one point in the film the crew are in an 'action' sequence where they might die. I wished they would so the film would end more quicklyplease don't see this - and if you have watch something else quickly to take away the memory !!  "},{"Title":"Oh, go AWAY.","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mars Attacks was WAY better than this.Depressingly bad, unimaginative, sneering lip-service paid to long-established and well-milked sci-fi tropes to make a quick buck off the Red Wave of the time. How do people get away with this sort of thing?, I wonder to myself sometimes as the long winter nights draw in and I'm feeling my age.I just couldn't rid myself of the feeling that the actors felt they were in another stupid kiddie-brained science fiction movie that was only going to be watched by geeks. When the astronaut complained about algebra me and my flatmate just looked at each other and groaned. You're an astronaut! he said to the screen, You're GOOD at algebra! I hate this planet, says one of the 'nauts near the end as the... scary...killer...robot... zzzzz approaches for yet another action sequence. No. It's the movie he hates, and who can blame him? Badly shot, badly written, badly directed, just plain bad through and through.1 obligatory star. A Pile of Space Poo. And exploitative to boot. Boo! Hiss! "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the sci-fi genre...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you are debating about whether or not to see this film, I beg you to donate 5 dollars to charity instead of suffering through this horribly pathetic excuse for a movie. Even if you just took high school classes and have as much common sense than voters in Palm Beach you will leave with your intellect insulted and money wasted. I list my reasons below but read the warning. Below that are my recommendations.*** POTENTIAL SPOILER INFORMATION FROM HERE TO NEXT STARS ***This film, right from the start, is cursed with more design flaws than the Palm Beach ballot (pardon the election references). Most of these have been listed in other reviews (bad plot, no character development...) so I will dwell on the complete lack of reality in this film.1.    A lot of people say that the robot AMEE is amazing. Actually AMEE is the worst part of the whole film. Just think for a second. The astronauts are going to Mars to find out why the oxygen is low. So they take a navigator droid. Completely plausible till here. Then all of a sudden, we find out the droid has a military mode. In military mode it likes to attack and kill. Okay, maybe, just maybe they incorporated this for self-defense. But, this robot is trained in guerilla warfare! Not only that, it does kung fu! However, the worst crime of all is that the robot is programmed to kill humans! Yes, humans! Would NASA really program a navigator robot to kill humans via guerilla warfare? It is obscenely ridiculous that this was included. It's as if the NASA crew expected to meet Darth Maul up there.2.    The airbag concept for landing is ridiculous. The amount of gs that this would inflict on humans, would be enough to kill instantly. Amazingly ridiculous idea.3.    The modem that was recovered worked? They said it was 50 years old. I challenge anyone to provide a computer part that is fully functional after lying unprotected for 50 years. Additionally, there is precipitation on Mars according to the film, making it even more implausible.4.    Okay. Gallagher has 19 hours to cover 100 km and jump start a rocket. Take away 3 hours that were ruined by an ice storm and you are left with 16. Another hour was wasted waiting for that stupid robot to show up. Another hour can be taken away for rigging the russian ship. That leaves, in the best case (giving an hour), 15 hours for him to cover 100 km. That works out to an astonishing 6 km per hour, appx 5 miles per hour for a guy who hasn't eaten in two days and is never shown running. Yeah right. Additionally, the battery from AMEE is just the right format and voltage for a 50 year old Russian hunk of junk. And the russian hunk of junk was designed as an unmanned probe, yet conveniently has a working touch screen interface for humans. Sure.5.    Don't even get me started on oxygen on Mars.6.    I never knew that space stations were used for interstellar travel. Talk about a waste of time, money and resources. Highly unbelievable.7.    Another note on AMEE. If it was designed to kill, they left in the hands of a 'space janitor' who was a last second addition to the crew? Don't you think they would have had a trained specialist to handle it?8.    The portrayal of the crew is a disgrace to all the hard working astronauts that are there in today's world. No astronaut makes a brewery in space. They are way more professional than that.9.    Air tanks never seem to run out of air. Not only that, but the oxygen tanks are not even visible on the uniforms.10.   Naked women are not effective mission commanders.and on and on and on.....*** SPOILER INFORMATION ENDS HERE ***This film is a disgrace to every sci-fi flick ever made. Want evil robots - go and watch Terminator 2, or better yet wait for Terminator 3. Want a deep sci-fi plot with action - watch Star Wars or Jurassic Park, better yet wait for Episode II or Jurassic Park II. Want realistic space exploration - watch a NASA documentary. Want to waste some time, have your intellect insulted, and throw away some cash - watch Red Planet.My only recommendation is to science students who can analyze all the scientific flaws in the film for a project, and to filmography students who will learn how to make nice backgrounds and then a horrible film.  "},{"Title":"Preachiest movie ever.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Drinking game (Be careful you don't give yourself alcohol poisoning) every time the movie's writers directly lecture you, the viewer, on your failure to live up to your ecological responsibilities, in the guise (barely) of dialogue and exposition, take a drink. But on the other hand, where would we be without the stabilizing moral and ethical example of Hollywood.I think Red Planet was poorly conceived and even more poorly executed, failing to remain consistent even to its own premise. Elements of plot and back-story are introduced and discarded with no apparent attempt at cause and effect, to say nothing of relevance. In the middle of the movie I was reminded of a line from the Simpsons when, at the end of an episode, the entire family is trying to deduce the moral of the story. Bart says something like There is no moral, it was just a bunch of stuff that happened. This movie is a lot like that.  "},{"Title":"Why does this movie exist?","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have just wasted 1 hour 40 of my life watching this meaningless drivel. Don't make the same mistake! The only good thing I can say about this movie is that the special effects for the metal dog are quite adequate, and what the hell were those little insect things all about? "},{"Title":"Cliches after cliches after cliches after cliches...","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a horrible, horrible movie. Not only totally predictable and unoriginal, but boring beyond imagination as well. The acting is lethargic, too, but it comes as no surprise. It is pretty much impossible to do anything with a super weak script and directing. I never thought I would say this, but acting and storywise it is far more entertaining to watch Battlefield Earth. Yes, Red Planet is THAT bad!Technically the movie is very good, i.e. it has GREAT sound, picture and CGI, but even that cannot save it from a 1/10 rating. Rent only if you want to bore yourself to tears. "},{"Title":"Stale and boring","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     This movie has everything a fun sci-fi movie should have Killer bugs, a lethal robot, hostile enviroment and more. What it doesn't have is the glue to hold it all together.    With all of the exciting things in it, there's almost no suspense at all and everything is done in the most boring way possible. Everytime a threat appeared I got excited and hoped that the action adventure will finally kick off, but every threat was resolved in an anemic anti-climatic fashion. Boooring. "},{"Title":"Get a root canal instead","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Red Planet! Boy, does this movie fail on all levels. I just watched 2012 last night and thought it was the worst movie I have ever seen, but then along came Red Planet. This movie fails so miserably as a Sci Fi. But what bothers me more than the plethora of errors is the fact that some people liked it! No, it doesn't bother me; it scares me. Have we, as a species, succumbed to the massive dumbing down that is talked about on so many blogs? That this crap is seen as entertaining truly scares me, no wonder kids at retail outlets can't make change without the computer. But wait, the movie cost $70,000,000.00 to make and it grossed $17,000,000.00, half of that on its opening weekend, perhaps there is hope. Ed Wood was panned for lousy movies, but he didn't have this kind of money so perhaps Anthony Hoffman should take his title. I'll take Plan 9 from outer space over this in a heartbeat!! Just wish I could rate it no stars "},{"Title":"Worst plot hole ever","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen this movie since it came out so you should take this with a grain or more of salt. Didn't they spend twenty 20 minuets of the film searching for the martian rover so they could talk to the ship in orbit. They had somehow lost the ability to send signals from their suits. So after they find the do-hickey and fix the thing-a-ma-gig they can only send one message to their buddy in orbit. They send the message and hurrah are on their way to being rescued. Then in the very next scene Val (I think)is talking to the ship like nothing's wrong. I love science fiction but this movie damaged the gender. Am I crazy or did that not happen? "}{"Title":"Absolutely boring","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, maybe the movie picks up later and Im doing it terribly wrong here... but I rented it over the weekend and tried to watch it TWO times, only to fall asleep 20 minutes into the movie. Im not kidding here. And what Ive seen was, as you can guess, not all that exciting. There were some guys, a woman who was the leader or something, and a robot who looked a bit like Number 5 (as in Number 5 is on the run). Unless you need something to fall asleep, dont watch this. Oh hey, if it is on TV at some point, you might tape it so you have a method to go to sleep easily without taking pills. That seem to be the only redeeming point of this movie. "},{"Title":"Didn't know they still made them this bad","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This, far and away, the worst film I have seen in several years. It rates a very solid 0.00001. However, a 1 is as low as the system allows, so that's what I'll give it. It's problems start with a lame (REALLY LAME!) story. TERRIBLE acting by everyone. I hope Val Kilmer really isn't so hard up that he has to take roles like this. There are some other names, so the acting should be much better. Perhaps they knew that this film would really stink and decided not to put much effort into it. And trust me, they didn't. It also suffers from poor cinematography and awful Special Effects. In short, a total waste of time! And that's all the time I'll spend on a review of it! "},{"Title":"Juvenile story, script and moral","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I suspect that junior high school kids wrote this dog of a movie.  The moral is heavy handed and obvious, the story is juvenile and the characterization shallow.  Unless you absolutely have to see Carrie-Anne Moss' tasty looking breasts in a tight tank top, avoid this movie.   "},{"Title":"This is a horrible movie and its amazingly bad. A fact.","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" So Val Kilmer does a terrible job as well as the rest of the dead beat cast that seemed to have ended their career or drug problem which would have been better had someone died. Oh wait Tom Sizemore is on that rehab show. Way to go Tom. Hopefully you will die of liver failure sooner than later. If you make another movie I will send a fresh turd to the bar you are living in.After watching this movie... I felt much less intelligent or hopeful for the future. You almost have to lie to yourself just to get through it without breaking something.Whats with the robot named Amy they brought along that decided to kill these foolish folk? Oh and Mars just seemed to have breathable air out of nowhere. It is so terrible that i just want to say that I am happy once again that I used the internet to view this crap.Had I actually paid to see it... this review would be longer and much more offensive.To the terrible cast that got over paid. This Sci Fi movie is hardly worth the watch. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe they actually still make such idiotic movies. The characters are like cartoon characters, the plot is that of a comic book, the dialogues must have been written by someone under 10 years old. I watched the whole stupid thing because I am cheap and I paid 2 bucks to rent that crap. I wish I had turned it off after the first 5 minutes (that's how fast you know that this will be a true turkey...) STAY AWAY FROM IT !!!! "},{"Title":"dude.......dude.....","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film made no sense whatsoever! Science has no business being associated with this movie, nor does any sci-fi fan who values her or his eyes. The plot was fractured and lost all sense of direction numerous times and the acting was that of a uwe boll movie. Firstly, the robot they brought on board was incredibly stupid. Who in their right mind would bring a robot that had military capability. Even the chance that something could go wrong would be enough to keep that thing confined to a military base. However, what aggravated me the most was the idiotic crew assembled for such a mission. Why on earth would you make an 'international' mission staffed by four white American men and one white American woman. The astute viewer knew the fates of each crew member within the first ten minutes. I guess the thirty second rule still applies. "},{"Title":"Brewski was right...this movie stunk!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brewski was right...you've seen this movie before as bits and pieces of other movies.  Val Kilmer had only one funny line, which took me back to his Real Genius days.  Tom Sizemore was much more weird in Strange Days, Benjamin Bratt should have stayed on Law & Order and Carrie AM should wear tank tops more often.I have never walked out on a movie, but was within moments of doing so when the shot of a chilled Carrie Ann came on-screen (sure, I am male, so what!).  If that was the only thing holding me in my seat, and it wasn't much, this means only one thingSave your money.  It's not even worth a Tuesday night, $0.99 rental. "}]