[{"Title":"love & basketball & family & gender roles &...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I was watching a Lakers games when I first saw a commercial for Love & Basketball, so naturally it was comprised of mostly basketball action and a snippet of an adult version of the b-ball game HORSE.  I thought, oh, cute movie about a guy and girl who play basketball and get together.  Not exactly earth-shattering, I thought, but cute.  So imagine my surprise when I saw the film start like a cute movie but then evolve.  And deepen.  And bloom.  I laughed, I sat on the edge of my seat in anticipation, and I swear I almost cried.  A cute movie?  This film had levels I hadn't dreamed of and spoke to so much more than just sex and basketball, and yet all of it was held together cohesively by the love affair and the commitment to the sport.  I was thoroughly impressed by the performances all around and by Ms. Prince-Blythewood's unerring writing and direction.  A definite recommendation. "},{"Title":"A great relationship film, I give it a 10","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  First off, let me say that I am a huge fan of almost every sport known to mankind.  Now perhaps because of this, you'd think I'd enjoy movies easier whose central theme revolves around a sport.  Contrary to that notion though, I am often a hard rater of sports movies because I expect so much from them.I really enjoyed this movie though.  I thought the acting by both Lathan and Epps was outstanding.  I found it to be extremely realistic, with the exception of seeing Epps in a Laker uniform, but other than that, it was real.  At one point during the film, I really started to wonder if this film was based on a true story or something, how cool would that have been. Nonetheless, the fictional story is captivating.Yes I am a guy and I love sports, but I do like watching the occassional love story.  I liked Pearl Harbor and Titantic which revolved around love stories, and I liked this love story too.  There is more to it though, than just two people who fall for each other who happen to play basketball.There is the relationship not only between Quincy and Monica, but the relationships they had with their father and mother respectively.  There is also the relationship they have with the world they live in, trying to find out what they really want in life.  It really makes you think about how sometimes the very thing you are looking for is actually standing right there in front of you and you don't realize it.In the end, I loved Love and Basketball, and I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"I never saw this side of basketball before","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  	Follows the relationship of Monica and Q from elementary school, through high school, college, and life afterwards as they grow to maturity on the court and off. Sanaa Lathan is great as Monica, the girl who wants nothing more than to be the first woman to play in the NBA yet slowly begins to realize there is something greater missing from her life. Omar Epps does his usual fine performance as Q, a boy striving to be better than his NBA star father who learns that a man doesn't necessarily have to be a star. The basketball scenes are well shot and pretty realistic in the aspect of how male and female teams are viewed by the fans. Overall a very enjoyable movie.   "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love and Basketball Monica and Quincy have lived beside one another since they were kids, and they only care about two things in life - basketball and each other. I am definitely more of a movie fan than a basketball fan, thus I went in expecting a jock flick with a token relationship thrown in to justify the title.  I could not have been more wrong.  Unlike He Got Game (another very good film), which dwells solely on the negative aspects of the sport - hustlers, hookers, drugs and death, L&B concentrates on the positive things in life and basketball serves as the background rather than the focus.  The story is very well written and works on several levels - it refuses to be pinned down as simply a romance or drama, choosing instead a careful blending of different elements.  My only complaint - minor at that - would have to be the ending (and no I'm not going to tell you).First, how could I find fault with a film that actually does a great casting job with Tyra Banks?  She has a small cameo role- she plays a beautiful stewardess, small stretch - with some great lines. Omar Epps brings his trademark cockiness to the role, and although it took me awhile to buy him as a basketball player -he's not exactly Goliath -he grows on you.  More importantly, he exhibits and a depth and range that he's never shown before. Sanaa Lathan however, goes one step further, and demonstrates an intensity both on and off the court that puts her in a league all her own.  Her performance can be summed up as superb. L&B is real, engaging, and enjoyable.  Don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Non-Stereotypical, Feminist African-American Romance","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Love and Basketball is one of the most feminist and non-stereotypical teen-through-20something movies I've ever seen. It's in effect a tribute to Title IX and the WBNA, casually showing a girl with basketball dreams, and how it affects her personal life and those around her. Highly recommended for teens! As good as Omar Epps was though, I thought he was a bit short to be believable as an NBA prospect.Except for one talky section of the movie towards the end where everyone pretty much says the obvious about their relationships, the rest of the character development is done visually and through situations and not one sports movie (or African-American) cliché. It is a date movie because both leads change. Stay through the credits to see a sweet shot at the end.I was girding for a hip hop soundtrack, but it's old school R & B all the way and lovely to listen to (complete with a wonderful line that the audience really appreciated Mom, why are you drinking? I haven't seen you drink so much since Marvin Gaye died. (originally written 5/6/2000) "},{"Title":"this is the bomb","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  i must of watched this film a hundred times it is so fab. Sanaa Lathan and Omar Epps are brillant in this movie. It is not only a super love storey but it shows the womans rights to play a sport she loves. This film is by far the best film i have ever seen the actors the director everybody involved in this movie was totaly brillant. There has been many love stories that are typical they meat fall in love and live happy for the rest of there lives, this movie shows the ups and downs of a relationship but still the bond between them is never broken. This is a movie worth getting. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Emotional","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is not just another sports movie.  It's a story about the many layers of love mother and child, father and child, between siblings, between friends, the romantic love between a man a woman, and love for sport and trying to maintain and balance of all of these.  Basketball is the back drop but the characters are the story.  I can watch it everyday and will have a tear in my eye each time. "},{"Title":"Love and Basketball","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" i love this movie.. actually i watching it now.. I love how it puts love into one of my favorite sports.. its so much fun to watch and you never get sick of watching it. It shows how Monica and Q have grown through the quartersin the movie.. This movie reminds me a lot of my first love, when we broke up I still loved him just as Monica did with Q.. My favorite part of this movie is when everything is going great with them and they are in college and their life just seems perfect. My least favorite part is when they are going through their crossroads because i hate to see people that are so in love break up. this is my favorite movie and i would recommend it to anyone!!! "},{"Title":"Everybody's All-American sepiaized x 2","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Instantly, when I watched this one, I could not help but harken back to Everybody's All-American, which had sports as an undercurrent to the central love story between Gavin and Babs streching a full quarter-century in spanning four decades.  Even with football enveloping all which had entwined their lives, the humaneness of those two characters could not be discounted, especially with Babs emerging into a more stronger character who came into her own as a woman and an individual toward the film's end.I bring that up to start my assessment of Love and Basketball.  Yes, there were differences, of course, with Quincy (Omar Epps, of whose work I have been a fan of since Juice in 1992) and Monica (Sanaa Lathan, who has seemingly come from nowhere to emerge as a serious talent to be reckoned with on the screen!) both being African-American.  And instead of football, the sport was basketball.  And instead of one athlete, there were two, as Monica was a superior talent on par with Gavin Gray and Quincy McCall.  And the story, of course, was set more in the recent past, from 1981 to the present.  Nonethelss, this was also a film which touched my heart.  I loved the depth which both actors in this film displayed, showing them not only as athletes and people, but also as they were with regard to their families as well.  And the depths from where they came to where they ultimately went, from their beginnings as children to the adults they grew up into, was nothing short of amazing.  I saw this not as a black movie, but rather as a movie about African-Americans and their dreams, desires, pains and triumphs as individuals and as a couple.  The way this was broken down into four quarters is a testament to Gina Prince-RockByTheWood's astute writing and directing.  And the supporting cast was on-mark also, from Alfre Woodard and Debbi Morgan on through to Dennis Haysbert and Harry J. Lennix...as well as Tyra Banks in her smaller yet significant role as the film bore on down the stretch.  All-in-all, a film definitely worth the see. I came away with a warm smile not only on my face, but in my heart as well. "},{"Title":"Intelligent romantic comedy with a feminist touch.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I loved that Monica was fierce about her love of basketball, had a quick temper on the court, and knew exactly what she wanted.  I kept waiting for her to punch out those idiot female high school classmates of hers who kept picking on her because she was a tomboy.  There was a nice contrast between Monica's independence and the traditional homemaker route that her mother took.  The subplot about the troubled marriage of Quincy's parents was also well done.  I have seen other basketball movies (Above The Rim and He Got Game comes to mind), but this is one of the better ones, esp. since it tells the story from the viewpoint of the female athlete, and an African-American one, at that.  I wholeheartedly recommend this.  It's free of the fluff that permeates other romantic dramas. "}{"Title":"This movie Rocks!!","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This movies is mind- blowing, excellent,heart-rising and down to earth. The title of the movie really spoke for itself. Young kids growing up with loving each other and also loving basketball. I didn't know until this movie how basketball can impact of your life.It reminds me of me when i was little and was kind of like a tomboy but still had female feelings. There were a lot of different emotions spread without the film. Good? This movie was great and I even cried believing that they would be together at the end. It was like I was in the movie myself... Eyes glued to the T.V.I love how the families even though there were bad times, they were always there for the their children. These days if a young person announced that she was pregnant, she would be thrown out the house.There was even a part that linked to having sex for the first time. I feel that is how it should be taking it slow and not just rushing into something because he says your cute or if you love me have sex with me.The soundtrack of the movie was dominating and kept up with the story plot. Also the film includes a kind of unique visual style.The settings in this film make it to be a real life story.The dialogue spoken from the film is skilled and very well put together. "},{"Title":"Wow, a sports movie I liked!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I don't like sports movies.  I don't like chick flicks.  So imagine how happy I was when I rented this movie (it had been advertised as a sports movie in some ads and a chick flick in others) and found gold.I won't give away anything about this surprisingly underrated film as I didn't know too much about it going in (as I've said many times before, that's often the best way to watch a movie).  I'll just say that I'd be very happy to see more sports movies made in the mold of this one.  Every cliche from the genera is tossed from the very beginning, and there isn't even a Big Game at the finale.  (Well, not exactly.  There *is* a climactic game, but and you'll understand when you watch it there is a LOT more at stake than the state championship or whatever.)A little warning for the parents, as I'm a responsible gremlin.  This movie's rated PG-13, and for a while I thought it was just for language and that this movie would be perfectly fine for thoughtful preteens.  Little change of pace from the Mighty Ducks tripe.  Well, it turns out that about halfway through there is a very *HOT* scene, so it really should have been rated R.Then again, if Scary Movie can sneak by with an R and not a triple-X these days... but I digress. "},{"Title":"This was a great movie!","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Love and Basketball is about a young girl and boy that early in age fall in love with each other and the game of basketball. Throughout the movie they struggle to balance their affection and love for each other with others and basketball. Love and Basketball shows how strong true love really is. This movie does a near perfect job on taking you through the lives and hardships faced by the two basketball players. From when the movie starts to the end of credits you will be drawn to their romantic lives. Love and basketball will make you wish you had a passionate a relationship just like the main characters. If you love the game of basketball or just enjoy playing this will probably be the best movie out there for you. "},{"Title":"Solid Movie","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" While I found some of the dialog to be silly, I found the plot and acting to be very good.It's not really my kind of movie, but I got sucked in by the performances by the cast. The actress (Lathan?) who played the part of the female lead was excellent.The movie feels like it runs a bit slow in spots, but I think it's simply because it covers years of the character's lives. Some scenes are going to be better than others obviously, so don't dismiss the movie, if like me, you don't care for every scene.I was much more interested in the life story of the female lead, and what she did with her basketball talent than the love story. I think partly that's due to the love story being fragmented. Which is, again, a result of covering years in a movie - the script writer has to pick and choose what events are most important.A few of the supporting roles I did not care for as much. Her mom's character's personality made no sense to me. She seemed to take no pride whatsoever in her daughter's sports career, yet was a loving mom - to me, that was too much of a dichotomy. The male leads father never made sense to me either.I think most people could enjoy this movie for the solid acting involved, and it's certainly better than 90% of the junk movies I have seen lately while unemployed (I watch a lot of movies )) "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie !!!","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Love & Basketball directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, released in 2000 by 40 Acres & A Mule Filmworks, is a romance film that follows the love story of Monica Wright (Sanaa Lathan) and Quincy McCall (Omar Epps) and offers and emotional and sensual experience. Throughout the film, you feel the reality and intensity as a viewer. Although this film does not fit the usual fast-paced action, excitement, and adventure stereotype of this analytical approach, it can still be used because you can feel the intensity of Monica and Quincy's love throughout the whole movie. The diegesis of the film seems like a reality, and makes you forget that you're watching a film.One question raised by this analytical approach is How powerful or intense is the film as an emotional or sensual experience? The answer is very powerful. This film follows Monica and Quincy from the time they are 11 until they eventually get married. The ups and downs of their relationship, such as their first time doing it or when Monica suspected Quincy of cheating, are shown throughout the film. At any point in the film, you can feel the emotions of any actor as if it was happening to you. The film seems like a reality while you're watching it.Another two questions raised are Where in the film are we completely wrapped up and involved in it's reality? Where is the film weakest in emotional and sensual intensity? One example of when we are completely wrapped up in it's reality is during the first game we see Monica playing during her high school career. You feel the intensity as the clock is ticking. You can hear Monica talking to herself in her head. You see what she sees. One example of where the film is weakest in intensity is while they're at the dance. Since Monica isn't too fond of her date, you don't really get any emotional intensity.The final question raised is What role does each of the film elements play in creating a hard-hitting emotional and sensual response? There are many shot reverse shots in this film. They add to the hard-hitting emotional and sensual response by showing each actor's emotions. The fact that you can see how each actor reacts to other actors increases the emotional and sensual response that each viewer gets. In conclusion, Love & Basketball, is a film that delivers both an emotional and sensual experience. Each part of the film adds something else to it. Watching this film engulfs you in the whole diegesis. Its a film that you WON'T get tired of watching. I would definitely recommend that EVERYONE watch it. ) "},{"Title":"One Line Summary","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" In 1981, Monica moves in next door to Quincy. They are both 11 years old and both have a passion for basketball. Quincy wants to just like his father that played in the NBA. They develop a love &#x96; hate relationship throughout school. They are consistently being completive however when Quincy's parents argue, Monica is the first to let him so he can sleep on the floor. They finally realize at the end of their high school career they really have feelings for each other and become a couple. They both sign with the college of USC and continue to date throughout college until, Quincy's relationship with his father takes a turn for the worse and cost the relationship to end as well. After college, Monica goes over seas to play WNBA basketball; she doesn't stay there long because she has such strong feelings for Quincy. Monica comes home to find that Quincy is about to get married; so she offers him a game one on one for his heart. He agrees and they end up falling in love again and continue their life together. Again a favorite quote of mine nothin' but net, meaning they made their life together just as three point shot with only four seconds left in the game. Monica only had one day to get Quincy's heart back and she succeeded just like all the basketball games she won. Nothing BUT NET! The theme of this movie is Love and Basketball. I believe it is through tough love they develop a relationship and both develop a passion for basketball. The actors of the movie are starring Sanaa Lathan, Omar Epps, Alfre Woodard, Dennis Haysbert, Debbi Morgan, Harry J. Lennix, Gabrielle Union, Kyla Pratt (Monica), Glenndon Chatman (Quincy), Monica Calhoun (Lena Wright), Tyra Banks (Karen). The writer and director of the movie is Gina Prince. Monica is the young girl who moves by Quincy in the beginning of the movie and develops a relationship with also a main character throughout the entire movie. Quincy is the young boy who begins a relationship with Monica; Quincy is a main character throughout the entire movie. They are the important characters of the movie however Monica's Dad and Mom are in a couple of scenes and Quincy's parents as well. "},{"Title":"Love And Basketball","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This movie is one of my favorite films. It came out in the year of 2000. I gave this movie a 10 because i like this film,it shows the passion that both Q and Monica has for basketball. To me, its cute. I just love the way they grew up together and in the end how they had a baby. This movie shows many things. It shows passion, love and determination for what they want. The first time i watched this movie i wasn't really paying attention. I had to watched this movie over and over again to grip the concept or the moral of this love story. I honestly loved how they both acted in this movie. I love the determination. To me its crazy because they didn't only focus on basketball, but they focused on other things in life other than themselves or each other. I also enjoyed this film because its some what realistic. Im pretty sure many people out there in the world love this movie for all the right reason. I must say that i had to give a standing ovation to the director/writer. I so love this movie, Its awesome! "},{"Title":"sound track","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Love and Basketball has been one of my favorite movies since it was released in 2000. The soundtrack to it was awesome! It was effective and appropriate. The songs fit the movie perfectly and actually complimented it. Since the movie was told through the 80's and 90's the music fit the time appropriately. It wasn't music from the 70's or the 50's but music that was within the time line. However, Al Green's LOVE AND HAPPINESS which open the beginning scene was a nice touch even though it wasn't directly from the given time period.The genre of the music was effective also. Love and Basketball is a predominately black film, directed by the one and only John Singleton, the music fit that standard. It wasn't Rock or Country Western that would most certainly ruin the movie, but it was a mixture of R&B and Rap music that they played. It was songs that many of the viewers and audience has heard before. That would send them back to their own memories of that time. Even the ones that may not remember it was music that they could dance to.The sound track as any other is to compliment the movie. Which the Love and Basketball sound track did just that. It was one of my favorite and was a great touch to one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"*Beautiful Movie*- I fell in love with Love & Basketball<3","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I must say that when this movie first came out nine years ago and I was only seven years old I truly did not see what an amazing film this was.Until last weekend when I watched it on t.v. It felt like I had never seen this movie before.I guess it's been so long.lol.Well for those who haven't seen it,here's pretty much a little summary.*First Quarter-The story starts off with eleven yr. old Monica and her family moving to LA. Monica sees boys around her age playing basketball and she asks to join them.They say yes without knowing that she's a girl.When they find out they are amused because the think girls can't play basketball.But they are shocked to see that Monica's really good at it particularly Quincy,Monica's next door neighbor.The two start off hating each other then eventually become boyfriend-girlfriend and share their first kiss but the relationship doesn't last long.*In the second quarter it takes you through their high school years.Where both are on the basketball team.Monica shows anger problems and is known as a tomboy.Whereas Q is the best player on the team and really popular with the ladies. The two are friends but you can tell they have feelings for each other.Especially when Monica shows up at the Spring Dance dressed up really pretty and with a hot date.While each are dancing with their dates the can't help but to stare at each other the whole time.After the dance the two talk outside Monica's window and find out that she's been accepted to USC,the same college Q's going to. They kiss which leads to them making love.*Third quarter they're in college.Quincy of course has it easy.While Monica's always getting grilled by her coach.But she eventually earns a spot.Q finds out about his daddy cheating on his Mom and goes to Monica for comfort.Monica can't talk to him for long though because she has curfew. Q feels like she's not being there for him and breaks up with her.Oh and Q decides to drop out of school and go to the NBA.*Fourth and final quarter. Which is five years later.Q's in the NBA.Monica's in some foreign country playing basketball,but feels as if something's missing and finds it not as fun.Q hurts his knee,so Monica visits him in the hospital and finds out that he's getting married in two weeks.Later that day Q goes to see Monica and asks her why she gave up basketball.To where she replies that it's not fun anymore and Q agrees.Monica has a talk with her mother to which her mom gives her some advice. Later that night Monica goes to tell Q that she's loved him since she was eleven years old and says she'll play him for his 'heart'.If Monica wins he calls of the wedding if he wins she'll buy him a wedding present. Q wins leaving Monica devastated.As she's walking away,Q says double or nothing.The two unite,kiss,hug,and cry.At the end, it fastfowards a few years ahead.Monica's finally made it to the WNBA about to play a game.In the audience Quincy's there supporting her with their baby daughter.Sweet I know Everything about this movie is awesome. I can watch it over and over and never get tired of it. Literally I cry every time. "},{"Title":"I Love the Movie, it's sure 10!!","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I was not in a good mode that day switching between channels when i found a movie starting under the name love & basketball. The beginning of the movie was interesting having those little kids competing over a basketball game, i noticed it will be a love story when they grow up, but it is a really rich movie offering the sport, romance, social flavors which are my favorite flavors. I really loved the purity of Sanaa Lathan, she was incredible & also Omar Epps was great too. They were in complete harmony. The movie is about true love that stays forever & also about achieving your life goals & having someone beside you supporting you to never give up. Hope to see such couples in real life!! "}{"Title":"The story between love and basketball.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This was a great movie about a boy and a girl who grew up with each other and the both loved the same things basketball and each other. This movie was romantic and it was a drama also. They break up and date again throughout the whole movie and go to the same college on scholarships to play basketball. The boy Q has a great career in college and goes to the pros early while the girl Monica finally plays due to injury and then plays over seas. Q hurts himself during a game in the NBA has his career was done. Monica eventually goes into the WNBA and has a baby with Q and they leave happily ever after playing the game of love and basketball. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I just love this movie and watch it every time it is on TV. To see how the characters evolve through the quarters (the years) and with each other is really cute. To see their relationship evolve from children to true love as they get older is something I can definitely relate to. I cry at the same point of the movie every time when Monica confronts her mother in the kitchen. It is very real and moving. It shows their relationship in a how they relate to one another. It is a great Saturday afternoon movie when you just want to lay on the couch with a blanket. It's one of those sport/love stories you just need to see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Excellent ! Excellent ! Triple Excellent !!!","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This film was EXCELLENT !!!!!!!!!! I can't say a bad thing about it. It is one of my favourite films ever ! I have watched this film over and over again and I never get bored of it. These are the types of film that we need more of. The moral of the film was good. Even though it was a romantic film , it mixed the concept of basketball and romance together very well. I don't think any other actors could have played the characters as well as they did. That is why I couldn't do anything other than to give it a 10/10. And I am not a very easily pleased person. My favourite scene sex scene. I know that applys to many other people ( Don't worry I see you blushing) "},{"Title":"A beautiful story","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" its so funny because i always compare my love life to this movie. It was so good it made you actually feel like you were the character and it made you feel like you were the one going through the different motions and emotions. This was well written and the actors did a phenomenal job. I really loved the part at t he end when quincy says double or nothing proving to have never stopped thinking about her or loving her. I am a really big fan of both ms lathan and omar epps and i wish they would do another love movie together because their chemistry was crazy. Hence is the reason they dated in real life too. I can't blame ms lathan though because omar epps or should i say quincy sure is fine. "},{"Title":"One of the best contemporary love stories of all time - A++","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I recently bought the Love & Basketball special edition DVD, after having watched it at the theater when it first hit the box-office, and again on pay-per-view over 3 years ago. Watching L&B again after 3+ years, I was reminded of why I absolutely fell in LOVE with it in the first place. So many things that Monica and Q experienced in each Quarter of the movie brought back memories of my own high school and college experiences. In many ways, L&B was a coming-of-age movie for me. (Not to mention that the soundtrack is a fabulous trip down musical memory-lane). L&B is a poignant and touching modern story love story that follows the evolving lives and love of two young African-American athletes, as they navigate through the complications and changes thrown at them as they mature into adulthood. Sanaa Lathan is a standout in this movie. As always, with consummate ease, she infuses humanness and sincerity in to every character she plays. The on-screen chemistry between Sanaa and Omar is so perfect it just tugs at your heartstrings. It turns out they were a real-life couple around the time the movie was filmed/released, but real-life romance does not always guarantee on-screen chemistry (just look at Eyes Wide Shut with Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise). Fortunately, Sanaa and Omar's real-life chemistry came across wonderfully on screen. I think that the first love scene between Monica and Q is one of the most beautiful, touching, and tastefully done scenes of its kind in film. I NEVER cry at movies, and I was a little misty-eyed at the end--not typical for a love scene. Also, the second-to-last scene where Monica and Q play basketball one-on-one for Q's heart--accompanied by a spot-on track by Meshell Ndegeocello--brought a tear or two to my eyes. L&B is a classic love story, but it deftly manages to avoid triteness or unoriginality by giving the viewer subtle glimpses into several of life's realities as they impact Monica and Q. The marked disparity in opportunities for male and female athletes underscores the entire movie, and we get an inside look as Monica invests sweat and tears pursuing her dream. We also see the sacrifices and strength of both Monica and some of the supporting female characters in the movie, such as Monica and Q's mothers, and Monica's teammates. I loved the ending of this movie as well. By giving the audience a positive glimpse into the future, L&B delivered the happy ending that we've come to expect from romantic movies, without being corny, overly-sappy or unrealistic. L&B is a wonderful (under-recognized), timeless love story that will touch athletes and non-athletes like, and it is a must for any movie collection. A+ "},{"Title":"a great movie and a great terror","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The central loss of the film is the father's infidelity. This really touched me&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;I know that a great terror of my own was the prospect that my dad had cheated on my mom; that would be such a betrayal. It was interesting to look at it as a study of how violence and loss can seep into our personalities, at least in the personalities in the movies. Sometimes the character's comebacks when they were fighting each other were more poetic. This film was anything but predictable, and it really kept moving. So when his world turns upside down, he's so lost. I won't go into the story much more than that because that would be giving too much away. I'll just say that this movie took many delightful turns. "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Deeply Woven Story","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" LOVE AND BASKETBALL **** Thanks to Gina Prince-Bythewood's thoughtful script, this motion picture surpasses many other films of its kind. Set in Los Angeles, circa 1988, two college-bound basketball players have given their all for the sport through their years at high school. Now, in their senior year, they both strive to attain a scholarship so they can further excel in their finesse. What had first been a casual relationship between the two high schoolers eventually intensifies into a romantic bond that soon awakens them to the fact that, in any relationship, you have to prioritize your time between the one you love and the thing you love doing. The deeper, dramatic content of the story arises from the personal trials that the two leads are faced with as they move on to college, how the trials affect their performances on the court, and the difficulties that results in their separation. Gina takes us through a more deeply woven story than I had anticipated, as we follow the characters to their early peeks of adulthood. At which point, they realize the reality of their undying love for each other, and, for that matter, their rekindled love for the sport that drew them together. "},{"Title":"Love it.","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This by far is one of my all time favorite movies. Dreaming myself of playing in the WNBA not only does it inspire me, but he has a great love story behind it. Love and Basketball can have two meanings to it. The love for the game, and the love for a guy or girl. They have to decide which is more important, and how to keep both of them in their life. Throughout the movie, this couple is juggling between the two. While one will find a good relationship more important the other will find basketball more important, then it will switch. Finally in the end both couples realize that the love each other will help them go further in basketball and they still maintain both. In a way it can have a lot to do with real life, you have to figure out what is most important in your life. Monica in the movie proved herself as a basketball player. With her parents not believing in her she pushed on and ended up playing pro. With her love for the game and her love for 'her man' she made it that far. I love this movie, and if your a basketball fan then I suggest it to you "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie...  Best Movie of All Time","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This movie is just great. I love basketball, and when I saw this movie I thought that I could definitely relate to it. Movies often portray their characters as completely out of the ordinary. To make it worth seeing, of course they both had to be dedicated and real to their sport and to every other aspect of their life. I love how they show that Quincy indulges in his talent-given magnetism when it comes to girls and other people, whereas Monica shames away from anything having to do with dating and dressing up, as well as social situations because as is mostly consistent with what I'm guessing is a majority of high schools female basketball players in this time and setting are not typically embraced. She has an attitude, which is very typical out there on that court. It's a girlfight. I'm guessing that non-basketball players aren't going to like this movie as much, because it's a possibility that they can't relate to a lot of what it's all about, and what the characters are struggling with. The plot isn't completely tied together but at the same time, it's cohesive with life which is what makes it great. Life isn't about a plot. It's about figuring things out and living your life with whatever you have. It's about striving for your goals. If you're a film critic who hasn't played basketball, I'm recommending that you don't try to critique it because to you it might be about the plot. Chances are that other people are just going to go ahead loving the movie anyway. ) "},{"Title":"Love and Basketball","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" by Jashayla CummingsMy favorite movie is Love and Basketball. This movie is about a girl named Monica and a boy named Quincy who have been friends since they were children. Monica and Quincy both share the love for basketball. As Monica and Quincy become older, Quincy tries to tell Monica that basketball is not everything and that she should move on in life.This is a story of love and basketball. My favorite movie actress, Omar Epps, stars in this movie.I like the movie Love and Basketball because it has both romance, drama, determination, love, and humor. The most romantic scene in the movie is when Quincy and Monica were hugged up on the ground in the front of the college they both attended. They both were telling one another how much they love and care about each other.The most dramatic parts of the movie occur throughout the entire movie, as Monica tries to win Quincy's heart. Monica's determination is strong throughout the movie as she proclaims that she's going to be the first woman in the NBA. The love in Love and Basketball portrays two childhood friends, Monica and Quincy, who are soon to become soul mates and lovers.Since Monica loves basketball so much, Quincy thought up a joke about Monica while they both were riding in Quincy's car after his basketball game. He said,Monica, so who are you going to the dance with? Spalding? Who's Spalding?, Monica asked. Quincy pointed at the basketball that Monica was holding in her lap. Then Monica frowned at Quincy and punched him on his shoulder because he was being silly and making jokes about her.Love and Basketball is the greatest movie ever because it is thrilling, romantic, and a tearjerker. This movie is all about matters of the heart and how a person has love for a game but also shares the love of that game with her lover. "}{"Title":"Boy, what did I tell you about using that word?","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" If there was a Sunday evening match-up between Love and Basketball, which would win? Which would you put your hard-earned savings on? What would be the odds? These are all some tough questions that I had hoped would be answered while watching the drama Love & Basketball. At first I thought this was going to be a versus film, but instead it turned out to be a comparison piece. Love & Basketball did something that most sports films only dream of accomplishing, creating a strong connection between the emotion on the court and the emotions of life. Sadly, this is the only element that it successfully accomplished, as most of it was more a dribble of clichés coupled by some poorly performed dunks. The acting was decent, perhaps a bit too accentuated for the surroundings, but it was the characters that just seemed oddly mismatched. I felt as if I was watching and trying to get excited for a High School Junior Varsity game, when I honestly should have been focusing on a stronger, more defined team. There was some meat to this film, but you had to eat around the gristle to get there, and that wasn't enjoyable in the least. Love & Basketball was fun to watch, but didn't quite create that spark that was needed to electrify the court.Let's begin with Spike Lee. Now, I don't like to name drop in these reviews, but I am a big fan of Lee's work. I believe his films are some of the most underrated films in Hollywood. He is hard hitting, in your face, and extremely rough, but for me it works. I have not been disappointed with any of his work. I am however, disappointed with his involvement in this film. With Lee involved as a producer, I was expecting a much grittier portrayal of this basketball love. I wanted to see a better-defined connection between the two themes, but instead what I was handed was a chaotic bowl of spaghetti, with moments interweaving with other, non-connective moments. It was devastating to watch. Needless to say, Lee should have put his chops more into this film. It could have been dark, it could have been honest, but instead we were left with a sea of fouls, bad dribbles, and tons of air balls.The acting could have been stronger. I will agree that Omar Epps is a very talented player in Hollywood, but I do not think that he had a full understanding of this character. There were moments in Love & Basketball where I could see greatness emerging from Epps, sadly there were more scenes that just felt like they should be flushed with the rest of the garbage. Monica, aka Sanaa Lathan, could have been a stronger feminine voice. It was encouraging to see someone strive for their dreams, to see the counter-balance of how the world of basketball treats males and females differently, but she just wasn't strong enough. She balanced too much on Quincy (Epps) and ultimately it created a shallow character. Secondly, both of these characters came from wealthy homes. I don't know if you noticed, but both houses were beautiful and very upper class &#133; so where did that gangsta attitude come from? I didn't feel like it matched their characters well at all. I felt that it was used because director Gina Prince-Bythewood was trying to reach out towards a different audience than what should have been attempted. It was these types of inconsistencies that hurt this film. It wasn't just in the characters, but also in the story.There are huge scenes that were supposed to be very emotional and very triumphant that just floundered in this film because they were either 1) rushed or 2) never developed. This hurt, because by the time this film is nearing its completion, no matter how bad you think it is so far, you do feel a connection with these characters. You do want to see some resolution, and for that I can only applaud everyone's work. Unlike in some Hollywood films, you do feel connection to these two hearts. You feel compassion and devotion to their dreams and downfalls, but intermixed are these massive scenes of confusion. For example, near the end of the film, Monica and her mother have a very emotional talk. If this entire scene didn't arrive right out of mid air, than perhaps I would have been more excited about the tender moment, but it just seemed like Alfre Woodard needed a moment to demonstrate her acting chops. There wasn't enough development between Monica and her father, a key element that I believe should have been explored deeper. He understood her dreams, yet did nothing to support them. It seemed like it was a walking double negative that desperately needed more filling. Finally, where did the sister go midway through the film? We took all this time to develop the family, yet just as quickly as they go to college, we ignore them. Gina Prince-Bythewood had too much happening and didn't know how to handle the pressures.Overall, I will float down the center of the court for this film. Love & Basketball tried hard to develop this beautiful love relationship derived from the sport of basketball, but sadly, there were too many unneeded players on the court. The father side-story was worthless, as was all scenes dealing with Monica's family. The overall story was decent, but using the power of Spike Lee, there should have been more grit, more dirt, less plastic Hollywood. Was the director worried about going to far with this film? In my opinion, she should have reached for the sky and transformed this film into this emotional powerhouse. Instead, for some strange reason, I felt as if I was watching a sappy version of Bring It On. Is that bad of me? Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Awesome tale of love, determination, and commitment","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The main thing that attracted me to this movie was that it was about basketball and later I found out that it was drenched with passion for life. Sinaa Lathan plays Monica, a basketball player aspiring to be the first female baller of the NBA. Her father is a banker, her mother a strong stay-at-home mom, and she has one sister, Lena. Omar Epps plays Quincy, a basketball star who is adored by fans at every corner and is the son of a professional basketball player and supportive mother. The story takes us from their childhood, first meeting each other as neighbors in a suburban community in California to their mid-twenties. They each love the game and as time goes on they realize how much they love each other and what they will do to remain committed to the game and their bond.I don't really have all the words to describe the movie, but you'll have familiar flashbacks of the 80's with clips of video games, a few fashion trends, and TV shows. If you're in the mood for basketball game clips, real life awkward moments, and those scenes where more is said without using words-check out Love and Basketball by Gina Prince-Bythewood. "},{"Title":"By far the best movie i seen!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I really like this movie.I think GinaPrince-bythewood should really consider making a Loveandbasketball 2 for people like me who is a big fan of your work.Omar Epps & Sanaa Lathan did an excellent job in this movie.No wonder the movie felt so real between the two actress because they where in love for real.So please consider making a loveandbasketball 2 with the same actress.I can watch this movie over and over again and never get tired of it.To tell you how much i loved it, i watched loveandbasketball 8 times in one day.My friends and family said i was crazy but i'm not i just love the movie so much that's why i've took time out my day to write this letter to you.With that said i hope you'll take time out your busy day to read this.If you read it an come up with answer may you or your agent,secretary,who ever Plesae PLease e-mail me at cuteypi2005@yahoo.com to tell me your answer.Thank you very much,and have a nice day! "},{"Title":"Love And Basketball","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" When I first saw the movie I fell in love with Omar Epp's all over again. The very first movie I saw him in was Juice.Omar always gives 100% of himself when he is acting. He gives the roll of a strong black man a name. Omar Epps. I have to admit this man has the sexiest eyes next to Tupac. I can't say enough about this man. Words can't describe him. I never have had the opportunity to meet him. But I'm very sure he is a down to earth person and he haven't let stardom change who he is as a man. I just wanted your readers too know how I fell about Omar Epps as a man,a person and above all he is a strong black man.Watching him grow as a person and an actor. has been a pleasure to watch.I hope to one day see him win an Oscar!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time on T.V. on ABC Family. And I fell in love with this movie. But I knew that what they showed on television wasn't the real thing, so I went and downloaded online and it was even better.The thing about this movie is that this love has been going on since the two characters were 11, and the girl, Monica, she always knew that, Quincy on the other had didn't realize that until their high school spring dance. When Monica came to the dance with somebody else and Quincy got jealous. Another good thing about this movie is that it some of the dialogues they actually emphasize that its been a certain number of years since this and that happen. For example it says in the text (i.e.) I can't believe it's been five years, they emphasize the years.I've seen other movies and its like two people who have known each other since kindergarten, fall in love their senior year, start dating, get engaged, get married, and the girl dies, and its all within a 6 month time period. That's too fast. But Love and Basketball isn't like that, everything happens when it is suppose to happen, and besides the movie got really good reviews.Not to mention the chemistry that was between Omar Epps and Sanaa Lathan was unbelievable. It was like when you were listening to their conversations that they had in the movie, and how deep they are, its like you're feeling everything they're saying and its like your experiencing everything they're saying, that's how deep it was. That's how I felt when I watched the movie for the first time.To me, this movie basically has no spoilers. I love each and every part of this movie. And the messages it sends to people. Like a lot of things happen when you least expect them. "},{"Title":"It simply took my breath away!!!!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is my most favorite movie of all time. I have watched it over a thousand times. When you watch it makes you long for that type of love that Monica(Sanna Lathan) and Quincy(Omar Epps) had for each other. It brought tears to my eyes. I think that this movie is truely a masterpiece. I think everyone world wide should see it if they have not already. "},{"Title":"All's fair in love and basketball","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The characters portrayed these scenes so good. Sanaa really did a good job on playing b/ball since it was her first time. They make a beautiful couple on and off the screen.I'm glad this wasn't one of those stereo type films. Spike Lee, thumbs up!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A great feel good movie.The combination of great basketball action and a great love story worked very well.The acting was top notch.Sanaa was great as was Omar as usual.  Would like to see Sanaa doing much more stuff.Great support also from Alfre and Denis. "},{"Title":"Love & Basketball & so much more.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  LOVE & BASKETBALL (2000) Rating 8/10Quite surprisingly, the Spike Lee-produced released Love & Basketball is an excellent film. It may have a note of corniness during some scenes, but that doesn't stop it from being one of the best sleeper hits of 2000. The film's drama is great and the romance has brilliant chemistry and all the elements stick nicely together thanks to the acting &#150; particularly from amazing newcomer Sanaa Lathan &#150; and Gina Price's clean direction. The scenes I thought were particularly nail biting were the basketball matches between the two lead characters, the final one-on-one is tense and unpredictable. Also seeing Monica's (Lathan) thoughts when playing basketball was clever and original. All the characters have a good bad side them, you relate to them, which make these similar but totally different (you'll understand after viewing) creations the best about the film. Come to think of it, this movie shouldn't have the title Love & Basketball. It should have the title Love, Basketball, Family, Gender Roles, Sex, Cheating&#133; and so forth and so forth. This movie deals with so many things in such a great style that the viewer should know just how great its going to be so they don't get literally blown away! A definite recommendation.      "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Emotional","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is not just another sports movie.  It's a story about the many layers of love mother and child, father and child, between siblings, between friends, the romantic love between a man a woman, and love for sport and trying to maintain and balance of all of these.  Basketball is the back drop but the characters are the story.  I can watch it everyday and will have a tear in my eye each time. "}{"Title":"Couldn't ask for a better movie with the two most important things in life!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  After seeing Love and Basketball I was moved. It was a love story no matter how looked upon.  It showed the ups and downs of life through playing basketball and falling in love.  To me both things are the very essense of me and they are the most important thing to be.  To be a ball player you have to use your heart and to fall in love you need to use your skills.  These two things love and basketball are so much realated to each other and they move every part of me, my heart, my mind and my body.  This is the best movie of the decade and everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"A love story about basketball....","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie had a huge impact on the way I looked at relationships. Was I really focused on my partner or was I side tracked with sports. This movie was wonderful! It made me cry! The way that they both had to go through bumpy roads just to meet each other at the other side! This movie really puts a meaning behind All is fare in Love and Basketball. Anybody who hasn't seen it! Make sure you rent it! "},{"Title":"It is a very good movie, just plain good.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is a very romantic movie with some other things involved in the movie also. I have never seen a movie this good before. This movie is about a guy and a girl meet each other when Monica moves in next door. They meet eachother during a game of Basketball and Quince has never seen a girl who can play Basketball. Than while to get a career in Basketball they try to have a love relationship. This is a great movie if you have not seen this movie I suggest you go see it. The movie is soooooo great. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I've seen Love and Basketball numorus times and i am even more amazed by it every time I watch it. It has a great plot about two young b-ball players that fall in love but though the course of there lives they havemany problems in which they overcome in the end. I recomened this movie to everyone young or old.  "},{"Title":"This movie taught me what love is.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  i just want to say that this is one of my all time favorite movies. There are not too many movies that i can watch all the time and never get sick of them.  Love & Basketball is a great love story.  The bond the Quincy and Monica have is increadable.  That is the connection that I am looking for in life.  If I can find that I know I will be happy and I have this movie to thank for pointing that out to me.  "},{"Title":"It was an awesome movie.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I thought this movie was so great because I like basketball alot and it showed me that it can't be your #1 priority when your in love with someone. It showed you need to be their for anyone you love,and if you believe in yourself you can accomplish just about anything. "},{"Title":"great films are such a treat","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  To Gina Prince and everyone involved in the making of Love and Basketball thank you for a wonderful movie.  Beautiful and honest, it is such a treat to sit down and watch a good story unfold before you. Looking forward to the next one!  "},{"Title":"Should have received an Oscar!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  In addition to being a nice love story, there are some little things I particularly found interesting here.  The scene where Monica is talking to herself during the game where the college scouts are watching her is very effective.  The responsible handling of the love scene where Quincy takes the time to use protection before being intimate with Monica was something I appreciated.  Although some of the reviewers have suggested that the love scene might make this movie inappropriate for viewers under the age of 13, I think it is a MUST SEE for teenagers.  I watched it with my 13 and 15 year old daughters and they agreed with me that this is a wonderful love story that treats women with respect.  How I wish every movie that depicted love-making so beautifully and with such feeling!  The acting on the part of the Monica character is especially good in showing vulnerability when she tries to win back her true love.  This show deserved nominations for production, screenplay, direction, and acting.  If I were an academy member, they would get my vote in all of these categories! Watch this movie with your teenagers! "},{"Title":"great debut for director and actor Sanaa Lathan","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I didn't get to see this movie in the theater because I have a young child, so I finally checked it out on video.  I was really touched by it and thought the acting throughout (and this is also praise of the director) was fantastic.  It's so deep to see fully realized African American characters on screen -- strong and vulnerable and funny and intelligent.  The world is richer for this movie. "},{"Title":"The Best Love Story Since Ghost","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time in the movie theatre and I immediately fell in love with it.  Now that I purchased the tape I have watched it about 3 more times.  It a very touching story with a nice mix of Love and Basketball.  I highly recommend this movie and this is a great movie for a couple to watch together. "}{"Title":"Understated Romance","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Initially renting this movie, I thought I would be in store for something along the lines of Love Jones, a solid film in its own right, but hardly a masterpiece. I was pleasantly surprised to have my expectations gradually peeled away and become engrossed in a beautifully nuanced love story.The story starts out conventionally enough, when two 11-year olds become neighbors; the girl is Monica, a reticent tomboy who loves playing basketball with the guys. The boy is Quincy, or Q who, you guessed it--loves playing basketball--but whose motivation for exceeding at the game becomes questionable later in the story.Basically, we follow these two characters longitudinally through the movie, discovering how their lives intersect and how their mutual expectations are sometimes fulfilled, sometimes not. This may sound vague, but synopses are not always necessary for critique; one of the pleasures of good cinema is the novelty of it, the ability to be surprised. That said, this is not a plot-driven movie; there are no shocking twists or turns. Rather, it is a powerful character study interlaced with a gentle romance.Most of the power comes from one of cinema's shining neophytes, Sanaa Lathan. I was mesmerized as I watched a seemingly one-dimensional characterization unfold into a multi-layered, complex portrayal of a sensitive yet driven woman. Vulnerable but not a victim, motivated and assertive yet not overbearing, I didn't even realize the blossoming I was privy to until well after the film had ended--this is how subtly engaging Lathan's performance is. Monica IS the emotional core of this film; moreover, economy in acting seems sparse these days--it is far easier for a performer to get their message across by over-emoting and flashy theatrics, than to convey feeling through facial expressions, body language and other 'unspoken' variables.So, in the aforementioned sense, Love and Basketball is Lathan's movie. Monica's chemistry with Omar Epps' Q is palpable, and Epps himself delivers an adept portrayal of a young man in conflict with his family, his sport and himself. I would like to have seen a more detailed account of Q's familial and emotional life, yet then it may have detracted from Sanaa Lathan's fleshy, sentient fulfillment of her craft.Of course the film would not have materialized if it wasn't for Gina Prince-Blythewood's perceptive script and unflinchingly honest direction. I look forward to ALL the principal players' future work.See it "},{"Title":"A three-pointer!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love and basketball is a damn good movie!  I heartily agree with many of the comments that are posted.  Didn't know if this movie would be a corny love story or not.  It wasn't -- it kinda brought a lump to my jaded moviewatcher throat.  Performances by Sanaa Lathan and Omar Epps were fantastic! This is not a black movie by no means.  Many people can relate to the romance at the heart of Love & Basketball. Lotsa good music from the late 80's will bring back memories for those of us who are old enough to have come of age during this time.  9/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Simply Beautiful","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  For this jaded moviegoer who have seen far too many bad movies, Love And Basketball was a bright ray of sunshine illuminating the dark. This was a simple, and yet amazingly wonderful, tale of love that seldom (never?) gets portrayed on the big screen. The cast is uniformly good, but special praise must be given to Sanaa Lathan. Not only is she quite attractive, but she is a truly gifted actress.So thank you Gina Prince-Bythewood for not only having the vision, but the drive to bring this gem of a movie to fruition. Saying that I rate this movie a ten barely touches on how much I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I think Love and Basketball is a must see.  This film is so real.  I have never thought a film would make me cry, but by the end of this show, I wish I had some tissue(but I wasn't the only one walking out with red eyes). I can't remember the last time I saw something so natural. "},{"Title":"A future classic","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie!  As a young Black woman who grew up in the 80's & 90's & who used to and still does play basketball -- I could relate to this movie so much.  I enjoyed every bit of it.  The real-life chemistry between Sanaa and Omar jumps off the screen.  The ending was so dear to my heart, I recommend everyone see this movie.  Don't let the movie fool you, there is much more to this movie that LOVE & BASKETBALL! "},{"Title":"Best film I've seen in a looong time!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Gina Prince-Bythewood's LOVE & BASKETBALL is not only the best sports film I've seen, but it's also the best love story that I've ever seen!Since I bought the film on DVD, Ive watched it 7 times and counting and its safe to say that this film will become one of my all time favorites.All I have to say is that I can't WAIT untill the beautiful and talented Sanaa Lathan will re-team with Gina Prince-Bythewood for Terry Mcmillan's DISAPPEARING ACTS next month, for more!LOVE & BASKETBALL (easily) 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sanaa Lathan's glorious debut!!!!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Before I comment on this movie, I have to get this off my chest  Sanaa Lathan is by far one of the most beautiful black actresses out there!  Her beauty is soft and otherworldly.  I had to go out and find a picture of her to use as wallpaper for my desktop.  Looking at her makes the day go by just a little bit faster.  I can't wait to see her in Disappearing Acts on HBO.Okay now about the movie . . . it was real good!The story was real and I think Omar Epps did a great job opposite the magnetic Sanaa Lathan even though I had to admit Sanaa was the main reason for me going to see this movie.  Love and Basketball gets *** out of ****.  I highly recommend it for a date movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining love stories of our time.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Oh, the chemistry between Lathan and Epps.  Here is a film that keeps you interested.  You can't help but to feel each emotion of not just the main characters, but a few of the supporting actors as well. A well scripted movie and a super cast.  Be ready to have head cleaner for the VCR handy.  You will want to rewind and play this one over and over again. Not only is the love nostalgic, so is this very enjoyable soundtrack from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"The movie you'll want to see again and again","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I recently viewed the love story Love & Basketball and was blown away.  I would even venture to say that this is the best modern day love story that I have ever seen.  Not to mention the fact that the movie portrayed both Quincy McCall and Monica Wright as two goal focused individuals who together not only accomplished their goals but fell in love along the way.This is an excellent movie where both leads put their hearts in their roles.I can't wait to see them on the BIG screen together again! "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting, Writing and Directing","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Sanaa Lathan puts in a heart warming effort in this her debut acting breakthrough role. In line with Denzel Washington who understands the effective power of going beyond the role to find and portray the character Ms Lathan rocked this film as an athlete and vulnerable yet driven strong woman who learned to sacrifice and compromise in order to get the desires of her heart.  Her Bambi eyes and body language spoke to women of all ages. I look forward to many more roles especially new ones with her current boyfriend and renowned co-star Omar Epps.Gina Bythewood in this her debut feature film directing role has proven to be a force to be reckoned with. She wrote a beautiful story that was directed with such finese that it made me want to know and personally engage the characers. The family subplots were all beliveable and deep enough to help us understand the psyche/actions of the main characters.Can't wait to get this movie on DVD, there are so many positive messages and role models in this supurbly written, acted and directed movie that I must have it in my personal collection. You should also!!!! "}{"Title":"More Love than Basketball","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love & Basketball follows the twenty-year romance between basketball greats Monica Wright and Quincy McCall(Sanaa Lathan and Omar Epps) from the time they are ten until the present.  The film is well directed, well written and well acted, but anyone looking for a sports movie is going to be disappointed.  Basketball is mostly used as a MacGuffin to get the two protagonists together.At age ten they meet as next door neighbors in an affluent L.A. suburb.  Quincy's dad is a player for the Clippers.  Monica's dad is a banker and her mother (Alfre Woodard) is a '50's sitcom type housewife (or would be if she were white).  Quincy and Monica have a game of horse, and Quincy--enraged at losing to a girl--pushes Monica down and gives her a life-long scar on her face.  As they get older, they become buddies and we see their turbulent home lives.  Quincy's dad stays out late for business meetings and Monica remains a tomboy to spite her mother.  At the senior dance they come to realize they are in love.After they both decide to go to USC, you would think the focus would turn more towards the game, but you would be wrong.  Although there are scenes of them training and subplots involving intra-squad rivalries, the focus remains on the relationship.Unfortunately, by spending all the time on the relationship, the film gives short shrift the the parts of the involving them as athletes, which are just as--if not more--compelling.  We do see some of the pressures of big time college and professional basketball, but much more is left out.  We see that NBA marriages are constantly jeopardized by groupies, but we don't see the fact that they are also constantly jeopardized by long separations when the team is out on the road.  We see women's basketball is forever and unjustly overshadowed by the men's game, but we don't see some of the prejudices that keep it that way and the effects those prejudices have on the women who play (i.e. the pressure to appear straight or at least not too butch).This is not a bad film, particularly as a date film, but by overlooking the athletic part of the story, the filmmakers have made an errant pass.  7 out of 10.And was I the only one who was unimpressed by Tyra Banks (her acting, that is)?  "},{"Title":"beautiful!!!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A strong cast and a beautiful script made this tale of Love and Basketball a winner, for first-time director Gina Prince-Bythewood.The love story (or intense emotional roller-coaster ride, if you will) between Omar Epps and Sanaa Lathan was so gripping and deep, that the audience became a part of the relationship--heartache and all. Never have I felt so involved in a romance flick. At the end of the movie, I actually did not want to leave the theater...Most of my dramatic ups and downs could be attributed to the incredible Sanaa Lathan, who delivered such an amazing performance, for a relatively unknown actress. Lathan had the audience eating out of the palm of her hand. She spoke lines to the audience, without dialogue; expressed emotion without exaggeration or contemplation. What a dynamic actress!!!Debbi Morgan, Omar Epps and Alfre Woodard, all incredible actors, themselves, also helped to create this genuine treasure. I plan on buying this one when it hits the shelves! "},{"Title":"The best love story ever told!!!!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The was the best movie I have ever seen. It was so good I saw it 4 times. I can not wait for it to come out on VHS. Not only was the movie great, but the soundtrack was equally good.  I thought every song with right along with the movie, and that I know is hard for film makers to do.  This movie gets 2 thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"Slam Dunk!!!!!!!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I absolutely loved the movie.  It didn't just focus on basketball, it also included everything I look for in a film; romance, great acting, and happy endings.  I would recommend this movie who may want to shed a tear or just see something sweet.  It's definitely a slam dunk!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I went to see Love & Basketball for my birthday and it was a very good movie if I could rate it higher than a ten I would. Omar and Sanaa made the movie become real, I loved the plot.This movie reminded me of me when I was younger, I love the game of basketball. I would recommend this movie to any and everyone. "},{"Title":"Basketball is a passion that so many of us do not get to enjoy","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  It's so hard to describe a movie that touches you so deeply.  Love and Basketball was an amazing movie about basketball and relationships. If anyone has ever played basketball or knows the passion for it, they need to see this movie.  It reminded me so much of high school and all the things that seemed so important, but were really not.  This movie showed how two passions in life can create problems and how dealing with them is not easy. This movie wasn't just a love story it was about the true game of basketball and how it is played and viewed by many people.  It was absolutely the best film I have seen in years.  I loved it! "},{"Title":"It's About Time!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love & Basketball has to be one of the most endearing films I have ever seen. Notice I didn't say endearing black films? This is a universal love story with basketball used here as backdrop to what is an incredibly, well made movie. Saana Lathan totally burns it up as Monica Wright. I swear I left the theatre in love with that woman. There's a subtle intensity that lies underneath the surfice of her acting. She is thoroughly believable in this movie. She gets the man,  career, and life she wanted. How often do we see our black women get it all in the movies.Clearly the movie is told from her point of view, but there are some outstanding performances that compliment Lathan's. Omar Epps is steady and credible as Quincy. I wonder however, how many more sports movies he has left in him? He's been a footbal player (The Program), baseball player(Major league II), and now a basketball player. All and all, he shines  in this movie. The supporting cast of Dennis haysbert, Alfre Woodard, Angie Morgan, and Harry Lennix round out the exceptional supporting cast.Gina Prince has shown herself to be a very sound and capable director. It's not often that stories with an all african-american cast  are not centered around some cliche or another. I was in a racially mixed theatre and had the feeling that the story of Monica and Quincy was not about love in the hood, but universal Love & Basketball. It's about time!!!!!!!!!Tony Detroit, Mi. "},{"Title":"Touching, Funny, Awesome movie!","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie was great.  I am a white 16 yr. old girl that doesn't even like basketball and this is one of my favorite new movies. Even though I don't like basketball, I could really relate to the themes and situations in this film.  It addressed romantic issues that really hit home and expressed situations between parents and their children that I'm sure many can identify with.  Sanaa and Omar were wonderful.  I was feeling their performances.  They really proved their amazing acting skills in this film.  I can't wait to see them in more movies in the future.  Great onscreen chemistry.And you can't deny that this movie was hilarious.  It's great to have a tear-jerker and a comedy in one.  I loved it.This movie was great all around. I recommend it to everyone. 2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"More than what you would expect, Enjoy!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie at a film festival and was blown away.  The performances were outstanding and in particular Sanaa Lathan.  Omar Epps has always been great, but the discovery here is Sanaa and Gina Prince.  A story well told and never a dull moment.  It was pretty even in terms of whose story was more interesting.  This doesn't happen too often.  I'm a basketball fan too, so for me, it was a double delight.  See this movie, I'm going again because I know that I will see something I missed the first time, it's that good. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies I've seen","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie is so good, it has a great story line and never a dull moment, I loved it and would go see it again 70 times.  If your a basketball fan you'll love it, if you're not you'll love it, it's just a great movie that anyone can enjoy.  I do realize how cheesy this sounds but it's true, I loved it! "}{"Title":"I LOVED IT!","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this movie. Though I'm not a big Omar Epps fan, I did enjoy Sanaa Lathan's performance as Monica. She lets the audience know that not all black girls care about weaves and malls. The movie was not as funny as I thought. I mean there were funny parts but I expected a Martin Lawrence type humor. But not all Black movies are buffonish. All in all it was a great movie. And I enjoyed Tyra Banks brief appearance. "},{"Title":"How does one define a great movie?","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  How does one define a great movie? Every now and then there are those rare movies that take us to places that are warm and comfortable to our souls, that touch where we live and make us remember the truly special moments in our lives. For blacks, maybe once or twice in a decade does a movie show us...us.Love and Basketball may not be the most technically sound movie ever produced and its story development may not be among the best, but for some of us it is a much needed respite from the profusion of overly crass and vile images that movies, records and tv will have you believe is the black experience. I applaud the makers of this movie for having the courage to go beyond the caricatures and stereotypes of what we are supposed to be to present a fuller picture of people who experience sweetness and goodness, sorrow and pain, and love and happiness. "},{"Title":"Predictable but enjoyable basketball movie","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  It's basketball playoff time! The New York Knicks are once again in the thick of the title hunt, and Spike Lee, Knick fan No. 1, can be found on the sideline, cheering on his team. Lee has become famous not only for his skills as a film director (Do the Right Thing), but also for his basketball passion (1998's He Got Game), and prominent role on the sideline. So it doesn't come as a surprise that Lee co-produced the new basketball film, Love & Basketball.The movie tells the story of Quincy McCall (Omar Epps), son of an NBA player, and Monica Wright (Sanaa Lathan). In the first quarter, they meet as kids who become new neighbors. To Quincy's amazement, she can play ball better than most boys, which leads them to a competitive bet on who will turn professional first. The second quarter takes the friends to high school, where Monica gains the reputation of a tomboy who can't get a date for the seniors' dance, while Q has his choice of friends (and girls), but displays somewhat poor taste. He changes his mind about Monica when they move on to the third quarter, college life. Their relationship, rooted in their love for the game, prospers as their skills improve. Soon, they have to start choosing between the love for their game and for each other. Quincy's troubles on the home front further complicate things, and eventually, they both move on and try to carve out a living at the pro level. Their fourth quarters lead them to different parts of the world, before they meet each other again. Now they face a decision that determines the outcome of this Love & Basketball game.Instead of directing the movie himself, Spike Lee helped to develop young talent black director Gina Prince-Bythewood responded with an admirable debut. She managed to create an engaging and honest film about the relationship, development, and challenges of a young black couple. The cast also rises to the same level, most of all with the lead performances of Omar Epps and Sanaa Lathan. They both deliver good games and manage to feed off each other both on and off the court. Especially Sanaa Lathan seems a rising star who will certainly be seen and heard more of in her cinematic future. Maybe what makes the movie most credible The shooting locations. Real-life powerhouse Crenshaw High in Los Angeles was used as the high school, and close-by Southern Cal, a prominent basketball program, was a perfect fit for the college quarter of the movie. Even the woman's basketball league, WNBA, and the NBA agreed to lend their names to the movie. Interestingly, a college assistant coach from local rival UCLA was hired as a basketball advisor and coach. A segment of the film was even shot in Barcelona, Spain, all contributing to Love & Basketball being a successful successor of He Got Game with an added feminist twist.Unfortunately, the real-life image doesn't exclude one of the more negative aspects of basketball that didn't really have anything to do in this movie. Both in the locker room and during the romantic scenes, Monica's Nike sports bra gets considerably more screen time than even Brandi Chastaine's at last summer's Soccer World Cup. The small Nike symbol is placed subtly but noticeably throughout the movie, raising the question if the sports company sponsored the film budget to gain a small advantage in the hard-fought basketball (sneaker) market. On another downside, the plot of Love & Basketball remains rather predictable The audience knows the outcome far ahead of the buzzer.However, as basketball fans know, even games that fail to deliver the upset win, or that are not decided at the buzzer, can be a lot of fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"The best love story since Frankie and Johnny!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the best loves stories I have seen in a long time.  Sanaa is extremely impressive in her portrayal.  Her talent as an actress really shine in this role.  I got to see a screening of the film and could not wait for it to open in theatres so that I could see it again.The film combines a well told story with excellent performances, visual, and music!  A must see and own! "},{"Title":"Truly Romantic at last","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Like most, I have seen plenty of so-called love stories where girl very conveniently meets boy and they very conveniently fall in love.  Rarely have seen a film that actually reveals to me the REASON they fell in love.This love was about more than looks, it was about more than proximity, this love was about an unspoken connection that could not be denied.  Every step of it was a leap of faith.And that's truly romantic. "},{"Title":"Sanaa Shines!!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A very different story about love and career choices and the obstacles women face in male dominated professions.  What was most refreshing was that although the film will be lumped into the black film genre, it is by no means the stereotypical violent fare that Hollywood loves to dish out. Lathan and Epps are real actors cast in a movie that takes place in an upper middle class black neighborhood. Lathan a Yale graduate, is an exceptional actress that portrays the character Monica almost flawlessly.  Lathan is a believable star athlete, who together with Epps creates a story that is inspirational and heart warming. "},{"Title":"it was a great movie, and i love Omar Epps","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  i loved this movie its the best film i have seen since The Wood. Am a big fan of Omar Epps and just want to congratulate him on his success.The other cast members did well also, keep up the good work, and i hope Ms.Gina prince keeps up the good writing and continue to make many more films "},{"Title":"Great movie in which Omar Epps and Sanaa Lathan indulge in a battle of choice, ultimately they are able to have both...Love and Basketball.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Juice, Higher Learning, In To Deep, and The Wood are all films that Omar Epps has acted in. I must say that Omar seems to get noticeably better in each film. Without a doubt he is a talented young actor whom I like a lot. In Love and Basketball Omar brings to life the character Quincy McCall.This film is also just as much about Monica Wright(Sanaa Lathan) as it is about Quincy, I feel the characters they portray succeed because of excellent directing (Gina Prince) and obvious camaraderie between the two (Monica and Quincy).Although the movie is centered around basketball, that's really not what the movie is all about. Many social issues are brushed upon throughout the movie. I could mention several of these social themes easily, some of note; trust between father and son, broken mother daughter relationships,stereotypes of female athlete's, infidelity in marriage, I could go on and on.What really takes this movie over the top though is the bond between Quincy and Monica that stems all the way back to childhood. The movie starts off with Monica and Quincy at 11 years of age and amazingly the special bond seemed to exist between them then too. Although Quincy comes within 2 weeks of marrying his Fiance(played by Tyra Banks) it is obvious the Quincy and Monica were simply meant for each other. Quincy and Monica's relationship teaches us the importance of couples being there for one another no matter what obstacle.Quincy and Monica have almost a fairy tale relationship but experience the usual woes that plague young couples. Director Gina Prince does an outstanding job of conveying the plight of the two young stars. Not to be taken for granted is the great acting job done in this movie by Monica, she compliments Quincy in this movie very well. As a person who grew up around basketball, this movie was almost perfect for me. Here recently I am so happy with the direction in which Black Films are going. This movie serves as a great example of characters with depth, direction and style. One of the better films I've seen in a while, definite thumbs up. "},{"Title":"One of the Year's Best","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  What do you get when you combine pure electricity with undeniable talent, one of the year's best films.  From the moment I sat down until the credits finished rolling, I was captivated by Gina Prince-Bythewood's directorial debut.  A stunning movie that wrapped us in from the first frame, Prince-Bythewood did an amazing job of using all of her moments.  She evoked amazing performances from her leads as well as her supporting players. This film is a must-see, and one that is even worth paying full-price for!!  I give it the highest accolades. "},{"Title":"Worth watching twice","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I saw the movie twice this weekend and enjoyed it both times.  Although a Spike Lee film, Love and Basketball has a universal appeal for those who like basketball and those who don't.  The elements of the relationship between the two main characters and their familial struggles is well documented and easy to understand.  Worth the $16.00 it cost to see it twice! "}{"Title":"A Complex Film of Deep Characterizations and Poignance","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Considering what sports films are usually like, testosterone circuses with gratuitous characters and situations, Love and Basketball comes as a welcome relief. At the risk of sounding pretentious, the film qualifies as art it presents its characters in beleivable situations, a plausible plot arc, and with a great deal of emotional resonance. I saw the film on Friday 21 April 2000, and was so impressed and moved, I saw it again last night, Saturday 22 April 2000. Saana Lathan provides the best female performance of the year (yes, better than Julia Roberts in Erin Brokovitch)matching her drive and ambition with Omar Epps. The direction and scriptwriting are very self-assurred. Technically, the photgraphy and editing are first rate. The supporting cast is great, providing many sub-plots which interact seemlessly with the central arc. How refreshing to see a film that could have been about race, have nothing to do with it! Hopefully, the universal emotional appeal of the film will transcend all bounds in the U.S.Good choice of release dates right on the heals of the beginning of the NBA Playoffs. Note to Spike Lee stick to producing...this is a great film.9 out of 10 stars.    "},{"Title":"an important film about women in sports","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  'Love and Basketball' is a well done, important film about the growing role of women in sports, from the specific viewpoint of a young woman who has loved basketball all her life. Not only does the film give insights into the life of a modern day woman athlete, but it also takes a close look at how sport affects the relationships in her life. Although Monica Wright's relationship with Quincy McCall is the main focus, we also get to see aspects of relationships between mother and daughter, father and son, and between athlete and coach. The basketball sequences are convincing, as is Sanaa Lathan as Monica Wright. There is light humor throughout, always appropriate and never silly. Although the performances and dialogue could have been a little more convincing, this is an important film; not only giving us a look at the life of women athletes, but also in showing that a woman's commitment to sport is just as valid and can be just as strong as that of a man's. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Excellent film, my wife dragged me to it and I'm glad she did. This is the best movie I've seen in a long time. So much to comment on, it's hard to start, but the acting was natural and believable. Thoroughly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"I gave it a 7.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Just as Soul Food, The Best Man, and The Wood presented a typical story from an atypical perspective, so did Love and Basketball.  I enjoy seeing African Americans on film and especially appreciate efforts made by director, producer, and cast.  Omar Epps, Sanaa Latham, and other cast members are to be commended for being selective in roles that they choose.  There were no negative images of us in this movie.  Instead, real images were presented and we were human beings. However, the story line had little depth.  It was the story of  a boy and girl who lived next door to each other and shared a love for basketball. The same type of love-hate relationship between the couple in The Wood. The story proceeded to follow the relationship through high school, college (slightly reminded me of relationship between Epps and Tyra Banks in Higher Learning), and professional careers.  In the end, nothing was left for viewers to imagine, everything had been wrapped up.  I prefer movies that provoke thought and leave me wanting more.  There was nothing else to want at the movie's end. Once again this is a movie that makes viewers feel good (and maybe proud), but does not encourage deep thought.  "},{"Title":"Very good effort","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love and Basketball really surprised me.  The film was a pretty solid tale of childhood friends, then lovers, who pursue basketball as a career. Inventive and non-cliche film conventions (such as Monica's viewpoint during one of her games, as she urges herself to focus and concentrate) worked very well.  However, the film also relied heavily on alot of jive talk for it's humor- not unbelievable but excessive in my opinion (often sending the audience at the theatre I attended into OOOOOOOOHHHH! and You go, girl). Fine and dandy for the audience participation, but unfortunately a seletive predominant strength of the film. Finally, the initial love scene between the lead characters seemed awkward and forced (ie. hands placed unmoving on Monica's bossoms to avoid nudity). It didn't fail me completely, but was indeed one of those things that made me go hmmm?. Overall, Love and Basketball succeeds unexpectedly on many levels with better than adequate performances all around.   "},{"Title":"Be courtside for this game","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie could easily be categorized as a black movie or a sports movie, but those labels would be wrong.  This is a very enjoyable story that follows two strong characters from childhood through high school and college and beyond.  A thoroughly entertaining movie that is both funny and heartbreaking.  Excellent performances from the whole cast, with the possible exception of the usually-brilliant Alfre Woodard, who didn't seem to have much to work with, apart from one or two scenes.  "},{"Title":"Loved the movie!","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. The first time i saw it i only caught part of it but ran out to blockbuster right after that because i had to see the entire movie. This movie is one of my favorite movies! I absolutely loved it! I don't even think i can explain in words how much i loved this movie. I liked it soo much because i loove basketball and i am a romance fanatic and this movie put it all in one! The ending was the best part!!! I didn't think it would turn out the way it did and i liked the movie before i saw the ending but seeing the end made me like the movie soo much more! I could watch this movie over and over because it is just such a good romantic film about the love of basketball and trying to find a way lead a normal love life at the same time. STRONGLY RECCOMMEDED! "},{"Title":"Giving new meaning to 'one-on-one'; sexy Lathan's got game!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" LOVE AND BASKETBALL (2000) *** Sanaa Lathan, Omar Epps, Dennis Haysbert, Debbi Morgan, Alfre Woodard, Harry J. Lennix, Kyla Platt, Glenndon Chatman, Christine Dunford. Engaging romantic drama with basketball as the backstory between two childhood friends who fall in love and share their passion for the sport while coming to terms with their personal pitfalls and obstacles through their prospective college years. Lathan gives a star-making performance in her first lead with a strong, sexy presence &#150; she got game - while Epps gives his best acting to date. First time filmmaker Gina Prince-Bythewood keeps the pacing on the mark and allows her leads some breathing room.Produced by Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"Love & Basketball & a Satisfied Viewer","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Spoilers hereinThis movie is good. I see no major flaws. The casting is eye-pleasing for both male and female viewers with Omar Epps and Sanaa Lathan. The story is pretty simple, and the title explains it all. I saw Monica (Sanaa Lathan) as perfect. She was fit, beautiful, and had a great respectable personality. The only flaw with her may have been her reaction to her mother just being a housewife. This isn't really a flaw, but it does show that she can be somewhat intolerant. With a female that likes to play basketball, you would expect her to be  somewhat feminist, and she was, but not to a great degree. The things she vouched for, such as equality even though she was a woman, is something everybody should have. Quincy (Omar Epps) was less perfect as a character. He went out with many shallow girls, perhaps because he was shallow too. A turning point in the movie was when Quincy finds out his father cheated on his mother. Monica tried to console him, but had to leave because of curfew. This leads Quincy to believe she cares more about following rules and basketball, than she does about love. I tried to imagine how I would feel from Quincy's point of view, and I came to the conclusion that I would think that she does not really care about me if she can't break a simple rule. Her excuse is that she wouldn't make him choose in a similar situation. Perhaps Quincy is making too much of this situation, or she really did make a mistake. Anyway, this leads Quincy and Monica to go their separate ways for a long time.The denouement is the two childhood friends playing basketball. Monica is playing for his heart. I think Quincy's character is a jerk most of the time, and he doesn't deserve a sweet person like Monica because she was never unfaithful to him, even though they were broken up. The ending is a happy one that everybody should enjoy.Overall, I liked this movie. Even though the story was simple, the execution of it compensated. Love & Basketball is a nice romantic movie to watch with somebody close to you.  "},{"Title":"Simply irresistible; Played over and Over and Over!!!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie, Love and Basketball, is by-far the  best movie I have seen!!!!! I love everything about this movie from the sports down to the romance and tear shedding. The thing I love the most is that this movie reminds me of me and my love. We grew up as arch rivals, but deep down inside knew we were feeling each other so we decided to keep it in. Pretty soon true feelings began to show and a relationship brewed... I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!! I just got finished watching it but I'm about to watch it again!!!! All is fair between Love and Basketball!!! "}{"Title":"Spike Lee and Omar Epps","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Having introduced Denzel Washington to the world in 'Malcolm X', Spike Lee introduced Omar Epps to the world by producing 'Love and Basketball'. It is a film about two people who grow up in the same neighbourhood, engage with each other, have their differences, and enjoy basketball. As they become adults and go in different directions, it is their deep love for each other that brings them back together. "},{"Title":"The just shall live by faith (Galatians 311)","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The just shall live by faith (Galatians 311) is a scripture in the bible telling all believers how we should live. The just are people who have been declared righteous, and have the right to receive every promise and blessing that is written in the bible.This movie showed two people who did just that. They knew and felt what God's desire was for their lives, they knew each other's heart and they strived for it. Personally, I received a spiritual meaning from the movie since it contains issues such as faith, trust, confidence and belief not only in their personal relationships, but more importantly, their trust and faith in God to give them the desires of their heart.I met my high school sweetheart in the 7th grade when we were around 11 or 12. We were together through high school, college and our adult life, however our intimate relationship ended due to various cirumstances.  She is still my very best friend in the whole world.I won't spoil what happened in the movie, however I do encourage everyone to follow their heart. You never know what God has in store. Remember, the just shall live by faith.  "},{"Title":"Nice romance that gets a bit too soapy towards the end","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is the story of Q and Monica as they become friends as children and grow up through school, college and becoming professional - all the time following their loves and their plays.  It could be very cheesy and romantic, but the presence of Spike Lee's production company raises the hopes.  The plot does start out slowly with some cute kid acting, happily this is only brief and not too bad.  The next two quarters of the film following Q and Monica in school and college and these two are the best.  The chemistry between the two is good and the romance feels genuine with faltering kisses, hesitation in eyes etc.  The final quarter sees the story come to a head and here it gets a bit like a soap, with family issues, tearful confrontations, motherly advice etc coming on strong.  The strongest sections focus on the romance between the two rather than the wider problems in their lives.The two leads are good.  Epps deals with the role well, but Sanaa Lathan is the surprise.  I thought she was really good - her character is really believable and she does well in showing her vulnerability behind her eyes and in her body language.  Some of the support cast are weak - the basketball team-mates are generally black stereotypes whose lines consist of girlfriend! or yo style dialogue but they are mostly in the background.  The most disappointing performance is Alfre Woodard, usually she is a sign of quality but here she is guilty of some very soapy acting.Overall this is a game of two halves, the second and third quarters are the best, but overall it's a nice romantic drama which gets a little soapy and sentimental towards the end. "},{"Title":"what a good movie","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  At first I didn't think this was going to be a good movie. But when i finally decided to watch it i loved it. This was a pretty sweet and, beautiful love story. The story was just beautiful. I especially liked the music. The acting was great. I like love stories like this. Honest and decent. I recommend this movie to anyone and every who likes a good romance movie and BASKETBALL!  "},{"Title":"A Moving Tale","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I loved the Best Man but Love and Basketball makes the former movie seem superficial.  Touching and beautiful, Love and Basketball is a simple story told in a way that touches the heart.  It's a movie that will make you think about your own relationships.  Omar Epps has finally found a role that showcases his real talent and Sanaa Lathan is incredible.  She has loads of talent to spare.  She really makes this movie work.  I haven't loved a movie like this since the Matrix.Lisa "},{"Title":"i made a bet","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Hey whats up my name is Christine, i had made a bet with a friend for 50$ bout the movie love and basketball on the part right after the prom. where Monica gave Quincy her college acceptance letter to read, then he went to hug her but she twisted her neck and kissed him now who made the first move? didn't she kiss him first? you can also tell by listening to the conversation after the kiss. if you can please email me back and tell me if you agree or not thank you if you don't thats OK you can still email me too i just want to see who gets the most votes! hopefully i do so if your on my side you know that girls make the first moves! not always but most of the time though. it just makes me so mad when boys think that they always be making the first move! i know that my man like me to make the first moves sometimes! i wanted the director to email me so i can print it out and show it to my friend named Vincent his hard headed self! he might believe me more if i can actually prove it to him! then as soon as i show it to him I'm going to say where my 50$ at? even though he did try to lower the bet but i said no because i know I'm right and he is wrong! thats probably why he wanted to lower the bet because he know he about to loose all his little bit of money "},{"Title":"Best Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" In my opinion, this is one of the best movies I've ever seen in my life. I am only 14, but out of all of the movies i've seen this goes at the top of my list. It is a great movie for young teens and even adults because it tells you about life and love oh and basketball. Omar epps looked so sexy in this movie and Saana Lathan looked gorgeous. The actors did really good in this movie and like I said before Omar Epps looked sexy. I would recommend this movie to everyone who has been in and out of love or if you have fallen in love with a friend who you have known for a very long time and were afraid to tell them that you were in love with them. I give this movie 5 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"I fell in love with Love & Basketball","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love & Basketball is one of the greatest films i've ever seen! It fills you with mixed emotions. It's actually the first movie where i've actually felt like I was involved with these people's lives. Sanaa Lathan and Omar Epps deliver a powerful punch to the movie. The movie tells the story of two kids, Monica (Lathan) and Quincy Q (Epps). The movie takes place at four points of their lives. Childhood, High School, College, and Adulthood. This movie shows how Love & Basketball are two powerful things when they are combined. They can make or break your relationship. This film is perfect for men and women alike. Many people might argue that the message of this film is too girly but the film is deeper than just your average chick flick. I wouldn't call it a chick flick. I'd call it romance or drama. I don't think really macho and tough guys would like this movie. But it's definitely something that everyone should check out.  "},{"Title":"A great love story!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie is touching and it left me in tears. The movie's about two next door neighbors Quincy(Omar Epps) and Monica(Sanaa Lathan) who both share the love of basketball. Their senior prom is coming and they go with different people, and at the dance they find out they're secretly in love. Later that night, Monica gets a letter in the mail from UCLA and with her mom asleep, she asks Quincy to open it for her, and she gets in, and Quincy tells her he's going on a basketball scholarship, too. Quincy reaches for a hug, but Monica kisses him instead, and invites him into her bedroom(this is where the sexuality for the PG-13 rating comes in handy). So they go to college as lovers, and u'll just have to see it. Great movie!!! Rated PG-13 for Language, and Sexuality. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Caro","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  When I started watching the movie i was sure it was going to be good because it was about Basketball(Im a big fan of basketball)!! I love this movie also becuase the actors who play in the movie (Sanaa Lathan, Omar Epps) are great actors who show their emtions into the character. Now this movie is my favorite movie ive watched it 7 times in one week!!! I never get bored of watching it!!! This movie is a wonderful movie with love and action, keep these hot abs Quincy and You Monica dont change!!  "}{"Title":"Dick Vitale Loves it Baby!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie was so great, and geez Sanaa is so hot in all of her scenes.  An outstanding flick for keeping a good pace, while being romantic and very interesting.  Excellent story line, with some good turns that I wasn't entirely expecting.  Good sound track - favorite part of the movie was the dance when I wanna be your man comes on.  That part was pure money.  Only disappointment... why was Tyra cast again with Omar?  Didn't we already do them in Higher Learning?  Come to think of it, that was USC based as well.  Well that doesn't matter much anyways.  If you want a good date movie (if your date doesn't hate bball), this is it - 9/10. "},{"Title":"Touching Love Story","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie goes to show that all relationships start off as friendships. Quincy (Omar Epps) and Monica (Sanaa Lathan) play two people who grow up together and later fall in love. They both love basketball too. The plot of the movie keeps you interested. The characters of the supporting cast was also good. The acting was well done, can't say that for all films. What makes this movie different is that it is a black love story which is something you don't see very often. I thought that it took too long for them to get together but eventually they did. Sanaa Lathan is an amazing actress with a lot of hidden talent. I am very familiar with Omar Epps. Gabriel Union played the classic high school b**ch in the movie. She was rather annoying and dissed Monica at the beginning of the movie. They could have just excluded her from the film to begin with. Tyra Banks could have also stayed out of the movie. Stick to modeling, she does that best. Other than all of that, the movie was good. There is very brief sexuality and nudity but sensible enough for children to see. My sister cried through out this movie. That confused me. I give this movie 9/10 because it was just emotional and touching.  "},{"Title":"Really fine film, but PG-13?  No, should be considered R.","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The title of the film comes from a comment near the end, when Monica's (Sanaa Lathan) boyfriend, Q, says, All is fair in love and basketball, a take-off of the old saying all's fair in love and war.  In a sense, basketball is war, as we clearly see in the interviews on the DVD extras with several real-life female basketball players. This is Monica's story. As a little girl she gets attracted to basketball and, as the film opens, she at 11 is dressed like a boy, hair pulled up under the cap, so she can get into the local pick-up game. It follows her through high school, then college at USC, then as a pro in Europe.  The boy next door becomes almost like a brother, he climbs into her bedroom window and sleeps on the floor when his parents are arguing. But it is a constant love/hate relationship between the two basketball stars who both end up playing varsity at USC.SPOILERS follow - Monica gets tired of pro basketball and comes home, mainly because she was lonely and unfulfilled. She never forgot Q and found out he was engaged to be married. Two weeks before the wedding she tells him she loves him, wants him to call off the wedding. They play a one-on-one at night to settle it.  Fade out, then in to last scene, Monica is playing prefessional basketball again, Q is watching her, with their child on her lap.A few words of summary cannot do the film justice. It is very well written and directed, but Sanaa Lathan is just great. She is in almost every scene, and she carries the film, makes it believable. But the language, nudity, and adult situations causes me to wonder how it gets a PG-13 rating. It definitely should be R. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I have seen this film about 12 times now, and I could still watch it again. The movie is about is childhood sweethearts who grow up, grow apart, experience life (a little) and then re-unite. While the story unfolds we are treated to a number of sub-plots that add to this movie's surprising depth and overall enjoyment.If you are in the mood for a love story that adds a few twists along the way then rent this film. Omar and Sanaa do a great job in this film, and I would love to see Spike make a few more attempts to make similar films. This was simply was of the most pleasant surprises that I have had in quite some time.-- DP. "},{"Title":"Best Movie","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie amazes me each time I watch it. The story is captivating. It combines basketball with something everyone can relate to, love. Even if basketball isn't your sport this movie will still leave you wishing I want to see it again. The the soundtrack to the movie is great as well. If your wanting to see a movie with a good plot and good actors, this is the movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"it's not just about love and basketball -- it's about life","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  this movie really, really impressed me. i say that because not only did it move me (tears came to my eyes at many points), but because everything about it was impeccable. sanaa nathan was brilliant as monica. she was able to communicate so much without even saying a word. omar epps did an excellent job as well. and alfre woodard and dennis haysbert were fine in their supporting roles. the material they had to work with was so good -- the script is so well-written! it's so incredibly rare to see that in a hollywood movie. i was especially impressed by the childhood scenes between monica and q -- one never sees realistic depictions of childhood in american movies -- the french are so much better at it, usually -- and also by the basketball scenes, especially the one where you hear monica's thoughts throughout (it would have been nice if they'd done that again later on). the family struggles are especially honest as well. nothing was stereotyped or given a pat explanation. one might think that tomboy monica would clash with her girlie sister, but in fact they get along and you see the support that monica gets from her. it would have been easier to play it the other way around. the movie does have a somewhat cheesy ending, but given the rest of the movie, it works. anyway, i could go on and on but the bottom line is -- you want to watch this movie. i'm not even remotely a sports fan -- but the way basketball was used as a backdrop for multiple storylines around love, family struggles, men/women issues, our childhood dreams vs adult reality -- was just brilliant. hats off to writer-director gina prince-bythewood -- what a success! "},{"Title":"One of 2000's best films","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love & Basketball was one of the best films of 2000, because it has a story everyone can relate to. There's basketball for the guys, romance for the females and humor for everyone else. Omar Epps & Sanna Lathan are both good in their roles. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The opening sequence of this film is real cute,but after a half hour or so,it just becomes your typical,predictable,sappy love story.It probably would have made a good short subject,but at feature length,there's just wasn't enough there to hold this viewer's interest. "},{"Title":"less love, more basketball please","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This film gives you what you'd expect. From the title, you can deduct that it's a love story that uses basketball as a platform and that's exactly what it is. Quincy McCall (Omar Epps), son of fictional Los Angeles Clippers star Zeke McCall, and Monica Wright (Sanaa Lathan) live next door to each other in a Baldwin Hills neighborhood. Both are deeply devoted to the game Quincy has the talent to follow in his father's footsteps, Monica dreams of being the first woman to play in the NBA.Their friendship turns into love and takes them into their freshmen year at USC, the school that recruited them both. When Zeke becomes the target of a paternity suit, it tears his family apart. This leads Quincy to enter the NBA draft after only a year at USC. The action seems to be directed at his father, who wants his son to get a good education more than anything. Monica finishes college and goes on to play professionally in Spain. A large part of Monica's story is her relationship with her mother. Monica is very critical of her for letting her life pass her by, for letting herself be walked over, for never really standing up for herself. It parallels Quincy's story in that both are seeking to avoid the mistakes of their parents.I didn't expect a sports movie, but was still disappointed to find that it wasn't. The idea here, as with any film that revolves around sports, was to use the game for overt drama, while teaching life lessons along the way. Can you imagine if, say, Remember the Titans were actually about football? Likewise, L and B is not about basketball or even love but rather, how we are the choices we make in life. The film is already over two hours long so they had to be selective about what they showed, but I would have liked to see more basketball than there was. Not that they really needed to include more. They only show what's necessary to advance the story, as they should. It's just strange how little basketball there is in it, given the game's importance to the story. I'd like to see a film that shows women really competing and achieving the same way men have.  Love and Basketball isn't that film, but it did manage to plant this thought in my mind.Karyn Kasuma's Girlfight comes close, but it falls short in a similar way. Like Girlfight, when the bell rings, L and B backs off, like it's afraid women would rather watch talking heads than see their gender engaged in intense athletic competition. Grade C-  "},{"Title":"An Average effort, a decent film if you like light sports/romantic comedies","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This was a bit of a different kind of a sports movie. The director, unknown to me, has a decent debut here. Omar Epps is Quincy, a man who is in love with a girl who he has known since 11 years old, and both are really good up and coming basketball players. Epps is good in the role, not great, but solid. Sanaa lathan however was not so great in my eyes, I just didn't feel for her character much. Dennis Haysbert, one of the better supporting actors these days, gives a fine performance as Quincy's ex-pro basketball player father. The film is decent, screenplay is so-so, has some cliché's, the romantic scenes and arguing scenes between the 2 were not to great, but overall, its just an average movie, nothing else. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Love, Basketball and Lack of Chemistry and Empathy","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The structure of the screenplay of Love & Basketball is divided in four quarters it begins in 1981, when Monica, a young girl who loves basketball, moves to the house on the next door of Quincy's, also a basketball fan, and they begin a friendship due to their passion for the sport. The next two quarters are developed in 1988/89, when Monica Wright (Sanaa Lathan) and Quincy McCall (Omar Epps) join the USC, where they study and play basketball. They are together and in love, but Quincy ends their romance, due to personal problems in the breast of his family. The last quarter is in 1993, when Monica is playing in Barcelona, in the Vigo team, and Quincy breaks the ligament of his knee in a game America. Love & Basketball is not a bad movie, but something is missing to be a great film. One of its problems is the total lack of chemistry between Sanaa Lathan and Omar Epps they are good actress and actor, but they do not have any chemistry to perform the role of a romantic couple. Further, it is impossible to feel any empathy by their arrogant characters their attitudes along the story are sometimes even nasty, specially regarding Quincy. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Além dos Limites (Beyond the Limits) "},{"Title":"I have seen this movie over a thousand times. It gets better every time a see it. I tell everyone I know that this movie is my autobiography. I play basketball and go after what I believe in. I recommend thi","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is the best movie I've ever seen. I give much props to the Gina, the director/writer. The first time I saw this movie I knew that it would be a big hit. Like I said before, this movie is and will always be a big hit. I love this movie so much, that I have two copies of the CD. I listen to one and keep the other one on my night stand. Thank you Gina for creating another wonderful movie that we can enjoy. "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  One of the most boring movies I've ever had to sit through, it's completely formulaic.  Just a cookie cutout of a movie, you could predict about every scene in the movie just from knowing the genre, as this movie adds nothing new.  The dialogue is never funny, interesting, or intelligent.  The acting is weak and the soundtrack is annoying - basically everything looks to have been done by an amatuer filmmaker.  Nothing fresh, memorable, or entertaining in this movie, combined with the fact that it is LONG gives it an easy thumbs down.  Sorry, fans.Overall Grade F "},{"Title":"Oh so corny!!!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I had high hopes for this one after reading earlier reviews but it was so slow and the plot so basic that well I wondered if I had read the wrong reviews.  Please, a boy meets girl next door at 11 and both aspire to love and being basketball legends.  Grow apart, but watch each others progress.  Guess what! Both get scholarships to same university and become lovers again until his father is caught out playing around with a younger woman. Our young hero unable to cope has lapse in court concentration but some how decides to go pro and drop studies, and guess what is picked up by Lakers.  Dumps the heroine because she was not there for him during this emotional period. So for 5 years they go their own way. She returns from Spain having lost the zest for the game and our hero is getting married in two weeks.  Mom tells her that she should fight for her love so she professes her on-going love and challenges him to a basketball shootout.  He wins he marries she wins he loves her.  Well he won but decides to dump other girl for our girl.  The End has her playing basketball and he has baby duties. Sorry 2 is my high score.  My partner she scored 0 for a soapy story for those who read Mills and Boon   "},{"Title":"Much More Complex Than The Title Suggests","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is a rather decent movie about the ups and downs in the relationship between Quincy (Omar Epps) and Monica (Sanaa Lathan), who meet at the age of 11 playing basketball, and whose lives intertwine from that point on, sometimes romantically and sometimes not. I wasn't really expecting too much from the title, but this is pretty good. Epps and Lathan put on good performances, although both come across as strangely low-key, considering that they are the stars of the show. I was very impressed with Dennis Haysbert, who played Quincy's father Zeke McColl, a former professional basketball player who follows his son's career with interest, while struggling in his own relationship with his family. In a relatively minor role, I was impressed by Christine Dunford as Monica's basketball coach at USC.The central focus of the movie, of course, is the relationship of Quincy to Monica. It's a wonderful tale of overcoming odds. But there are a number of sub-plots that are very interesting and take nothing away from the main storyline. The struggles of both Quincy and Monica as they pursue their respective basketball careers, and as they move in different directions - Monica becoming successful, Quincy struggling to make it; the troubled family relationships both have to endure, and in particular, Monica's with her mother, and Quincy's with his father. It all fits together very well. Yeah, the ending is a bit sappy and completely predictable, but otherwise, there's not much wrong with the story.So, why do I only give this a 6/10? For whatever reason - and this is strange I admit because the story is interesting enough - I found that this movie really dragged. It seemed much longer than the two hours it's supposed to be, and in spite of the good story I did find myself checking my watch every now and then wondering how long it would go. I really can't explain that, but it did detract from my enjoyment of the movie. "},{"Title":"He got game. She got game. They got love.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Love and basketball. The title says it all. A worthy and entertaining film, L&B explores the relationship between an African-American couple, both ballers, from its preteen beginnings into young adult life. The film is an entertaining blending of...well, love and basketball. Not Oscar material but worth a look. "}]