[{"Title":"No DVD release in the U.S.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This small Belgian film was the unexpected winner of the Palme d'Or at Cannes during the year when David Cronenberg and his panel of contrarians ruled. Because other, more popular films (All About My Mother, L'Humanité, The Straight Story) were passed over, Rosetta has received a reputation as an undeserved winner. I am here to proclaim it a great film and a worthy addition to anyone's Best list. I have not researched whether or not the director of Rosetta set out adhere to Dogma 93 principles, but many of them are present &#150; no movie makeup, natural light, natural locations, no soundtrack music, and hand held cameras. The camera follows one person &#150; the title character &#150; so that just about every shot is either of her or from her point of view. Rosetta lives with her alcoholic prostitute mother in a camping trailer at a run down campground called The Grand Canyon. She is in her late teens, doesn't have any friends (except one she meets during the course of the story) or even communicates much with other people, and is only interested in getting a regular job and living a normal life. In a remarkable episode, we see her in bed just before going to sleep. She is having a conversation with herself that goes, You have a job. I have a job. You have a friend. I have a friend. You have a normal life. I have a normal life. Good night. Good night. Rosetta is played by Émilie Dequenne (who won Best Actress at Cannes). She is so good, so natural, so much *Rosetta* that, along with the photographic technique, she gives the material a documentary feel. One reviewer even called her a non-actor as if she were not a professional actress (this is her first movie role) and had been picked right out of that campground to play her own life. The film goes by quickly even as the plot unfolds slowly. We follow Rosetta as she travels her city by foot and bus looking for work, catching fish to eat from an urban river, and tentatively letting one other person into her routines. Sometimes character motivation may seem murky, but it is a thrill, later, when you realize what was really going on. If I remember correctly, there is only one brief dialog exchange near the end where one person explains plot points to another for the audience's benefit. The ending is a tender moment that may indicate a new stage in Rosetta growth. Highly recommended. A beautiful and deeply felt film. "},{"Title":"Dispassionate fury","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Rosetta 3 or 4 months ago and it has stayed vividly in my mind. I would like to respond to two other commentaries here which compare Rosetta to earlier films.One commentary compares it to Nights of Cabiria. But this is no pastoral fantasy like the Fellini. Another contributor calls Rosetta a fake Bresson. Presumably the point of comparison is with Bresson's Mouchette, and it's a good comparison to make, but I don't think it is one that diminishes Rosetta. Both Mouchette and Rosetta capture the flow of time and the characters' interior worlds realistically, but with realisms which are quite different. Mouchette's struggle is a spiritual one; Rosetta's struggle is with her physical conditions.To make a comparison of my own, albeit an off-the-wall one, Rosetta's determination is strangely like the pure will-power that Lee Marvin demonstrates, barging into the Organisation's HQ in Point Blank. Maybe this forceful quality is what makes it a war film.The film-makers do the opposite of sentimentalising Rosetta's conditions as Fellini would have done. Arguably, they even go past Bresson, if you tend to a materialist rather than a religious point of view. They argue how poverty operates, how surviving it involves anger.There is one moment when Rosetta slips in a lake and we understand exactly at the moment she does, that she may in fact drown. Not a moment that's easy to forget.  "},{"Title":"Well acted and painfully sad one camera film","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film relies mainly on one camera to capture every little action and detail of the lead character, Rosetta, especially in her reactions to the despair she suffers throughout the film. I caught this one on IFC on May 23rd. The acting is so realistic, it is hard to imagine that the story is fictional and is shot in a documentary type style, where the hand held camera follows the actors, sneaks glimpses of their world in much the same way an ENG crew would on a story about poverty in a small European town where the economy is so bad there is little one can do to survive outside of desperate acts. In this case, Rosetta, the young girl with an alcoholic mother, lives in a trailer with no heat, has to sell re-sewn clothes to make a meager existence until she finally sees an opportunity open up for a job selling waffles at a small stand in a high traffic part of town. A young man who works there is smitten with her and offers to split some earnings from selling waffles he makes outside of his boss's knowledge. To tell you what happens next would give away the rest, but suffice to say this film is bitterly realistic, terribly sad and the ending is rather sudden but it shows some promise for the characters. The movie is shot with almost no budget, but some great camera work, some scenes a little long but edited fairly well, no music, and subtitles under the French dialog. It deserves awards for telling a very credible story demonstrating hardship of the poor in Europe and what measures one has to take to survive. I was deeply moved and driven to weep during painful scenes of the lead character's despair and what seems to be a hopeless situation. The character is genuinely portrayed by a young actress from Belgium performing extremely well for her first film role. Fine work by director and cast.  "},{"Title":"shattering, absorbing study of the human spirit","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rosetta breaks all of the rules of film making and comes up with an amazing drama of almost epic proportions. This is a heartbreaking film, in line with the Dogme 95 manifesto. No artificial lights, no music, shot on location, and with non professional actors. The best of these is inevitable- Rosetta herself, played by Emile Dequenne. Both film and actress won major prizes in Cannes. Just rewards for an astonishing peice of work.  "},{"Title":"A Subtle Masterpiece","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An example of a true drama, as opposed to a melodrama (Saving Private Ryan is a popular example of a melodrama that passes itself off as a drama). It's been a few years since I've seen it, so I'm fuzzy on the names, but the finest scene in the movie occurs as Rosetta serves customers at a kind of snack food stand. She had just recently 'stole' the job from her only friend in the film. Customer after customer is served, as we wait in suspense for a certain person to arrive--the very man who's job she took. He arrives...off-screen (!), but we know exactly who it is. The camera painfully lingers on Rosetta as we beg for it to pan right, or (even better) to look away. Excellent.  "},{"Title":"Does Rosetta Find a Way Out?","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The test of some performances is how much empathy you feel for an exasperating character you would normally not care for.  The actress Emilie Dequenne, especially in the final scene of Rosetta, really makes you glimpse why desperation drives some people to do the things they do -- although you may not totally understand. All the disgust and anger you feel toward her evaporates when you glimpse the soul of the character through her face.She does not know how to lift herself out of her circumstances.  Does she grow as a person or remain trapped like an animal?  You hope that her decision to leave the prize was made out of remorse for the betrayal of a friend. After the sudden ending, you pray she gets a new attitude and finds a way out.But I don't think she will.  The character is caught like a bird flapping around a cage and can't get out of the film's stoic vision. "},{"Title":"Loneliness of one who longs to belong.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this film quite effecting without ever straying into crass sentimentality. Rosetta is a young girl who is full of anger and yearning. She lives with a dysfunctional alcoholic mother in a caravan park. Little is given about her past but we can understand that due to her upbringing she has limited options available to her. Her desire to be find a job (any job) is both desperate and touching. For Rosetta the prospect of a job, even a job that many in middle class society (indeed the average art house cinema goer!) might regard as mundane and without prospects, represents to her a chance to escape the existence on the outskirts of society. Her drive however raises her above the mere status of victim, and it is a credit to the lead that she conveys so much of this, without it having to be spelt out.One thing I did find a little disconcerting was the wobbly camera technique, don't see if you are feeling a little nauseous as I was however this is only a minor criticism. Its around 90 minutes and I think well worth the investment if you like a good character based movie. "},{"Title":"Beauty","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, the best movie of 1999.Definitively, underlining the existence of a master-piece called Mouchette is a must. Though Dardene brothers are not changing the cinematographic language as Bresson did, their movie almost attains in a few moments both the beauty and the intensity of Bresson's master-piece. Only a true artist can repeat the suicide of Mouchette succesfully (and, without any doubt, the moving final sequence belongs to the history of cinema with all merits). I'd like to point out also the magnificent use of music in this film (you could hardly find two movies a year in which the music is not a nuisance nowadays, some directors should limit themselves to the music that comes from the scene itself -a radio, a piano...- ) it appears only once, and is a messy, distortioned home recording of drums, which serves the co-starring as an excuse to dance with Rosetta. To those who are looking for a contrast in the movie, it's precisely this boy and specially this scene the ones that offer a way out.Do the people that need to know why Rosetta is like that also want to know why the birds attack the humans in Hitchcocks classic?Is it possible to construct such a character without showing, by repetition of sequences, the redundance of Rosettas' life? Is it possible such a beauty in the final sequence without the proper patient use of time? "},{"Title":"It's a hard life -- crude and bitter medicine harsh poverty unabashedly delivered and desperation complete","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is beyond the intensity of Gary Oldman's Nil By Mouth, and Tim Roth's The War Zone, while Erick Zonca's Dreamlife of Angels seems heavenly compared to the conditions presented in Rosetta by Luc and Jean-Pierre Dardenne.  A down right harsh film. Unsparingly direct depiction of a young girl's poverty struggle. She is as tough as she can be. She fights vigorously to hang on to a job. She cares for her mother, a helpless alcoholic, and a seamstress when not drunk. Rosetta (Emilie Dequenne) is unrelentingly stubborn about receiving kindness, or food unsolicited. She has her dignity. A young person with so much burden on her shoulder and a heavy heart.Things may be seemingly repetitive again and again we see her crossing that traffic roadway, jumping into the bush trail; we hear the rustling leaves, the thumping of her footsteps; we watch her stopping by the hideout where she kept her rubber boots, changing her only good pair of working shoes; we follow her as she crawls through the wire fence loophole, arriving at the campers  -- feels like a mindless routine.  Yet, she's intensely single-minded on getting a real job (vs. moonlighting) and to have a normal life, not to fell into a rut. At one point, we can almost be happy for her to have found a friend in Riquet (Fabrizio Rongione), a waffle street van vendor. She actually was able to peacefully sleep that night. Only to wake up and report at work to be told she's again out of a job. A devastating blow. Out of desperation, she did something that most of us viewers may not be able to comprehend -- but what do we know of her travails, who are we to judge her action?It was not easy for her to have done what she did -- she did hesitate and took the risk. She risked her newfound friendship -- she desperately needed to have a job. In a way, she has lack tenderness, love and warmth for so long that she's numb to human kindness -- she needs to be thawed! One has to be patient with her, to give her time and see through her tough surface and rekindle her heart.  Trust needs to be rebuilt for her to continue living and tackle difficulties afresh!This is no Hollywood fare. Dialogs are few. No exploitative, explosive, abusive scenes. We're given the bare structure of the story, and Rosetta, plus the sparing few supporting characters, held the movie steadily intact. "},{"Title":"totally intense","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i think, this movie is an intense experience in real life from the first to the last minute.maybe the camera is a little bit uncommen in the beginning; but very  soon you forget about that and you get drawn into the plot. well there are not too many things happening, but what's happening is just like real life. in some way this movie ressembles the dogma95-films, but is much more authentic, as it takes place in some sort of sub-proletariat and not inthe middle class with its phoney-problems. "}{"Title":"Crash Dive","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One time Palme d'Or winner, now forgotten, the Dardenne brothers' Rosetta stars Emilie Dequenne as Rosetta, a teenage girl trying to escape an alcoholic mother, her decaying trailer park (ironically titled Grand Canyon, an abyss which sucks in an entire underclass) and her apparently dead-end existence. The film recalls Robert Bresson's Mouchette, but is shot with fierce, angry hand-held camera work, which mirrors Rosetta's own bottled up rage and desperation. One passage, in which the seventeen year old Rosetta is virtually exploited by a company for cheap labour, led to Belgium changing several laws, banning employers from paying teenage workers less than the minimum wage. It's a tiny, condescending, almost insignificant real-life gesture, but the kind of little gestures which keep today's Rosettas alive nevertheless.The film isn't only about Rosetta's daily struggles for survival, but the blind eyed turned toward an entire stratum of society. Rosetta is a member of a socio-economic class which the world refuses to deal with, let alone acknowledge. Like a disease, she finds herself being pushed further and further out.Rosetta is heavily influenced by Bresson's Mouchette, another film which revolved around a marginalised girl who cares for a burdensome mother. And like Bresson, the Dardennes focus on their heroine's own private rituals the taking off of muddy boots, the scrounging for and preparing of food, the tending to an alcoholic mother etc. And all the while, Rosetta's plotting how do I escape this? What future will I be allowed? At the end of Mouchette, Bresson's heroine seemed to resort to suicide, rolling into a muddy pond. The pond features in Rosetta as well, though here it is both a source of life and death. Rosetta goes to it for fish, for food, for escape, while later, when a friend falls inside it, she initially refuses to save him. After-all, with him dead, she can inherit his business and perhaps make some money. It is in her best interest to ignore him, to discard his body and turn away as society does to her. But of course she doesn't. She fishes him out. Unlike the world, she views him, if only for a moment, as a kindred spirit rather than a competitor.Still, suicide factors into Rosetta as well, for our hero does eventually regard it as her only mode of escape. Ironically, like Bresson's The Devil Probably, she must pay for her own suicide. Even her death has been commodified. In this way, the film not only exposes the indifference of contemporary capitalism, in which economic disparities grow by the day, in which class has become a bigger distinction than nationality, language, religion etc, but highlights a certain impossibility of morality. Rosetta saves a life, but in doing so may have destroyed her own future.8/10 &#x96; Not as aesthetically strong as similar modern movies in its field (Wendy and Lucy, Mouchette, Land of Plenty etc), or the Italian neo-realist, British kitchen-sink and French new-wave films which inspire it. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Utterly remarkable","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes you see a work of art and it knocks you out - it's all you can do for days and days to come to get it out of your mind. And you try to find a way in your mind to bring yourself closer to it, immerse yourself in it.  You'll read everything about it that you can, try to find some more of the artist's work, find everything you can to do with it.  All this to try and replicate the feeling that you experienced when you first encountered the piece.  This is the effect that I've been trying to achieve since I saw Rosetta at 1999's London Film Festival. Though some have attributed Rosetta's success at Cannes to the last-day syndrome; whereby the film that stays freshest in the panel's minds is the one that wins, it smacks of cavilling to suggest that this is the reason behind Rosetta's success - the simple fact is that it's a remarkable film which was only seriously rivalled this year by Almodovar's All About My Mother. Ignorance and snobbery have constantly been at work when Rosetta has been considered by critics, since it's a film which has divided the critics.Top of the list of things-to-hate about Rosetta is the Dardennes' decision to shoot hand-held, an objection which I can understand but barely comprehend.  Rosetta is a film which follows its heroine.  Therefore, by mounting the camera almost on her shoulders, we see the world as she sees it, just as we see the world as she thinks it throughout the rest of the film.  Most perfect is a scene when she is lying in bed at the house of Ricquet, her (only) friend, when she reassures herself that she's normal, she's found a friend, a *true* job and that she won't fall into the hole. Seldom is a more perfect and more touching marriage and explanation of the inner-self and its outer-conflicts achieved? - it's just magnificent cinema.Rosetta is a fighter, but although her conflicts are with individuals, in a literal, physical sense, the metaphorical struggle is with the societal brick wall which she comes up against when trying to forge 'une vie normale' for herself.  She's fighting against society for the right to live a life; she's fighting against society for a modicum of dignity. In this way, Rosetta is both existentialist and political, though never overtly, much to the credit of the Dardenne Brothers, since Rosetta is a 'universal' film. The question which Rosetta poses is how we can release ourselves from the trouble we are in.  Rosetta believes, and has been taught to believe (ironically, by society) that the way that she can achieve this dignity is by getting a 'true' job - so much so that she phones her boss to tell him that she won't be at work before her suicide attempt. She doesn't see that it's through Ricquet, not through having a job (his job) that she stands the best chance of forging a true identity, a true life and true dignity.Rosetta is, in effect, just a proletarian hero, fighting society for the right to live and the right to work.  However, to see the film in this way is reductionist in the extreme and is self-defeating.  Rosetta is, above all, an individual.  Her victory is to see that she has a friend who was there all along, and this gives us a remarkable ending that is full of drama; packs a considerable emotional punch and is unforgettable, thanks especially to a stunningly naturalistic performance by Emilie Dequenne, who won an award at Cannes for her portrayal of Rosetta.  Her interpretation of the eponymous heroine lends so much to the film that she is as much responsible for the brilliance of the film as the directors are.This film will never be a hit with middle-class and middle-class, middle-brow critics it in the same way that Schindler's List and The English Patient were; the bourgeoisie never want to get their hands dirty.  It's their loss; Rosetta is quite simply one of the most wonderful films you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"A harsh but superb portrayal of the brutalising effect of human hardship.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dardenne brothers were not incorrect when they called their Palme D'Or winning work a war film.. It is an unremitting portrayal of the most dire hardships, centred around Rosetta (Emilie Dequenne), a young, spirited girl who battles with desperate tenacity to find a job and not so much escape as merely survive in her surroundings. Her life is a bleak struggle for subsistence in a world devoid of tenderness, in which her mother (Anne Yernaux), a quasi-prostitute more concerned with the source of her next drink than her daughter, stands as an example of the potential results of such continued deprivation. When she is befriended by a waffle vendor (Fabrizio Rongione), her prior existence leaves her unsure of how to act in the presence of an affectionate, concerned face, and when he attempts to teach her to dance, she can do no more than move jerkily without rhythm, uncomfortable in the arms of another human. The arisal of an opportunity to take his job forces Rosetta to confront whether physical necessity can ever be an excuse for the betrayal of others.What follows is a superbly wrought piece of social realism, unsentimental in its examination of the dehumanising effects of poverty. For Rosetta and many others in analogous situations of the most dire physical hardship, their material deprivation leads to an erosion emotional and mental qualities. The Dardenne brothers' ruthless directional style, laced with close-ups and unpleasant details, tangibly conveys the dirt and drudgery of Rosetta's impoverished life. Indeed, the film is palpably cold, almost painfully explicit in its depiction of an uncaring world. In addition, Dardenne's performance, for which she won the Best Actress Award at Cannes, brings to life with understated excellence her fight, not to live well, but simply to survive by any means in a world that, for her, contains few hopes and no love.The Dardenne brothers make no excuses or apologies for their presentation of Rosetta's base strivings, delivering a film that charts how far individuals can fall. Consistently raw and at times brutal, the film nevertheless proposes no answers, expects no sympathy, it merely conveys and evokes with a clear, uncompromising eye the bleak struggle for existence that is, for some, the total of what life has to offer. Harsh, but utterly compelling viewing.  "},{"Title":"life is a great gift so fight as strong as you can to keep it safe.","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rosetta is one of the most greatest productions about fighting to live in the cinema industry.life is a valuable gift so you should protect it by being as strong as you can.I think this is the main message of the film.Emilie Dequenne in the role of Rosetta would remain in the memory of cinema forever.She didn't speak that much but she was such a professional actress that showed all her feelings in her face.The scene that Rosetta spoke with herself before sleeping was fantastic.Technical features such as carrying camera on hand and using no music even at the end of the film,make us to believe that this is going to be a special documentary. "},{"Title":"Deservedly praised","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like most viewers I was initially surprised by the abrupt ending but after running it around in my head it finally made perfect sense. This is the moment when she is finally able to see beyond the psychological wall she has built up around her. She sees the man stood before her who has been trying to help her throughout and therefore the story ends on a positive note. The camera-work manages to bring out the human story and I did get the sense that this was a person who is trapped by her circumstances and having to face the daily assault that is her life. We do not choose our parents and Rosetta had the task of taking on the adult role while her mother assumed the irresponsible daughter caught drinking. The scene in the pond was deeply disturbing. To think that a mother is that far gone that she would not hear the cries of her own daughter. The desperation that Rosetta feels at trying to fit in and just simply get a job is deeply felt. The scene at night where she mutters to herself her basic needs I found extremely moving.The struggle of life is difficult to watch but ultimately rewarding and Cronenberg did cinema proud by awarding its highest honour to this marvellous work by the Dardenne brothers. "},{"Title":"Better than La Promesse","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Social realism with an edge. One camera, one actress, everything stripped to the bone, down to the rules of survival. Verité to the max, the single hand-held eye of the film follows a teenage girl (Emilie DeQueene) on the fringe of extinction, poor almost to the point of homelessness, saddled with an alcoholic quasi-prostitute mother, desperate for work, for some semblance, any semblance of normality, doing everything humanly possible to keep her head above water, at one point quite literally almost drowned by her mother.Life at the razor's edge, reduced to the basics, shows us what we are, what we are made of and need most but take for granted, forget as soon as we can. None of us want to think of what we might turn into if trapped like an animal. This is a proletarian lesson, a lesson in the dignifying value of work, of belonging, of one's right to selfhood in society. As materialistic as the USA is, one will never find an American film this brutally honest about our relation to our means of survival.All alone in the world, Rosetta jettisons everything, all attachments, any superfluous connection to humanity, coldly focusing what little remains on ol' numero uno. What would you? The film details every little exigency she must overcome just to move and breathe with the rest of us, follows her every stratagem to eke out a bare existence, down to every single small possession essential to her urban expeditions, down to the mud she digs her hands into to find worms for bait.The underlying conflict, the real theme of it all becomes clear only in fragments What's the point of living for oneself, by oneself, reduced to a jungle animal? She finds the answer in the most stark and extreme of terms, having been to hell and back. "},{"Title":"The resolute failure of placing the value of economic determinism and its perceived happiness over the more humanistic pursuit of the joys, wants, and basic needs of the human condition.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film that continually details the fundamental survival qualities of the title character-a basic premise infusing her ability to cope and her morality. I like to think of Rosetta as the anti-Citizen Kane. The conclusion of both films focuses on the resolute failure of placing the value of economic determinism and its perceived happiness over the more humanistic pursuit of the joys, wants, and basic needs of the human condition. Rosetta however comes at this conflict from the most basic, sparse end of the spectrum-one that more people should be able to relate to.Often compared to Robert Bresson's Mouchette, Rosetta's conclusion is perhaps best described as 'Bressonian.' In the end we see a young woman stripped of everything-at her most desperate and most defeated. Yet she has given up, thrown in the towel because of the nature of her character as opposed to the extensively defeating circumstances that she's burdened under. Her final glance at the camera tells us how far she has been reduced. Her eyes are reaching out, unlike her past displays of anger, frustration, or selfishness, but instead with the least obstructed countenance she's capable of offering. Just one small human cry for help-and yet it means everything.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful actress and terse shots result in a movie bursting with empathy","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As with Breaking the Waves, the documentary style of this film invites you to drop your guard, relax your detachment... and then the movie hooks you with a ferocious performance by Emilie Dequenne, who plays Rosetta, a teenager from the Belgian underclass coping with the despair of her predicament while dreaming of a normal life. She's different, of course, and it's this difference that makes for a story worth watching. FIrst of all, she will do almost anything to get that normal life. Second, she has a sense of dignity. These two impulses will clash. It's a simple plot, but Dequenne fuses the disparate impulses in her character so well that it riveted me to my seat. This film also reminded me that cinema at its best has a gaze that goes much deeper than surfaces. Dequenne is not a conventional Gallic beauty a la Sophie Marceau, yet her portrayal of Rosetta's steely fragility made her simply beautiful. "},{"Title":"Expressive of both Psychological and Physical Pain","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the viewpoint of an American who may misunderstand the politics and social aspects of European nations, it may be difficult to understand why Rosetta does not pursue social services that can extract her from the misery of her existence. It would appear that she and her mother may be on the dole, as they manage to subsist, but evidently there are limits. It is evident that there are some who inevitably fall through the cracks, and are not fit for anything other than tedious, menial work - - albeit very noble and sometimes adequate-to-lucrative. Our first sight of her, exploding when she learns she is being laid off from her job, is an early clue that there is a psychological or mental flaw. Possibly a learning disability held her back in her education? It would appear that the dismal state of her mother's alcoholism has caused her to be deeply depressed. It is a poignant scene when her mother is so desperately resisting being put into rehab that she shoves her daughter into the pond and abandons her. Rosetta is terrified, and there is a very real danger that she will drown, as the bottom is too slick to gain footing. She narrowly escapes death, while being ignored by her dear mother. I think one major clue to Rosetta's seeming inability to deal is the way she self-treats a lingering abdominal pain. She seems to be having a gynecological difficulty, such as endometriosis or ovarian cysts, which can afflict young women and cause blinding pain. Sturdy girl that she is, the propane canister she carries at the end of the film drives her to tears, not from the weight of the canister, but from the aggravation of the abdominal pain that never leaves her. She may have a streak of pride that prevents her from seeking publicly assisted medical treatment, and a modesty about herself and repugnance of anything sexually related, stemming both from her own physical problems and from observing her mother. The fact that the boy whose job she stole and who is at first treating her with contempt but helps her up, raises the possibility that there is some hope of forgiveness and redemption for her. She is an extremely absorbing character, intriguing because the film leaves so much unsaid. I liked the actress, the character, and the story very much. "},{"Title":"Polished, and painful","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rhythmic, textured, highly expressive film.  As others have shown, it's possible to project explicit political themes onto its mere slip of a (non-)story.  But doing so would burden this delicate, almost miniature piece with an unbearable weight . . . and it would also distract from the beautifully realized aesthetic elements.  It's interesting how Dogme 95-influenced films are so often described as `realistic,' as it's hard to imagine more a more creative or polished technique than we see here.  The use of sound is particularly noteworthy--no music could have been more artfully managed than the put-put-put of that little motorbike (sometimes used to get us to laugh, sometimes as surprising and menacing as a rattlesnake).  And the frequent close-ups of Émilie Dequenne's face almost immediately force us into an understanding of the character, one which becomes almost as painful for us, given the decisions she makes, as Rosetta's ulcers must be for her.  In the end, we may feel like we've seen little new here, but the Dardenne brothers have at least given us a window into the world of a fierce and fiercely sad human being, and as it turns out, that's more than enough.  8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Le fabuleux destin de Rosetta.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Simply,Rosetta is the best fin de decade European movie.I have to search my memories to find something vaguely recalling Dardenne's workmaybe Robert Bresson's Mouchette or Kenneth Loach's darkest hour.French cinema generally does not like those who have been left out of economic growth.Rosetta and the boy are on the wrong side of town.She lives in a seedy trailer with her alcoholic mother who's always ready to sleep with the first to come if he provides her with a bottle.She refuses charity,she claims dignity and dignity means work.To get a job ,Rosetta would do anything.Desperate,she tries to steal the boy's onehe sells waffles in a van.When he nearly gets drowned,she is tempted to abandon him to his fate!Later she becomes an informer and exposes his little swindles to his boss.Dardenne does not judge.He knows we are able to understand that,in this world,conventional moral has got no sense.Besides ,Rosetta confesses to the bewildered boy she wishes he had sunk.The form is absolutely stunning and fits the content like a gloveclose shots,at best medium,but no panoramics at all,a tight editingthe director does not want us to take pity on this place where human beings feed themselves with waffles , hard-boiled eggs,or French bread (luxury),where they carry heavy gas bottles without even a wheelbarrow,where they fish in the river to get something to eat without even a fishing rod.Actually we know nothing about Rosetta but her first name.She is the embodiment of poverty as Victor Hugo's Cosette was in les misérables during the nineteenth century(the two names almost sound the same).Rosetta is the cries of the oppressed.A disturbing overwhelming movie. "},{"Title":"Tragically Watchable","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very tragic tale...almost comes off like a documentary with the hand-held camera work, which was dizzying at times. The lead actress was excellent and the girl's determination to lead a normal life was admirable, although at times heartbreaking. Watching her go through her everyday routines was fascinating.I did also find that I wasn't pleased with the ending...didn't really conclude in any meaningful way for me..but it is the closest I've ever been to getting inside the head of someone who is struggling just to stay alive on such a basic level. I kind of wish that the ending had been more clearly spelled out..on the other hand I know that's very American of me)  "},{"Title":"A film that haunts and stays with you for years after watching it","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Re-watched this film recently out of interest and vague, powerful memories of the lead actress, Emile Dequenne. I was very happy to have revisited it. In the years since seeing it, I have caught up on all the Dardenne brother films, and consider them to be among my favorite directors, observant, gentle, and tuned into a world I personally know very little about. His characters are alien to me - and indeed alienated themselves, though I grew up in Belgium I did not know anybody like Rosetta. The impact of a Dardenne brothers film is very intense, and are often very cathartic. Rosetta is no different. Filmed very sparsely, leaving characters with very little place to hide and ultimately displaying a profound vulnerability. It really belongs among the greatest films. "},{"Title":"Fight Against Circumstances","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It really is a shame there is no decent distribution for this film in the US. Rosetta is a film that deserves one. Rosetta is a poor girl fighting against the circumstances of her life. She fights a futile effort to keep a job to make a steady wage to be able to move out of the trailer park where she is stuck with her alcoholic mother. Being a teenager she gets a lower wage and does not get to work a job long enough to get unemployment or has not been unemployed long enough to get hired long term. She wants a normal life so badly but something seems to happen to get in the way. I could not help but draw many parallels to Robert Bresson's film Mouchette which is also about a girl living a tragic life. Unlike Mouchette though Rosetta is trying to do something about it and will fight the world if needed. There is a very touching scene where Rosetta gives herself a pep talk before going to sleep. She has a normal job, a friend and a normal life and she will not falter. Like always though circumstances are working against her.The Dardenne brothers shot this film with hand held cameras and you can tell with the way it moves and sways as it tries to keep up with Rosetta who is constantly moving. It almost seems if she stands still for too long she will be stuck in her impossible situation forever. The Dardenne brothers as always do a great job of shooting the film with natural lighting in long takes often following the character almost if she is an animal in the wild and if they get too close she will run away. All throughout the film Rosetta suffers from sudden and extreme cases of stomach pain. This pain is never given a cause but the amount of different probable reasons that she might have this pain shows just further displays the challenges Rosetta must face. She uses a hair dryer on her stomach to ease the pain and the viewer cannot help but feel that this might just be a replacement for the human warmth Rosetta does not have in her life. Emilie Dequenne gives a subtle yet powerful performance of this woman who is in a desperate struggle against the hand she was dealt in this life. "},{"Title":"...physically there, with her","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Rosetta several weeks ago - and I still fail to recall any movie which could convey such an immediate sense of being pysically there, all the time along Rosetta's everydays' war. We are bombarded and flooded with images 16hours per day, it takes great stregth of vision, of images, atmosphere and characters to grab at you this effectively in year 2000! Rosetta struck my as a very real encounter, with all the nonsense and ups / down of real events and life... It made me feel more of life, made me think of it more often and more intensely, it made me look into more eyes than I did before... Thank you, Luc and Jean-Pierre! and thank you, Emilie and all! "},{"Title":"A girl desperately tries to get a job at any and all costs.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dardenne brothers second treatise on the working class, coming on the heels of their similarly themed La Promesse, proves they are becoming the voice of the Belgian working class much the same way Ken Loach is the paragon of the social/realist movement in England. As in Promesse, we follow a young protagonist's attempts to find employment, in this case getting a job selling waffles (how Belgian!), while using her ingenuity to get by as well as being the defacto guardian to her alcoholic and loose mother. Eschewing unnecessary dialogue, the film is reduced to a series of looks, perceptions, and attitudes with Emilie Dequenne's firebrand portrayal of a determined jobless worker's plight is at once poignant, topical, and timeless.  "},{"Title":"Not a feelgood movie","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Most movies try to make you feel good. Even in the most violent or despairing films the writers always provide some sort of relief, usually a character you can identify with. Rosetta doesn't not offer this kind of relief. It's not violent in the usual movie fashion, and it's not even as bleak or extreme or hopeless as many social films (after all, it's only the story of a teenage girl who is looking for work), it's just that there is no this is just a movie after all escapism. Rosetta is a brute force in motion, obsessive, relentless, and her horizon, made of concrete or muddy Belgian suburbs, is also the movie's horizon (the camera is always focused on her or on what she sees, most of the times in close-up). The war movie comparison is really accurate  Rosetta is shot like the first 20 minutes of Saving Private Ryan and she spends her time running, attacking, retreating, attacking again, followed by an omnipresent hand-held camera. At the same time, and in spite of (or because of) its reality, her character is also elliptical, hard to pity and you're not likely to love her as you can love Ken Loach's characters, for instance. This is where the movie is a tour-de-force and truly original, but obviously some viewers will have trouble to enter Rosetta's world. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film (Not sad)","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like in Dardenne brothers films, in this one we witness how the main character makes a mistake because of hardships of life or because he/she is naive, then realizes the mistake and corrects it, eventually doing the right thing. No frills, no drama, yet so moving. When we watch this whole process with the kind of fantastic and unconventional closeness - the engrossing & realistic Dardenne-style of close up shots - we actually fall in love and sympathize with the main character - the girl Rosetta. This isn't a sad movie at all (like some people have commented), its a lovely movie that celebrates the spirit of being a normal human being, a must see for any cinema buff. Unlike ambiguous Hollywood films, Dardenne movies are simple and focused, the audience precisely and naturally sees what the directors want to say. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I caught this on digital cable a few weeks ago. I'm normally wary of these types of films (Lookit me! I am ART!!!) but I thought Rosetta was wonderful. The lead actress has an ethereal beauty, yet I could buy her as a trailer-park girl. There is a certain plot twist towards the end (I won't reveal it) which some might not buy, but I thought was heartbreakingly realistic for Rosetta's character. It was one of the few movies wherein I wished it wouldn't end because I desperately wanted to see what else happened to the characters. I hope the showings on digital cable give this movie some (belated) exposure in America.9 out of 10 ~Kurt "},{"Title":"i have problems with the fundamental style of this film","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film isn't without merit (it is a compelling story, it is acted wonderfully, etc) but I find one fundamental flaw....the camera work.  I'm told that it was made in the realist style of filmmaking, but watching this I do not get a sense of realism in the least.  Were we to actually get a glimpse into Rosetta's life...in a realistic fashion...we might actually get to see what she looks at.  Instead the camera trains on her for the entire film, almost never looking away, even when she herself is looking elsewhere.  How can this film claim to be an exercise in realism when the most basic element is anything but realistic?  Were the audience really following Rosetta around all day in person, we would hardly keep our eyes glued to her the entire time.  We would look around, we would see the world she lives in.  We would see who she is talking to.  We would actually see beyond the three-foot square scope of this film.  I'm not asking for Hollywood set-pieces.  The hand-held camera is fine, but keeping it locked on Rosetta the entire time limits the viewers ability to really experience her world the way she experiences it.  At least to me, realism requires that the story be captured in a way that is as close to actually being there as possible, which requires camera work that is willing to look away from the character, at least briefly, in the moments when she is interacting with something offscreen.  If the viewer cannot see what Rosetta sees, how then is the viewer supposed to experience what she experiences?  This film failed in that respect.  Maybe I'm just not one for the so-called realism genre, but to me this is not realism.  This is voyeurism. "}{"Title":"Compelling","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The camera work was often a little irritating, although it didn't really bother me THAT much. While the story of Rosetta is indeed depressing, I found it to be compelling, and despite the sometimes nauseating camera work, at no point did I want to give up on the film and quit watching. I wanted things to work out for Rosetta, even though it seemed doubtful that they would.  "},{"Title":"Très Bon Film!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cest un film que j ai beaucoup aimé! Its Great! It deserves the Palme d´Or Cannes! I loved it! It shows a face of the every day life of many nowadays... while some worry about things that are not really important, some others just have one thing to think or worry about will I survive one more day? And the open ending was good too... Alors, Merci Film director! "},{"Title":"Intense.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked the film, it's a very honest portrayal of a young woman on the edge, who becomes numb to life. The beginning really hooks the viewer.  The end is very sad, and I left the theatre feeling quite depressed.  That is a sign of a great film, I think, very powerful. "},{"Title":"Not as convincing as La Promesse","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must agree with some of the other comments that point out the overly single-minded hammering home of the point of Rosetta. It's a bit much overall, although the performances, especially of the title character, is quite excellent, and the overall direction is good.Plus, I do like when directors let you figure out the story yourself.Altogether, however, La Promesse is the better, more engrossing, less obviously agitprop film. "},{"Title":"An excellent film.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a perfect example of being able to shoot a beautiful movie without anything but a camera. The acting was excellent. It is one of the best acted movies I have seen, and without big name actors. I highly recommend seeking this movie out and watching it. "},{"Title":"Even with the steely determination and ruthlessness of any high corporate climber, some circumstances of poverty can threaten to plug anyone into hopelessness.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film, set in the French speaking part of Belgium, is a powerful piece of social realism.  As well, it does indeed use interesting and fresh camera perspectives, so unwaveringly physically close to the attractive young (17 or so) protagonist (Emilie Dequenne in her first film role) that it merges third and first person perspectives.   In this it is somewhat like the French film A Single Girl, only it takes the technique considerably further.  In Rosetta the perspective sometimes goes almost all the way over to first person, as when shot about one foot from her face at about 90 degrees, with a wide angle lens, as she determinedly strives from one task to another in her caravan park.  I agree by commentators below however that at times the camera is too unsteady.  That bit of low rent cinema realte could use a bit of stabilization.I was struck, however, by how poorly understood the overall narrative perspective or message of this film often is, judging by the other comments here.  Most seem to feel that the film, though it has interesting camera techniques, and is well acted by an interesting young lead, sends not only a depressing message, but also a confused and pointless one.  Or others have said it goes no deeper than saying life isn't fair, or that the circumstances of poverty can reduce the poor to atomistic, asocial competition, where they are impelled to turn even on their friends.Well, that's part of it, but it misses the larger point.There is no effort in this film to portray Rosetta as every girl -- who copes just like anyone else would in her situation.  No, her's is instead a striking personality, that pushes the boundaries in some ways.  She is not ordinary, but extraordinary.  Yet she is not randomly chosen.  I suspect she is in fact closely drawn from someone the writer knew in real life. Regardless, she is a well chosen extraordinary type.Rosetta is an answer to social Darwinists, or those who tend in that direction, in their philosophy of poverty, and how it can be readily escaped if people only bring the right stuff to the struggle.  I suspect that the prevailing (liberal to socialist) social ideology among those who tend to view and like films such as this has blinded most from even seeing that that is what this film is primarily addressing.  Rosetta is a Machiavellian striver, with a lot of personal qualities on the ball.  Yet she still can't get on a road to rise -- at least within the time ambit of this slice of her life.First the poverty that Rosetta finds herself in with her mother is extreme and unusual in a Northern European country.  It is obviously a result of her mother's extreme alcoholism.  They don't live in a fairly physically comfortable, if drab, flat in a public assistance building filled with other people, if usually dysfunctional ones full of raging against the established orders one way or another, along with some sort of fellowship.  They live in virtual isolation in a caravan park in a tiny one room mobile hut, of the sort designed to be pulled behind a car and used by the French lower classes for inexpensive summer vacations.  Usually these have considerable tent extensions for use in warmer climes and times of the year, but any such are missing here.  Her dumpy, unkempt, bloated (but one can see once cute) mother is a late stage falling down drunk, lost in utter hopelessness -- about as bad as it gets.  She isn't violent, but she is utterly self degraded. She matter-of-factly trades crude sexual favors to the caravan park manager to have the water turned back on.  We have to believe this and worse is nothing new.  Her daughter walks in on them as they are finishing, and simply demands a receipt for the paid utility bill.  The mother has drunk away all of her public assistance money, even though her deal with her daughter was that she would at least cover the utilities, while her teenage daughter somehow scrounges the rent.  Rosetta begs her mother to go to a treatment program for her extreme alcoholism, but the mother doesn't want to.  Soon afterwards her mother runs away, Rosetta runs after her, tries to stop her, tackles her, her mother worms free, and kicks Rosetta into the shallow caravan park pond, where she almost drowns in the viscous, quicksand-like, suspended mud, as her mother disappears over the fence. Rosetta at 17 or so is in the early stages of pregnancy.Rosetta is desperate to escape this hopeless poverty, but to somehow do it without abandoning her mother.  She does indeed campaign for real work, any steady job, like it is a glorious and crucial prize of war.  Living off of welfare or trying to game it is the last thing she wants -- that is the hopeless rut she is desperate to not fall into herself, as her mother so horribly has.  Her determination is fierce.  She strides everywhere at double time, just short of running.  Her eyes are steely determination. She gets trial period work, at least, at a bakery, and goes about her tasks with quick determination and focus.  She is all business and competence.  Soon she loses this job before the social welfare protections against firing without cause, and with benefits, kick in, as she has lost other ones.  In this case it's because the owner feels he has to give the position to a far less determined distant relative when he shows up.   (Of course it is this same social welfare scheme which has much to do with the difficulty of getting permanent jobs beyond the trial period -- and is a good part of why the unemployment rate in continental Western Europe is chronically around 10% or sometimes worse.  That is background the movie does not discuss, though continental Western Europeans will all be aware of it, with varying causal social interpretations of course.)She goes back to the bakery and other work places regularly, again and again, searching for stable, real, work. She is in the face of the owner -- 'is anything available'.  'It's too soon, too soon he keeps telling her -- try later'.  She won't take the social hint, and give up, or at least give up there.  She doesn't care how annoying she is -- but she stops short of actual physical aggression.  She doesn't act out in frustration and trash that place or any place.  Everything she does is calculated, and controlled. But she'll do almost anything to avoid the rut.We learn it is almost, rather than actually anything, when she starts down the path of killing to get ahead, staged as an intelligently conceived if perhaps spur of the moment accident.  But she pulls back, finds a long branch, and helps him escape the viscous bottomless muck in the same pond she almost drowned in.  She will do something else though.  Soon she ends up betraying the young waffle stand operator, only a few years older than she, who works for the bakery boss.  He is one of the few people who have tried to help her in a personal way, and to befriend her without even coming on to her, at least in any crude way.  But she is determined and she has something on him, something he has revealed to her to try to help her -- it is enough to get him fired and her hired in his place.Soon that too turns to muck.  Not because she doesn't do a good job.  She is all immediate competence, simply from her prior observation of him at work. But her mother has returned home after days of disappearance, collapsed outside the entrance to their mobile hut, and she needs care and motivation to live -- or will probably soon die.  Rosetta calls the boss and quits the waffle stand job she had been willing to do almost anything to achieve. As the movie ends she is hauling a too large for her cylinder of gas back to their caravan with an attempt at the same striding speed she has used in searching for work.  The young guy waffle stand guy she betrayed once again circles her on his motorbike, again and again, not hitting her, but harassing her, shaming her.  The movie ends with her collapsing on the gas tank with her first tears, hopelessly -- and with that same guy coming to her, relenting, and starting to hold her.  What will become of Rosetta?How much more determined could someone in her position be?  She is determined to not abandon the one most intimate human link of her life, with her mother, however desperately she is pulling her down, like the muck in that pond.  But Rosetta was willing to sacrifice just about anything else. She's as Machiavellian in her determination to get permanent, lasting work, to escape the rut of welfare hopelessness, as any fast track corporate climber or ruthless small or large businessman is to prevail.   Her social skills may be a bit lacking, but she has no platform whatsoever to work with.  And in fact her social ability isn't terrible -- people do respond to her determination, up to a point, and she doesn't senselessly antagonize anyone.  She also certainly doesn't play the game of the winsome ingenue who everyone can't help but adopt -- but how realistic is that usually?   She has seen her mother sell herself, and that or anything like it is not a route she will take.  She doesn't have time for friendship for its own sake -- although she does allow one with the young waffle seller quickly enough when she figures he can help her somehow.There may well be better ways to go about escaping from Rosetta's situation than the strategy she purses here, but this film certainly graphically illustrates how hard it can be.  The film's message is that the usual cliched nostrums from the political right of personal strength, determination and focus on work don't automatically or easily succeed when you are coming from circumstances this far in the gutter, at least in this social environment.  The reasons here have nothing to do with being waylaid (understandably or not)  by drugs, alcohol, the attraction of quick money crime, loyalty to loser friends, or social alienation.I'm not saying I necessarily entirely buy the film's message as a matter of social truth, if the message is that the situation for someone in Rosetta's position is nearly hopeless, at least while her mother is still pulling her into the muck -- though I accept it as a partial truth.  I would say, although perhaps the filmmakers might not, that high unemployment and large barriers to first permanent work created by the high employer costs of the social welfare system where she is have a lot to do with this situation. But of course none of that is remotely Rosetta's fault, or something she can easily overcome.  One wonders why someone as determined as Rosetta didn't find school a route up from her situation.  Of course the answer will be that she has since learned some life lessons, matured and changed, partly due to her pregnancy.  As well, what doesn't work immediately often does over time, and doesn't require as extreme measures as some which Rosetta resorts to -- which in fact can backfire.  Additionally, friendship and loyalty to friends is not only personally satisfying and morally attractive, it is also important in anyone's successes, minor or major.  It is not entirely a luxury best dispensed with if you are really desperate, as is Rosetta's decision.  But this is arguing social truth.  The film makes a graphic contribution to the dialogue that I am unlike to forget.Actually, it's not at all clear that the film is saying Rosetta cannot eventually climb out -- if she too doesn't succumb to hopelessness, as her mother did.  But we do see how hard it is for her not to do that, even with all the grit, determination and focus in the world on the right things to succeed -- even to the point of going well overboard.  That I think is the real point of Rosetta.  It deserved the award at Cannes. "},{"Title":"admirable but flawed film","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Those who were made queasy by the corybantic visual style of `The Blair Witch Project' had best have an air sickness bag handy for `Rosetta,' a film whose nonstop bobbing-and-weaving camera technique makes `Blair Witch' seem positively staid in comparison.`Rosetta' won a best actress award at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival for the stunning performance of Emilie Dequenne in the leading role.   It is safe to say that, not only is this fine actress present in virtually every frame of this 95-minute film, but the camera always seems to be shoved to within six inches of her face.  This technique, which shatters the illusion of privacy we all like to feel we have in our lives, is obviously designed to make the audience become more fully a part of Rosetta's drearily dysfunctional world and life.  And dreary it is as we follow her through her daily and seemingly insurmountable struggles to maintain employment, to cope with a slovenly alcoholic mother and to eke out some sort of respectable life without having to resort to either crime or welfare.  Yet, the most admirable aspect of the film is the way in which it refuses to sentimentalize the character one iota to make her more palatable to the audience.  Even though at one point we see her having a schizophrenic pep talk with herself as she is falling asleep &#150; convincing herself that she will one day be able to lead a `normal life' &#150; Rosetta is so emotionally cut off from the world and the people around her that we actually begin to question her mental health at times.  Even at the moments of greatest potential tenderness &#150; i.e. a scene in which a young man tries to teach her to dance -she never once cracks a smile.  Life for her has become a joyless chore that she must somehow get through, even though continued existence only brings the promise of more days like it.  We sense that Rosetta is not a `bad' person  (she obviously both loves and hates her mother at the same time).  She has simply been driven to acts of desperation by the exigencies of her bitter life.  Indeed, the single most admirable aspect of the character from a dramatic standpoint is her least admirable from a humanistic one.  She is so desperate for a job that she cruelly betrays, without a single qualm or moment's hesitation, the one person in the film who has ever reached out to her as either a helper or a friend.  This is a gutsy tack on the part of the filmmakers, as is the open-ended, inconclusive ending.  Wisely, the moviemakers know that, in a film whose very essence is raw-boned truth, a phony ending &#150; either too upbeat or too melodramatic &#150; would violate the spirit of the enterprise.  The filmmakers &#150; Jean-Pierre Dardenne and Luc Dardenne wrote and directed it - also demonstrate the utter faith they have in their material by allowing the action of the film to unfold completely without the benefit of background music of any kind.  Indeed, in another sign of cinematic bravery, much of the running time of the film is actually spent merely observing and recording `activity,' much of it the dreary day-to-day drudgery of Rosetta's chore-filled life.For all its undeniable virtues, `Rosetta' might have had more impact had it been made 40 or 50 years ago.  Back in that era, cinema-verite first emerged as a fresh and exciting antithesis to the bland slickness of commercial moviemaking &#150; via filmic movements such as Italian Neorealism and the New Waves of nations like France and Czechoslovakia.  Now, with that style having been done to death by filmmakers from all over the world, the hand-held camera acrobatics of films like `Rosetta' serve more as a distraction and distancing device than the approximation of reality that the filmmakers seem to want to capture.   Do we really see the world in this jumbled, bouncy way or does this camera-conscious style, paradoxically, achieve the unintended effect of actually heightening the artificiality of the film experience?  `Rosetta' could have retained its admirable tone of uncompromising objectivity and still emerged as a more potent, powerful and moving film by toning down the visual style somewhat.  Rosetta's personality and life are interesting enough without all this visual flamboyance.  We find ourselves wanting to step back and observe this intriguing world from a fuller, more comprehensive vantage point.  Still, this hectic, claustrophobic style may be just what the artists need to crystallize the desperation of poor Rosetta's mental and emotional plight.  `Rosetta' is, certainly, a fine, brave and intriguing film experience; it just might have had a bit more impact filmed in a different way.  "},{"Title":"Tough call","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can say I definitely did not like _Rosetta_. And I'm not saying that I didn't enjoy it. What, are you kidding? This movie is impossible to enjoy. I mean that I did not find it successful.It's the kind of movie that only exists to challenge its audience. I may not have been entirely up to that challenge. Watching a Dogma 95 film on four hours sleep and ten hours work was certainly not the best idea I've ever had. But I was certainly not the only one who felt that the final product was kind of a dud. I saw it in a theater with at least 90 other people, and there were a lot of moans and groans being uttered during the last ten minutes. And this wasn't just from a couple of people who may have accidentally wandered in an art theater by accident. Here are my complaints a film like this has to be saying something, and, in order to work, it has to make me think about the world around me, especially regarding our old friend, the Human Condition. _Rosetta_ only made me think about how exactly the film failed. Basically the moral of the movie is life sucks. It never questions why life sucks. Its conclusion, as far as I can tell, is that it just does. The major obstruction that arose in my mind during it were obvious similarities in theme, style, and character to The Dreamlife of Angles, which I regard as one of the best films of the 1990s. They are both about young women living in the lowlands (_Rosetta_ takes place in Belgium, _Dreamlife_ in Lille, France) who desperately need jobs to live, jobs which are extremely hard to come by. _Dreamlife_ has an edge over _Rosetta_, though. It shows us two different perspectives of this sort of life. One of the two main characters of that film cannot handle the life of poverty, whereas the other finds ways to deal with it. Their characters are well drawn, and we care about them. Heck, I think there are no other two characters from the 1990s (besides maybe Ben and Sera from Leaving Las Vegas) whom I know and love more.Most of _Rosetta_ is just the camera operator following Rosetta as she stomps all over town. She has a personality, but it doesn't go to far. She lives to survive, if that even makes any sense. All of her personality traits arise from a very survival of the fittest attitude (and Rosetta knows that she is not the fittest). This is realistic, to be sure, but it is very hard to care for her. She is so closed off to the world that I could not care all that much about her. If you met her on the street and said hello, I would guess that she would punch you. But look at the bitter woman from _Dreamlife_. Her character generally resides in her bitterness, but she has extra depth. As people usually are when they are bitter, she is very vulnerable and is bitter to, at least partly, keep people from knowing her. Thus, I cared much for her, and I wept profusely for her all throughout the film. Rosetta did not make me feel a thing about her.But here is what I like While I may not have been the least bit compelled by the character Rosetta, the actress playing her was great. This seems paradoxical, but I'll try to explain it. The character as written by the screenwriter has little depth. But there is some depth, and all of it comes from the actress. Her constant stomping leaves her mainly with a sharp frown, but the scenes where she is actually doing something, that actress is amazing. Her face is very expressive, even though the directors seem not to have wanted her to use her facial repertoire during most of the film. There were a couple of scenes which elevated the film for brief periods. There are two very painful scenes where Rosetta tries to stay at her current job. And the very ending, while I was quite disappointed in what the plot was doing with the characters, shows us one of the saddest faces ever filmed.I would never suggest that anyone watch this film, but in the future, if this actress gains any of the fame which she deserves, you may want to hunt this film down. You may dislike it, but it is worth seeing it just for her.So I gave this movie a 7/10, which is a pretty big stretch.ETA My original review of this film, written in June of 2000, can be found on IMDb. I am frankly embrassed by it (written at age 21), but I'm not going to erase it. It is, indeed, a harsh movie, one that's very single minded and quite small in its scope. It is, though, an extraordinarily powerful film that I thoroughly loved this time around. Emilie Dequenne just floors me. I like a couple of Dardennes films more, but her performance may be the best thing they've ever captured. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Rosetta Stone","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one that reels you in slowly. There's no wasted exposition. Like Clifford Odets 'Rocket To The Moon' we open right in the middle of a violent argument. The eponymous heroine is being fired and not taking it lying down. She feels she has a genuine beef but we never learn the real truth. What we DO learn is that Rosetta is, in all except name, a metaphor for the forgotten segment of large industrial societies. I can't speak for Belgium but in England there are thousands of teenagers of both sexes not only without work but not Interested in work so Rosetta, in her zealous, single-minded pursuit of even a menial job is almost too good to be true. The dramatic cards are stacked artfully against her, alcoholic mother, no father, not even a MENTION of a father, primitive home in a caravan park and, most unusual of all, not a SINGLE friend. The hand-held camera is content merely to follow her for long stretches of time punctuated by her enemies for in Rosetta's case every encounter is a battle. It remains an extraordinary chronicle with an extraordinary central performance. "},{"Title":"Best film ever made, by a wide margin.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've now seen this film a dozen times.  Every time I watch it, my thoughts race in so many directions at once and I am transfixed although I know every scene by heart.  This movie is all about getting close to that which is thoroughly opaque, and it is about dozens upon dozens of other monumental contradictions as well.  If you appreciate nothing else about this movie, at least pay attention to the closing scene, thoroughly beautiful anguish. Best film ever made, by a wide margin. "}{"Title":"Rosetta","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rosetta, like many of the Dardenne brother's films, opens in medias res, with a young girl confronting an employer about being fired. We are immediately aware of the before and after of these events, and can conclude that this is a regular occurrence for Rosetta, being exploited as cheap labour for a limited period of time, and having to make a loud disgrace of herself when told the unfortunate news. It's impact is so visceral that the film in fact has proved to be the catalyst for reform for youth workers in Belgium.Near home, we see her repeat the same actions over and over; crossing a four laned road, checking the fish traps, refilling her bottle, putting on and taking off her boots and exchanging them for her 'nice' shoes, go all over town in search of a job. These are not exciting in any sense, but you see how it weighs her down, having to return to these tasks over and over to ensure her survival. The Dardennes reused this technique in Two Days One Night, and repeatedly forced Sandra to walk up long pathways, inquire with numerous strangers, and knock and ask the same questions again and again, and build up a sense of dread that came with each refusal. As Rosetta trudges through this day to day cycle, and asks the same questions, we begin to realise that it is not only a matter of financial security, but also her own pride being wounded by every rejection. We see her utter dedication to leave this life even as she is so familiar and efficient in all its facets. Her mother is the opposing force to this; clearly in denial mental issues and whoring herself out for a drink or two. Rosetta hates her, and her mindset that seems so at peace with their destiny of living their lives out in a trailer park, but reacts with the same anger when her mother is clearly being taken advantage of My mother's not a whore! Her last vestiges of pride (throwing food away and refusing to beg or resort to charity) and her tough exterior are eviscerated in one startling scene of vulnerability and emotional distress - while trying to wrestle with her mother and convince her to apply for rehab, she is accidentally pushed into the river. Her mother's immediate reaction is so damning and harsh she flees like she flees the reality that Rosetta forces her to try and confront. And Rosetta herself, her gruff, defensive voice put on to shield her from any perception of weakness, becomes shrill and desperate as it calls for mommy, to no avail. She meets Riquet, a young waffle worker whom may be the first and only friend in her life. When he rides up to the trailer park, she is supremely embarrassed, but he does not show any signs of ill will or prejudice. He is in fact kind to her, and it is so unexpected for Rosetta that as she lays in his bed at night, she has to repeat to herself or risk falling asleep and never waking up to a 'better life'. She is numb and cold to his open and kind reception; when has this ever lead to something good in her life? And then, as he falls into the water as she once did, she hesitates because it might just open up a spot for her to take. This act is less convincing than revealing his side waffle business to the boss; because we do not see this sort of malice from her at all previously (the fighting at the beginning is more born of desperation), and it feels uncharacteristically cold, even for someone who is looking out for herself. But this lends power to Riquet's final action, because of this hint of hesitation - the Dardennes reverse it and for once in her life she finds a little spot of solace, of compassion, that is so genuinely honest and good, even as Rosetta has done all of those things to him. It is shot in the same way as all of the Dardenne's work, but perhaps because of the subject matter, it is an even more harrowing vision of the neo-realism aesthetic. Long takes and body language are used to depict the heightened senses of Rosetta and how they have been tuned as a result of this lifestyle and to ensure survival; as she picks up on stray dialogue in the background about money being left in a till, as her body stoops in resignation of having to help her drunk mother up again, and in a subtle moment, as she nervously glances off-screen briefly at Riquet, whom has come to the store to survey her in his old position. Sometimes, the physical shaking of the camera does get a bit excessive, and is relied upon rather than the actual desperation of the body and facial expressions. And like always, there is no music to speak of, no sentimental chorus or signalling of moment of change. Just a repeated mantra that is whispered to no one but herself, because if it is not reaffirmed, she may lose hope altogether. "},{"Title":"Rosetta and the search for a job","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rosetta (1999), directed and written by the now critically acclaimed Dardenne brothers , is a film with a simple premise, a young and impulsive girl, looking for a job. Nevertheless it was this film that won the Palme d'Or at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival, as well as the best actress prize for its portraying of the title character, played by Emilie Dequenne. Rosetta is the ultimate prove that these two brothers of cinema are masters in creating intensely naturalistic films about lower class life in Belgium. Rosetta tells the story about a young woman that wants to find a job at all costs. She knows that her own life is falling apart before her eyes and tries to avoid this by any means necessary. In her search for a job Rosetta has to deal with an alcoholic mother, with whom she lives together in a rickety trailer. The search for work becomes almost as a metaphor for going to war, she won't stop until she has the stable life she is longing for. Along the way she makes a friend, Riquet, with whom the relationship is one of an awkward and weird nature. As mentioned earlier Emilie Dequenne received the best actress prize for her portrayal of the title character. Leave aside that this was deserved or not she convinces us as a girl with a grim determination who's mainly relying on her instincts. Although the Dardenne brothers know how to perfectly blend a good casting with an effective use of camera. The film never makes any effort in portraying Rosetta as a heroine, she isn't winning neither sympathetic. It's in these aspects that lies the true subversive power that this film possesses. Upon watching this film you'll learn that the title is kind of misleading. This film is about the determinism of being employed, which is synonymous for Rosetta with happiness. The only problem is that it's her point of view because as soon as she gets a job she still isn't happier than before. It leaves us, as the viewer, wonder 'Has this girl ever learned to have happiness and can employment alone make our lives more stable?'Rosetta feels at times very claustrophobic, although it has an universal theme. This is due the stylistically straightforwardness of Alain Marcoen's cinematography helped with a handheldcamera style. It gives the film the feel of a small European art movie, which it is to some degree, if not in its totality. It's thanks to this style of filming that the movie is so exceptional at maintaining an objective view into the world of Rosetta. In the end Rosetta proved to be the big breakthrough of the Dardenne Brothers and a breakthrough that was well deserved. It even inspired new laws surrounding the labor of teenagers in Belgium such as preventing employers from paying teenagers less than the minimum wage. This is a fine example of the influence of filmmaking on society, especially if it is as good as Rosetta. Instead of resting on their laurels the Dardenne brothers made a notable selection of critically acclaimed films such as Le fils (2002) or L'infant (2005). Although, personally, Rosetta is a grand introduction into their amazing body of work and style. "},{"Title":"Les Miserables, XXth (vhs)","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having watched all my DVDs, now i watch and review my VHS tapes collection, mostly movies and shows that I taped between 1991 and 2001. My first tape features this movie which was a recommendation from a Greek friend if my memory is correct. Watching it is like taking a punch in full face as this world is bleak, gloomy, desperate. Rosetta is young adult, with attitude problems, stomach illness, dysfunctional parent, living in a camping and jobless. For one time, cinema is something else than glamor or entertainment and opens the medium to often forgotten people. A seemingly hand-held camera keeps sticking to Rosetta so the movie is natural, dynamic and unpredictable. It says much about modern poverty and how much our societies have become individualistic and forgets the genuine compassion. In a way, it should be a must see for our coddled abusive and ignorant politicians when they denounce jobless people as lazy, swindler because it would show them what's poverty really means ! "},{"Title":"Searching for a way out","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Belgian brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne wrote and directed 'Rosetta', winner of the Palm d'Or at Cannes in 1999, a film about an adolescent girl who shares a trailer and her entire existence with an alcoholic mother. Its simple story is put together with an intimate, naturalistic style Rosetta carries the burden of what little is left of her dysfunctional family and aspires to get a job, her own place, to live a normal life, to find freedom; one day, she meets a young man who is willing to help her... The film packs a powerful punch, thanks in great part to the excellent performance of Émilie Dequenne, who won the prize for Best Actress at Cannes that year. Her facial expressions, her posture, even the way she scurries around from place to place, like a raccoon or some other wild animal, all convey the pain, despair, anger and shame that are eating her. I hesitated to watch it at fist, because I didn't know if I was in the mood for something terribly heavy. If you happen to share the same dilemma, fear not 'Rosetta' isn't nearly as harrowing or difficult as, say, Lars Von Trier's 'Breaking The Waves' (1996). It's emotionally demanding, but the economy of its narrative provides a certain lightness. There's a moment in which the main character falls into muddy waters and has a hard time getting out, and I worried for a second that the film might start going into some not-very-subtle symbolism, which I think would have detracted from its main strength &#x96; that is, its minimalism and focus on the girl's primitive state of mind, desires, rough gestures. But I don't really think it goes in that direction. Another nice thing about 'Rosetta' is that it clocks out at 95 minutes. It would be too much if it went on for 3 hours. The length is just right.If you've already watched and enjoyed this film, I recommend 'The Maid' (2009), by Chilean director Sebastián Silva, which is similar in tone and is also very good, one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Realism is An Understatement...,","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To say that Emilie Dequenne. the young actress playing Rosetta - and who won the Golden Palm at Cannes for her efforts here, is 'plucky', would sound patronising, to say the least.This is structured documentary film-making at its most urgent - and poignant. The premise for most could hardly be less appealing - an independent film, filmed at a moderately sized Belgian industrial town, with an actress who wears no make-up (yes, the odd pimple, too) has an alcoholic mother who gets more booze by offering herself for sex and they both 'inhabit' a tiny, leaky caravan on a caravan park.By plucky, I mean that Rosetta is almost always running - from someone, after someone - including her own mother - to a job, from a job. When not doing that, she gets thrown in a lake (by same person as above), catching fish in said very muddy lake, using a broken glass jar. She is always trying to either get work, keep her job or survive, somehow.This all sounds quite frantic - and it is, when the hand-held camera follows her, is glued to her, almost, as she goes past so close, she briefly goes out of focus. But often, it is meditative, thought- provoking and downright very ordinary. Which, oddly, is extremely compelling, never more so during the gaps in dialogue.Underneath this hardened facade - she only swears and fights when really pressed, then she's like a terrier dog - we hope to see a normal young lady, who can do things that she enjoys. We only see this once, when the young man at the new waffle-van where she finally gets a casual job, takes her after the first day, back to his, for food and playing of some music.If this is SO mundanely glum, why am I watching it for the second time? Well, my Halliwells Film Guide (bible, to me) rated it highly and I got a copy cheap as a Korean import and secondly, you just know that there is a message here. Not necessarily a very important one, but one that we need to reminded of, when we all (and our Governments) continually moan about the youth of today and how they never want to work - and about caring for those unable to care for themselves.It's also very sobering (definitely no pun intended) and one with an ending that you'll remember. "},{"Title":"no escape","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The heroine of this admirable but depressing French import is a sullen and troubled (both for good reason) teenager living in trailer trash penury with her alcoholic mother, and stubbornly pursuing what she calls a normal life defined as a paying job and someone to call a friend. Dramatic slices of life don't often come more lifelike than this, and thankfully so. It's about as far from Hollywood glitz and glamour as a film can get without becoming a documentary, taking as its subject part of an underclass typically ignored both on and off screen.The transparency of the script suggests a largely improvised scenario (there isn't much in the way of dialogue at any rate), and the performances are as natural as breathing. But the lack of any cosmetic crutches (music cues, sympathetic characters, a tidy resolution) can make watching it an oppressive experience, and all the restless, hand-held cinema veritè camera-work is enough to give the viewer a headache. The film won a handful of awards at Cannes, no doubt because it offers such an obvious stylistic rejection of the ongoing West Coast colonization of Europe, but there isn't anything here for audiences looking for entertainment. "},{"Title":"Unemployment The war she is fighting","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unemployment is one of the biggest social issues we are dealing with today and the work we do is usually seen as a thing everyone should do, if you don't you're not part of the society. Trying to get work and trying to belong have been subjects the Dardenne brothers have been dealing with their films. Rosetta (1999) is about a girl who gets excluded from the society and is trying desperately to get back in.Usually the films by the Dardenne brothers build around the moral choices their characters have to make. So do they put us in charge to judge them? Are the choices they do right or wrong, I think they do want to challenge us in that. And the fact why we are able to judge them is because we get so close to them. The distance between us, the audience and the characters is close. It has been achieved through their original narrative but also through the extraordinary cinematography. Each sudden change will shock the audience.The camera is at some points tied to the character. It follows the characters and their lives very closely. Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne always, according to what I've read, film their movies chronologically. They start with the first scene and then move on. By that they achieve to create a very realistic storyline. Because the actor/actress doesn't know what's ahead of him/her. So the films by the brothers are like pieces of life.Rosetta (Émilie Dequenne) is a young girl living with her alcoholic mother in a caravan at an industrial area in Belgium. Rosetta gets fired and tries desperately to get a new job. Unemployment is the war she's fighting, she needs to get a job to be normal - to be like everybody else and she is ready to do almost anything in order to get a job. The moral choices she has to make during her search of work are given to us for observation and thinking. Because in the end is there only one last choice to kill or not to. That is the basic question the film brings up. How important is it to be a part of the society? For Rosetta it means everything, she's hanging on and if she let's go she vanishes. She doesn't exist without work.So in the center of Rosetta there is a human being, who gets thrown out of the society and it's not good if you want to do something, but you're not able to do it. Rosetta wants to work, but can't that is a huge problem in the modern world we live in. The main themes of Rosetta are private despair, the concept of work and how it is vanishing.The realism by the Dardennes is achieved through their documentary-stylish narrative, fast-paced editing, cinematography, marginal dialog and by amateur actors. The actress Émilie Dequenne won the Golden Palm for her debut role as Rosetta and many other actors/actresses have won awards for their first roles when working with the Dardenne brothers.This a brand new radical style the Dardenne brothers have created. They are changing the basic elements of cinema, they are changing the narrative as they are the cinematography. I don't mean that they have just let all the things they've learned from movies, their films still have some of the traditional elements. There's always the suspense that builds around the moral choices and there's always the mystery - what is happening inside the character's head? They are philosophically modernizing cinema and Rosetta (1999) with Le fils (2002) is the finest example of it. Neither of them has got musical score at all, which puts us in charge of observing and paying more attention to the sounds around us. "},{"Title":"Desperation, misplaced goals and forgiveness...","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rosetta is alone. She lives with her alcoholic mother in a caravan park on a roundabout where every day is a day of survival. Possible salvation lies in her one and only friend Fabrizio, who she met only recently at waffle stand. Unfortunately the emphasis Rosetta places on finding a job and leading a normal life may ultimately cost her this friendship and push to a new depths of despair. A film about survival, misplaced goals and ultimately forgiveness; Rosetta is a must. 9/10.Fruitmouse "},{"Title":"Tough life","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is no plot, there is no story, we are just witnessing a few days of life of Rosetta. A tough life. Despite the young age of the actress, she seems older and you can read from her face that something unpleasant is going on. An alcoholic (and maybe prostitute) mother to take care of, a life in a campground, no friends, nobody that seems to be vaguely sympathetic with her, the need to work in order to survive and (probably) a poor schooling education. Brothers Dardenne do not give anything from granted the unease of Rosetta's life is given by the continuous repetition of daily acts that in a normal life nobody has to do. Rosetta does not have access to hot water, she does not have a tap water in the van, she dresses with only few pieces of clothing, she always change her shoes with rubber boots before passing through the bush that leads to the campground ,etc. The movie is filled with normal acts that are not skipped or just summarized by the directors. When shutting down the hut where she sells muffins (job stolen to her friend), the directors let you see the entire procedure. The same when Rosetta drags her mother (completely drunk) in the van, or when she goes to get a new gas tank. The strength of the movie is represented by all of these scenes that make a life hard to live.This movie, if it can be defined neorealistic, differs a great deal, for example, from the Italian neorealism of the late '50. Despite all the difficulties of the Italian society after WW2, it appears that at least the family or the solidarity among desperate people is there. Rosetta seems to be an alien, one of the few people remained at the outskirts of a wealthy society. She cannot rely on other people like her, all the environment around her is not in tune, she is alone, she has not a chance to change her life.NOTE FOR SOME US AUDIENCE despite Europe is quite far away and therefore it can be difficult to appreciate difference between countries, I would like to remember that Belgium is not France. This is a Belgian movie. "},{"Title":"Low-key drama about hope and survival","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne concern themselves with creating films that put realism on the screen without using artifice or cinematic trickery to distract the audience from the socially aware message at the core of their narratives. Unlike the similarly themed dogme movement, or the more iconic works of Lars von Trier etc, the Dardenne brothers are unconcerned with changing the face of cinematic reality, but rather, take their cue from people like Ken Loach, Bruno Dumont and Robert Bresson; by creating honest, often-bleak works of film that take their character from despair, to hope, and sometimes, right back to despair, in order to give the audience a taste of a world away from the more comfortable social milieu we might be accustomed to. The concept could be read as hypocritical admittedly, and although the occasional heavy-handed quality of the brother's work does intermittently become preachy, there is ample opportunity to deliver some moments of earth-shattering drama.I first encountered the Dardenne's work back in 2001, when British film channel Film Four premiered their film The Promise (1996) in preparation for the premier of their highly acclaimed follow up film Rosetta (1999). Both films are here are heavily indebted to the naturalistic/realist work of Bresson and Loach, particularly films like Diary of a Country Priest (1951), Riff Raff (1990) and Raining Stones (1993); with the filmmakers presenting the viewer with a series of characters continually forced to the brink of despair, but desperate to pull themselves back.Rosetta was their follow up to The Promise and is the film that garnered the most attention when first shown at the Cannes film festival back in 1999. The film continues the thematic and visual preoccupations familiar from The Promise, though for me is less successful in its overall intent. The film follows the brilliant Emilie Dequenne as a troubled young teenager desperately searching the Belgium ghettos for work, whilst also having to put up with an alcoholic mother, a lecherous landlord and a series of ignorant civil servants. The use of hand-held cameras and jarring jump-cuts is much greater this time around with the brothers seemingly intent on alienating the viewer, but also, expressionistically conveying the lead protagonist's sense of cultural dislocation and alienation from the world around her. It also creates an extraordinary sense of intimacy between the audience and the character and showing the full range of Dequenne nuanced and entirely naturalistic central performance.As with The Promise, the brothers pepper their film with an abundance of topical, moralistic issues such as the passage into adulthood, immigration and domestic abuse, but at the centre of the drama there is still room for hope. Rosetta might not be a ground-breaking film or even the better film of the two that I have seen - its ideas are well worn and its scenarios familiar from the classic kitchen-sink cinema of films like Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1960) and A Taste of Honey (1961) to name only two - but the process of refinement that the brothers are able to create with the subtle shading of characters and the no-nonsense approach to film-making is really quite affecting on the most personal and emotional of levels. "}{"Title":"One feels momentarily lost for words.","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watching her walking with cylinder-full of potentially deadly gas, I could not help but thinking of Christ carrying his Cross on his way to reunion with his holy Father. Only here we had this mother instead of father, and not that holy either.However, as it happens, the holy ghost, in this case the bike boy friend, saves the day. He raises her up, clinging though she is with her death, her despair. Her total loss of sense and life, even as she is alive and in motion.Just look at the lifetime of suffering, anger and disillusionment etched on her face, so young a face she returning with the cross, and the ghost circling her the otherwise talkative guy never utters a word in this miraculously simple and likewise effective scene. She too tries to send him away by throwing stones at him, another symbolic act.One feels momentarily lost for words. As she is. Or he.Tears mark her journey to hope, to life. Redemption, without Rita Hayworth or any other pinup in sight. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, realistic study of a young woman struggling with limited options, in a downward spiral of her own conditioned violence and self-hatred.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I figure Rosetta to be a Nineties version of a GiuliettaMasina character from several decades ago Gelsomina in LaStrada lived in circumstances limited by poverty, her lowsocial status as a gypsy of sorts, and being raised toassume that a man will always be in authority over her.Cabiria in Nights of Cabiria added a more aggressivelyself-destructive touch, making herself into a woman whobelieved she was in control because she allowed men tohurt her. In the time since Fellini's films, a lot of the hegemonicsof presumed male superiority have fallen into disuse, andRosetta, the title character played by Emilie Dequenne, isseen as a waif enclosed in her own cloak of  responsibility, for herself and her even more  dysfunctional mother, and yet her appearance of  independence is a liability too -- a mere compensation forthe fact that she lacks the social tools to reach out toother people who might give her love and affirmation.  These limits are suggested strongly by the camera  technique, which hugs Rosetta rather closely about theshoulders so we seldom see more than a few feet beyond herface. This story is one of clinical pathology, withoutpretending to analyze the complexity of how she got thisway. The choice of the name Rosetta apparently refers to the Rosetta Stone, a famed archaeological find whose inscriptions were a puzzle for many years, and yet eventually were decoded through logical, scientific methodology. Perhaps in a similar way Rosetta the woman's basic humanness is ultimately inscrutable; yet there is always a hope that a key to resolving her emotional conflicts will bring her closer to happiness.There's a good deal of truth in her obsession with getting a job as a means of establishing  who she is, not to mention earning an income in order tosurvive. Everyone in the audience must see himself or  herself in this quest for employment, and in the ignominyof the lack of same. Rosetta apparently doesn't think ofidentity as being unique, so much as it is being includedin what she assumes to be the normal life of people in the city around her. Ironically, it's the uniqueness of  herself that she considers mundane, and from which shecan't break away.Rosetta's search for a change of identity is also shown in certain rituals, such as leaving the trailer camp where  she lives through a hole in the fence rather than the  front gate, and changing into a pair of boots she has  hidden outside the fence before venturing into town (the boot fetish may also be paying homage to Vladimir, one of the tramp characters in Beckett's existential masterpiece Waiting for Godot). Please don't think the film is riddled with blatant symbolism, however, because such apparently bizarre habits are no doubt symptoms of compulsive behavior among any number of people in real life. Rosetta's bleak outlook is assisted by the overcast weather conditions under which the film was shot. Apparently it's winter, another reason  for depression, anxiety and introspection to become  familiar visitors which any member of the audience canrecognize.Rosetta, as played by Dequenne, is pretty yet clearly adamaged person, who makes quick, believable transitions to the angry, violent side of her character she gives us an  attractive, interesting gamine type character, one of thefew points on which the filmmaker bows to commercial  considerations. A version of this same story could just as easily be about a male character, yet, as soon as one gets used to the somewhat claustrophobic camera technique, theviewer will concede that the choices that were made intelling this story, for whatever reason, are compellingand interesting.  "},{"Title":"Another fatherless film","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The excellent acting by an unknown cast, especially the ferocious lead performance by Emilie Dequenne, seems to have distracted attention from the more disturbing attitudes below the surface of this film. The desperate and determined Rosetta fights to obtain a job and find a way to obtain the basics of life for herself and her alcoholic mother. She is willing to go to almost any lengths, including betraying her only friend, to land a job, no matter how menial or insecure. Nowhere in the film is her father mentioned. As the absence of fathers is a major factor (if not THE major factor) in family poverty, you might have expected a brief reference to her dad and an explanation of her semi-orphaned status. You would of course be disappointed.So Rosetta joins the growing list of films where men and especially fathers are optional extras in the lives of young women. Look at the recent crop Election, The Opposite of Sex, Anywhere but here, The Five Senses. Whatever their considerable merits, they depict a world where fathers are irrelevant, if they are mentioned at all. In Election and The Opposite of Sex, the fatherless heroines are even more ruthless than Rosetta in trampling all before them to get what they want. Plenty of books, such as Fatherless America have lamented the increasing family breakdown and the absence of fathers from active healthy involvement in the lives of their growing children. These books often finger the media and the models of family life they portray as a negative influence on our perception of fathers. This recent crop of movies can only add another small contribution to our misunderstanding of the vital importance of fathers.Rosetta's ferocious self-respect in striving for a job, refusing to beg for a living and her unswerving loyalty to her drunken mother seem oddly inconsistent with her tawdry and despicable betrayal of her one true friend, just to get a minimum rate job. It looks like a case where the filmmakers were looking for a dramatic plot twist, rather than a consistent development of character. It is a pity, because you can think of other ways of writing the story which would have better emphasised the pain and sadness of Rosetta's life. Up to that point, I was rooting for her 100% because she seemed like a genuinely admirable, if unglamorous, character. It looks like another distasteful trait in modern film making which Michael Medved describes as an instinctive antipathy to any heroism. The filmmakers spend so much of the film building her up as a unspectacularly noble personality, then seemingly destroy her at the end.  Her apparent remorse in the last scene is heartrending, but it does not wipe away the memory of her treachery. "},{"Title":"Real life","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Rosetta, The Dardenne brothers depict the daily (ferocious) struggle of a young girl trying to get a job by any means. For her, work means getting a life and finally being someone. But is she ready to do everything to get what she wants, even betray her only friend?Rosetta is a movie without concessions but really rewarding for those who accept to see it through the eyes of the main character. This could be difficult though given the fact that the script never tries to make her look sympathetic. But I think it is a positive aspect of the movie. Like the directors say, she is a warrior before all.Promising actress Emilie Dequenne really is Rosetta. You don't think Wow, that's a good actress! here because you face cold reality with a real life character.For those who liked the movie, I recommend Dardenne's previous film, La promesse, which I (very) slightly preferred. "},{"Title":"A truly moving war film","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw the film as my last in the 1999 Cannes Film Festival, but it is not the only reason why i remember it so well. The first impressions I had during the screening were rather strange  the shoulder-lifted camera, very close to the characters, made me a little sea-sick ,and i couldn't figure clearly where the Dardenne brothers were going to lead us. And, slowly the story of Rosetta, the young girl that desperately looks for work, gets bigger and will never get down again. It's a treason that starts the dramatical side of the story, and from then on, the cinema of the Dardenne can handle perfectly the multiples scenes of moral tension, until the unforgettable, moving last sequence. The directors said that their film was a war film if a bit pretentious, nothing is more true than this assumption. "},{"Title":"A movie of contrasts","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie, but who failed to respond to my expectations. The camera work is unique (in the Dogme style), but it's a little too much. Some scenes almost make us dizzy. The acting is very good and Émilie Dequenne is excellent as Rosetta, the 17 years old Belgium girl who can't find her way in life. But the movie drags on, even though it's just over 90 minutes in length. Somehow you're care for Rosetta and somehow the movie ends and you don't think of her anymore. The movie does have an important social message How it's difficult to break the cycle, to get out of the learned way. But in all, a very average movie.Out of 100, I give Rosetta 75. That's good for **½ out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on September 22nd, 2002. "},{"Title":"Rosetta has a lot going for her.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  She's energetic and intelligent.  Her mother is an alcoholic, and the mere force of suggestion would be enough to drive almost any other seventeen-year-old in her position to alcoholism, too - but we can sense that this will never happen to her, because she knows it would be a mistake.  (In her case the knowledge is enough.)  Circumstances may end up crushing Rosetta, but she will always, in some sense, be able to cope with them.  Coping is what she's good at.But just because I like Rosetta doesn't mean that I want to stare over her shoulder without break for ninety minutes.  Couldn't they think of anything else to do with the camera?  Luckily, they used FILM, albeit 16mm, rather than digital tape, so we can at least appreciate some of the colours (I remember there being a lot of reds and greens) and the pleasing grain ... I mean, it's hardly a visual masterpiece, but we need to do SOMETHING to keep ourselves occupied.I won't comment on the story.  It's hard to follow and doesn't really matter.  The shaky, inches-from-the-earlobes camerawork should have been tossed out of court at Cannes.  Come back when you've shot this material properly, they should have said, THEN we'll look at it. "},{"Title":"Lots of waffles and lots of hand-held","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rosetta is a young woman obsessed with finding a job. She is relentless, hostile, aggressive, and violent, and thus often acts in ways counterproductive to her goal. She is fiercely committed to self-sufficiency, so much so that she uniformly, blindly refuses any from of charity (whether from a friend or from the state, in the form of welfare) and, in a survival-of-the-fittest kind of way, commits moral crimes in the name of employment. Certainly, this could be called realist cinema The entire film was shot hand-held (whoever was lugging that camera around, pulling focus all the while, deserves some praise), with several long takes, creating a jerky, eye-level world meant to place us in Rosetta's perspective. Rosetta is usually only visible from behind, so we see what she sees. However, we almost never have access to her emotions or motivations.The film fails to answer, say, WHY she is so rigidly determined, WHY she is the way she is. How did she get this way? Only an  implied naturalistic explanation is given. The origin of Rosetta is sketched but not drawn fully, perhaps because we are meant to see from Rosetta's perspective, and maybe she doesn't know why she is the way she is, or what her motivations are? In any case, the film leaves some questions unanswered. It's up to you to decide if that's good or bad.Rosetta is admittedly not fun to watch, but it is an honest account. Accepting the main character for what she is, this is likely how she would act and how events would play out. The realism here may not be in the character (the filmmakers admit a real Rosetta would likely turn to welfare) but in the what if? What if a young girl like this really lived? This is how things would go for her.The film has been criticized for having a one-dimensional main character and for having blatantly socialist/leftist overtones. Those charges are understandable and supported by elements of the film, but most people respond most strongly to the story of an individual, not of an archetype or symbol. Rosetta is less the disenfranchised and more just Rosetta, whose life is presented unflinchingly, flaws and all. (Dequenne does somehow make Rosetta more than single-minded. I can't put my finger on it, but she manages to give us a sense that quite a bit is going on in Rosetta, even if we never see it explicitly.) Rosetta produces a few truly indelible images, truly unforgettable moments, which is more than most films can claim.In sum, this film has internal conflicts, but is original enough and gripping enough to be worth watching. "},{"Title":"'Rosetta' fails to tap into the mind-set of the character, resulting in a monotonous viewing experience.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The turmoil and tenacity of a seventeen-year-old girl, desperately seeking employment in the slums of Belgium is documented in 'Rosetta', the new film from those happy go lucky scamps Luc and Jean-Pierre Dardenne -- directors of the 1996 laugh riot 'La Promesse'... Well, to call their work humorous would be an overstatement, and to call it original or even high quality would be an even bigger exaggeration.  For ninety-minutes we follow Rosetta (Émilie Dequenne) around the Belgium ghettos with a cinematic intimacy that boarders on pornographic -- with handheld cameras pressed so close to her face that her breath fogs the lens, and one wrong step off the mark means the actors run the risk of physical penetration -- the film looks like the work of a demented Lars von Trier fan, only with the lack of subtlety and restraint usually reserved for Joel Schumacher productions.  Acting however is first class, with Dequenne finding the humanity within the character, taking it far above the level of quality this picture deserves.  It's a sad fact though, that for all her efforts, her work is coupled with a story that never builds any real level of interest or imagination and a script that just refuses to make us care.  It's also comically reminiscent of the old hackneyed 'kitchen-sink' dramas of the British new wave.  Just switch Belgium for Manchester and throw in a pregnancy sub plot and you wouldn't be at odds to find Alan Bates standing in the corner crying By eck, it's grim up north...    My overall problem with the film is basically this I don't see the point in it.  It doesn't entertain, it doesn't give anything back to the audience and it certainly has no educational relevance.  An hour and a half of physical and emotional degradation, followed by a dénouement that made me think I'd accidentally pressed stop on the video remote -- until the end credits began to roll and I saw that THIS was the end -- and what was it all for?  The look and style of the film is traditional Euro/Indy film cliché, all handheld camera and rough jump cuts, treated here as if they were cutting edge, but in reality have been used and abused by everyone from Godard to Spielberg and even MTV.  This is a film-designed solely to ring a response from the viewer, which, if successful, isn't a bad thing.  Having recently watched Bruno Dumont's excellent 'L'Humanité', a film that mixed shocking sexual imagery and updated neo-realist technique to deliver a story and a character that gripped rather than griped, it worked in shocking contrast to 'Rosetta', which was an hour shorter than 'L'Humanité' but felt much, much longer. With an interesting story and a character that works well to not only enrich, but also guide the audience through the film, 'Rosetta' might have worked.  But there is no guide here, simply because there is nothing to guide us through -- the filmmakers show us the ramshackle collection of bleeding-heart images, but instead of taking us deeper, simply sit back and gloat, as if they have created something truly unique.  Fraught with contradictions and a plot that goes nowhere -- delivering the same repetitious scenes over and over and over again -- make &#145;Rosetta' ultimately, a very unsuccessful film.    "},{"Title":"Truly Outstanding","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I try not to give out too many votes of a perfect 10 on this site because I like to save them for the absolute best movies and my overall favourites. It's easy to start giving out way too many tens to stuff I like (and ones to stuff I don't) and forget all those other marks in the middle.This movie though totally deserves the perfect mark of 10 out of 10 in my opinion. It's not a very complex story or anything but that's part of the beauty of it. It's a French film and I don't know the main actress who plays the teenage girl but she's really great in her character.Basically her mother is an alcoholic who sometimes works but usually just drinks and is a drunk (and another problem for the girl to take care of).The girl desperately tries to get work. Any work. To take care of her and her mother, who live in a not very nice trailer in a trailer park.I don't want to give any spoilers so I'll just say she makes a really unfortunate decision, which is totally understandable but which stabs a friend in the back and which she feels a lot of guilt for. With everything that happens to her she thinks about maybe making another decision which could ruin things altogether... "}{"Title":"Lose the Dogma","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rosetta is worth seeing because of the excellent turn in the lead role by Emilie Dequenne, an interesting plot twist and the focus on characters who represent the fringes of society. However, the Dogma approach to filmmaking nearly ruins Rosetta; and certainly weakens it (probably by design).I agree with the views on the relentless camera movement that has already been expressed by bluetunehead (from Chicago) and Roland E. Zwick. I've often thought that Dogma's twitchy, relentlessly moving hand-held camera is like putting training wheels on an otherwise fast bicycle. It is designed to lessen your experience of sitting and the dark and trying to follow a story.If the moving camera was confined to the conflict on the bridge at the end of the film then critics would hail its use as innovative; and the Dardenne brothers might be compared to a clever filmmaker such as Truffaut. Instead, the effect is used so much that the bridge scene is compromised.In Rosetta, a character does something that changes our perception of that person. In a film that didn't have the Dogma Training Wheels applied to it, we'd be made to feel very strongly about it. However, the Dardenne brothers don't wish us to terribly concerned about the decision the character made.Another word the role the Dogma camera plays in Rosetta is 'indoctrination'. This isn't a left-wing view on economic inequality. The Dardennes have made a film with concealed right-wing sentiments that detaches us from concern over the conditions of the lower class.Rosetta is worth seeing once. With additional viewings the feeling will be like having someone continuously hit you in the head with a block of wood as you are made to accept the idea of screwing the poor where there is benefit to doing so. "},{"Title":"It's good, I guess.","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Always hard to say something about these sort of movies, since they are being so simple in its setup and you can really hardly go wrong with these type of movies. And this one is good within its genre, though I can't say that it's being the most involving and interesting movie to watch.You could say that this movie is being like a random slice of life and it's following a young woman around, who is struggling to keep a steady job. There of course is a whole lot of other drama going on as well, also involving a romantic plot.In the end it also still is a movie that leaves more questions than answers. The movie isn't all about explaining everything to you and tells you what happens after certain events and perhaps more importantly; why. It's OK to feature such an approach, especially for a movie of this sort but in this case I would had preferred some more depth and explanations, to get me more involved with its story and characters.That was also a big problem for me; I just couldn't ever like or understand the movie its main character. She obviously has some kind of issues and is socially very awkward. Not really a likable person, you want to hang around with, which also makes her not all that great and involving to follow around, in my opinion.But still as these sort of movies go, I really can't call it a bad one. It never bores and it never drags at any point, though this is obviously a slower type of movie, in which not an awful lot is going on, all the time. It's perhaps not a very engaging movie but it still remains an interesting one, also mostly because it never really gets predictable.Certainly watchable, especially when you are into these type of movies.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"camera shakes all the time, have to look away from screen to protect the eyes","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The camera shakes (almost) all the time, making it really difficult for my eyes. It's a technique. I had to look away from the screen, from time to time, as I became worried my eyes, which had problems, could be physically damaged.The lens, shaking all the time, is long and stays extremely close to the subject, so that most of the time, you can only see a small area of the body of the actress (or of the other two actors). In other words, most of the time the whole screen is filled with the details of one side of the face of the actress, or a part of her shoulder, or another part of her body. I am finally able to see what the actress appears like as a whole, after struggling for 15 minutes.Want to have a look at the neighborhood where she lives? No way..... "},{"Title":"Rosetta Reviewer Retches Repeatedly","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rosetta lives in abject poverty with her alcoholic mother in a trailer park in Belgium.  Rosetta's only desire is to get a job so she can escape her circumstances and lead a normal life.  However, her desperate attempts to stay employed ultimately work against her - whenever she loses a job (as she always does because of the temporary nature of her employ), rather than accept it, she goes berserk demanding not to be let go, erasing any possibility of being rehired. It is rare to find a movie that is intentionally repetitious, and devoid of entertainment value or plot, yet several critics have lauded the film for these very reasons.  They speak of it being true to its Italian neorealist roots, its unashamed leftist leanings and unflinching views of reality, and argue that the judges at Cannes were right to award it the Palme D'Or.   I disagree.  I think it has received accolades because it was the last movie they previewed and everyone was so dizzy from the bouncing camerawork (similar to that in the Blair Witch which earned it the Variety headline Blair Witch Viewers Pitch) that they didn't know what they were voting for.  I'm only being somewhat facetious - many people (including I) suffered motion sickness and several audience members actually left because of it. However, that alone is not enough reason to miss this film.   Rosetta is a hypocritical opportunist- she condemns her mother for selling herself for sex- yet she is willing to betray anyone, or do anything (even contemplating murder) to get a job.  She is neither a heroine nor an anti-heroine -  her defiant work ethic does not make her a good person and she is not evil enough to loathe.  I felt absolutely nothing for Rosetta and did not care what happened to her.  And if I had to watch her change her shoes one more time&#133; Unless you are a masochist or enjoy feeling queasy, miss this film.  "},{"Title":"Furious movie...","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most celebrated titles of the 90's European cinema. A movie that's tough and furious, just like the main character, Rossetta, a girl who can't get a job, without a father, and whose mother prostitutes in exchange for a couple of drinks. Rossetta's life is so ruined that she would do anything to find a job, she would even betray her only friend. Everything in Rosetta is so frenzied, so wild, and transmits you the anxiety of this young girl, her confusion... Social realism in the Ken Loach way. Those who only wanna see happy endings and digital effects will hate a movie such like this... For the rest of you, enjoy it.*My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"superb acting is not enough for a great film","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jean-Pierre Dardenne, one of the two brothers who authored 'Rosetta' was co-director a couple of years before this film of a strong documentary describing the life of the homeless orphan children in post-Communist Romania. That film which became a repeated item on some European TV channels like Arte-TV when they need to say something about Romania seems to have inspired the Dardenne brothers in making 'Rosetta'. The difference is that Rosetta is not a documentary, but a low-budget art film. The focus however is the same - the desperate life of a teenager who is forced to fight for her basic survival in a world and within a system which does not seem to offer her any help. She fights not only to survive but also to keep some dignity, although the lack of a proper childhood left her without tools to manage basic human relations, to understand and receive friendship.There is a strong moral and social message in this film. Most of the time the camera focuses on the actress Emilie Dequenne who won a Cannes prize for her performance. The problem is that the lack of action and events in the film, although keeping it simple and direct, cannot sustain the movie as a piece of art. It takes more than a strong message and good acting for a great film . What works well in a documentary is not good enough for a full length feature film. 'Rosetta' lacks complexity and the direct approach eventually gives the perception of simplicity, decreasing the overall impact. 6 out of 10 on my personal scale.  "},{"Title":"She works hard for the money (and you better treat her right)","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rosetta (Emilie Dequenne) lives in a trailer park with her mom, an alcoholic who has sex with the landlord to keep the water turned on. Rosetta has to play mother to her own mother; at the same time, she struggles to hold onto one minimum-wage job after another in her depressed Belgian town. These jobs are her only underpinnings--the only thread of stability in her life--and when they're pinched out from beneath her, what's meant to be tragedy ensues.Cannes Jury President David Cronenberg passed up David Lynch's masterly STRAIGHT STORY, and a few other credible movies, to hand the Palme d'Or to this profoundly unconvincing movie by the brothers Dardenne; the glib Annette Insdorf finally hit it right on the nose when she said, Cronenberg's Palmes are scarier than his movies. Like Kimberly Peirce's BOYS DON'T CRY, ROSETTA is a movie about white-trash family life that seems authored by a well-meaning tourist. For all the Blair Witchy camerawork and verite style of the Dardennes, there's not one movement of the story here that persuades--from Rosetta's treatment of her mother, to the most melodramatic use of a pool of quicksand since BLAZING SADDLES.Only Dequenne's unadorned acting has the force of authority. (I'll grant these guys one very cool, on-the-nose detail Rosetta soothing her upset stomach by blowing a hair dryer on her belly.) The rest of the movie feels like a weird overlap of the Social Worker Muckrake Movie (see what terrible things poverty can drive a girl to do?) and the Fake Bresson Movie. The Dardennes copy one classic Bresson device--the following of a physical act of work through all its processes. Only in their hands, you have no clue what it is the characters are meant to be doing. Napoleon is said to have claimed that all great generals should know how to boil a chicken; the Dardennes should have learned how real people catch a fish. "},{"Title":"Unremittingly dreary","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unremittingly dreary, Rosetta offers no relief in its exploration of a poverty stricken young girl's attempts to cope with her situation. The film offers not one glimmer of hope, but then Rosetta has none. Don't expect to see Tom Hanks in the US remake!But what's interesting about comments on this site is that the Europeans seem to love it while the Americans hate it!  "},{"Title":"An important film in social terms, but not a deserved Palme D'Or-Winner","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think the headline says it all alreadyIt becomes pretty clear that the Dardenne brothers don't see cinema just as a matter of entertaining the audience, but they use it to make their point  about our society. Rosetta is by no means what you would call a crowd-pleaser, it is instead a very bleak portrayal of working class life, obviously with no glimpse of hope for either the girl or the audience. It has undeniably some intense sequences thanks to Emilie Duqenne (hope I quote her name correct) and in reminding us of the social hardship of such people like Rosetta and her mother this movie already achieves much more than a bunch of Hollywoods mainstreamfilms. The film is saying that the social hardship can be so overwhelming that it destroys human relationships, namely in the scene where Rosetta tells her boss that Riquet is cheating him. You don't have so many films making such statements (not that it would be something new to us, but at least the movie reminds us of it). So why isn't it a masterpiece or at least a recommendable picture? The crux lies first of all in the camerawork the handcamera movements are even more unbearable than the cinematography in The Blair Witch Project. It is something I really can't get used to and moreover, it destroys any possible distance. The film stays so close to his heroine that it left a sour taste in my mouth. Sure the lack of distance is what makes the film so tense in parts, but it also makes it so unpleasant. Rosetta is too much documentary in its approach. A great film must convince me in visual terms as well, it must leave a shape in my mind. Rosetta doesn't. How David Cronenbergs Cannes jury could give the Palme D'Or to this film and oversee such wonder- ful films as David Lynchs The Straight Story, Pedro Almodovars All About My Mother and Atom Egoyans Felicia's Journey is beyond me. Every single of these three movies was more faithful to what makes cinema so great than Rosetta. I only hope that this year the jury knows to appreciate the true winners of the competition. Rosetta has a certain appeal, but it is way over-praised. If you want to see a good film about today's society, stick to Mike Leighs Naked. "},{"Title":"An interesting film ...if you can stand watching it","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first impression that the film gave to me was that it was going to be one more of the same bunch of Euro-leftist films simply telling us about how cruel life is to some, how the system sucks and  making an hagiography of the portrayed unfortunate character. Well, I found that this film for once, goes much deeper than that.What we actually get is a picture of the failed bureaucratic system of social care (a la Francaise) not by focusing on 'politics but through a strong and touching human story.  The film-makers present us with a strong, direct portrayal of the leading character (Rosetta).  We see Rosetta's struggle for  survival but also her inner struggles and the power of individual human qualities (strength, forgiveness, etc...).All this comes with a big BUT... The constant, hectic motion of the camera during the first half of the film drove me totaly dizzy and, coupled with the almost complete lack of dialogue, I felt my eyes closing 4 times... Then, in the second half, the dialogue gets... invented, the camera starts moving a little more smoothly and the plot starts to unfold. Your choice! ( a combined 6/10 from me for all the reasons above). "}{"Title":"Cheap movie created to make you feel sorry for borrowing it","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's the biggest disappointment in my life... First of all I got SO bored, that psychological portrait of this Rosetta didn't matter to me, moreover she said about 15 lines in the whole movie.. Basically, a cheap movie, shot somewhere in country village... Bloody short and ends like nothing... The worst!  "},{"Title":"One Of The Worse Movies I Ever Saw","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every French movie I have seen so far has been pretty good.....until now. I have no idea what the brothers were trying to do when they filmed this movie, but instead of naming it Rosetta, they should have named it We Need A New Camera Man.I couldn't enjoy the movie due to the fact that the cameraman insisted on holding the camera two inches from the faces of the actors and actresses. Having it so close to them keeps the viewers from seeing the full effect of each scene. The jerky movements made the whole thing look like a horribly done home movie. The movie never seemed to hold my attention for more than ten minutes.Also....every time Rosetta looses a job, she goes ballistic and causes a scene, which never made any sense to me. She acts as if the whole world revolved around her and ONLY her. She needed to realize that employers can fire you just as easily as they can hire you.Between her inane lack of tactfulness and the fact that she never seemed to be able to keep a job, all thru the movie she is complaining of menstrual cramps. My God ! You would think that life was a constant menstrual cramp for this girl ! "},{"Title":"Impossible to write a spoiler in this one...","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My insomnia kicked in last night at 4AM and when I turned on the tube, Rosetta was about 20 minutes in. Thankfully I have a TiVo and was able to rewind it to the beginning.The film is dreary alright, but not at all unwatchable. And I definitely did notice the hand-held camera, but I guess watching it on TV is less dizzying than on the big screen as it didn't bother me that much. But the effect of following SO CLOSE to Rosetta with the hand-held made it seem more like a suspense film at first... I kept thinking someone was going to jump up behind her or something.The film would have been far more intersesting if there were a little more meat (changing shoes in real time like 5 times?). But I guess the part that made me feel like I just wasted 2 hours was the ending... or lack thereof. I could not believe the credits started rolling at that point! No I wasn't expecting a neat and nifty Hollywood ending, but just *something* would have helped. Can you spoil nothing? "},{"Title":"","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie STINKS!!! I didn't rate it because IMDB's lowest vote is a 1........I believe it didn't rate that high(I wanted to give it a zero but 1 was the minimum)!I can sum up this film in 7 words TEENAGER HAS TOUGH LIFE WITH ALCOHOLIC MOTHER! Stupid me was waiting for something to happen, some meaning, a point to this celluloid piece of garbage! But NO! An ending which just keeps you hanging and justifies this evaluation!I have enjoyed myself more at an Ed Wood Jr. festival then this time consuming  crap! Give me a camera and a $$50 budget (actual cost of this film) and I could make a better movie!  "},{"Title":"don't bother","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, this film is like following a person living in poverty around for a few days.  Yes, her life is horrible.  But everyone has their problems.  Just step outside of your comfort zone and follow anyone around for a little bit and you will get the same idea, rather than spending money on watching Rosetta.  Maybe you could even give the money you would have spent to the person you follow around instead. "},{"Title":"By Far the worst film I have ever seen","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Never before have I felt like vomming during a film.  This film made me so sick, with its pointless, pretentious, hand held camera antics, that I was forced to trample over the person next to me and dash to the toilet. Rosetta, is of course meant to reflect real life.  An admirable aim. However, Rosetta's life could have been summed up in the first five minutes of the film.  She is as batty as a fruitcake.  Look, where are we going now? Oh, it's running, running, running, back into the woods again, or perhaps into the caravan park.  But where did I put those boots, or waffles for that matter?  Drab, depressing, nauseating, monotonous an apt description as much for Belgium as for the life of the luck-lustre protagonist.  As my friend said,  there was no desire to sympathize with her, indeed in the scenes where the camera pointlessly lingered over her struggling in the murky pool, one wished she would only drown, or do something more dramatic than hopelessly fighting with every one she comes across.  A film to recommend to your worst enemy. "},{"Title":"Finally, a Gallic movie in which something actually happens!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's pretentious, it's obnoxious, it's condescending, it's trying real hard not to be arty, but it is totally fake.  It's only an hour and a half long but it feels like a month. However, one thing that can be said about Rosetta is that at least something happens in it.  It's not just talk, talk, talk, like many of the Gallic imports from across the ocean.  There is action and there is drama.  And since this is a MOVIE, I consider this a great improvement. Despite its pretentiousness, it is compelling. What is beyond me is that the actress in the title role won the award at Cannes.  It's not a bad performance but it is totally one-note. And it is excrutiating (not in a Jennifer Jason Leigh kind of way, but still very hard to sit through).    "},{"Title":"More Dogme 95 doggerel","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If I had known this movie was filmed in the exasperating and quease-inducing Dogme 95 style, I would never have rented it.  Nevertheless, I took a dramamine for the seasickness and gave it a shot.  I lasted a very, very, very long forty minutes before giving up.  It's just boring, pretentious twaddle.The last French movie I saw was Romance and it too was pretty dismal, but at least the camera was steady and not breathing down the necks of the characters all the time.  I am baffled at the continuing popularity of Dogme 95 overseas -- it'll catch on in America about the same time as the next big outbreak of leprosy.  (It's called Dogme 95 because that's the average number of times the actors are poked in the eye by the camera.) "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Bad","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What were they thinking at Cannes? One of the most irritating, films of all time. Every detail of this film, no matter how meaningless was shown. If I had to watch her put on those boots one more time I think I would have shouted. If the point of this film was to show how pathetic a life Rosetta had, then it was covered within the first fifteen minutes of the movie and then the credits should have been running. But no, we had to see countless redundant scenes over and over. The whole thing was filled with un-likeable and unsympathetic characters. They deserved the misery that was Rosetta. And to think I passed up Tumbleweeds to see this over-hyped film of boredom. It was like watching grass grow, only that is more exciting.  "},{"Title":"Nothing happens","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, I became dissy after watching this movie for five minutes (cause of the bas screenplay). I don't think this movie has any purpose. It's boring from the first minute to the last. I don't understand why this movie scores so high. I gave it 1/10 but actually it's not more wurth then 0/10.    "}{"Title":"more a documentary about a girl's miserable life than a real movie","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie maybe actually deserved all the prices it won, but it's very unpleasant to watch. The camera is jumping worse than in any dogma-film, there's almost always traffic or other noise, and the main character is very nasty. Then suddenly it's over, and with an uncomfortable feeling when the credits are running silently without any music, you ask yourself if it was worth having spent one and a half hour watching all this ......... maybe not. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't often fall asleep when watching films at 'normal' times of the day, but this one overcame my efforts to stay awake. Unfortunately, I awoke only a minute or two later, as if I had slept through the rest it would have been a better use of my time. To everyone who sees this film if you like it, fine, though I can't imagine why anyone would - but if you are tired of it after 45 min. like I was, cut your losses and leave, it doesn't get any better than than that. Some parts of this movie look like the film is on a loop - how many time s do we need to see someone putting on a pair of rubber boots? It's amazing that this could carry the Cannes film festival - I don't think 1999 was THAT bad a year for film! I don't think the problem here is acting; but it's everything else that is wrong, and the dogme production technique means that it looks like home movies, and dull ones at that. It overcomes the effort the actors put into their roles, so that you basically don't care what happens to the wretched people in this wretched caravan park in Belgium. If a realist film fails at that, it fails completely. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have no idea what idiots gave this movie a Palm D'Or at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival because it was atrocious! I actually watched the entire thing simply because I couldn't believe that someone would make such a worthless film. There is nothing interesting about the plot, the characters are devoid of depth and there is no attempt at giving any sort of ambiance with music or sound effects. Also, if you do decide to waste 2 hours of your life by watching this film, be sure to bring something to throw up in because the cinematography is simply someone running around with a hand-held camcorder and half the time you can't even see the main subjects. This style has been used much more successfully in movies such as Blair Witch because it creates suspense. In Rosetta, there is no plot and no suspense to which that style would lend anything. I should have known better when it came on at 2 o'clock in the morning that it was going to be horrible. "},{"Title":"Unrelenting misery","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I go to the cinema to be entertained. There is absolutely nothing entertaining about this film. From beginning to end, there is no respite from the gray, grinding reality of this woman's life. It is one-paced, with no change of mood. I remained until the end only because I was convinced that things must get better. They don't, and I don't think I was the only one, as evidenced by the many groans ringing around the cinema as the film drew mercifully to a close. Honestly depicting social depravation is no crime, but boring your audience to groans is not the way to win the sympathy of the public. A dreadful film. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is much poverty in Northern Europe! People living in caravan parks is a normal thing in Belgium (see Camping Cosmos (1996) because it is cheaper.  Rosetta has not the chance of her colleague Carol in All or Nothing (2002) by Mike Leach who lives with her intelligent mother.  It is a good point that Rosetta wants to work and this is driving the film, without this will-power there is no story. This story has no point, what will become of this girl? Can she study and learn for a good job?  Is this neo-realistic cinema?  Then the Soviet-cinema was emotionally more powerful, Jean-Luc Dardenne who is a fan of Tolstoi should have known better. This movie has been overpraised and did not deserve the Golden Palm award and certainly not Emilie Dequenne.  The hand-held camera is too close at times and is hindering our sight.  The close-ups of the faces do fit in a silent movie and not in modern cinema.  The Americans are right not to like this movie because it is not entertaining at all, it is not a documentary and it has no sentimental (in the good sense of the word) values. "},{"Title":"This is, perhaps, one of the worst movies I ever enjoyed.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film Rosetta is superficially the equivalent of a bad high school documentary class project. However, if you project your emotions with as much energy as those who projected Rosetta's face (you'll get to know every pore) on the silver screen, perhaps you'll enjoy this austere look at the determination of a young French woman. If there is anything extraordinary about this film, it is the accolades which it received. "},{"Title":"Dreadful!!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'll be good and damned if I can discern any merit in this film - any aspect worthy of praise - hell - any part of the movie which shows that the filmmaker had even the slightest, most rudimentary knowledge of filmmaking or had even a fragment of a story to tell.Only those who believe in the emperor's new clothes could possibly have anything positive to say about this most banal and pointless of movies - don't waste your time on this film.  If you see it coming up on IFC, go to the next channel - don't spend even a moment of your time on this horribly overwrought, overacted, poorly filmed, and poorly directed dreck. "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film, if you can call it a film, is quite simply as dull as dishwater and as emotionally engaging as eating a rotten apple. One of the most basic rules of film is to make a character likable. Herein lies the problem Rossetta is possibly one of the most unlikeable characters ever committed to film. She lacks redeeming features in her aimless, poverty-stricken surroundings. Emptying cinema of glamor is the intention of this film and other works by these overrated brothers. Why should anyone care for someone as obnoxious as Rosetta? Why bother making a film where the protagonist is not worth caring for. I'm not surprised this film did well at Cannes, where many rich cinema folk can appease themselves by lauding films about trailer trash chic. The film also feels very dated in its cinema verite realism. Avoid. "}]