[{"Title":"Watchable...if you view it a certain way","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a very good movie. If I had seen it at a theater, I would have felt ripped off, certainly. But at home, I watched it with an undemanding mood, and with the feeling this was a basic update of a low budget animal-attacking movie of the '70s. Seeing it that way, the movie was good enough to pass the time. No more, but I wasn't bored.Certainly, there's a lot of the movie that's dumb. Some of the puppets and computer generated effects look really bad. The black character is only there for humor, and his treatment is somewhat offensive. Lou Diamond Phillips can't act. Sometimes you can't tell what's going on with all the close-ups of flapping wings and bad editing.There are a few good things. Some of the cliches I was expecting actually didn't happen. (For one thing, the authorities are quick to the danger for once.) The cinematography is excellent, and occasionally the movie has a big feeling that makes it look more expensive that its $6.5 million budget.So if you like B movies, are feeling undemanding, and can see it cheaply or for free, you might want to give it a try. "},{"Title":"Nice chiller starred by flying foxes ,  fast-paced , and well directed by Morneau","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Absolutely surprising carnivorous bats tale , derived from abysmal story . The film starts in Skull Valley , Arizona, where the scientific Casper (Dina Meyer) and his assistant Jimmy (Leon) are investigating about bats . They're brought by a government scientist (Bob Gunton) to a small town called Callup , in Texas . There appears a pack of carnivorous bats that prey on citizens , terrorizing the small community . The chiroptera specialist Casper , his helper , along with a policeman (Lou Diamond Phillips) attempt to stop the genetically altered flying foxes before the military comes into action , bombing the caves.This is a slam-bang chiller about flying foxes , full of scares and lots of blood and gore . It delivers the goods with suspense , tension and hair-raising chills ; plus , the astonishing special effects of this nature , as the ferocious bats seem alive . It's an eerily effective thriller , quite entertaining , though many will undoubtedly find repulsive when the bats attack and eat their victims . The tale can't bear such close scrutiny , but while this thrills ride is going, you won't mind . With a final budget of 5.25 million, the film went on to gross well over 30 million worldwide in theatrical , DVD , Digital and Television sales . Although considered somewhat unsuccessful at the time, the film recouped its entire budget during its first week of release . The vampire bats are splendidly made by means of Animatronics in charge of Robert Zurtzman , Greg Nicotero and Howard Berger . The bats in the film were a combination of Animatronics, CGI , and 2 live bats. The 2 original bats in the film were brought over from Indonesia . The acting is uneven , an attractive Dina Meyer , Lou Diamond Phillips as the patrolman who along with the scientific facing off the creepy bats and killing them in their caves . Bob Gunton is an oddball baddie acting as a mad doctor and the comic relief in charge of Leon . Interesting screenplay by John Logan , today writer for blockbusters (Aviator , Last Samurai , Star Trek  nemesis , Time machine) . Produced in just under 6 months , the picture continues to hold one of the top spots for fastest produced 35mm feature films to receive a wide-release . The motion picture was well directed by Louis Morneau , in his best movie . He's a B series director, with no much success (Hitcher 2 , Retroactive , Quake , Soldier Boyz , Carnosaur 2). With similar premise , ten years earlier (79) was shot the movie titled ¨Nightwing¨¨ directed by Arthur Hiller with Nick Mancuso , David Warner and Kathryn Harrold , but it was a flop, this one is a superior film . "},{"Title":"Help!&#133;Save us, Batman!!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats is not so much a 'bad' film; it's just very ordinary and déjà-vu. This is your typical creature-feature about a genetically mutated animal-species (in this case bats, duh!) that becomes a little TOO intelligent after the experiments performed on them and turns against the creators. And of course the two escaped lab-bats infect the normal ones and pretty soon an entire Texas town is overcome by millions of carnivorous bats! It's up to zoologist Dina Meyer, her dim assistant Leon and sheriff Lou Diamond Phillips to prevent that this plague spreads itself throughout the entire United States. This film has quite a few good aspects going for it, but also too many negative ones and the latter make this is a generally unmemorable and lacking horror film. The most important positive element about Bats is that the screenplay doesn't waste any time! There clearly is a bat-problem and all the characters immediately acknowledge this. Usually in this type of B-movies, it takes another boring hour or so before everyone accepts that harmless little animals can turn into bloodthirsty monsters. Unfortunately, this is where the praising stops&#133;After the no-nonsense opening sequences, the film turns into an endless series of dull clichés, lousy dialogues, bad acting and terrible special effects. In fact, there are no special effects! The numerous bat-attacks exist of wide pan-shots of the sky but when the critters eventually descend to assault their preys, everything becomes all blurry and you can't possibly make out what's happening. It's hard to take the acting leads seriously (Dina Meyer as a Doctor??) and Leon's character is just a dreadful stereotype of the petrified and witty assistant who brings some comic relief. Worth watching if you really don't have anything better to do&#133; "},{"Title":"This Is NOT As Bad As Critics Say!","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As usual, I find myself on the opposing side of the critics. This movie has NO BUSINESS in the bottom 100 here at IMDb! It's FAR from a masterpiece, but it's also just as far from deserving that low a rating.As is often the case, whenever you have a good monster/creature feature, lurking somewhere in the shadows is a mad scientist. Such is the case in this film. In fact, I found the mad scientist a tad too mad. I think that is the main contributor to the low ratings this movie receives here at IMDb. The doctor's performance went WAY over the top. Well, he's supposed to be insane, but he plays it like pure camp, and that's horribly out of place in this otherwise serious work concerning a lab experiment gone awry...or has it?The animated/CGI bats are well done, and all performances besides the doctor are enjoyable and on target. Unfortunately, he was bad enough to have brought down the whole film.This is fun, generates some good suspense, and isn't afraid to show you the nemesis. The story itself is quite competent to hold up, and does, IF you can ignore the wretched performance given by Bob Gunton. I must say that I do not believe it to be wholly his fault, as he has given some great performances in the past, and since. The fault must lie with the director, Louis Morneau, who has never done much of note.I like this film and can enjoy it, in spite of the doctor, and do find myself watching it from time to time.It rates a 6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Meanwhile Back In The Bat Cave","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats, a film that should have premiered on the Science Fiction channel on cable, somehow got a theatrical release. If it had been made fifty years earlier I can definitely see Boris Karloff or Bela Lugosi in the part that Bob Gunton plays as the mad scientist.The scariest thing about Bats is not the creatures themselves although they are the ugliest looking things this side of the Black Scorpion. The scariest part of the film was Bob Gunton's portrayal of the mad scientist who created this race of killer omnivirous Bats. He's identified as working for the Center For Disease Control. I was watching this figuring out how this creep got government clearance.Yet Gunton is the most enjoyable thing in this film. And you got to love the fact that he had all these government facilities to work with, he's not hidden away in some laboratory in an old castle the way Karloff and Lugosi used to be. He's bred this race of flying fox bats from Indonesia which are aggressive to begin with and they've taken up residence in a bat cavern in Lou Diamond Phillips's county where he's the sheriff. After several suspicious deaths with mutilation, the cause is identified and zoologists Dina Meyer and Leon Robinson are brought in to clean out the bat cave. If you care about how and if they do it by all means watch the film and the hint is, think blob.Bats will never go down as a great science fiction classic, but it does have a certain campiness to it. And Gunton is a hoot. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Swarms of genetically altered bats have descended upon a small Texas Town and no one is safe.The only hope to stop the killer bats is Sheila(Dina Meyer) who is a zoologist who studies bats, her assistant Jimmy(Leon) and the town Sheriff Emmett Kimsey(Lou Diamond Phillips)Seems a lot of people here on imdb don't like this movie it's even number 50 on the bottom 100.I thought Bats was a cool movie, sure the movie takes it self a bit too serious if Bats would have taken more of the approach like Eight Legged Freaks did it might have been a bit better.But despite that Bats was a really fun movie.The scene in which Emmett and Sheila are trapped in the car getting swarmed by the bats was awesome.The Script by John Logan was well done, and Director Louis Morneau does a fine job.As always Lou Diamond puts in a solid performance as does the rest of the cast.Leon though steals the show and provides most of the comedy. Leon i think is a very talented actor who doesn't get enough respect.I first took notice of him on Oz in Season 1 as Jefferson Keane and have been a fan since.Bob Gunton also starsBats is nowhere near as bad as most people make it out to be.I give Bats 7/10  "},{"Title":"Bats!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really like this film Bats! Lou Diamond Phillips, Dina Meyer, Bob Gunton, and Leon stars in this picture. The movie in My opinion has non-stop Bat action! The actors especially Phillips and Meyer have very good performances. I like the way the movie is filmed. Everything is bright and I think that the camera work is awesome! The Bats are really neat and scary looking little creatures. I love the effects when they fly every where and across the moon! The music by Graeme Revell is very good. Everything else is very good in this movie. I don't know why it is currently on the IMDb bottom 100 #84. I have no clue. The film in My opinion has just about everything and the killer Bats are great! I recommend everyone who loves monster films to ignore the bad rating and comments and watch Bats today because its great film and I strongly recommend it! "},{"Title":"I don't know about the rest of you but I don't like anything climbing higher up the food chain than me, period. Sort of OK in a rubbish way.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats starts late one night in 'Gallup, Texas' where a young couple Quint (Tim Whitaker) & Emma (Juliana Johnson) are waiting at a level crossing for a train to pass, however as they wait they are attacked by bats & killed. Cut to 'Skull Valley, Arizona' & Dr. Sheila Casper (Dina Meyer) is the foremost expert in her field, the field of bats. So it comes as no surprise that sinister Government black suit wearing official Dr. Tobe Hodge (Carlos Jacott) asks for her help & expertise. Together with her assistant Jimmy (Leon) Dr. Casper is flown to the small Texas town of Gallup where Sheriff Emmett Kimsey (Lou Diamond Phillips) is trying to work out what happened to Quint & Emma, step in Hodge & genetic scientist Dr. Alexander MaCabe (Bob Gunton) who explain that they have created a new sort of bat, they have taken an ordinary Flying Fox & genetically enhanced it so they are more intelligent, stronger, bigger, work together & are totally hostile to any other living creature, oh & they also carry a viral disease which would infect other bats & turn them into vicious killing machines too. Even though they don't like it Dr. Casper & Sheriff Kinsey decide to help in order to save the town, however it soon become apparent that it won't be as easy as they first thought & it's not long before the entire town of Gallup is under attack from the winged killers...Directed by Louis Morneau I thought Bats was an OK film in a brain-dead rubbishy sort of way, it isn't going to win any awards but for what it was I quite liked it (emphasis on the word 'quite'). The script by John Logan moves along at a nice pace & is never really boring or overly dull but is stuffed with loads of horror film clichés, the stuffy female scientist who starts to loosen up & become romantically involved with the brave hero, the annoying obligatory black comic relief character, the evil scientist who cares for nothing but his experiments & is finally killed by them, the shady Government figure, the heavy-handed military who are all gung-ho & cause almost as many problem's as the bats themselves, the disbelieving (at first) local townspeople & the isolated location. It's all here folks but it's done in a reasonably entertaining way that passes an hour and a half painlessly enough I suppose. The film lacks any real violence or gore, apart from an autopsy scene at the start Bats doesn't have enough of the red stuff. The climax where a swarm of bats are chasing our heroes through some mine shafts is fairly decent & manages to create some excitement although I'm not sure two human beings could outrun 1000's of genetically enhanced (bigger, better & badder than your average bat) bats in a straight race...Director Morneau keeps things moving along, doesn't spend too much time on silly unnecessary character development & doesn't seem to take it all too seriously. However the bat attacks are annoyingly edited, loads of ultra quick cuts, so much so that it becomes confusing as to whats happening. Don't expect to see much during these scenes as it really does become a bit of a blur, maybe they are presented this way to hide the special effects up? The bats themselves look pretty cool although it's obvious their puppets.With a supposed budget of about $6,500,000 Bats looks OK & is generally well made but that sounds like a lot of money considering what ended up on screen. The photography, music & production values are good if not spectacular while the special effects alternate between CGI & rubber puppets, both of which have their fair share of effects that work & effects that don't. The acting was OK but no one stands out except the token black comedy relief guy Leon who becomes highly irritating.Bats isn't the best horror film ever made that's for sure, but it's far from the worst either. On a dumb predictable sort of level I thought it was watchable, worth a watch for horror fans but others may find it all rather silly & stupid. "},{"Title":"Very silly but fun.","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats is a very generic late-'90s killer animal flick that follows most of the genre rules to the letter. All of the expected characters are present and correct&#x97;untrustworthy government scientist, brave local sheriff, doomed-to-die deputy, dedicated (and sexy) animal expert, wise-cracking sidekick&#x97;and the plot develops in an extremely predictable manner, opening with young couple alone in the dark falling victim to the bats, before introducing a whole townful of potential victims, and climaxing with our brave heroes risking their lives in a showdown against the deadly critters.It all gets very silly at times, with perhaps the most unbelievable scene being the securing and electrification of a whole school by just four people in the space of a few hours, but it still proves to be quite a bit of fun, director Louis Morneau keeping the action moving at such a swift pace that such nonsense is fairly easy to forgive (unlike the director's tendency to 'skew', stretch and blur the image during the frenzied bat attacks, which I found bloody irritating).What really helps to elevate this formulaic nonsense to slightly-above-average are the solid cast and some fairly decent special effects. Dina Meyer (of Starship Troopers fame) and Lou Diamond Phillips make for a likable protagonists, and Leon is far less objectionable as 'token comedy relief black guy' than one might expect. As for the bats, they're a mixture of more than reasonable CGI and nifty puppetry from KNB; my only gripe, FX-wise, is a lack of splatter&#x97;a bit more gore would have been very welcome. "},{"Title":"I wonder if anybody can name me a film about killer bats that's better than this one...","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats had its theatrical run and was widely distributed on rental VHS/DVD. Videostores carried multiple copies which got rented fluently. Yet from the looks of it - its rating on here - most people thought this was bad. Boy, have they not seen 'bad' yet. Things would get a lot worse in years to come with these type of films. For one thing, try watching the alleged sequel to Bats called Bats Human Harvest. The thing was made in 2007, for TV and then dumped to DVD as well. Go watch it; it's about 5 times worse than this film. Then come back and tell me which is the bad film out of those two. Or go watch Fangs from 2001 (starring Corbin Bernsen). It's the silly version of Bats. I tell you, things can get a lot worse than this modest piece of killer bats entertainment. It even stars Lou Diamond Phillips and Dina Meyer. In 'worse' movies, you can't even count on a cast like this anymore. So why the complaints & puss-poor ratings on here?I've seen quite some crappy horror-movies already, and you can say what you want about Bats, but it's not a bad movie. Clichéd? Yes, kind of. Seen it all before? Yes, most likely. But the production values are more than just okay. It's well made. It looks good. Good camera work. The acting is more decent than what you normally can expect from a movie like this these days (like stuff produced by Sci-Fi Channel, The Asylum, need I continue?). I've seen much, much worse special effects when it comes to the CGI used in this one. And there are actually some cool shots of animatronic bats to be admired (from puppets with full body movement to close-ups of their heads with moving ears, grinning teeth and blinking eyes - it's always a kick to see SFX artists go the extra mile on this). The film's fairly fast-paced, keeps you going and never gets boring. It's basically a B-movie that looks damn good, sort of like stuff similar to Tremors (a fine early 90's monster movie classic) and its sequels. Or if you bump down the ladder a bit, you'll find a lot more (lower budgeted) genre outings telling pretty much the same story (Skeeter from 1993 comes to mind).Of course Tremors works better on a variety of levels and Bats isn't as great by a long shot. For one thing, it misses some wit, and that black guy (Leon playing Jimmy Sands) trying to provide it didn't do a lot of good either. Still, a fun popcorn-movie for the somewhat less demanding horror-fan. If you have this feeling that genetically altered killer bats might amuse you, then ignore the low rating on here and just watch it.Now, can someone recommend me a better movie with a whole bunch of killer bats in it? "}{"Title":"I'm shocked how low this movie is rated, it's FUN","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fun, fun film that's worth having fun with it despite many of the reviews to the contrary. I enjoyed the cheesy aspect of this film, it's almsot classic watching Lou Diamond Philips shoot bats. It's in the vein of They Live and movies of fun campy nature. Don't let the low rating fool you. See it, enjoy it. "},{"Title":"It's Creepy","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is NOT a bad movie and it follows the novel it was based on pretty well.  I enjoyed it. I even bought it on DVD.  Don't expect Minority Report here. This is simply B-Movie Fun. Lou Diamond Phillips is fine in his role as the local law. The guano jokes abound. And like someone said...there's even a mad scientist!!! "},{"Title":"It will probably get an Oscar or something...","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, what an amazing movie.  The computer that was able to locate bats coming through some kind of radar really impressed me.  I need that program for my computer.  Too bad it only exists in the wonderful world of Bats.  I am really happy to have spent $4.50 on this movie... because I realized just how one can waste millions of dollars on plastic bats that are of lower realistic quality than a Pizza Hut Land Before Time puppet.  I mean seriously, this was a completely ridiculous journey through suck land.  I have made better movies by accidentally hitting the record button on my camera while the lens cap was on... at Lame-Fest '98.  Anyway, run away from this movie at all costs... even your life.  Because you'll probably end up snapping your own neck to relieve yourself from the eyeball torture that Bats induces.  If someone gives you this movie as a gift, do the following; cry and tell the person you have never been so insulted in your life; then slap/punch them; burn the movie and spend $25,000 to have the ashes sent to  into space; move 2000 miles away and never talk to that person again.  Yes, it is that bad. "},{"Title":"This was a nice surprise and for a low budget film this was actually Good.","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I Liked this Film and I don't get the hate for the film I found it very entertaining and engaging and I thought the special effects were good. People say the film is not scary well what do you expect from a film about killer bats?. The film may not be scary but it was entertaining which is the whole reason we watch movies isn't it?. This film had a lot of exciting scenes in it. The film was well directed and well made and I liked the main three characters played by Lou diamond Phillips Nina Meyer and Leon. That's another thing I liked about this film there were actually (likeable characters) and most horror films don't have those but this did. I actually cared about what happened to these characters and I wanted them to Live. I found Leon funny and he gave good lines of dialogue and he was fun to watch. That's another thing that makes this film work,the cast was good. Lou diamond Phillips was also fun to watch and I found him to be a cool character and he played his role of the sheriff well. I also thought the acting from the three main people was Okay. I thought there were a lot of well done attack sequences especially the one at the start of the film which I thought was very bloody and brutal,I also thought the scene was shot well and the bats looked cool. There were some well shot scenes in the film one that I liked is when two of our main characters are trapped inside a car and a swarm of bats completely cover the car,they cover it so much you can barely see it anymore and I thought that was a bizarre but interesting scene. There were scenes where dozens of people were getting attacked in the street and there were bats flying around everywhere in and out of shops,people were getting attacked in restaurants and things were getting blown up and there was non stop Action. I'm surprised most people don't like this film because I thought it was Action packed!. I also liked how our main three characters worked together to try and stop the bats and they set traps for the bats. I especially liked the scene were Leon burns a bunch of bats with a flamethrower I thought that was a very Fun scene. That's why I'm giving praise to this film because it was low budget and they used the budget well and they were still able to create a lot of exciting action scenes and Fun moments. This has a lot of Action for a low budget film,and I found the story interesting. The film also has a very exciting and intense Finale that had me on the edge of my seat. This film was fun and fast paced and I recommend the film. "},{"Title":"Probably would have been better if it was sillier!","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats. Scary, huh? Well, not really. That's why the makers of this (imaginatively titled) film have made these ones bigger, stronger and smarter. So... now they're very scary! Well, actually no - they still look like rubber monsters, only bigger ones.The main trouble with Bats is that it tries to be serious. Seriously... a film about intelligent bats shouldn't be done with a straight face. If you ever watched Eight Legged Freaks and saw how they handled a plague of giant spiders, then that was probably how the film-makers should have done with Bats. As it is, they try to be genuinely horrific... and it doesn't work.Saying that, Bats isn't the worst film ever. The acting is surprisingly competent, which is credit to the actors who do a good job with the material provided.Bats isn't a bad film, it's just nothing particularly out of the ordinary. It's full of clichés and the bats have this strange habit of letting major characters get a good head start before trying to eat them (as opposed to the meaningless stream of extras who get munched straight away).If you can really be bothered to watch another 'monster-munching' movie, then you could do worse. It's just you could also do a hell of a lot better. "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-mill creature feature","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Released to USA theaters during Halloween in 1999, Bats is a nature-runs-amok flick about government-funded mutated bats that have escaped and are harassing the citizens of a West Texas town. The Sheriff (Lou Diamond Phillips) teams-up with a bat expert (Dina Meyer) and her amusing sidekick (Leon) to save the town and, actually, all of North America. Bob Gunton plays the semi-mad scientists who created the genetically-engineered diabolical creatures.This is a solid creatures-on-the-loose movie with a quality cast and a lot of thrills, but it never rises above run-of-the-mill for a few reasons For one, there's no interesting subtext. This is a film about mutated bats threatening a town and the people who try to vanquish them; that's it. While there's nothing wrong with such an approach, it can only be successful IF the creatures are interesting enough, like 1972's excellent Gargoyles, but I personally don't find bats that interesting. Don't get me wrong, the filmmakers did their best to make the creatures as malevolent, hideous and formidable as possible, but they're still bats. Another negative is that there's no female eye candy beyond the alluring main protagonist, Dina Meyer, and they don't do anything with her besides showcasing her stunning face. I'm not suggesting nudity or anything pornographic here -- not at all -- but professional filmmakers are able to take advantage of the female resources at their disposal and this film doesn't do that.Bats strikes me as a decent TV creature feature -- decent, not great or even really good -- and I find it hard to believe that it was a theatrical release.The film runs 91 minutes and was shot in Utah.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"low budget schlock,but entertaining a times (4.5/10)","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" this is a strange little movie.i mean it's very low budget and mostly poorly acted,perhaps on purpose.i'd swear it was done tongue in cheek yet at the same time it seems to take itself seriously.it has some pretty cringe worthy dialogue to say the least,and the story is quite silly,in my mind.at the same time though,it is fairly fun,and some of the characters are interesting.it's no masterpiece.in fact far from it.but i did find it a passably entertaining diversion.if you keep you expectation level really low for this movie,you might get some enjoyment out of it.it wasted around 85 minutes or so(not counting the end credits.it's not memorable,and once it's over,you'll forget all about it.for me,Bats is a 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"much better than 3/10","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was very surprised to see such a poor rating for this.Without sounding too clichéd it won't win any awards and was pretty forgettable stuff but it was an entertaining horror/drama for 90mins. There was even some interesting information on the nature and habitat of bats! I thought some of the scenes where the bats enveloped the vehicles and attacked the people were well done considering this was pre-CGI.The plot was a little convoluted and its a shame sometimes when movies like this try and take themselves too seriously but it had enough action to keep up the interest and for any DIna Meyer fans, she looked very fine in this! "},{"Title":"Good film for B-level horror, however script could have used some work","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is basically about a bat attack and a scientist is brought in to help figure it out. I won't reveal more about this story but however I do have to say two good things about the film 1.The CG was very good considering the budget was $37 million dollars.2.The bloody bat attacks were great and the R rated film is my preferred version instead of the original PG-13 versions.However to balance the issue (not like Fox news), I will say two bad things 1.The Script was mediocre at best, being a short film screenwriter, it was made for B-level but some of the dialogue sounds like a straight-to-video movie.2.The Score is way too obvious and a little bombastic.All in all, this is a very good attempt to make a B-level horror film, now if they had made a better script and did some better marketing, this film would have earned more than $10 million dollars domestic gross I give this film 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fun, light movie","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I picked this up on DVD cheaply at a video store that was going out of business, so wasn't expecting all that much from it. I had never heard of the movie before I bought it, but I thought Hey, it's cheap, I like bats and I often like B-movies, especially horror, so why not? And actually, I wasn't disappointed. I seem to have like it better than most users who have voted on it here on IMDb with almost 80% of voters rating it lower than me.It was fun. It was a movie about bats, genetically altered by a virus to become more intelligent, more aggressive and omnivorous, who attack a small Texas town. It was refreshing to see that, although the problem was created by the government, authorities were on top of the issue from the start (rather than the usual nothing is wrong, you must be mistaken incompetent government official cliché that is so often in this kind of movie).I thought the special effects were okay-not great, but better than a lot I have seen. The acting was also okay, though some of the dialog was just a bit corny and sounded forced.Overall, go into this movie looking for some mindless entertainment in the action-horror B-movie genre, and you'll like it all right. Look for more, and you'll be disappointed. "}{"Title":"I'm in the minority here.........but I LOVED this movie!","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Everything a popcorn/horror movie should be, and more!! I was pleasantly surprised at how well-made this little shocker was, and to me it delivered all the goods. I thought the effects were a heck of a lot better than Nightwing, and after sitting through the god-awful The Roost, this looks like an Oscar contender!! I thought the story served the effects well, and most were rather convincing, and the film had the charm reminiscent of older horror films from the 50's. Sure, it's not Titatic, or Gone With The Wind, but what were you expecting with a movie called Bats? Thoroughly entertaining in every respect, and certainly a few surprises here and there----perfect popcorn fodder for a rainy, dark night. Again, I know I'm in the minority here, but honestly it's a pretty good little film, and does exactly what the title says. "},{"Title":"Watchable if you are into bats...","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well I must admit that the Christmas spirit has invaded me and that's why I won't be too harsh with Bats and I will try to be objective.Well the movie has some decent f/x and a good premise. I mean, there aren't much Horror movies with bats. The cheesy plot was decent and served for the movie's purpose. Bats are horrific creatures that somehow, through history, have been linked with Dracula and other demonic situations. The truth is that this movie exploits them in such a way that they are considered to be dangerous.I was skeptic with it but I'm glad I was right. This is a very bad bad movie if you are the kind of movie fanatic that pays attention to production values and plot development.Watch Bats for what it is  a cheesy, regular B-movie disguised as a big budget Horror movie.I watched it only because it was the last movie of the Horror section in Blockbuster. See? This is why Blockbuster is about to go in bankruptcy. "},{"Title":"a corker of a film! bats will knock your little cotton socks off!","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A fantastically awful film, 10 out of 10 for effort! the special effects are horrifically cheesy, but that only adds to this films appeal!lou diamond phillips tries valiantly to pretend that he's in a proper movie, but even his efforts cant save this late night guilty pleasure from stinking.every horror movie cliché (and I'm using the word 'horror' here in a purely generic sense) is employed to little effect. my particular favourite involves two 'naughty' teenagers, getting up to consensual mischief in a parked car.despite all this, 'bats' is a must-see film, if only so you can know how truly terrible it really is! "},{"Title":"Standard creature feature","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Nobody ,surely,would sit down to watch a sub 90 minute movie called Bats,and starring Lou Diamond Philips,expecting to see another Citizen Kane.What you get is a brisk tale cut to the standard template for such flicks Mutant bats,created by the US government to be perfect killing machinescreate havoc in Texas,when escaping from the lab.Standing between them and world domination are the intrepid sheriff(Philips) a bat expert(Dina Meyer)and her sidekick(Leon)The bog standard mad scientist is on hand to complicate matters even more The director seems to delight in camera movement and the mass bat attacks pass in a whirling frenzy of disorienting and vaguely irritating camera jumps. The script is trite and does not stand up to scrutiny but there are some nice touches e.g Nosferatu showing at the local movie house,the sheriffs closet love of opera Meyer looks fetching attired for combat with the nocturnal enemy,Philips is better than the material deserves but the sidekick character was an irritant spouting would be funny linesAs a no brainer it passes muster on a bleak December day,but it is no Tremors,it is no Them(still the best picture of its type I reckon) Eye candy for those who need to give the cerebellum a rest  "},{"Title":"The Most Awesome Movie Ever","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ladies and gentlemen of film industry jury.  So many bad things have been said about one movie entitled, Bats.  I don't understand how this can be done.  For there's a simple fact one should have realized before seeing the movie...it was going to be BAD!This movie is a classic Lame Killer Animal Movie.  Hence, there in lies it's appeal.  If you went into watching this movie looking for a thrilling terrifying scary horror movie, you should have known better.  Just like Lake Placid, Deep Blue Sea, Anaconda, etc, killer animal movies are great for great laughs.  And this is no exception.  It's awesome.  Before you see a movie, and pass judgement on it, know what you are getting yourself into! Genetically altered killer BATS isn't exactly scary to me...and I knew it was going to be bad before I saw it.  Which makes it all that much better. We need to stop taking movies like this so seriously, and realize the comedy that lies there in.Thank you.  And remember.watchoutforthebats theyregonnagetcha BATS BATS BATS theyregonnagetcha BATS BATS BATS theyregonnasuckyadry "},{"Title":"HOW BAD CAN IT BE?","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie opening night and I still remember chuckling at it. I was entertained. That's what we see the movies for, right? To be entertained? Well. Maybe that isn't always the case. In any case I enjoyed this movie and will add it to my bad movie collection, if not to complete the Dina Meyer 4 (Starship Troopers, Johnny Mnemonic, Bats and Dragonheart) "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all (8/10)","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie. Of course, if you're cynical, you might be better off not going to see this. Just stick with whatever movie you saw a long time ago that you think is better than everything now a days. On the other hand, if you really like movies for what they are, you'll probably have fun watching this movie. Everybody in the audience I was in seemed to have a great time watching this as did I. The dialogue was funny and not ALL that predictable. The acting was not bad, it was actually pretty good. I really liked Dina Meyer in this (although she looked better with curly hair). Anyways, this movie will be liked by kids and anyone who goes to the movies as a form ENTERTAINMENT. I'll probably see this once more and get it when it comes out on DVD. Don't let ME influence you, though. You should always make up your own mind. (8/10). "},{"Title":"Blood thirsty genetically mutated bats terrorize a small (Texas?) town and threaten to escape local confinement and ravage the rest of the country.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was lucky enough to be recruited for a screening of this all-out entertainment experience.  The reason I am even posting my comments is because I was blown away.  This is one of the scariest movies I have seen in years.  Think back to those pre-SCREAM years when Hollywood tried to scare us with something other than annoying brats on the run or minute and predictable formulaic expansions/hollow twists.  They used to get our blood pumping and force us to look over our shoulders when we left the theatre. Do you remember that?? We'll it's back.  This movie is an intelligent horror movie with just enough cleverly placed humor to trick us into being relaxed.Everyone in the theatre was screaming shrieking and laughing. I was in a local theatre with a sound system that had never impressed me in the past, but during this film i swore the bats were hovering and then streaking across the ceiling - it was unbelievable! - you don't really see bats that frequently anyway or maybe you think you do because when you see them you remember them, but the darkness of the theatre combined with what you know about bats makes you feel like you're being preyed upon or like you are in a cave and that the bats are all around you.. It's crazy.. And from a guys point of view dina meyer (mayer??) is extremely sexy.  I never really thought so before but she is powerful and beautiful simultaneously.  Her character is also a solid female role-model.  If you want to be entertained go see this movie.    "},{"Title":"Simple but really exciting","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Watched this simply out of curiosity and turned out to be really good.A bat research experiment goes haywire, producing killer bats that terrorize a town in Arizona, and it's upto a local sheriff,and 2 scientists to find and eliminate all of them before they can eliminate more human lives.Its a short film, but really well shot, with good cinematography, action and thrills from start to end. The special effects are not as good as they are nowadays but nevertheless quite realistic. There is also no vulgarity which makes it suited for kids too.I wish there was a sequel. "},{"Title":"A lot of guano","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bats is a not a movie to be taken lightly.  It should be firmly grasped by the throat and throttled. I like horror & SF movies a lot and can usually find something entertaining about them even if it's badly done.  Hell, really bad SF & horror movies are very entertaining in spite of themselves!  But I found nothing amusing about this dull cliche-ridden film. "}{"Title":"Killer mutant bats......an interesting thought","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe deformed night animals in Bats are interesting to look at.They're no cheat on what was anticipated.So why the film never seems to exploit any of the opportunities to close in on them any further than they do only further adds to it's hinderances.The whole concept of the film is quite intriguing ,the cover alone proves enough to lure in ,with an original tagline like 'Where Do You Hide?',but as the film progresses,the characters become less interesting,and it goes quite over the top with the milatary and the air force getting involved.Ultimately,this is the sort of thing they should leave Stephen King to do.** "},{"Title":"What's the Problem?","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What is all the commotion about with regard to this movie?  So many people seem genuinely ticked off at it....and I am just curious about their expectations before seeing it.  My expectations were realistic...meaning I didn't expect much, nor was I disappointed in my expectations.  This film is bad, yet in a way fairly entertaining.  Like many films of its ilk it is not trying to be taken too seriously.  We can tell this by the compact acting styles, the huge loopholes in plot, and the horrendous dialogue.  None of the actors are particularly good.  The CGI effects are dismal, and when the bats attack close-up one cannot see anything in the blurred action.  Watching it I almost felt it looked a bit like Gremlins, only to be taken seriously and without the professionalism of all concerned in that film.  On the other hand, there are many ways your time could be used less effectively...personally I like watching bad movies....especially a bad movie you can sit through and not be bored out of your mind with.  Bats is just that ...a bad movie you can sit through. "},{"Title":"Bad title, bad movie.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****Prior to Bats, I'd never seen a horror film centered around the winged rodents before, so it's easy to be curious and skeptical about this film. But just as the previews proved, this is a pretty bad movie, not quite as terrible as I'd expected, but still quite the lackluster picture.  The story is typical for any killer animal movie, meaning we get a few specialists (led by Dina Meyer) and the town sheriff (Lou Diamond Phillips) out to stop the mutated bats before they spread their chaos over the entire continent.Easily Bats' weakest aspect is the dialogue and Leon's performance.  Hell, the two even go hand-in-hand as it's Leon delivering most of the pathetic one-liners.  Every time the guy opens his mouth, it's all it takes to keep from covering my ears, that's how embarrassing his stereotypical black man role is.  Bob Gunton is almost as annoying as the mad scientist who caused the whole mess, playing the same role he always does in the same manner. Phillips is usually a fine actor, but he should stray from attempting a southern drawl.  Dina Meyer is both talented and pretty, and fares the best here as the chiroptologist and heroine.Director Louis Morneau has all of one good film under his belt (the underrated sci-fi/action thriller Retroactive), and a whole lotta crap beside it.  Bats is an improvement over, say, Carnosaur 2, but it simply doesn't gel as the fun thriller it aspires to be.  Aside from the small town massacre (an admittedly fun setpiece, the only thing keeping this above * star), the rest of the film lacks thrills, suspense, and a good sense of humor.  While the movie does have a very slick, polished look, most of the visual effects are cheesy and the individual bat attacks are made into big blurs with Morneau's quick-cut editing and shaky camerawork.  Hard to believe this is the same man who gave us all that thrilling action in Retroactive.Bats concludes with the expected prolonged segment of our heroes entering the creatures' lair.  But Aliens, this is not.  The climax is just one long drag that ends in a predictable fashion.  But the final scene, which breaks a standard horror movie cliche, delivers a good belly laugh that made me wonder why the whole film wasn't packed with this kind of humor.  "},{"Title":"Holy bat poop, Sheriff!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The sleepy desert town of Gallup, Texas is terrorized by a large swarm of mutant bats. Sheriff Emmett Kinsey, played by Lou Diamond Phillips, needs help protecting his township from the large bats that not only are carrying a virus, but also are feeding on the towns people. A zoologist that is an expert on bat behavior, Dr. Sheila Casper comes to the rescue. Dr. Casper is played by Dina Meyer and not only is she smart, but she is top of the line eye candy. The bats are discovered roosting in an old mine shaft and the sheriff and bat doctor find themselves knee deep in bat poop.This really is not that bad of a movie for a low budget thriller. The bat attacks do look pretty gruesome. The camera angles and lighting make the attacks seems very realistic. I mean for big ass bats coming out of the big West Texas sky.Also in the cast are Bob Gunton, Carlos Jacott and Leon, whose previous claim to fame is appearing in Madonna music videos. Creepier as the night grows darker. Give this one a try. "},{"Title":"Seen it all before.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, killer bats attacking people. Says it all really. This is a completely mediocre, unexciting, unoriginal example of the normally-harmless-animals-eating-people genre.The special effects are ropey by today's standards and with it actually being difficult to convincingly depict bats (or even sometimes just a single bat) savaging a human the camerawork uses frantic, in-your-face close-ups of flapping wings and biting teeth, jumping from shot to shot and not allowing you to see what's going on properly. This soon becomes irritating.Unfortunately, mediocrity permeates every aspect of this film. The acting isn't great, but it's not awful. The same goes for the script. As a result, it doesn't even descend into the so-bad-it's-good category (although there are one or two laughably bad moments). The film doesn't take itself too seriously though and there are a few attempts at humour.In summary not very good but not the worst film you'll ever see and hence, probably not worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Treats Its Audience Like Idiots","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Horror is a very poorly regarded genre and you'll notice that the IMDb top 250 movies has a lack of horror movies in the list . Hardly surprising since much of these plots revolve around characters doing stupid things . As soon as someone says  Don't go into the woods at night  you know fine well what will happen . It's always puzzled me why the heroes go to Castle Dracula at midnight to kill the vampire when their task would have been much simpler if they'd waited till day break . BATS continues this type of trend but what makes it worse is the way it treats its audience like total idiots Take the heroine Dr Sheila Caspar whose employed by a government agency because she's the world's most renowned expert on bats . The thing is that she can't be a day over 25 ! How long did she spend at university studying bats ? Two minutes ? It's a sad day indeed when the world's most renowned expert on anything looks barely old enough to frequent a bar . I suppose this is possibly forgivable since the producers thought no one over 18 would watch this ( They might actually be correct ) so decided to make the heroine sexy What isn't forgivable is that BATS lacks any type of internal continuity or logic . In fact it's downright offensive on this score . The bats ( Which have to be seen to be believed ) attack a small town . What would you do if a swarm of bats attacked your town ? Would you lock yourself in a cupboard ? I know I would but for some incomprehensible reason people walking down a street don't seem to notice them until it's their turn to be attacked and despite people screaming and crashing their trucks which then explode people drinking in a bar don't seem to notice the chaos for a full five minutes . It also goes without saying that when one of the heroes is attacked they can literally fight off dozens of the critters but one bite from a single bat is enough to kill a nameless extra . If this was a STAR TREK episode most people would be wearing a red top I notice that during the attack on the town the local cinema is showing NOSFERATU which seems to indicate a post modernist sophistication on the part of the makers but again would a small American town be showing legendary silent movies at the local cinema ? Highly unlikely and everything else in this movie indicates that the producers thought the target audience were complete and total idiots "},{"Title":"Not good but definitely entertaining","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Its was a very creative film, i was well acted and had some humorers parts that made it more enjoyable. I like that it didn't take it self that serious and at the same time making it scary, i admit the bats looked fake in times and the CGI wasn't that great at the time but i don't consider it as bad as say birdemic. It had great characters specially the stereotypical black side kick that was funny most of the time, the only bad character was evil scientist that well...was evil and did not explain things well he was just that evil mad scientist.I recommend this one as just a Sunday movie to watch don't expect complex story lines. Its fun to watch and the ending was just the funniest ending you could imagine. "},{"Title":"Bats Without Vampires Equals a Weak Premise.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats (1999) Dir Louis Morneau / Cast Lou Diamond Phillips, Dina Meyer, Bob Gunton, Leon, Carlos Jacott It is weird looking at the advertising poster where the title is upside down spelling stab. Was this intentional or just an error by someone who flunked their eye examination? The first problem is that unless we are dealing with vampire bats then the title fails to give off any form of scary intimidation as say Anaconda where the thought of the animal is far more intimidating. Then we have a host of airheads that do nothing to render this scary. There is a meathead scientist who experiments with nature by creating a nasty breed of bat thus letting them loose to attack everything that moves. A bat expert is summoned to assist the local Sheriff. This leads to a rather cruel and disgusting climax. Director Louis Morneau does his best but the scientist featured here is a real joke. Bob Gunton plays the biggest idiot in the history of horror films. He out stretches his arms claiming to control the critters only to be slaughtered by a flock of them. Was he drunk or just on a serious amount of cocaine? Lou Diamond Phillips and Dina Meyer play characters of moron capacity, but Gunton's role takes the cake as the biggest bat sh*t piece of writing in this garbage. There are good shots of overhead flight but the film is pointless and should be buried in bat guano. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Poor Bob Gunton. He deserves better.","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After revisiting this 1990s update of the classic nature strikes back genre of the 1970s, this viewer can say that he has warmed up to it a bit. It's of absolutely no real distinction, but adequate directing and acceptable acting manage to overcome a VERY routine script. An unending multitude of killer bats (that have been genetically engineered, naturally) are unleashed on a sleepy Texas burg. Among our heroes are a laid back sheriff (Lou Diamond Phillips), a bat expert (Dina Meyer), and her assistant (Leon).The script by John Logan is stupid and clichéd, and unfortunately treats the assistant character as a comedy relief stereotype. It's also kind of hard to feel sorry for the many townspeople in the movies' big set piece when they prove too dumb to get the Hell out of Dodge. The execution does manage to make this reasonably entertaining, with a fair bit of intense action and some moderate suspense. The effects, unfortunately, are mostly pretty poor. The puppets are not the best work that KNB has ever done, and the digital FX are purely laughable. At the very least, there's some pleasing widescreen photography and scenic locations. Some horror fans may also be pleased with the fairly high body count.Phillips is likable in the hero role; he's at least more convincing here as a cop than he was in The First Power. The real standout is the lovely Meyer not only is she excellent eye candy, but her character is very smart, very strong, and very capable. Leon is wasted in his role. That brings us to the matter of Bob Gunton, a superb veteran character actor who has one of the most embarrassing roles of his career. Cast as the requisite mad scientist, you'll likely be left shaking your head at the flimsiness of his motivation.NOT an altogether bad movie, but also far from being a good one. Fortunately, it's relatively short.Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bats","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An expert named Dr. Sheila Casper is brought in when Bats begin killing animals and people in a small town in Texas. Some bodies are first found all chewed up, and we discover the killers are large bats who have been injected with something thanks to a mad scientist Dr. Alexander McCabe. Those bats attack and infect a large number of other normal bats, and that's when it becomes feeding time. Whatever the scientist did to the bats he was testing gives them the ability to sense things that normal bats wouldn't, and also gives them the thirst for human blood. We see the bats attack our main group of characters, as well as the entire town until Sheila realizes the only way to stop them for good is to freeze them. Will this attempt to end their reign of terror work, or will the mutated bats live on and kill everyone in sight?'Bats' is pretty much an average animal/mammal attacks type of horror movie. It really gave nothing too special other than a few moments. Those moments which work are the scenes in the small town when the bats attack the townsfolk. We get nice location shots of them attacking a bar, a grocery store, the outside of a movie theatre, etc. That was really well done. Where the movie fails is it's ending portion. It drags on way too much in which the experts and Sheriff Emmett Kimsey tries to kill them. Plus an added plot point of making it that the government was creating killer bats as weapons in war or something fell flat. I don't know, I thought it was really silly.Acting was pretty good I thought. Lou Diamond Phillips as the Sheriff and Dina Meyer as the expert did a good job. The stand-out performance goes to Leon as funny guy Jimmy, he had some funny one-liners and delivered them perfectly. I'd recommend 'Bats' if you like these kinds of horror films where animals or birds attack. It wasn't bad, but could've been better.5/10 "}{"Title":"Hilariously bad, but still fun to watch","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have to assume that when this movie was budgeted, the crew sat down and said, You know, it's impossible to make a good movie with what we've got. Let's just get drunk instead. However, since they were contractually obligated to make a movie, they shot some scenes and turned it in to the studio. The studio, having already spent close to a million dollars on beer, decided they were going to aggressively market the movie to HBO and Cinemax, so that there'd always be a Lou Diamond Phillips movie on, every day, around 2am. Their gambit paid off, and now there's a whole new generation of people who associate Lou Diamond Phillips with bad movies.Is this is a good movie? No. Should that stop you from watching it? Definitely not. Why limit yourself to that which is objectively good? If you can't sit down and enjoy a bad movie about bats attacking people, you're taking life too seriously. While not truly a candidate for worst movie ever, it deserves to have a cult following of fans who devise drinking games and recite quotations. This is epic movie-making. "},{"Title":"CGI creatures in an overly familiar monster flick","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Twenty years after Hollywood made NIGHTWING they decided to tackle the subject of killer bats once again with results that turn out to be less than inspired.It's not that BATS is a particularly bad film; it isn't. It ticks all of the boxes and runs through the scenarios with a modicum of energy and drive. The problem is, as with most Hollywood films made recently, a series lack of originality or indeed intelligence. BATS turns out to be cheesy and predictable in equal measures, delivering up its threat of genetically-modified bats without much in the way of passion or intrigue.The plot follows the likes of THE BIRDS and other classics fairly closely. Moments between the set-pieces are dull, while the bat attacks are spoiled by some average CGI effects work (Hitchcock's superimposed birds are still superior to the creatures here). In close up, the rubbery menaces are about as realistic as the bats in Hammer's SCARS OF Dracula; not Greg Nicotero's finest moment, that's for sure.Cast-wise, it's pretty lacklustre. Lou Diamond Phillips goes through the motions and STARSHIP TROOPERS' Dina Meyer displays a singular lack of presence. Leon's character reveals everything that's wrong with Hollywood's reliance on the clichéd funny black guy in otherwise straight films. All in all a largely forgettable movie that disappeared as quickly as it arrived; go back to Hitchcock for a decent winged-menace movie. "},{"Title":"One for the bad movie enthusiast only","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My favourite bit of this movie was when the sheriff (Lou Diamond Philips) and Casper the friendly bat expert have a romantic interlude in this farcical bat yarn.Red sky tonight the sheriff observes in this tender moment my momma always said red sky means someone's gonna die. The laughs just keep coming in this wonky horror flick. The bat on a pole chasing them down a corridor is great but it's not just the shoddy special effects that amuse you because the scriptwriter clearly knows nothing at all about bats and wasn't prepared to skim a book about them before writing this rubbish. I especially liked the bat experts outrage that the scientist had engineered bats to eat meat as though we were talking about cows or something. Most bats are predators, I don't know what the film makers think insects are made out of, flying cheese sauce or something I suppose.The bat-vision scenes are dreadful, if you've made a substandard film the last thing you want to do is annoy the audience even more with ridiculous warped views that don't tie in with what's happening on screen.None of the characters are credible, there's no tension and the bat attacks themselves are unintentionally funny. If you like bad movies you're sure to wring some pleasure from this movie, if not then I would give it a miss. "},{"Title":"This is virtually a remake of Nightwing 1979","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I kept thinking boy does this look familiar. Nick Mancuso was the sheriff, killer bats, carnivore bats. I think this was done one time too many.The main difference is Indian medicine man and magic versus a crazy scientist. The end result is virtually a remake.They both are set in the desert Southwest with a sheriff that is Hispanic or not white.Watch the original movie, it is better. Nick Mancuso was more believable as a rural Southwestern sheriff. Lou Diamond Phillips is usually good, he just seemed like his heart was not in this movie. I think that the Indian medicine man was a more interesting plot twist. The government experiment that went horribly wrong was lame.Just my humble opinion, Edouard in Phoenix "},{"Title":"A rather decent entry","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats is a pretty decent creature feature.**SPOILERS**Following a series of gruesome murders, Dr. Sheila Casper, (Dina Meyer) and her assistant Jimmy Sands, (Leon) are called to Texas by Dr. Tobe Hodge, (Carlos Jacott) who tells her that bats are involved. Dr. Alexander McCabe, (Bob Gunton) reveals that they're genetically altered bats, forcing Sheriff Emmett Kimsey, (Lou Diamond Phillips) to call a town evacuation. When the order goes unnoticed, the bats attack the small town and the citizens, causing massive panic. Finally calling in the military, the survivors work together to stop the bats from spreading around the country if they escape.The Good News There are some pretty decent good points in this one. The bats here are actually pretty good, and they're really believable. Abandoning the CGI commonly used for these types of films. The puppets look pretty realistic, and their close-ups make them out to be pretty terrifying to a degree. That also helps out in a mildly effective shot. The bats swarm over a truck containing several characters when a second one comes up and they suddenly become aware of the new vehicle and come to an abrupt, silent stop. They then turn their heads towards the car and its headlights, so that all their eyes light up a malevolent yellow. This is one of the best shots and looks quite menacing and effective. The main attack sequence in the middle of the movie, where a large swarm of bats attacks the population in the middle of town, causing general panic and mayhem. The large amount of action, including causing a character to run and crash through a glass door while being attacked and a car crashes into an electrical pole, sending it down to the street, while other vehicles crash into each other, causing them to explode and burn. Another vehicle crashes into a ticket booth. The fact that it plays out over a long period of time is quite nice, allowing for a lot of great action and gore to pop in. Also on the upside is that it's a little refreshing to see a movie like this having everybody agreeing that the problem is bats right from the start. Rather than having the clichéd extended argument among people who had clear evidence that it was bats and someone like the chief cop constantly butt heads over what the culprit is until it had a physical attack done in front of everyone to convince them. This is a nice change of pace. Still, let's give credit where it's due. The last segment shows a bat burrowing out of the ground, and just as it breaks completely free, the heroes' truck comes along and they unknowingly run over and squash it. So they did have enough wit to make fun of those annoying 'it's not over yet' endings. With some mild gore and a really fast and quite watchable pace to it, this is a lot better than it's been made out to be.The Bad News This here does have some problems. There are several confusing parts of this. Every time there was some sort of dramatic bat attack, the camera would go off on some sort of hyped up whirlwind trip of herky jerky motion. This is what keeps it from being scary or creepy, as the attack scenes become mush because we don't even get to see what's going on in the scene the cuts are so quick. This the film provides in spades, since you often can't tell what the heck is happening on screen. It is definitely the picture for those who find the videos on MTV too stately and static. Making the technique even more obnoxious is that it's used pretty much throughout the entire film. The origin of the bats is also a little confusing. All we know is that bats are attacking. How they are attacking and what exactly is happening remains a mystery. The other big problem here is that the bats suffer from an annoying flaw in logic that modified animals are not just more intelligent, but that they mysteriously acquire knowledge of matters completely outside their range of experience. Here, a bat that has been trapped and tagged with a tracking device then is hunted down and killed by the modified bats, who know that the device will give away their colony's position. When they get trapped in a truck, the bats are able to deduce the schematics on the workings of a mechanical object, and it's not something they would be familiar with. These bring the film down slightly from what it could've been.The Final Verdict While there's some problems here, this is overall not as bad as it's been made out to be. It's a lot of fun, has some really good action scenes and a few new and innovative ideas, making it a prime example for those that enjoy the old-school creature features or an evening of mindless fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language and photographic violence of animals "},{"Title":"Full of stereotypes, but decent...","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Attention, this time the threat is genetically modified and made aggressive and ravenous bats! But what a praiseworthy waste of originality! Bats places itself in the interminable wake of countless movies based on the fear that comes from the animal world, and in particular in that subgenre (so filled with terribly awful movies!) with genetically modified creatures as protagonists. Nevertheless it maintains itself at least on a level of minimal decency, after all it is not that good but there is plenty of worse movies! If not some thrill, at least there's some atmosphere, and for the rest we are in the usual standard of catastrophic flicks, with all their already-seen stereotypes, but the special effects are acceptable. "},{"Title":"Day viewing Best for Thriller","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As a Thriller this movie with the close-up head shots, can only lead to one wondering if bats really look that ugly. Makes one want to search for actual photos and identify the type of bat photographed. I personally, suggested that it be watched during the day with a big bay window to the side of the television; so every bird or black crow flying by creates a reality to the feeling. I had a crow pass, at the same time as the bats were attacking windows; and I was sure it was coming in. Yes, quite an experience. The graphics as the reason for it to be rated as R, shows the great efforts of the director;but when the bat seems to be able to knock a person completely off their feet by landing on their back, one questions the reality. A good thriller keeps you on the edge of your seat or back tight to the wall. This with all the bat attacks, forced me to sit tight to the wall. I feel a great story line had been created ; as always an attack on the government new weapon efforts and comments of Dr. Sheila Casper on her love for bats, explaining why someone could love these small mouse like fliers. The IMDb list of goofs is interesting. I must think the director of this film tried to copy Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds. "},{"Title":"this movie changed my life (for the better)","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i am really glad to see that louis morneau has finally found a project to showcase the talent that was hinted at in carnosaur 2. i wasn't expecting much when i watched bats but it really showed me a thing or too! i was totally with all the characters all the time. i mean i was really worried about lou diamond phillips then when that bat was trying to eat him at the end. after they killed cdc guy (i had to walk out of the theater i was crying so hard) i knew all bets were off with these guys. thats some hardcore film-making that you just don't get in an age of brokeback mountaineering. not only does it have great acting, effects, and dialog (this film has one of the funniest black dudes i have ever seen), its got a great social message. i was on my feet cheering when that scientist got annihilated by his bats. let that be a lesson to all those immoral scientists out there trying to make man-beast hybrids (cool as they may be), they're gonna get you. and by they i mean the bats. "},{"Title":"Addition","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just had to say something on this film, but noticed how the previous comments said enough, so i thought i'd point out the flaws in-depth. Namely, i'll be pointing out the errors made with the bats (mind you i've been watching now and then as this movie plays, it's not worth my attention). First off, since when can a single bat overpower a full grown man? One bat flings himself at one nonetheless, and instead of grabbing the bat and crushing it under his boot, he decides to bounce around the cafe knocking over everything that's loose. Second, bats are blind any way you look at it, yet these critters seem to have some red vision - and woe the man who views it, for this is not all. The third point is the fact that when shot at, lots of sparks shoot off the bat, power rangers style, apparently these mutated bats are made of flintstone. The fourth point (and i'm sure there are more, but in total i've watched this movie for six minutes) is that apparently, bat crap gives off toxic levels of ammonia gas, so naturally the people who enter the lair wear space suits with added padded armor.I'd say this sums up some of the ludicrous material in this movie, and you get the point - bad, bad, bad movie.  "},{"Title":"what do a hick sheriff, hot chick and the standard funny black man have in common? this movie.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seemed as if were filmed on a 100$ budget, very bad camera work. Too many stupid plot twists, like how the scientist suddenly turned evil? Too many magic mericals, like how the obligatory funny black guy is the smartest person and can hack his way into everything. wouldn't you expect that if the army got involved with a crisis involving bats they would have at least one bat expert!?! and why in gods name would the government ever need these killer bats? Extremely predictable, you could see that ending coming from a mile away. Bad SE. I think they spent the whole budget on the explosions at the end. I wanted to turn off the movie, just after the first scene, which involved a train and some drunken Teens coming to their gruesome deaths. The hick sheriff turned out to be a soulful Opera fan, who was really very bright and witty? your a hick sorry. the love connection between the Woman and the hick really didn't seem to work. If indeed they were trying to make a connection ,witch they seemed to hint towards, wasn't a big enough hint. Please, only see this movie if you can't handle Horror movies, because it's really really very un-scary. or if your dimwitted and truly believe bats are as big as eagles and eat humans. or did they eat humans? I don't know...  "}{"Title":"Monster movies hit their rock bottom.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  BATS (1999)**SPOILERS**THE GOOD--I thought the movie started really well. No time is wasted and we're right into the story and there's no mucking around. The bats come across as a genuine threat at the start of the movie as there is so many, and the action is plentiful. The bats raid a car and then proceed to tear the town apart, killing residents and sending the blood and guts flying. It's all in good fun and enjoyable 7/10 material.THE BAD--Creature features have never had to have the greatest story, but Bats is simply mutant bats flying around town killing people. The attempts to thicken up the story with the military getting involved and boring, routine and often laughable. There are also noticeable filler scenes, meaning scenes that are there simply to make the movie hit the 90-minute mark. One such scene is the lame setting-up-traps sequence with opera music playing; it's just tedious. Worst of all, there is never reason given WHY the mad scientist even did this in the first place. All he said was your standard I-wanted-to-improve-the-world speech, but why in God's name would making bats smarter, more intelligent and much more gruesome change anything?--The film offers nothing in the way of character development. Almost all of the characters here are plain stereotypical - the smart heroine, the determined town sheriff, the annoying tag-along in the role of the token black guy and, worst of all, the mad scientist. The actors sleepwalked their way through the roles and the bats could've just eaten their bloody throats out for all I care.--What's scarier on film, bats or birds? Typically the answer is bats from most people, but when comparing the two films The Birds and Bats I might have to consider changing my answer. The bats in this film look absolutely ridiculous. They look like a cross between centipedes and mutated cats with wings. All they ever do in the movie is creep up behind people, wait until the person turns around and then rip their throat out off-screen while the person screams. I can't count the times I saw this used, and it was so bloody annoying. Bats ARE scary creatures (in my books anyway), they should be treated in a much more creepy manner than they are here.--It's hard to count the continuity and plot flaws in the film. I've already mentioned the gaping plot hole about WHY this was even done (oh, the scientist is crazy.that's a good explanation *roll eyes*), but there is also a very annoying issue I had with glass. In the first scene, the bats rip through a glass window on a car and get to the teenagers, yet when they come to do the same to the main characters (who are in a police car) somehow they can't and have to resort to going through the engine? Perhaps the police car had 'stronger glass', but if this is the case, why can the bats shatter various huge school windows in a matter of SECONDS?--I always appreciate horror movies that take chances and do something original and different. Bats is anything but original. Aside from being your standard monster movie, the script doesn't bother killing any of the main characters unless they're evil and need to die so the heroes can carry out the duty of killing the mutated m-effers. Isn't a movie much more intense when the main characters are in some real peril and some of them die? It shows bravery and unapologetic horror for the persons behind the camera. The movie also lacks a large amount of gore, and tries to cover it up by using crappy, wannabe-cool cinematography tricks and lots of off-screen screams.RATING3/10 - Bats is further proof that the quality of monster movies had drastically decreased in this day and age, perhaps finally hitting its rock bottom around this year with this unoriginal trash.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDThe Birds (10/10) Deep Blue Sea (7/10) Dracula/1992 (4/10) Eight Legged Freaks (5/10) The Lost Boys (6/10) "},{"Title":"Modern B-movie - Pretentious Cinematography","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like this kind of movie.... doesn't scare you, just rolls along... Great late-night TV movie type fare.......BUT!!!!!DREADFUL shaky camerawork, perspective shifting and other tacky effects are used to hide the action when it does happen. Really nasty stuff....The editor/cameraman should be forced to watch it for 24 hours solid.HATE this kind of mess!  "},{"Title":"Bats? Turkey is a more apt name...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pretty awful. The actors try, but they are so hampered by terrible dialogue, a truly dire script and goofy effects, that the whole thing comes over as pure MST3K fodder.The effects are sub-standard. Oh, the CGI in the distance bats are fine, if a little obviously CGI. But it's the close-up, rubber bats that really let the side down. The closer the shot of the bat, the more rubbery and less realistic it looks. As an idea, if you've ever seen the film Ghoulies, then you might have some idea of how un-lifelike and rubbery they look.My favourite bat moment, though, was the bat-cam. Here, they stuck a rubber bat to the front of the camera and run around with it, to show you what an attack looks like from a bat's eye view, as it were. But it's so ludicrous I was laughing my head off.But it's not just the effects that are lame. The plot is too. On the whole, its bearable. But right at the end, it falls flat on its face with the most awful and glaringly obvious screw up on the part of the scriptwriters/cutting crew et al.The script is so full of cliche horror moments its unreal. Top of the list are the beautiful heroine and comedy side-kick. Also present is the evil scientist out to protect his creations, which ultimately turn on him. Ho hum. We also have the disbelieving populace (until its too late!). The hard-nosed kill 'em all military man. The list just goes on and on.Among the many stupidities that the cast are called upon to perform in the name of the script is the holing up in the town school so that they can track the bats by satellite. Apparently, they couldn't do this from a safe location, far from the bats, as this wouldn't have meant an attack by the bats for dramatic effect. As a further idiocy, the back-up generator is installed far from the control room, allowing for a panicked run to start it up when the bats short out the power. Furthermore, its a pullcord starter, so that the heroes have trouble getting it going, to further enhance the already non-existent tension.But the best bit is saved for last.You see, spoilers, they find the bats are holed up in an abandoned mine (now isn't that original). The military sends a team up there and lowers a truck-sized refrigeration unit into the mine on a long cable. The idea is to chill the bats and make them go ni-nights. However, the bats return (did I mention the soldiers do this at night?) and slaughter the lot of them. Enter our heroes, who turn up next day to finish the job. Except......they go into the mine through some convoluted passageways and an elevator barely big enough for the two of them. At this point, not having seen the military actually lowering the freezer into the mine, I was wondering how they got something that size down all these twisty passages, especially since we'd been told (several times) that there was only one entrance to the mine. Anyhow, after some time our heroes enter the bat cavern and, guess what? There's the freezer unit, dangling from a big hole in the roof on the end of a cable. At this point I was scowling at the stupidity of it all. Why didn't our heroes merely go down through the roof where the freezer was? Of course, the answer was that the scriptwriters are stupid, stupid people who believe we won't notice such an awful screw-up. To add insult to injury, after escaping from the bat lair, our heroes blow the entrance to seal the mine and the bats inside. Except, considering there was only one entrance, the explosion covers the whole darn hillside.Oh, and by the way, Mr writer, if you're going to write a story about bats, it might help to actually get a bat expert to tell you some basic facts about them. Like for instance, how bat guano contains a great deal of nitrates and ammonia and is quite flammable. So I don't think a bat expert would be igniting a frickin' flare in the bat cave!One final rant. If they were going to seal the bats in the cave, what was the point of the freezer? It'll run out of fuel eventually, then the bats'll wake up. So what was the point? Maybe I dozed off and missed something.Anyway, a really crap film that doesn't deserve to have Dina Meyer or Lou Diamond Phillips in it. What were those two thinking? This'll harm their careers for sure.If you must watch it, look out also for the CDC guy's mullet (hairstyle). It's one of the worst I've seen for a while and worth laughing at every time he appears. Other than that, though, this is a real turkey and best avoided except as a DIY MST3K with your mates and plenty of beer. "},{"Title":"Restored my faith in Hollywood's ability to make unintentionally funny crap","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was one of the apparently few dopes to plunk down actual money and see this new in the theatre.  After encountering it again recently on the Sci-Fi channel on a lazy Sunday afternoon, I'll stick with my original impression it's bad, but in an entertaining way.  It looks like a real movie, but it has all the best hallmarks of those endearing crappy B-films from the 1950s and 60s.  These include horribly fake-looking monsters, laughably bad dialogue, a ridiculous script, and one-dimensional cliches for characters. Funny mainly because it seems to take itself seriously (unlike, say, Eight Legged Freaks), the movie's hilarity stops only when the black actor delivers yet another embarrassingly unfunny Negro comic relief line.Not the best good-bad movie ever, but still recommended for folks who like crappy movies that are unintentionally amusing and thought (like I did) that Hollywood couldn't make them anymore. "},{"Title":"okay...................look....","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i've read almost all of the comments on bats ,and people have slammed this movie relentesly.........it's just not that bad.....when you go to see a movie about killer bats what the hell were you expecting...an oscar winner!!!!..this movie is great for what it is a funny outraguos horror movie...i thought it was great!!!....some people took issue with the typical bad scientist in the movie well ..the character was right on the money....scientist do the things they do not because they need to but because they can!.......and the actors in this movie are great actors!..granted this wasn't there best work...but lou diamond,leon and dina meyers are all great actors that have done some great work.(espically meyer)has anyone noticed that this girl could be the greatest female action star alive?!?...she is extremly physical,buetiful and does all her own stunts....she's strong and muscular as hell!......she has fought aliens,bats,dragons and the mafia and and looked dam good doing it.....she is an actress who is ready to explode as an action star....she just hasn't been discovered yet...any way the movie wasn't that scary but for the genre it was great...5/5 stars!   "},{"Title":"Too Many Bats","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Many movies are built around the billions of creatures attack theme. Them, Gremlins, and god's gift to mankind, Aliens. Bats is just like those classic tales of man vs nature/gremlins. Except for two things.1. It's not good.2. It has bats in it.Oh and the plot has a tendency to be really bad. Apparently scientists have been trying to engineer a super bat using a virus. When a bat gets this virus then it becomes larger, smarter, meaner, etc ad infinitum. A bat can get this virus from an already infected bat. So, one of these bats escapes from the lab, using its super intelligence no doubt, and gets to a bat cave.The movie has Lou Diamond Phillips as its hero. That poor devil has been in so many awful movies, Supernova and Red Planet coming immediately to mind. He needs to flee like a startled rabbit from the next script they hand him.Anyway, the whole movie just hit rock bottom with its plot and terrible special effects. Actually, change that. Not the whole movie. The ending was the best ending for a movie I've seen in a long time.I'm gonna change this from 2.5 to 3 stars just because of the ending in fact. Excuse me for a second.So, watch this movie just to see the ending. And to cut poor Lou some slack. In fact send him some money too. He deserves it. "},{"Title":"Ahh muppets...","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a fan of bad movies in that I purposefully seek them out, but when I see a (funny) bad movie I can at least laugh.  I have sat through Challenge of the Super Friends Attack of the Legion of Doom and found it downright funny.Bats, while not the worst movie I've ever seen (I reserve this title for Mission to Mars and Phantom Menace), is still pretty bad. But at least it is funny.  I honestly believe that the people who released this movie KNEW it was bad, but decided to release it anyway.  They were being scientists and attempting to see how well this stinker could do.  Who will pay $13.50 to see this movie? Will they ask for their money back? Who will LIKE it? How can we clone them?That aside, Bats should be played in Film classes. Not for its merits, but as an example of what NOT do do, especially when it comes to the camera work.  In TV they use a technique called a one shot, one shot, two shot (I may be a little off on the title here. I don't work in TV). Anywho, this is basically a description of how to film a conversation. Film one person's face, then the other person's face, then them talking together. Its a formula. Its an EASY formula. The director of Bats thought, hey! I can use that! And he does...for a conversation of 6+ people. It is the most disorienting thing I have ever watched. There is all of this quick cutting around the circle of people in an attempt to give them all their screen time. And just when I started to feel like I was going to yak, they did what should have been done in the first place film all of them standing and talking together (the two shot) in a semi-circle that is diguised to not look like a semi-circle (Hollywood does this so well). Why didn't they just do this in the first place? Were all of the actors clamering to get their close ups?  We may never know. What we do know is that that technique should never be employed for conversations greater that 2 maybe 3 people and each person should have a few lines before the camera is cut away, not just No.There next filming mistake was the attack scenes that go on for a few minutes, but you still never know what is happening, or what happened until you see the corpses. Again to much fast cutting, and now blurry images as well.Now to step away from the camera stuff, we will examine the Bats themselves. I'm sorry, did you say Kermit was your father? I am a fan of muppets.  I liked Yoda as a muppet and was royally p***ed off when Lucas CGI'd him. But I like good muppets and only in their place. In sci-fi you can handle them, but in a killer animal movie?  The killer animals need to look REAL in order to scare us (the quotes here are being used sarcasticly). They should not look like something the director picked up at Toys R Us.The last major problem I found was with our so-called heroes.  Man do I hate idiot movies.  You know where the plot is only furthered because the characters are complete morons? I mean this chick is supposed to be a scientist! An EXPERT in Bats.  Shouldn't she KNOW how to get rid of them or catch them? Plus given the choice between having killer bats take over the whole continent or nuking the crap out of this small town so that they're gone forever, well just help me down with this missile. Oh, but we can't use nukes, they say. I'll destroy our quaint little town and our way of life. Ummm...so will the bats. The bats will also destroy all of the people on the rest of the continent except possibly the people in the Yukon. Stupid, stupid heroes.But all of that said, I did actually like watching Bats cause it gave me something to laugh at and then rant about, which is always fun.  I didn't go into the crappy dialouge cause after Attack of the Clones bad dialouge has a new high water mark.  Dialouge would need to be something SPECIAL to beat that putrid mess, and Bats, while bad, does not even come close.  "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *May contain spoilers* The greatest thing about this film was its budget. That must have been big. Other than that it was incredibly predictable and sad. So there are these people who work with bats. One is the sexy smart, save-the-day woman and the other is the comic-relief black guy. They are asked to go to the town of Gallop, Texas to help with the bat problem. They meet a tough cowboy guy, and the scientist who created the evil bats. The scientist looks scary and drops subtle hints. Bats attack, they barricade a school (why a school? I don't know). They play opera music, the black guy doesn't like it, hilarity ensues. Then they get attacked by the evil bats. Shockingly, the chicken-wire doesn't hold them off. Equally shockingly, the generator doesn't work, so they can't electrocute the bats. And, most shockingly of all, the scientist guy tells us that he created the evil bats... ON PURPOSE. Then the bats kill him, the rest go to the bat cave and kill all the bats and they all live happily ever after. Bad, bad movie. "},{"Title":"Bad, Could've Been Worse","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie on a Saturday afternoon when I didn't have anything to do for a couple hours. It was on TV - so, I technically didn't have to pay anything to watch it. Just from the name of the movie, I wasn't expecting much, and I wasn't overly disappointed because of this.The basic plot is this... A mad scientist (played by Gunton) invents a new breed of bats that the US military hopes to use as a super-weapon. Unfortunately for a small Texas town and its sheriff (Lou Diamond Phillips), the scientist lets the bats loose. They soon start killing animals, and then people, causing havoc in the town. A doctor (Dina Meyer) and her assistant join the party (Leon Robinson) to try to destroy the homicidal bats.The acting throughout this film is bad, but not as bad as other films (even some with larger budgets). Special effects in this film are average, but could've been a lot better for a theatre release. The plot is thin and flimsy and has a lot of wholes in it. And the dialog is unrealistic and cheezy... not much thought seemed to go into the script.This is the type of movie that would've fit in better as a TV-movie or a direct-to-video release. I'm surprised they bothered releasing this to movie theatres.If I had spent the $7 - $10 to see this movie when it first came out, I would've felt cheated. If I had spent the $3 - $5 to rent this movie, I would've been disappointed. But, I didn't spend any money to see this and I didn't expect much to begin with. If you are into the sort of movie that seems so bad it's funny, it might be worth it to you to rent this movie or to see it more than once on TV. Anyone else, if you are bored and have nothing better to do, this is a good time waster and it will keep you entertained. But after you see it, I doubt you'll want to see it again.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Horror Movie About Man-Eating Bats.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     To start off, this movie wasn't a terrific movie, but is not down in the dumps in the horror genre. Bats was very entertaining and witty, but for some reason I felt like I was watching more of a monster movie, and yes the mutated bats can seem like monsters. There was no problem with the acting here, and it was believable. The movie had a great ending and didn't disappoint the audience. All in all, I give Bats an 8 out of 10.  ) "}{"Title":"What will they think of next?","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For Hitchcock it was birds, for the 70's (Jaws) it was sharks. In 80's (Arachniphobia) we had spiders. Now bats. With each species the films get worse and worse. Well, you know what I'm doing to do? I'm going to come up with something here. Humm, let's see here...well there's jellyfish, elephants oh, I know bees...Yes! I think bees are kinda scary. I'll just sit at my computer for 20 minutes and write a script about killer bees. I'll set the story in a small Mid-western town and have these bees rain terror on a bunch of small-town folk! This is so cool how all this is just coming to me! Now what's a state that has not been used...hummm...Nebraska, yeah Nebraska. Now then I'll have a sexy scientist character come to my little made-up Nebraska town to investigate...no wait, how about an FBI agent with a background in insect study?! I'll make several million off this and retire at the age of 24. Sheesh. PS Lou Diamond Phillips I still love you "},{"Title":"No ifs or BATS!!!!! Do you see?","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It beggars belief that anyone can call this film bad, but not funny bad (let alone that anyone could think it's genuinely good). It's hilarious. Especially when you're halfway through a big bottle of vodka (very important all-purpose bad film tip for you there).Oh yes killer bats! Lou Diamond Phillips! The warden out of The Shawshank Redemption! The woman who wasn't Denise Richards out of Starship Troopers! One of the blokes out of Cool Runnings! The worst bat effects since Hellgate! The worst dialogue since... Hellgate! It's all here. And what's particularly endearing is the director's eagerness to show the bats in close-up all the time, when they look like he's just bought them in bulk from a joke shop down the street and he's working the mouths with his fingers just off-camera.When Lou Diamond Phillips was out on that street pretending to struggle with the big grey bin liner (sorry, 'giant mutant predator') stuck to his back, Young Guns must have seemed so very far away...  "},{"Title":"Yow","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Real spine tingly moments as bats totally engulf police cruiser but can't substain premise til the end. Bat effects tho' are skin crawling marvel when music video style edit jobs aren't busy hacking fright scenes to pieces. Lou Diamond Phillips, often a terrible actor in terrible movies, manages ok performance as typical stone faced sheriff, but rest of cast, just going thru the motions...  "},{"Title":"Makes me think of the good ol' days, back to cheesy sci-fi films.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hee hee, this movie is barrels of fun! Like I said in my one-line summary, it makes me think back to the 50's, or, the glory days of bad science fiction movies. It stars Lou Diamond Phillips (how's the career going Lou?) as sheriff Kimsey, Dina Meyer as Dr. Sheila (basically here so she can say things like Bats don't kill people), and some dude named Leon who is here to (there is not another black man in this movie) to play the comical(and stereotypical) African American sidekick. The movie also has not one original part. It starts out with (gee whiz, dis ain't never been in a horror film before)a young teenage couple making out. The male hears a creepy noise, so he rolls up the windows and drives away. No wait, that's what an actual person would do. As a traditional movie character, he, of course, goes out to investigate. And guess what happens to the couple. Duh, they're killed by bats. During any of the attack scenes, there is always a couple of close-up shots of the bats. Now, on a $6 million budget, they probably couldn't do much with the bats, but holy crap! These are some pretty fake looking super bats we got here! Anyway, if you're into cheesy horror/science fiction films, you'll probably like this movie. I once called this movie Plan 9 From Outer Space for the 90's, but Battlefield Earth stole that title so I's have to call this .....Hobgoblins for the 90's. That works better anyway. "},{"Title":"Stupid Story","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was dumb, bizarre, and just too stupid.  I could hardly sit through it.  The story was bad, and the actors were worse.  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  I find I'm more entertained by staring at a wall.   "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was actually pretty cool. i didnt even want to see it becausei'm so sick of these corny movies they try to pass of as scary. i wasntreally scared by the bats, which were a little fake in my opinion (atleast the close ups on the really big ones were) but i'm not scared ofreal bats either, so that may have somthing to do with it. i absolutelylove Dina Meyer she has been one of my favorites since dragonheart cameout. the rest of the cast was cool and funny,and the effects, like theblast and the flame thrower were awesome. "},{"Title":"What happened to Lou Diamond Phillips?","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What on earth is up with Lou Diamond Phillips?  Is this really the same man who performed marvelously in Young Guns I/II and La Bamba?  This is, by far, the worst performance of his career.  I can't believe he even agreed to this ridiculous bigotry-stereotyped role.  I expected much better of him.Overall, the film was not terrible.  It wasn't good either.  But it is good enough to sit through without changing the channel (I wouldn't pay to see it).  The acting actually wasn't that bad, and the writing was decent.  The special effects were horrible though.  The F/X guys couldn't seem to decide on exactly how big the bats were supposed to be.  In the beginning, they appeared to be about the size of normal bats with a 12 wingspan.  But in some of the 1-on-1 attacks on people (this was the worst part of the movie), they appeared to be 40+ lb monsters with 4-ft wingspans!  And the close-up shots of the bats were so dumb.  They didn't look like bats at all.  They looked like plastic toys with moving gears.Another bad part of the movie was the jumping around of the camera.  During the most intense scenes, the camera jumped from scene-to-scene so fast, you couldn't make out exactly what they were supposed to be showing.  Calm it down on the camera jumps fellas.  Quick jumps don't add to the intensity; they just make you dizzy.  This was definitely the dizziest I'd been since forcing myself to sit through an entire showing of Blair Witch without vomiting.I still don't understand why directors feel the need to personify deadly creatures in horror movies today.  The stupid head and eye movements and cunning (crawling up your back) of the bats was simply unbelievable.  This reminded me a lot of the worst creature-horror movie, Anaconda.  If you thought the bats looked too silly to be real, you'll get a real kick out of that stupid snake.  Anaconda was more like a cartoon than a motion picture.  And somebody PAID to see that garbage?I give it 3/10 and it's just good enough to watch on cable on a night that you had no plans.  Don't expect a lot, especially out of knee-slap hicky Sheriff Lou Diamond Phillips.  Yuck. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Hyper Camera","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One previous commenter suggested that the editing was the best thing going for this film. I would go in the opposite direction.  This is so over-edited and over-hyper, that the action scenes are rendered hard to follow, and the movie as a whole is made distancing and uninvolving. For comparison I kept thinking of the somewhat similar Tremors, which took the time to develop the characters and get the viewer interested. Bats just goes for a MTV feel, with constant movement and dramatic music being the director's only concern, and becomes forgettable as a result.  "},{"Title":"Bad, but not funny bad","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie (on DVD) with my girlfriend hoping for either a fun ride or a good laugh.  Unfortunately, I don't think we got either.I think the opening sequence was okay and then it was downhill from then on. The movie was poorly written, acted and executed.  Unfortunately, I don't think it was done poorly enough to be laughably funny.  By reading others comments, you can see what's wrong with the movie.  I don't need to repeat.I can, however, recommend listening to the commentary track on the DVD featuring the director and Lou Diamond Phillips.  This was funny!  Where to begin?  While we see a young couple making out, Lou comments about the perks of acting.  Though I've often marveled at actors getting paid to kiss beautiful people, it comes across creepy to hear the director and Lead actor talking about it in this context.  Creepier then anything in the movie. They also talk about how the director gave the actors the freedom to explore their characters.  For instance, the director allowed Lou to smoke a cigar and had the actress dye her hair a different color.  If you watch the movie, you realize they're not kidding, this counts as character development!  Also, you learn that several of the actors playing the victims in the film are played by locals.  Unfortunately, these locals, in their brief screen appearances, outshine the leads.Hearing these two gush about the film, the special effects and the 'rich' story is the funniest thing on the DVD.  Either Lou finally does some acting on this track or he really believes this movie is great.  And that is funny! "},{"Title":"Bads.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Want to see a sci-fi movie with killer swarms of deadly creatures?Go see Starship Troopers.Want to see a really scary movie with blood and gore and violent attacks?Go see Event HorizonWant to see just one good movie with Leon in it? Go see Cool RunningsWant to see a really bad movie? See this one.The only thing that stopped me from walking out the theatre door was that I was laughing too hard to stand up. Bad filming, bad plot (two killer bats that can communicate...no way),bad props, bad acting (Lou Diamond Phillips, I loved La bamba, but you just can't pull off a Texan accent)... bad everything.An example of this films ridiculousness - near the peak of their rampage, the bats flock into the town and attack the people. One man, who is happily eating scrambled eggs at the bar, is attacked by a bat WHICH IS WALKING ON TWO LEGS. The animatronic puppets look more like deformed puppies than ferocious wing-ed rodents.This movie manages to suck hard every way possible. Rent it just to laugh at the poor people who actually worked on the movie. And Lou Diamond Phillips' bad Texan accent. "}{"Title":"WHY?","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WHY do they torture us through this. This movie is so dumb. The plot, acting and everything else about it is dumb. Why do filmmakers waste money making such a films? This movie was not scary at all. The idea of bats attacking people isn't original.  Don't waste your time and energy on this movie.  "},{"Title":"I really didn't like this movie","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A bat expert and a small town sheriff try to destroy genetically engineered bats, before the bats destroy the small town.The main reason that I didn't like the film is that I am not scared by bad special effects.  I will admit that the 3 main actors in the film did an excellent job with what they had to work with.  I think that with a little more work and attention to detail this could have been a decent film.  I really didn't like this movie. "},{"Title":"very very very bad","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  the film opens promisingly with some decent Spielbergian-stock set shots 2-shot; close-up; group; close-up;...and I began to think that this might not be too bad.  But then the BATS show up and they are ugly, cheap plastic looking pieces of crap from the dollar store that make some odd rattle sound that I think is usually used in jungle movies with lots of snakes.  All the bat attack scenes are messy, out-of-focus, unwatchable.  It's really sad because this movie probably could've been okay, but that was really only for ten minutes, after that, the movie turns to a big wet load of guano.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bats is a movie with a very, very, weak story and villain, and the only good part about it is the acting done by Lou Diamond Phillips.  The story is simple genetically mutated bats escape from a lab and the scientist who created them gets the help of two bat experts who get the help of the sheriff (Phillips) to hunt down their flighty foes.  The special effects are bad.  The only time the CG of the bat swarms look convincing is from a distance.  When the bats aren't cartoonish CGI they are animatronics that look more like monsters rather than bats.  In one scene, the bat expert Jimmy, says to the scientist, If one of those bats toutches me, if it moves his head around (while saying this he rolls his head on his shoulders) and even seems like it's going to LOOK at me, I'm comin' after you!  When Jimmy is desribing the bats head movement, it seems almost like he is making fun of the way the puppet bats move around.  The bats also vary in size from a regular sized bat to a large bat with a wingspan of about 4 feet!  The people in this movie are idiots!  An officer is cornered by a group of bats in a diner, and all he has to say, with gun pointed at them is, Stay back, don't move!  In another diner a customer is getting mauled by a large bat, but the little kid near him doesn't notice because he's too involved in an arcade game.  I could go on more about that, but I won't.  The scientist character is a poor weak character (not really the actor's fault, more the writers) upon getting a hold of a bat, the scientist, stereotypically says, I must study it!  And, (WARNING! SPOILER AHEAD!) it turns out that our beloved scientist released the bats on purpose, as he later reveals.  That whole plot surprise right there is the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen. So this guy decides to be all evil and for NO REASON WHAT SO EVER, except just to make him a bad guy, he releases these aggressive, carniverous bats on a small town.  Stupid.  I actually kept slipping in and out of sleep during the end.  This movie is terrible in most aspects.  One good point in it, though is Lou Diamond Phillips, who does a very good job acting as the sheriff.  Overall, avoid this movie, unless you want something that is loaded with pointless, stupid plot twists and story. "},{"Title":"Bad Bats Bad Movie","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  lou diamond Phillips was the reason I rented the DVD.  now I know what I would have missed if I didn't rent it.  My advise is you are better off NOT watching this 'thing'.  Everything that is wrong is wrong.  A bat is big at 1 moment and in the next scene it is bigger.  Same bat different size. plastic bats??? bats with canine teeth.  Bat digs through dirt. Bats act better then the Actors, oops the bats were the actors, actually there was no acting.  Bad Movie, Bad bat. *1/2   out of ***** "},{"Title":"One of the Worst","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is bad.  The bats look like laughable not scary.  The only horror invoked by this movie is the dim chance some fool would make a Bats II. If you want to see this type of movie done right, watch Pitch Black.  Watch this for a few unintended laughs caused by wooden acting and lousy effects. "},{"Title":"Watch out in the dark...","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think that tis is a great thriller. But it is important to see the movie for what it is, and not what you expect it to be.The bats are very natural looking, and you believe that these monster can and will hurt you. See this movie and  watch out in the dark, the big black bat might take you.Have a nic thrill "},{"Title":"How they got my $3.99 is beyond me.....","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All I could say is the best part of this movie was the ending, which sets itself apart from the other B horror flicks.  I am a little shocked that Lou Diamond Phillips accepted the role after reading the script, the other second rate actors I understand.  And did they have enough oneliners or what? I was wonder when they were going to kill of the guy who was spewing them out. "},{"Title":"Good editing + bad acting + bad script + bad direction = bad movie","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  	If anyone in the production crew of Bats actually deserves any credit, it's the editors. They have turned a really BAD film into a bad film, something most film editors don't have the power to successfully accomplish. In most movies we never think about the editing, instead dwelling on more obvious elements such as the writing or acting, but here it is actually remarkable. They didn't concentrate on the actors, who were unimaginably weak, instead on some nice moon and bat shots. The sound editing also deserves points for making it as if the bats are along with you.	That said, the rest of the movie is a horrible mess. Lou Diamond Phillips keeps getting role after role even though he couldn't act to save his life. There are a lot of non-acting actors out there, but normally they are known for doing something else well, such as singing (Mick Jagger, Jon Bon Jovi) or modeling (Cameron Diaz). Phillips, on the other hand, doesn't do anything else. His job consists of sleeping in a big trailer, being dragged out to recite his lines, and walking back to the trailer.	For whatever reason 'Bats' was a modest hit, it must have been the odd (very odd) favorable review or the flashy previews "},{"Title":"Oh...my...LORD...","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Did this movie, pardon the pun, ever bite...I must admit that there were some cute scenes, some interesting lines, and a cute little character quirk Lou had for his character.  Mhm...so yer a batologist?But this movie was far from cute.  Awful acting, things that could never scientifically happen, bad props, bad settings, bad script, this movie has it all.  And when they were in the mines, with all the bat guano...you'd think that firing off a gun in a methane-filled area would set the whole place up blazing...But no...that's hollywood magic for ya.  I'm not even going to touch on plot, except to say blech.  Can we say recycled plot?  "}{"Title":"Props","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would just like to point out that the prop they use at the end of the film to measure the temperature inside the bat roost, was actually a commercial GPS (global positioning system) used by the military, they should at least use some props that look like they might be feasible.  On top of that the movie sucked, I only continued to watch as I enjoyed watching Dina Meyer run around in tight clothes. "},{"Title":"A bad movie in a good sort of way!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Your classic cheesy movie about killer bats and the people who try to stop them. Since I fully expected a terrible movie when I sat down to watch Bats, I have to admit that I was pleasantly surprised at the (albeit cheesy) entertainment value it delivers. Yes, it is a bad movie with a predictable plot, cookie-cutter characters and dialogue full of groaner one-liners... but it does it with style and better production values and special effects than most killer-creature movies. It may not be that good, but it sure is fun to watch!  "},{"Title":"Bats on the Brain.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Movie starring a bunch of intelligent bats going crazy across Texas. So why would someone create intelligent bats that now kill people? Because I'm a scientist, that's what we do. The movie is horrible, and sometimes you wonder if the bats should have torn apart the script while they were slashing citizens' throats. Movie plays out almost exactly like EMPIRE OF THE ANTS, (I'm just saying this, please don't watch this garbage either!) with its shaky camera effects, people screaming and yelling while the camera moves making you sick, mutated creatures tearing apart a small confined area while closing in on a small town while a government plot to use the buggers is afloat. Guaranteed a career ending move for anyone who participated in this movie, and sympathies to anyone who stood helplessly watching the full 90 minutes of this. "},{"Title":"Guano","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you have any knowledge of bats or of science in general this show is not for you. Mad scientist meddling with nature on behalf of evil government creates ridiculous super bats. 5 pound bats flying through vehicle windshields and attacking and beating adult males in single combat-and by the way these were fruit bats the day before. The storyline is at least 50 years old and has been done much better many times. Deep Blue Sea and Lake Placid in 1999 were both considered disappointments but both do a lot better job of animal as monster and are a whole lot scarier unless you have a particular phobia for bats. Horror movies are not there to educate but the kind of check your brain at the door science this show relied on really makes you wonder why they simply didn't rely on witchcraft for the origin of these impossible to believe creatures. Horrifying only to those associated with this dud. "},{"Title":"Looking for something redeeming in this movie...nope, not yet.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Eww boy...It's been a while since I've seen, in my estimation, a truly poor film...but this one has it all. 1.) Storyline  I just can't bear to mention it...but...ok... Crazy scientist genetically mutates a species of bat that wants to kill kill kill. Bats escape and terrorize small town and crazy scientist likes it.  Does any of this sound familiar yet? 2.) Acting  Clock-In/Clock-Out (i.e Watch out, a nasty bat is coming!... screams anyone of the actors. CUT! yells the director. Can I go now? asks said actor. 3.) Special FX  The special fx are special all right.  If they went to school, they'd ride the short bus. I really can't bear to talk anymore about it...suffice to say that this is an uninspired movie that probably should have gone straight to video or better yet nowhere. "},{"Title":"Turn off your brain","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was the most formulaic load of a movie I have ever seen.  If you've already watched The Birds and a few Alien movies, you've already seen this little gem.  The premise of this movie was silly and the follow through was entirely unbelievable.  Furthermore, if you have ever taken Biology or Zoology at the university level, this movie will make you itch.The special effects were also nasty.  Audiences can tell when they are being shown cheap cut-and-paste computer graphics.  And if you don't mind that, I have some pathetic rubber muppets for you behind door number two.I do have one question though.  Why is it that, in the movies, no matter what natural biological entity is artificially given intelligence, it always has to eat humans?  Sharks, apes, bats, plants, insects, the resurrected dead, you name it!  Why don't the super-smart animals ever want to, I don't know, pursue an exciting career in VCR-repair or something?Welcome to Hollywood, home of nothing new. "},{"Title":"Off white","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sitting at work, I just really paid attention to how so much of the office is painted in off white.  It seems to be a nice sort of generic color that's not too bland or too loud.  It seems to be a nice atmospheric color, designed to make one feel relaxed and at ease.  What does all of this have to do with the movie?  Well, it sort of eases along..even when the action scenes are in place.  Like off white paint, the characters, (even sexy Dina Meyer) just sort of move blandly through their pacings.  This thing just floats along(yes, even through the funny bat attacks) and then it was over.  Funny, once the workday ends I never give another thought to the paint...sort of like this movie.P.S. The herky jerky camera during the bat attacks was easily painted over by all of the blandness before and after the attacks.  Oh, I almost forgot--4.0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Soooo Bad - it isn't funny.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I guess this is a throw back to a time when movie goers weren't supposed to be smart and therefore hoodwinking was easy. The script seems stuck in the 1970's when a grizzly bear attack or communicating Bugs were potential horror vehicles. The actors try but because the script is so poor they appear as cartoon characters. It doesn't help that the head bats are so-called smart bats. Simply put, it is a waste of time. Does Lou Diamond need money that badly? Do producers really think they can sell junk like this to us? Rapid bats rapidly multiplying, a secret government project and a wicked scientist??? Hmmm, haven't we seen this before a ga-zillion times before, done better?Lord, its put the horror genre back 25 years. Can a remake of Night of the Lepus be far behind? "},{"Title":"A trite, contrived, predictable movie","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie left me cold -- I'm glad I only spent $3 on it at the video store, and only 90 minutes of my life were wasted.This is the worst kind of Hollywood-executives-make-the-decisions movie -- get a few 2nd-tier stars and a potentially scary situation, try to dazzle the audience with special effects, and consider story and plot sometime later.  The cliched characters (the good natured small town sheriff, the expert but reluctant scientist who steps in to save the day, the psychotic bad guy who understands the threat, and, of course, the comic relief) and their relationships are dispensed with in the first fifteen minutes of the movie with some of the most thin dialogue I've heard since my grade-school recitals.  We are left with 75 minutes of predictable nonsense, hoping for those dazzling special effects.  No luck there either.  The bats looked like poorly made puppets (which is, of course, what they are) being animated by the actors they were fighting at the time.  I must inject a point of fact here a bat's primary sense of navigation is sonar; they don't see very well.  The producers seemed to have overlooked or ignored this point, including many shots of the bats giving our heros threatening looks.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Pure brilliance","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It was pure brilliance the way that John Logan and Louis Morneau compiled this stunning satire.  The way that he crafted his gift to reach the ultimate parody.  It was so good that he almost convinced me that he was trying to be scary, but I knew that when he cast Lou Diamond Phillips in the role of the hero that this could be only a farce.I mean, the anticlimactic ending will forever be lodged in my mind (or at least until next Tuesday).  There are very few movies that I will give a standing ovation to, yet my friend and I could not help ourselves with such a masterpiece as Bats. "}{"Title":"B-A-A-A-A-A-D!!!!!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I originally posted a review for this after seeing the premiere but only realized recently that somehow it didn't get posted.  For that I apologize - I might have been able to save someone $7 earlier.  Bats  genetically enhanced mutant killer bats escape from their lab and terrorize a Texas town.  Take out the t and s add a d and a  ! and you have a more appropriate title.  There is nothing about this movie (and I use the term loosely) that can be considered a redeeming feature.  The special effects were pathetic (rubber bats that look more like gargoyles), the plot was thinner than Kate Moss on a diet, the acting was abysmal, and it wasn't even remotely scary (unless of course you happened to actually pay to see it).  Although there was a lot of laughing going on, the scenes were not intended to be funny, so it's not even enjoyable as a bad movie like such classics as Plan Nine From Outer Space. I would like to declare this the worst movie of the year, but the sad thing is that there are so many other contenders&#133;  "},{"Title":"Basic horror movie, nothing to write home about","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just returned from seeing this movie and felt the need to comment when I saw the wide variety of opinons present on this site.  I did not think, as some do, that this movie was the worst peice of fluff ever made.  However, I do not think that it is exactly an oscar contender either.  I found this movie light and easy to understand with a formula plot and cast.  It was not very scary and I felt no fear exiting the theatre after viewing it.  I personally prefer Scream, Halloween, or I Know What You did Last Summer to this formula almost sci-fi thriller with its mad scientist and conspericy Theory.  I do not think this film is a master peice but it is not trash either.  "},{"Title":"The only horror in this movie was me sitting through it!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To be blunt, this was probably one of the WORST movies that I have ever seen.  I have seen many B-movies that put this to shame.  Poor acting and poor diaglog make this movie one of the biggest flops of the year.  You know a movie is bad when you see it on the 2nd day after it has opened and you have a total of 10 people in the audience.  I cannot believe I wasted 90 minutes of my life viewing this awful flick. "},{"Title":"A fair entry into the new generation of horror/slashers.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For what it is it's not half-bad, but then it's not half good either. I thought that the characters were only really half developed so I only felt mediocre sympathy for them and their plight. The casting job was decent if heavy on unknown talent.WARNING! - Some of the rest of this may spoil it. If you want to see it for yourself without any for-knowledge, don't read the following.Bats has the typical plot of the horror/thriller movies that have come out in the last few years, but with an interesting twist I didn't see coming. One of my biggest problem with this one is that it was poorly executed. The other was that when we saw the close-ups of the bats there was simply no attempt to hide the fact of what they were using - rubber puppets. They used 3D bats for the en masse flight scenes which were pretty cool, but the puppets were lame.Simply put, Bats could have been better. "},{"Title":"...do not go see this movie.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very typical of a horror movie.  Unfortunately, unlike some others (such as The Haunting or Dawn of the Dead), Bats has NO redeeming qualities.The plot is typical, and thus predictable.  The acting is average, or very poor.  You will recognize the dialogue as those same lines repeated time and time again in other movies.  You will see the same techniques (not the good ones) used over and over in other movies.  The bats look stupid, and the characters do very unintelligent things.  The movie even has the need to start motor - and it won't the first try scene...which you see coming several light years away.You can predict early on who will die and who will live.  The bats or the characters make it obvious when the attack is coming - so no element of surprise exists.  What's worse are many of the bat close-ups are filmed in confuso-vision, and you may find yourself looking away from the screen to avoid becoming motion sick.  The great horror movies of yesterday and today make up for a lacking plot and standard techniques by adding something extra.  The director (or screenwriter) of Bats must have been out of ideas.  Unless you are an absolute die-hard horror movie fanatic that must see every one ever made, do not see this movie. "},{"Title":"blant rip off of the birds,mimic and lake placid and countless other creature films!!","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you have seen any of the titles listed above, then you have seen bats or a similar movie made recently!A scientist mutantes bats for the U. S miltary. Too bad they escape. The bats go to a town in Texas. The miltary hire a female scientist to find a way to defeat the bats. Eventually they find a way to kill the bats. This movie was OK for a matinee or a rental. If you like the titles I listed above, you might like this movie!!!This movie was semi scary so if you want to take the kids to see this go for it!!It has a few swear words and a little violence, no nudity!!!Maybe the DVD will be better than the movie run,(perhaps there are delated scenes from the movie run!!) So go see this if you like the titles I listed above, otherwise wait for the video!!! "},{"Title":"These bats are smelly in more ways than one","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  BATS or is it rats I paid how much to see this movie? The film isn't scary in the least, not to mention I think bats are cool not bloodthirsty killers (I mean if they had started out with a bat that actually drinks blood such as the vampire bat then this film would have had a little hope, but no they had to first state that it was a vegetarian bat then quickly change it to be a fox bat (which isn't that bad of a bat)) all in all I gave this film a 5 !Hope that bringing out the dead is  better. "},{"Title":"Bats Bites","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Fake-looking bats with an attitude starts wiping out stupid Texas hicks before zoologist Meyer and Sheriff Phillips gets into action and end this dreadful cross of Outbreak and Jurassic Park. Definitely one of the worst films of 1999 that should've been tossed on video release instead. The CGI was fairly impressive, but the little model bats are laughably ridiculous - as well as the rest of this clunker. Don't bother watching this movie if your I.Q. is above 75 otherwise you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"One very bad film","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is bad, but it has a few good moments. I suggest you take a dramamine before you watch this film. When ever the bats attack a person you can't tell what the heck is going on because the camera moves around so fast.  The bats are obvious fakes and during close shots one can tell they are made of rubber. The acting is horrid and so is the dialogue. I was deeply disappointed with this movie. I was about ready to walk out, but I stuck through it. "},{"Title":"MY REVIEW FOR BATS","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  BATS***3 STARS-BATS IS A GREAT SCARY MOVIE FOR HALLOWEEN. ITS SCARY AND CREEPY. IT WILL SCARE THE HELL OUT OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE A FEAR OF BATS OR JUST DON'T LIKE THEM. THE MOVIE HAS A VARIOUS NUMBER OF CLOSE-UP SCREEN SHOTS OF THE BATS WHICH WOULD REALLY CREEP THEM OUT. EVEN IF YOU DON'T  HAVE A FEAR OF BATS YOU MAY DEVELOPED ONE AFTER SEEING THIS MOVIE. THERE WERE ALSO SOME REALLY AWESOME GRUESOME BLOODY BAT-KILLING SCENES. THE PLOT AND THE BACKGROUND STORY AND ITS AWESOME ENDING WERE GREAT. THE ONLY BAD THING ABOUT THIS MOVIE WAS ITS CLOSING SCENE WHERE A BAT COMES OUT OF THE GROUND WHICH WAS THE ONLY SURVEYING BAT AFTER ALL THE OTHER BATS WERE KILLED. IT LOOKED LIKE THE MOVIE WAS GOING TO LEAVE US OFF WITH A SEQUEL BUT INSTEAD A CAR DROVE RIGHT OVER THE BAT AND KILLED IT. BUT THE REST OF THE MOVIE WAS AWESOME.  IF YOU WANT TO E-MAIL ME WITH ANY COMMENTS ON MY REVIEW E-MAIL ME AT metall8418@aol.com  "}{"Title":"Perfectly enjoyable B-grade killer animal horror opus","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The tranquility of a sleepy small Texas town gets ripped asunder by a swarm of lethal genetically enhanced bats created by mad scientist Dr. Alexander McCabe (neatly played with sinister aplomb by Bob Gunton). It's up to earnest Sheriff Emmett Kimsey (a solid and likable performance by Lou Diamond Phillips), spunky zoologist Dr. Sheila Casper (a perky and appealing portrayal by Dina Meyer), and Casper's cowardly assistant Jimmy Sands (an amusing turn by Leon) to figure out a way to stop the ferocious buggers before it's too late.Director Louis Morneau and screenwriter John Logan bring a winningly lean'n'lean Grade B sensibility to the familiar, yet still effective and entertaining premise The compact story zips along at a constant brisk pace, there's no pretense to speak of, the savage bat attack set pieces are staged with flair (a major sequence with the bats attacking the center of town rates as a real rip-roaring doozy), and things are even topped with a satisfying smattering of gore. The puppets and CGI effects used for the bats are pretty gnarly. George Moorodian's slick widescreen cinematography provides a nice glossy look. Graeme Revell's spirited shuddery score hits the stirring spot. Granted, this sure ain't no groundbreaking work of exceptional cinematic art, but if accepted on its own admittedly modest terms this movie overall sizes up as a really fun little flick. "},{"Title":"Above average creature feature","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I won't do a résumé of the plot, but I don't understand the awful reviews. The science is plausible enough (I have a degree and I've worked in science for twenty years), the special effects aren't fantastic, but work well enough (this is fiction after all?) Scary in parts and witty dialogue. The lead characters were all likable (bad guys excepted of course). This is a fairly routine creature feature in some respects, but more believable than most in as much as the characters are neither stupidly heroic nor embarrassingly cowardly, the response to the emergency by the public and the authorities is also quite realistic. The sudden appearance of such numbers of bats is a bit of a stretch and some of the claims made by Dr McCabe are a touch too much, but other than that and the ultimate cause of the bat problem everything else works OK, for me at least. Mostly though, I had fun watching the movie and didn't feel my intelligence was insulted. "},{"Title":"Really Stupid","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a wonderful specimen of near perfect cinematographic work. When looking up the word 'art', 'Bats' should be at the top of your list. This flick stands alone as unquestionable proof that acting is unnecessary to create celluloid magic. Each veteran star embraces their individual characterizations unprofessionally and with the puerility of a neophyte. The lack of script and direction dramatically adds to the aforementioned unimaginative schema, creating a meretricious masterpiece equally appreciated by both the comatose and fatuous. This inanimate roller coaster of a movie has little action or suspense. Sadly these qualities are devoured by the grating ennui. If one enjoys reasons to take naps, 'Bats' is for you. It is also well worth the time it takes to gouge one's eyes out or perform other self-mutilations &#x96; but that is not my cup of tea. If you recommend this to a friend and they will hate you. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bat expert Dina Meyer is called in to a small Texas town to investigate a series of bat killings. Before long, she discovers a scientist (Bob Gunton) has genetically altered normal bats to make them super bats or something. Together with sheriff Lou Diamond Phillips, they try to stop the bats before they kill everybody.The effects are awful for a theatrical release. This was made early on in the CGI age and not every film had the budget of Jurassic Park. Bats most certainly did not. The cast is bland and their parts poorly-written. Perennial villain Bob Gunton seems like he would rather be anywhere but here. Phillips and Meyer neither impress nor disgust with their performances. They're just there. Black actor Leon at times seems to be inhabited by the spirit of Mantan Moreland circa 1941.At best, it's a boring but almost watchable movie about killer bats. At worst, it's a piece of excrement. Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Bats","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two huge virus-based bats from Indonesia escape from mad scientist Dr. McCabe's lab infecting others in the dusty realm of small Gallup, Texas where Sheriff Kimsey(Lou Diamond Phillips)finds citizens being attacked viciously. The Center for Disease Control call on Dr. Casper(Dina Meyer)to help figure out how to stop the bats from spreading the infection on bats throughout the country. She is bewildered at why fruit bats would turn carnivorous, assaulting humans and finds that McCabe designed for them to do so. When asked why McCabe would design these bats to do such things, he answers, Because we're scientists. That's what we do. Okey dokey. With help from Casper's partner Jimmy(Leon), she'll assist Kimsey in trying to trap the roost(this is a term describing the entire bat group collectively in one location)annihilating everyone of them before they have a chance to move on to another spot. But, will McCabe allow them to destroy the monsters he created(..for the military..*yawn*)? And, better yet, will the bats comply to their wishes of staying put? In the center of the film, Gallup is attacked by the swarming bats with people dropping dead one after the other.Really, really stupid animals run amok flick doesn't have a smart bone in it's body. And, the director tries convincing us with rubber bats(which look like rubber bats)through dizzying editing techniques and blurry stretches of the camera lens as they attack. Truth be told, they are about as menacing as Kermit the frog. Even worse, they expect us to believe that bats can throw a large male through a windshield while tossing others grown men through windowed doors. The film is an unintentionally hilarious monster flick. The cast try their best with a dumb plot. "},{"Title":"Agree, script needed more work, effects were OK","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I try to read the comments on IMDb before we watch particular rental movies. Most of what I read on this one hit the mark. My husband fondly (?) remembers Dina Meyer (Dr. Sheila Casper) as a nude redhead in Starship Troopers. He said she was better looking than Denise Richards. She reminded me of a young Erika Eliniak, but in a more natural, non-enhanced sense if you know what I mean. Looking at her biography on IMDb.Com, she is indeed very talented and very smart. Lou Diamond Phillips and Bob Gunton brought a sense of dignity to the mostly improbable script. Also, Lou looked believable in his sheriff outfit. The whole thing reminded me a lot of The Birds, but not as scary. Also, in reply to another posting from SAMLCITR, I never did see the air conditioning unit being shut off after the blasts. Seeing this movie reminded me of a section in Candace Bergen's autobiography. She was on location for Bite The Bullet and was horrified at the (in her opinion) lousy script. She was complaining about it loud and long it to everyone in earshot. Gene Hackman turned to her and said, you take a bad script and you work with it. That's what acting is about. (or something to that effect). "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another made-for-TV stinker starring Lou Diamond Phillips, `Bats' is probably one of the saddest attempts at a horror film I've ever seen. Imagine Alfred Hitchcock's `The Birds.'  Now take away every good Hitchcock element of the film and replace the birds with mutant bats with a taste for human flesh.  Mix in a dash of torrid acting by washed up actors and a predictably dull plot and you have the modern marvel of cinema that is `Bats.'  This movie takes itself too seriously to be laughed at like other bad horror films.  Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Suck this!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Standard `We changed them to wipe out the Bat population but its all gone horribly wrong' scenario with Phillips as the small town cop suddenly surrounded by partially eaten bodies and terrible bat puppets.  Writers assume you'll know why the bats are going crazy and don't bother wasting time and money putting the explanation on film. "},{"Title":"Actually not that bad..","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the horrible comments, and the very low rating here on IMDB, I just had to watch this film. An hey - with Dina Meyer in it, could it really be THAT bad ? The answer was no !I honestly don't understand all the bad comments here on IMDB. The movie has a decent plot, and the actors are somewhat believable. There are a lot of clichés - but so what ? Can anybody name just ONE recent Hollywood production that isn't full of clichés ???My rating of this movie is a solid 7. That is to say It is a decent B-movie worth watching. Special effects could benefit from a higher budget, but Dina Meyer's cute face and believable acting saved the day - and the movie. She proves herself to be the next-generation Ripley ;-)Now all we need is a bunch of aliens, rather than mutated bats... Because everybody who gave this film a bad rating probably  LOVED Alien... right ?Godtcha !!!-D  "},{"Title":"ARRRGGGGGGG!!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Words can't express how bad this movie is....The dialogue is so painful. I can't express how bad this is. The acting is bad, the writing and plot are horrible the whole thing is bad...bad..bad. I gave it a 1. "}{"Title":"please no sequel!!!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this is perhaps the most drab, and unsuspenful horror movie i have ever seen. however its entertainment value was substanial, mainly becuase the scary parts were quite humourous. was it not enough that hollywood created a slew of movies about animals that were scary, or at least supposed to be, but then they had to go and try and write about animals which are supposed to be scary and failed miserably at it. whoever wrote this fantasically bad film had probably just opened an encyclopedia and copied interesting facts out of it, suchas bats dying at a certain temperature. please, no sequel!!! "},{"Title":"a public service message from your friend, unknown dave.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would just like to warn any viewers who may decide to rent Bats or spend precious time watching on a pay cable station to please stay as far away from this movie as you possibly can.  I have a feeling that if this website had the option of a 0 score, Bats would be blessed with many of them.  This is one of the most feeble attempts at a film in quite some time - although, I still haven't seen Battlefield Earth - and again, I would like to warn any possible viewers to steer clear of this terribly acted, plotted, paced, directed, edited, possibly even catered movies that has come out of the oily Hollywood machine in some time.  Do not watch this film.  Do not, under any circumstances, watch this film.  It is so bad, one cannot watch it with the sole intent of ridiculing the film, as it leaves the viewer depressed and in need of several high priced behavior modification drugs.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"bad movie!  go to your room!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hated this movie.  I laughed a few times, but they were laughs born out of painful disbelief.  Out of the current wave of monster attack movies (Lake Placid, Deep Blue Sea, Anaconda), Bats is by far the worst.  Yes, Bats is even worse than King Cobra!  Filled with cliches (the evil mad scientist) and unbelievably stupid actions on the part of the heroes, Bats has to go down in history as one of the bottom 20 most idiotic horror movies I have ever seen.  The stupidest scene  after the bats attack the police and attempt to enter the police vehicle and kill the occupants, the bats mysteriously fly away.  Now, it is still night, right?  But for some reason, the cop/scientist/government team that was just attacked hang out in the open and discuss tactics, right there where they were just attacked, in the middle of the night with no defenses!  This movie is filled with stupid scenes like that and with multiple, overlong gearing-up scenes. To give this movie a little credit, the bats themselves act ridiculous when attacking, but they aren't as funny-looking (to put it mildly) as the creatures in say, Hobgoblins or (my personal favorite) The Sea Serpent. "},{"Title":"Its a new kind of horror movie","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie because it was pretty orignal they didnt go over board with the special effects and it wasnt corny the acting wasnt that great but if you are looking for a great date movie this could be a good one to see and not to mention its right in time for halloween. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever award","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If i could give this movie a .5 I would. Im in 100% agree with the AWFUL category to which most reviews lean toward ... very very bad bad movie. There has never been a single movie in my life to which I've been able to actually say I did not like, perhaps hated, every single aspect of. Even for any other extremely horribly mind numbingly BAD movies... usually they at least have ONE good thing to say about them. The Postman for example... for it I could say, Hey well the first half an hour is a pretty awesome flick!. Well so then Bats came along and took away X amount of time from my life to which I'll never get back and be horribly scared by for life.I was hoping ide enjoy the camp, as i often do... but no. Im usually very tolerant with movies as well and enjoy a wide range. This was just so damn bad.. oh god just saying Bats out loud or to type it makes me feel sick.This movie is just God Awful and hurts the brain. Never rent it, Never buy it and Never watch it simply because your obviously retarded friend suggests the idea. Run away if forced by someone and destroy it if given as a gift.There simply IS NO WAY and not enough space in the world to sit here and list / describe all the problems and questions this movie has and creates... this is why this review is simply over and over drilling into your brain how BLOODY BAD this movie is.Be aware. Stay Back. RUN AWAY. "},{"Title":"Made-for-TV MSTK fodder inexplicably released for the big screen","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My Take Obviously awful. Making this review short, BATS is a totally forgettable affair that I forgot instantly after seeing it. In that way, that's the one thing it does the best. Everything in BATS is the stench of MSTK, bad acting (from a B-level cast), bad script (It came from beyond the deepest, darkest thoughts of Ed Wood), a mad scientist (who wants the little critters for the sake of science and gets his just deserts in the end), screamers (either extras or leads), the clichéd hero (who kicks the bats' assess, but still can't act) and the morality that is Don't mess with Mother Nature! This time, bats turn loco as science experiment goes awry (Gee! That's new!). The scientists, one a woman (Dina Meyer) who wants to make up for her errors and a man (Bob Gunton) who wants them back for his own errors. They all are under the shadow of the lead hero, a sheriff played by Lou Diamond Phillips, struggling against CGI and puppet Bats, the real stars of the film, just as bad as the human characters, but at least they don't talk and don't get to have a line in the tailor-made-to-be-Ed Wood's-protégé screenplay.That's just about what I remember from BATS, other than the fact that it's a 'Movie-of-the-week' thriller that lost its hands to a big-screen production. It may just be a sincere bad movie, but even if it is, it still ain't any good. Bland characters and clichéd body-count (and script) finish it all off as one terrible vomitorium badness of Ed Wood proportions, sometimes it's even worse. Camp buffs may find it a treat while being drunk.Rating 1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Competent film has no place being in the Bottom 100.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Thankfully, Bats is not one of those monster flicks where you have to wait half the running time before the characters can finally figure out that all the trouble is caused by whatever creature you already knew was causing all the trouble just by looking at the title or the cover (check out the 1976 Squirm for an example of this). No, this movie is called Bats, and right after the opening five minutes all the central characters know they're dealing with bats and already make their first plans against them. The director knows his business, too - the movie is consistently fast-paced, with no dead spots whatsoever. True, it has some faults (the cliched mad scientist role, the cliched comic relief guy role, some of the computer generated shots don't look so hot), but overall it's a pretty good example of its kind. If you're too highbrow to appreciate Bats for what it is, may I give you an eye-opening piece of advice? The next time you're in the video store, go to the horror section and pick up a copy of the 1994 killer-mosquito film Skeeter. Viewing it may just alter your whole perception of bad films.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Just plain god awful! Puke!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie on all levels  acting (lack of), script (non-existent), effects (they went to Ben Franklin and spent $1.99 on a dozen plastic bats).  A waste of celluloid and DVD discs.  Remember Empire of the Ants (w/ Joan Collins) or Food of the Gods ??? Same animal. This could have been made in the 70's and would have fit right in. "},{"Title":"I'd rather eat a diseased chicken","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  can't this director get a life, let alone a job? God! He's so bad! I feel bad for the screenwriter, John Logan (Gladiator, Any Given Sunday) who seemed to have a frightening idea in his head and, low and behold, Louis Morneau, acclaimed director of Carnosaur 2 and Soldier Boyz (which sounds like a band), says, me first!. I can see this loser smiling as he directs this movie, thinking, ah what sheer brilliance! (if he's capable of that big a word) as he watches the most suspenseful scene of the movie, the credits. And then for his way to handle the actors. Spare me the horror. Dina Meyer needs a job, a friend, or a psychologist because she's pathetic. Lou Diamond Phillips better go start playing drug thieves again in a Steven Seagal movie if he wants to stay alive. Oh and how about the police rookie who looks like John Rocker? Hmm, he was fantastic! NOT! Kudos to the special effects for their mastery of cardboard and 8 feet wide pixels that try and compose bats, which more look like globs of mud. And the sound effects. Haven't heard that much shrieking from flying creatures since Cher came out with a new album. And the editors. Some guy wrote way up above me that the editing was good. Let's analyze the editorial brilliance. In the second scene, Meyer and Leon, some creepy dude, are examining harmless bats. A helicopter sneakily comes up on them and makes them jump (DEN DUN!) which adds to the sheer horror of the scene. You see them argue and moan before they get into the helicopter, and in the next scene they're leaving in a plane. What is this? The helicopter have Firestone tires or something? The cinematography is more erratic than Kaminski's brilliant Saving Private Ryan, or something through the eyes of Ray Charles. Oh one more thing before I leave. Some extra gets killed when he's riding a bike, humming to himself. Does he notice the swarms of cardboard mudglobs flying above him, hitting everyone, and hear the splatter of their corn syrup blood against the windows. No! Because LOUIS MORNEAU IS TOO DUMB TO NOTICE! AIIIIIIHHH! "},{"Title":"Will give American Beauty and Green Mile a run for the Oscars","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think the Oscar race just got a little tighter when Bats was released into the market.  This is clearly one of the best films that has come out this year.  You can forget about the cynicism of American Beauty, the brilliance of Fight Club, the ingenuity of Three Kings and the mania that is Sixth Sense, Bats is set to go down as one of the greats up there with Jaws, Patton, Rocky, Annie Hall and Amadeus.  I think future generations of Hollywood directors and writers are going to turn to BATS to see how it is done.  John Carpenter's Halloween and Spielberg's Jaws used to be the bench mark when it came to horror, but this has put a whole new perspective into how to scare someone at the theater.  When I left the theater my knuckles were a ghostly white from gripping the arm rests and when I looked on the ghastly faces of the hundreds of people leaving the theater, they all had the same expression.  They were frightened.  The show ended at about midnight and we were all anxious to get into our cars because we were afraid those cunning bats were waiting to get us, right outside the theater.  Now that is good film making.  Jaws made me afraid of the ocean, I think Bats is going to make me afraid of the night sky.  I have never seen bats that look this real in a movie.  Those fangs were so real looking that most of the budget must have gone into the production of those intricately designed bats.  Fangs, eyes, and even their hissing sounds were realistic.  What a fantastic film.  If this isn't nominated at Oscar time for best picture and director, then I would say that something is up with the academy.  I am still in awe and utter fear as I sit here and write this review of Bats.  This is one of the scariest films that I have ever seen.  WOW!!!Okay, I just had to do it.  I had to.Bats is really one of the worst films to come out this year.  But this is a film that is so easy to rip on that I thought it would be fun to do the exact opposite and just confuse the hell out of the readers for a minute or so.  The only award this may be winning this year is the Raspberry awards.  But you know what?  Going into this film, I was expecting a really, really, really bad film.  I only got a bad one, so that was unexpected and a nice surprise.  I think I, like most other horror movie nuts enjoy a good bad horror flick at times.  There is just something about cheese that is fun at times.  And for that reason, Bats delivers.  Everything you have heard about the film is true.  It is all bad.  The bats are laughable, the story is a joke and the writing is awful, even the commercials looked pretty bad.  But there is one good thing going for it, and that is that it had a subtle homage to Jaws in it.  The guy that first gets killed at the beginning is named Quint and when they do an autopsy on him, it wreaked of Hoopers little angry deposition in Jaws when he tells them that it wasn't a boating accident.  And if you can pick up on little subtleties like that then the film is more fun.  Really, this isn't all that bad, I mean it is bad, but there are really worse out there.  Have you ever seen Truth Or Dare?  I mean the movie where mental patients get a hold of a grenade and blow their own heads off?  Well that is really bad, I mean really, really bad.  And as I said, this is just bad.  But I saw it in an empty theater during the day.  Seriously, there was just me and a friend.  And at AMC in Toronto, they have retractable arm rests so that you can put them back and use the seats as a couch, which is what we did.  It was very comfortable and we enjoyed the movie quite a bit more that way.  Bats will probably be gone by the time this review gets to IMDb so you may not have a chance to see it at the theater, but if you are in a campy horror movie mood, then rent this when it comes out on video.  You may enjoy it.  I hope you didn't take my accolades too seriously at the beginning of the film, it was all in good fun.  And remember, sometimes bad movies can be fun to see.  You don't have to think, you don't really have to feel either.  And you get to laugh at stupid people doing stupid things.  Bats is a great example of that.  If Bats is even ever mentioned in the same sentence as American Beauty come Oscar time, there will be a federal inquiry and Mr. Logan and the backers of this movie may go to a maximum state prison and his punishment would be to watch this movie every day of his sentence.  Now that would be funny. "}{"Title":"Here They Come!","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Louis Morneau directed this horror picture that stars Lou Diamond Philips as small-town Texas sheriff Emmett Kimsey, who finds his desert community under attack by large bats that are intelligent killers, and quite omnivorous. Dina Meyer plays expert Dr. Sheila Casper, who comes in to sort out the problem, and they both discover responsibility lies at the door of crazed government scientist Dr. McCabe(played by Bob Gunton) who genetically re-engineered their DNA to make them superior to people. Why you ask? Because he can he answers!(Oh Boy) Despite some reasonably good Bat F/X, this is an idiotic and shallow picture, with no real reason to exist, as it has nothing new to offer. "},{"Title":"be aware....bad!!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Almost ten years old and I never took the time to watch this movie, why, because everybody said that it was bad. But there comes a time when you can find those movies in the sell out section of your local DVD shop. So it happened, although it was the extra beyond limits low budget section. I picked it up and plugged it in. Starts of pretty well I thought with the killing of a young couple. But then the movie declines in a real bad movie. The lead actors are surely doing this to cash in, Lou Diamond Philips was once on top of the list with movies like La Bamba and Young Guns. Here he delivers bad acting. For Dina Meyer we could tell the same. They are both never believable. And the real actors are the bats themselves. We have seen this kind of story a thousand times. Especially in the fifties there were those creature features. Now and then they make a new creature movie like Host and that kind of movies really have a storyline. There is never any suspense in this flick. No blood, no nudity no gore. When the bats attack you will never be frightened, the bats themselves look like Disneybats so you could guess how bat, euh, bad they are. When the town is attacked it made me think of The Birds and the link with the posters Nosferatu at the cinema are ridiculous too. They bring in the army, and they couldn't destroy the bats, come on. As this is a real Hollywood product with wellknown actors I just gave it a 2 out of ten. The editing is boring, score is terrible, anyway, it just got a two because at the end of the movie you really got frightened, a bat arises from the earth, frightened that they would make Bats 2, but it is destroyed in a funny way. Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Dumbest movie EVER!!","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If Lou Diamond Phillips gets top billing on a movie, you KNOW it is going to be bad. The acting is pitiful and the storyline is dumb, dumber and dumberer! I don't know how anyone can even sit through this movie without wanting to change the channel or walk out of the theater. And, wasn't this a theatrical-released movie and not a made-for-TV mess? That makes it all the more laughable. It is as bad, if not worse than Deadly Invasion of the Killer Bees with Robert Hays. Typical tripe with B-movie actors and/or has-beens. Although I would have to say that Lou D. Phillips never WAS, so he cannot be a has-been.The story is ridiculously laughable. The movie itself isn't the LEAST bit scary or tense. If it were at least somewhat suspenseful (such as the movie Tremors) it might be worth a look. But, it doesn't even rise to this level. You have to wonder how anyone who was in this movie can keep a straight face. Everyone KNOWS bats don't attack people -- it almost takes a supernatural, unrealistic creature to pull of a movie like this and make it scary. Bats don't do it. "},{"Title":"Bats is a trick on movie audiences rather than a treat for them.","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bats amounts to a load of guano. This mediocre animals-run-amok thriller raises little hair either as a horror chiller or as a creature feature. The executives at Destination Films who green-lighted this half-baked hokum as their debut offering on the Hollywood scene should be hanged by their heels! Director Lou (Made Men & Carnosaur 2) Morneau and an overqualified cast struggle valiantly against predictable writing and ersatz special effects. Bats teams up a rugged, cigar-chomping Texas sheriff (Lou Diamond Phillips of Young Guns) with a drop-dead gorgeous bat expert (Dina Meyers of Starship Troopers) as they battle two scientifically beefed-up bats that threaten to destroy life as we know it on the North American continent. Scenarist John Logan has cobbled together a thoroughly synthetic script based on classics ranging from Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds to Steven Spielberg's Jaws and Jurassic Park. Logan substitutes genetically enhanced bats for dinosaurs, but (trust me) their lack of size does matter.You've seen it done before and done better. The action unfolds one dark night in Gallup, Texas (pop. 7,000), when two carnivorous bats kill a couple of teenagers. Clearly, Bats imitates the opening scene from Jaws. Cut to a helicopter from the Centers for Disease Control whirling into a remote desert location to haul Dr. Sheila Casper (Dina Meyers of Starship Troopers), a zoologist specializing in bats, and her wise-cracking assistant, Jimmy Sands (Leon), to Gallup for an autopsy. The pick-up scene comes from Jurassic Park while the autopsy is straight out of Silence of the Lambs. Although Bats adheres to a sure-fire horror film formula, this movie delivers few thrills and chills.CDC chief Dr. Hodge (Carlos Jacott) introduces them to the amoral scientist, Dr. McCabe (Bob Gunton of Patch Adams), who created this mutant strain of killer bats. According to McCabe, he has spent vast sums of government funds over the last decade breeding these biologically altered bats. Experimenting on Flying Foxes, an Indonesian bat with a six-foot wingspan, he has made them smarter and more aggressive. Further, he has turned them into the equivalent of winged piranha. They fly in swarms and feast on flesh. When Jimmy asks why, McCabe boasts That's what scientists do. Improve things. Gee, sounds a lot like the unscrupulous scientists from Jurassic Park. Sheriff Emmett Kimsey (Phillips) shepherds Casper & the CDC people on their search for the bats. The dialogue about these ferocious flying mammals is unintentionally hilarious. Are we talking about bats!? Nevertheless, the filmmakers go to silly extremes to persuade us that these crafty critters pose a peril. At one point, they trap Kimsey and Casper in his police pick-up and try to burrow through the AC to feed on them. Eventually, the bats decimate the townspeople of Gallup, and the U.S. Army rolls in for the big showdown. Our heroes track the bats down to an abandoned mine, and the military unveils a giant refrigeration bomb (looking something like a chrome-plated colander) to freeze the fiends. Freezing is another of those time-honored techniques for destroying certain monsters.But these villainous varmints come out swinging. They wipe out the troops before they can set off the bomb. The Army retreats and calls in the U.S.A.F. to finish the job. Casper warns them that blowing up the bats will create bigger headaches. Reluctantly, the military permits Kimsey and Casper to reenter the cave and detonate the bomb. In a suspenseful finale, reminiscent of Michael Bay's The Rock, Casper and Kimsey plunge into the cave, wade through a river of guano, and work against the clock to freeze their foe before the Air Force blasts the mountain to smithereens. Shoddy special effects defang the fright. When the bats fly, they appear as computer generated graphics, but you can barely distinguish one bat from another, so they look like confetti. When the attack their victims, they show up as obvious hand puppets. Worse, the seams between the computer graphics and the puppets are blatantly obvious. As a result, the bats attain little screen menace. They resemble Ghoulies with wings. Consequently, Bats drums up very little terror because the titular antagonists never chill your goose bumps. The only thing compelling about Bats is director Louis Morneau's muscular direction. He pours on non-stop action, rarely letting anything interfere with the forward momentum of the plot, but his roller coaster tactics cannot disguise the substandard special effects or distract us from the corny dialogue.As ecological catastrophe chillers go, Bats is a trick on movie audiences rather than a treat for them. "},{"Title":"Baaaaaaaaaaad like a lamb!","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When you name your movie Bats everyone has a general idea what the monster is, though they might not imagine something which looks like a winged Pug. You heard me, those ugly little dogs which appear to have run muzzle first into a wall, with wings. Oh, and they're mean, real mean.Despite an interesting beginning the movie quickly degrades into frontal lobotomy territory, not the least of which is a patented military response. First off they're determined to eradicate the bats through bombs and antitank missiles, then an attempt to destroy the roost at night gets them all killed, since most recruits have at least high school diplomas these days I'd say our public education system is worthless. Not that it would matter, the creatures at hand are nigh invulnerable, only serious firepower can harm them. Bats (Even mutated ones.) are fairly light, this facilitates the miracle of flight, a female ballet dancer rolling over one would do some damage. Except to this variety, it just gets them mad.By the way, Sheriff Kimsey is the best shot I've seen in my life, any guy who can score perfect shooting at flitting targets with a pistol is a God.After losing half the town's population to an attack everyone is evacuated, except the civilian researchers who barricade themselves into the school. Why they stayed in town I have no idea, but it gave McCabe a chance to degenerate into mad scientist mode just prior to his death.With an air strike scheduled to bomb the bat's cave (Huh?) it's up to Sheila and Kimsey, they must carry out the original plan Turn on a huge refrigeration unit and freeze the creatures to death. Too bad for the bats, they're only highly intelligent when the script requires... ...such as destroying a member of the swarm when it has been captured and fitted with a tracking device, the idea to change caves after being discovered never dawns on them. "},{"Title":"Okay I guess.","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a toughie for me to decide. I would say it's okay. But I'm very iffy about it. I'm wondering what if some other actors would have portrayed some of the characters in this movie, would it make the movie better or worse? The setting was okay but the cave scene was good. Another thought that crossed my mind, was if they made a sequel would it be better or worse than this film and would it be good? To be honest, when I first saw the commercial which was like 3 seconds - the only thing that I have seen was bats. I thought it would be a vampire-bat movie, meaning that the movie would be about vampires attacking a town and having the ability to turn into bats, something like From Dusk Till Dawn trilogy. (I'm also planning on writing my reviews for the From Dusk Till Dawn trilogy.) In conclusion, I have to give this movie a 5 out of a 10. "},{"Title":"Don't watch if you have a fear of bats!","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In this nature run amok thriller, LOU DIMOND PHILLIPS & DINA MEYER must save a small town from hordes of loathsome killer bats that like to come out at night & snack on human flesh, but it seems that as time goes on, that there's more to these bats & why they are killing than what they had thought. BATS is a straight forward B movie that somehow managed to sneak into theaters & although there are several interesting & suspenseful moments, overall it fails to provide horror fans with anything spectacular or memorable. While the actors & directing was good, the film seems to drag on in places & was to short in length to really accomplish what it set out to do. Not a complete loss & the ending was kind of neat as well as gross. For dedicated horror fans only.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"a must see for all scientists","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  HAHAHA. *so bad* I'm a scientist! Thats what we do! we make things better! hahahaha If you know anything of genetics, chiroptera, or life science in general.. see this movie for a good laugh. do NOT take it seriously because... we it just isn't possible. These bats rapidly change size... from being small enough to fit in cracks.. to be large enough to engulf one's entire head. HA This movie has no aestetic value, nor realistic integrity... but for those who have a good background in such a field, it is a very good movie to make you feel that you are better than all those people out there who created is bad...inaccurate...movie  "},{"Title":"Sure it's bad... but enjoyable as well","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Manipulated bats attack the town of Gallup, Texas. Now it's up to the sheriff, his inevitable love interest and the much needed computer geek to rescue everybody.Clearly low budget effort, but not as bad as you would expect. The acting kinda stinks, but that's really not what you should be looking for in a B-movie like this one. The story itself is nothing new, but pretty enjoyable. It wouldn't have been my choice to put it in the bottom 100, that's for sure.The ending (with bats chasing the humans in a mine, and not catching up with them for hundreds of yards) is about the worst there is, but if you're into the genre you might as well give it a go.4/10. "},{"Title":"Bad.......but you can sit through it","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This one is bad.  The acting is bad, the directing is bad, the effects are bad....just plain bad.  But, I sat through this bad flick, and when it was over, I didn't really want my money back.  I mean, I tried to follow the notion that, bats are bats.  I mean, they have monster rats, monster cats, now monster bats.  Whatever. "}{"Title":"Sucked the fun right out of this","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **Starring Dina Meyer, Lou Diamond Phillips, and Leon.When a group of bats are used as a test for a military experiment, they break loose (now who would have thought THAT would have happened?) and everything goes haywire.  It's up to a group of people to stop the bats from taking over the world.The thing that sucked the fun right out of this was that the bats looked so damn fake.  I mean you can easily see how unreal they were.  That just bugged me throughout the movie.The movie never really has any fun and tries to scare you, but also fails at that.  The actors have a decent amount of fun (their characters obviously don't), and Leon was pretty good as the comic relief.I don't recommend it. "},{"Title":"...interesting.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this at the video store a couple years ago and bought it. I just now watched it. I figured that it was just another one of those movies where the killer animals are chasing the group of surviving people or the research expedition or something else on that order. And yeah, I was right.BATS is just another wannabe JURASSIC PARK or JAWS. All of the action adventure movies for the next decade or so will have been inspired by those films. The king movies of creature films. And, sadly BATS tried to be just like them. The cast is a bunch of extras that couldn't land themselves parts in bigger movies by having sex with the directors like how their best friend's probably told them. The script is poorly written with bad dialogue (it is written by John Logan, the guy who wrote the remake script for THE TIME MACHINE). The film is just loaded with stupid attempts at heroic efforts but the film fails except in the very begin sequence where two kids meet the bats who have been genetically altered (typical B-movie plot) by a mad scientist (Bob Gunton). The film is not all bad. But is not all good either. It is just another movie to take off the shelf every so often when you are in the middle of a hangover. You can decide to enjoy this film or you can decide not to. Its your choice.BATS 3/5. "},{"Title":"Squeak squeak your dead!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 88 min.Yes it's a 'B' movie which on a good day might merit a 5 however it's not all that bad for a killer mutant animal movie. In its defence the acting is passably, the low budget isn't too evident and it doesn't take itself too seriously. 4/10 - 4 guys and a six pack each could have fun with this. "},{"Title":"Review of Bats","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I actually have two different reviews to share of my personal experience with the movie Bats. The film itself is terrible and a mockery of everything that makes Hollywood successful, however when intoxicated the film is tolerable and filled with numerous laughs and provides a jolly good time in front of the tube. Sober F- Intoxicated B+ "},{"Title":"Louis Mourneau's Bats","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dina Meyer is the beautiful bat zoologist Sheila, who is recruited to fly to little Gallup, Texas to investigate some strange bat attacks. Her wisecracking assistant, Jimmy (Leon), is along, able to lighten any bloody situation with a funny line.In west Texas, she meets with hunky sheriff Kimsey (Lou Diamond Phillips). Sheila and Kimsey immediately do the cute verbal sparring routine, and investigate the strange bat attacks while making goo goo eyes at each other. Our bat hunting crew is completed by CDC guy/I'll be dead before you know it Hodge (Carlos Jacott) and the mad scientist McCabe (Bob Gunton, who was better as the warden in The Shawshank Redemption).The group looks at the remains of a couple of people who were killed in the opening minutes by the bats. The bats were genetically mutated by McCabe, and this mutation is being passed on to other local bats. These bats are collective and able to work together to achieve a common goal- eat people.The small town of Gallup is overrun, in a seriously flawed flight of reason, and everyone is evacuated, except our bat hunters (minus the dead Hodge). Using satellite technology, they discover the bats are hanging out in an abandoned mine, and they must get rid of them before the military (who ain't got time to listen to book smart science-types, they just want to blow stuff up) drops a few bombs on the place...which would actually release the bats across the country...but who said they ever had the public's good in mind?Typical Hollywood military treatment. As military jets that haven't been used in fifteen years fly toward the mine, Sheila, Kimsey, and Jimmy work to blow things up themselves, saving the audience from bats and a suggested sequel.Believe everything negative you have heard about Bats. The screenwriter's idea of character development is to have the sheriff listen to opera while the group barricades themselves in an abandoned school. Why did the evil McCabe make the evil bats? Don't really know, there are some vague mumblings about the perfect killing machines (something we have never encountered before in superior films) and being able to control them, but we never get a sense of a master diabolical plan. Leon, who has been much better in other films, is embarassing here. He is given such weak comic relief, I am wondering if he read the script before he signed on.In the first bat attack on the bat hunters, Kimsey and Sheila jump in the sheriff's cars in the nick of time...and then he cannot find his car keys. The characters all march around, huffing and full of themselves, and begin lines with such trite and true dialogue as let me get this straight, you knew about... and are you saying you knew about... and if we don't make it you know what to do... I do believe this is the first draft, not a final screenplay, for a motion picture.The special effects are good and bad. The gore scenes are strong and convincing. The bats are not. One great scene has Kimsey and Sheila running for said sheriff's car, with mountains in the background that seem to be exploding in swarms of bats. Too bad we could not keep the flying rodents at a distance, and the effects degenerate into unconvincing CGI and awful puppetry on par with a third grade assembly. The film's cinematography is gorgeous, better than the film deserves. Every scene is well lit and imaginatively expensive looking. Until the effects started sucking, I thought this was going to be a misunderstood multi-million dollar film.Mourneau is not a bad director, he seems to have been overwhelmed by a poor script and poorer effects. He lets stupid stuff get through the small town's movie theater marquee reads Now Playing Nosferatu (har dee har har); and the weak excuse on why the town did not go indoors when warned is because we're Texans, and we don't want no one tellin' us things we think we already know. I am originally from Texas, I have family in Texas, and Bats knows nothing about Texas (it was filmed in Utah). At least Texans (and the rest of the U.S.) knew enough not to flock INTO the theater when this was showing.Bats has gained a notable reputation for its badness, resulting in the near career deaths of Dina Meyer and Lou Diamond Phillips. I cannot recommend this loser.This is rated (PG13) for strong physical violence, gun violence, strong gore, and profanity.  "},{"Title":"Puhleeze","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I know I'm not suppose to comment on what other people comment but I have to ask if the person who thought this was the scariest movie ever made saw the same one I did tonight on television?This was, without a doubt, one of the dumbest movies I've EVER seen. And I've seen a lot of dumb movie.Bats makes use of just about EVERY horror movie cliché every invented. From the dumb teenagers and hick towns folk (or in other words Purina Bat Chow) to the cute but smart & spunky female biologist to the big, bad military. There's even an evil scientist. And yes, he's mad. (Guess what happens to him.)It might be good for a laugh or even as a teaching tool on how to make bad 'B' movies. But scary??? Not hardly. Not even a little bit. "},{"Title":"YUCK! Dumb....","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Lou Diamond Phillips attempts to do a Kevin Bacon type(Tremors)horror movie spoof. But fails.. Dismally.Basically the evil government creates nasty bio-bats who kill everyone not on full pay.The evil government then wants to blow everyone up, but Kevin (oppps.. Lou) saves us all...It should be called Bats 3.. cuz only the third remake could this bad!Dull, stupid, and Lou are getting old....  "},{"Title":"one of the badest movie ever seen","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  that black guy, come on . Can we say over bad acting. One liners He screwed the movie Then that doctor, suddenly in half of the movie he is goin nuts ??? Why ,what reason , come on. The story so thin , the army isn't doing anything except being annoying the people in that town stupid ... 2 or 3 killed by bats, they say aah we don't believe...but the black dude , he ruined it in the first place, he just can't act that was scary Pfrom dusk till dawn 2 is even better than this one  "},{"Title":"Fiction about genetically modified bats","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hollywood is prolific producing films about beasts and terrible animals to enrich its poor genre of Horror. There was a gorilla, King Kong, then crocodiles, monkeys, obviously lions and leopards in Tarzan's films, a terrible dog Cujo and many others. For those who have seen Gremlin or Hichtcock's Birds , they have no need to see this film. It is nearly the same, the only thing changing here is that bats attack the humans. Obviously, a miracle done by some heros happened and the bats were supposed to be dead. In fact, they were not killed, a second version is coming soon and more money will be wasted again.  "},{"Title":"Oh... my... Lord...","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was so impressed by this movie. I never thought I'd see a movie worse than _Gordy_, but this takes the cake! _Bats_ is an INCREDIBLY bad movie. Desperately trying to be like _The Birds_, it doesn't succeed in any way, shape, or form. Why? Because you CAN'T COPY _THE BIRDS_! You can point out direct imitations from Hitchcock's film. Sheesh! The effects of the bats were laughable, and the plot holes were big enough to drive a truck through. The movie had me saying oh, PLEASE! half the time, and laughing the other half. If you want to laugh your butt off, rent this movie. If you want to be scared, rent it's big brother Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece. "}{"Title":"This Movie Is The Worst Movie I've Seen - Ever!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I feel that I have to comment on this movie ) Now, I am known for liking most movies (I liked The 13th Warrior and Dude, Where's My Car) but this movie is horrible!!! You can see the strings holding the bats up and the script/plot was almost non-existent! It's like they grabbed a bunch of people, threw bats at them and said Act!. I wouldn't even bother rating this movie. It doesn't even deserve a star in my opinion. I like Lou Diamond Phillips but this is an all-time career low for him. I apologize for being so harsh and blunt but I just felt that this is just a horrible creation and I don't see how it ever made it off the drawing board - I mean...KOMODO was better than this! )  "},{"Title":"Very watchable","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In a movie of this type, if I am not (a) insulted, or (b) bored, then I am having a good time.  I did not mind this movie at all and can't understand the bashing it seems to have taken.  I am not saying its enlightening or anything, but for what it is there is not that much wrong.  It did not try to be snide (Lake Placid) or be an f/x spectacle (Deep Blue Sea) and seems comfortable to be a decent B-movie - another good thing.PS  There is even a mad scientist!  Calling Peter Cushing! "},{"Title":"BEWARE Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so bad on sooo many levels, it does not even deserve a review.  After seeing Lou Diamond Phillips' performance in Another Day In Paradise I thought maybe his career was finally turning up.  I was wrong. I don't know who is making his career decisions, but he needs to fire that person, quick.  I don't know what planet the last reviewer was from, but this movie was anything but scary.  First of all, the Bats look like little flying monkeys.  But not even that cool, THEY LOOK FAKE.  This movie might scare a 10 year old girl, but that's about it.  This movie is  what gives Hollywood a BAD name.  It is so formula-driven it makes me sick.  I could have told you the whole story without seeing the ending after about 20 minutes into the movie.  This was the first time I ran back to Blockbuster and demanded a refund, no make that COMPENSATION for being put through the torture of watching such a COLOSSAL PIECE OF BAT-DUNG! "},{"Title":"Poor Lou Diamond Phillips..... Poor, poor Lou Diamond Phillips...","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was going to write a long, involved review citing every atrocity this movie flings forth on the screen, but I won't. It would just be rubbing it in. This movie is bad, yes, but it is actually more on the pathetic side. Pathetic, and sad, and depressing. Towards the end there is a scenes where fake rubber bats are just hung on a fence and shaken by an off-screen stage hand. Later Lou Diamond Phillips wrestles a big bat dummy while sitting in a big puddle of bat guano.This movie fails in every single possible way. Do not see it. Please. How this got made and into theaters confounds me. I mean, it's better than Double Jeopardy, sure, but what movie isn't? Anyhoo, Bats Keep Away.  "},{"Title":"Night of the Lepus remade with bats instead of rabbits","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a way over done theme. Nightwings had a better story and scarier bats. Lou Diamond Phillips looked and acted like he had only shown up for the paycheck.About 1975 Rory Calhoun made Night of the Lepus, about genetically altered jack rabbits that decimated towns and wiped out herds of longhorn cattle. Bats is a poor remake with no redeeming qualities.Dina Meyer (Starship Troopers) tried hard but this was a lousy vehicle for her.  "},{"Title":"Don't leave me behind! Please!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I figured it out.  Bats wasn't a movie, it was a sociological experiment.  I believe they will use these types of movies in the future to decide who gets left behind when the planet explodes.  They don't want idiotic people to ride the rocket to re-populate the new planet. Hopefully I haven't been doomed and have a chance to redeem myself. "},{"Title":"Cheap little rip-off of The Birds","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This one has surely got old Hitch spinning in his grave. This movie, about a bunch of evil flying bats, is a disgrace to the horror/suspence genre and should be added shortly to the Worst Movies of All Time list. Lou Diamond Phillips has shown that he can act (See The Big Hit or almost anything he's done on Broadway), but he has about as much personality here as a stick of grass. Also, an extremely stupid plot and questionable directions and actions taken by the cast knock this one below ground. See The Birds instead- there's more suspense in a 30-second clip of that movie then the entire thing here. Awful- 1/10 "},{"Title":"So bad its.....well, its just bad","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bats is something of a schitzophrenic movie.  The last 30 minutes are very exciting and somewhat nerve wracking.  Unfortuatly, there's a whole hour before that, and thats not very good.  The premise is this the US Government commissions research into biological weapons reasearch using bats.  One of the scientists involved in the project apparently loses touch with reality and lets his creation loose on the small town of Gallup, Texas.  Dina Meyer gives a solid performance, but seems to take this movie a bit too seriously.  She is however, as believeable as she is beautiful. Lou Diamond Phillips makes his big screen return in this movie, and is almost laughably bad.  His character has an on/off accent, and when you first see him he is such a stereotype its hysterical.The bats are not too bad when viewed close up, but when you see the giant swarms of them they are clearly CGI, and move as such on screen.One thing I still have a hard time getting past was a couple rather glaring errors in the movie, and these could be considered spoilers.  Number 1...when the bats are attacking the schoolhouse, Dr. Casper (Dina Meyer) has the scientists gun...and she fires it at the attacking bats....you see her dry fire the gun when she runs out of ammo.  But automatic pistols lock the slide back when the magazine is empty.  The other very glaring error was the fact that this movie is set in Texas, and the US Air Force is going to bomb the mine where the bats have made their lair.  The planes have French Air Force markings.Bats was a movie with a good but unoriginal idea, and had potential.  Poor directing and bad execution made this movie a real loser.  If the entire thing had the intensity of the last half hour, it would have really been special.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A sad, sad movie.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I pride myself on seeing as many horror movies at the theater that I can, but Bats! was the most pathetic excuse for a horror movie i have ever seen. Sitting through the movie, i could predict exactly what was going to happen in this poorly acted, poorly written movie, and caught myself laughing at how sad this movie really was. I wasted $7.00 on this movie, please do yourself a favor and don't do the same. The special effects were non existant, and the entire movie was basically people shooting mutant bats, (with faces you'll remember from Gremelins) with pistols. A sad sad movie indeed! "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry...","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bats is, first and foremost, a comedy. Too bad it's not supposed to be one. The laughs come fast and furious right from the start when (you guessed it!) two teens in a deserted area of a small town  get ripped to shreds by marauding bats in a scene shot, like all the attacks in this movie, shakily, as if by someone holding a camera during an epileptic fit, which only serves to make obvious what the makers already know these vicious monsters are about as terrifying as Big Bird and just as realistic. (They kind of look like a discarded design for Yoda.) Watch for the moment when one the leads picks up one of them try not to laugh when it's crystal clear its wings are made out of cloth and that the actor is jiggling it about in an effort to give it the appearance of something other than a rubber toy! You'll also delight in watching the talented and handsome Lou Diamond Phillips (sporting a cigar and wavering 'Southern' accent) continue his descent into the movie trashcan, though he at least knows this is a lost cause, something which cannot be said for the deadly-serious Dina Meyer (whose character, a scientist, is -- you guessed it! -- the best in her field) who performs as if this is some sort of Shakesperean drama and proves her home really was Beverly Hills 90210, in which she had a brief role; she's not entirely unappealing but someone should have taken her aside and told her to relax and have some fun. That same someone should also have taken the time to have a little chit-chat with co-star Leon, who can give, and has given, good, solid turns, but here performs his role as written Steppin Fetchit. It's an embarassment bordering on offensive. Other than this, just sit back and be entertained by every horror movie cliche trotted out gleefully and constantly. "}{"Title":"Stupid concept + Stupid Title = Stupid Movie","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Come on people, wake up!  This was a movie called Bats about Bats that hurt people.  Shouldn't that tell you it's going to be a bad movie from the start?  Granted, occasionally you can get some fine acting in a movie with a very bad plot, but not often.  Good actors typically don't waste their time with movies that sound so pathetic, unless they owe backtaxes.  This movie was almost as bad as Chill Factor !!!!!!.  Please people, send hollywood a message by not going to stupid films like these! "},{"Title":"Could have/should have been much better","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the first from a new fledgling movie studio so I guess I can forgive it's general stupidity.  Lou D. P. is a decent actor but is prone to overacting and in this one he REALLY does.  He's good in roles that call for that but in this one he was passable in the first half but it wasn't until the 2nd half to last 1/3 that his overacting was offset by the action of the film.  The acting overall left somewhat to be desired and the film was rather boring during the first half.  During the 2nd half it finally began to wake up and come to life and about the last 1/3 was actually enjoyable.  It didn't have enough of a budget to do it up right.  Mind you, I realize that having a big budget and lots of flashy well done effects don't guarantee a good film or a hit but it certainaly helps when the movie is an effects type of movie as this.  Again they're a new company and don't appear to have the backing of a major studio so it can be forgiven as growing pains.  On the other hand because of the low budget (12 mil) they're likely to do well enough to make a profit and maybe to more with future pictures.  The movie is ok to see but I'd make sure it is either a matinee or even wait until video.  It's just not worth the full price.  But if you go see it, don't walk out.  Go ahead and stay through the end because it does get better in the last part.   "},{"Title":"It's no Deep Blue Sea","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First off, let it be known that I enjoy watching bad movies. If you are a masochistic movie-goer like myself, then you will surely enjoy Bats. Let's start off with the fact that the movie title was referenced 65 times in the movie. Now obviously you'd expect that the word Bats would be mentioned in the movie, but 65 times (and my friend Alex, giggling madly throughout the entire film, did keep count) is a bit absurd. Not a good sign right there. Then of course there was the confusing editing. I'm convinced that the director and producers thought that if they made edits so quick and confusing that the audience would leave the theater in a daze hence not being able to give bad word of mouth. In addition, there were some very bizarre camera lenses used that led me to believe some of the scenes were shot through a drinking glass. Also, most of the night scenes were shot through a blue filter so poorly that you could still see the sunlight off the trees. And then there were the bats themselves. I can't remember the last time that I saw creatures so fake looking. It looks like no effort at all was put into the creation of these bats. Take all of the above and throw in the fact that the character development unraveled before my eyes and you've got the makings of a terribly enjoyable movie. It's not as fun or enjoyable as Deep Blue Sea was, but I highly recommend seeing this film if you enjoy a good and hearty laugh. "},{"Title":"Just as disappointing as The Haunting","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a bust.  I took my 10 year old to see it for a halloween outing.  She thought it was cute.  In fact she is quoted as saying It really wasn't scary at all.  This after me asking her are you ready for your first scary movie.Well I guess I should thank the creators of Bats for a scary movie worthy of taking the young ones.Besides the language at times, this movie is ready for prime time television without any editing.  This movie did nothing for me.  And I'm will not waste another word .........  on it. "},{"Title":"Not Going Batty for BATS!!!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie one notch below, I Spit On Your Grave, or perhaps one notch above a root canal. I will say this...at least they spelled, BATS correctly.The, bats looked about as realistic as Ed Wood's flying saucers, and it didn't take Jean Dixon to predict when they would show up next. The only bat I saw was sitting two seats over, snoring loudly, face in nachos.Also, I guess this plot line isn't TOO worn out. Some sort of creature, mutated by science manages to escape from it's holding area. (Gosh, we'd never expect THAT to happen!) And, an expert and a sheriff has to stop this thing? Three cheers for originality.Finally, most people who are going to see this film are expecting to be scared. I know I was. Well, the scariest event of the movie was when I almost spilled my six dollar Coke as someone was sqeezing by me to get out of the theater and do something more constructive, like watching, Bowling for Dollars.To sum up, if you like horror rent a classic. If you like flying mammals go to the zoo. But if you like wasting money, go see BATS. "},{"Title":"I can write the horror flick cliche equation with this one","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was amazed at how cookie cutter this movie is.  Everything from the black guy dying first when the action gets hot to the lovers lane people setting the premise (Come on, relax it's all safe here.....Ahhhhhh!) existed. Heck it even had the bald, insane scientist that is disgustingly full of hubris.The Bat's looked like the dogs from Ghostbusters.  The Camera work was crazy (almost Blair Witch like), which took a lot away from the scare factor.  I didn't even have a minor connection with the characters at any point (yes, the acting was that bad).In the end I was only somewhat grossed out at certain parts, but that didn't last long considering how long the camera stuck on one angle.   I felt I was missing the whole scare factor that is in many movies.  So if you're going to watch this do so for the humorous one liners that are thrownabout constantly.   "},{"Title":"Who Paid For This?","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this for free, and I feel like they owe me money.  Not one original or even interesting point in this senseless mess (except for the presence of Dina Meyer and Bob Gunton, both of whom, like everyone else involved, should have known better).  Lots of swinging camera blurs to mask crappy special effects and rubber bats that even Roger Corman would reject. "},{"Title":"This movie was extremely bad. You have to see this.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was extremely bad. This is also my first time I'm writing here. I had to. This movie was so awful. But luckily I saw it on TV so I had time to make some snack without be missing something. You have to watch this movie because this is much worse than black screen. Only good thing was that I still have some chances to be an actor. I live in Finland and I wonder why are we buying as bad movies as this. Please destroy all copies of this film! Most stupid film ever!!! BAD WAS ACTING, FILMING, MUSIC, SPECIAL EFFECTS, PLOT... It's hard to write 10 lines about this movie. If there would be something good it would be easier. But when you see how this movie ends you want to kill your selves and throw your TV thru window. Take lots of weed and other substances before watching this. "},{"Title":"good for a laugh","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  laughable flick is entertaining and lots of fun on a cheesy level but is ineptly made has horrible acting and laughable dialogue and has cliched written all over it but watch it just to make fun of it and have a good time worth a watch for those silly days ya have sometimes "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A group of mutated bats hold a town hostage and begin to kill off all the citizens. What could have been a fun campy premise, is given a pretty straight forward treatment. It is devoid of any real chills and is sorely lacking any (on purpose) humor. The special effects are a cheesey mess and the characters are left over stock characters from dozens of other films. The cast tries to little effect. Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "}]