[{"Title":"Gillian Anderson in an Oscar winning role.","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"66 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movie 4 times and plan to watch it again and again. Never have i seen such a beautiful and more moving film in my 34 years on this planet. Gillian Anderson is fantastic as the femme fatale/heroine. She gives the performance of her life and it sickens me she got no recognition for her efforts. Her subtle acting and graceful demeanour make her perfect in this role. Its so hard to get as excited about the other characters in the movie as she seems to steal every scene. I am a massive fan of Merchant & Ivory films but this production just blows them out of the water. Everybody in this film are excellent - the dialogue is beautifully spoken and the lack of music in it makes it even more real and lifelike.I can say only two words to describe this film, and i quote Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) -  HOW DELICIOUS. "},{"Title":"Stunning acting, stunning directing, stunning movie!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"55 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is such an evocative and moving film. A must see.In all honestly Davies direction does take some getting used to. No quick editing for him! Yes the pace was slow, it concentrated on the actors faces longer than usual. However I felt this was necessary in order to show the tension of the people and the lethal nature of the words spokenThe cast were wonderful. Stoltz was ideal as Seldon. He was cool and suave and attractive. I also enjoyed Laura Linney as Bertha -she really sold me on being a very nasty woman. The main star, Gillian Anderson, performed with grace, poise and charisma. This woman can convey emotions - just look into her eyes. She does not need to speak to tell you how Lily is feeling. She was mesmerizing. For example, when Lily was flirting with Seldon you somehow could feel her discontent.Her descent into hell was  heartbreaking.  One scene, when Lily is at her lowest, will stay with me for a long time. The hopelessness was obvious, as if she was slowly dying. She was beyond caring for anything - and it showed in her eyes - dulled and weary.Gillian Anderson brought Lily through a myriad of emotions. We loved her, pitied her, wanted to slap her! She was cynical and manipulative, a total flirt and then she fell. The gamut of emotions Anderson went through was incredible and to take the audience with her was a miracle.This movie leaves an impact. It will not be a blockbuster (too intelligent and too wordy for that.) God forbid should we make an audience pay attention and think in a movie. The movie, unlike most period dramas, really brought home how nasty life was. Vicious and unforgiving to those who did not play the game.If you can, go and see it. I promise it will be worth it. "},{"Title":"Rich movie demands a lot of viewers","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Reviews of this movie seem to fall into few categories, loved it because of Gillian Anderson, loved it because of the book, loved it because it was dreamy, hated it because I just didn't get it, hated it because of Gillian Anderson, hated it because it wasn't the book, hated it because it had no Arnie and wasn't Armageddon.If you can't follow Edwardian English, if you can't follow a movie with scene shifts without a subtitle that says you are now in London, You are now in New York, if you can't read emotions off of actor's faces even when their words contradict their feelings, well, you're going to hate this movie. If you need a driving soundtrack to tell you exactly what mood you're supposed to be feeling for each scene, you're going to hate this movie. If you can't accept the fact that flawed characters develop but don't always overcome in the end, you're going to hate this movie.OK, now that the summer action flic viewers have stopped reading this review in disgust (just as they left this movie early), we can get on with the review. I think Gillian Anderson was a good pick for the part, and did a very good, if not quite excellent performance. Part of Guilded Age/Edwardian upper-crust behaviour was the semblance of civility under the most trying of circumstances, such as saying Thank You when you've just been fired or otherwise dissed. Add that to the stylized English and you end up having to PAY ATTENTION to understand what is going on to get it.One of the brilliant aspects of casting is the Gillian Anderson pick. Instead of a brilliant blonde or smouldering brunette, you have a non-conventional look (short, voluptuos and red-headed) that jolts (and excites) the modern eye, but actually better fit in to the pre-Chanel standard of beauty of that time.At its heart the novel is a morality tale, describing the pitfalls of being beautiful, manipulative and shallow while failing to be cunning and wise. Lily Bart is callous to her suitors at first, only to fall into multiple social traps. In the end she relies solely on her integrity and dignity, which is insufficient to extricate her from her circumstances. This may offend many who expect the heroine to prevail in the end due to a simple basic morality (which is there in Lily), perseverance (which is also there), a clever plot twist and a 40mm grenade launcher (both missing).Lavish sets, beautiful backdrops, gorgeous costumes, good acting (with the possible exception of Akroyd), all make this a surreal, if sad, journey for the cognitively aware and patient. I say possible exception because of one subtext of the novel & movie is the interplay of the American Nuveau Riche and the old nobility of England and Europe. Thus the wealthy American Entrepeneurs are depicted as brutish and obvious, though this is tolerated in society because their path was already blazed in the 1890's by the first wave of gold miners, oil drillers and electric company tycoons that swept through Europe and married into storied, if not monies, bloodlines. Thus, Akroyd's blatant and crude manipulations and language are somewhat justified.But, if you don't like period pieces, costume dramas, and identifying with wealthy people who have never worked a day in their lives, all this will be lost on you.  "},{"Title":"Film Masterpiece Rewards Repeated Viewings","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Anyone with years of experience making or watching film will recognize virtuoso work by Terence Davies, his cast and crew here. This admittedly languorous film rates ten out of ten for me and ranks close to Fanny and Alexander for its emotional control and depth. Get the DVD!  With $8.7 million Terence Davies did what Scorsese could only impersonate with Age of Innocence, and which Merchant and Ivory haven't done for a long time. Davies has created the suffocating, cosseted and unforgiving social milieu of New York and Tuxedo Park circa 1905-07. The sets, the sense of place, the stunning cinematography of Remi Adefarasin (Elizabeth), and most of all Gillian Anderson's virtuoso performance combine with Davies' excruciatingly seductive pacing and scoring cues to track in loving detail the missed opportunities and downfall of Lily Bart. Every line Wharton used to describe Lily's inner life is there in Anderson's face and in Davies screenplay and direction. If the film feels stiff to younger viewers, it's because it's deadly accurate socially. That gilded society WAS stiff, unforgiving and precoccupied with keeping out the nouveau riche. Anyone who has tried to gain entry to a social register or the DAR might have a easy time understanding the upper class world of New York in 1905.I must commend Davies for the risky choices he made in casting Eric Stoltz as Lawrence Selden and Dan Ackroyd as Gus Trenor. Ackroyd's boisterous girth works here because Gus Trenor is both gatekeeper and gatecrasher of this social circle. He and his wife are major forces in deciding who's in and out.  Ackroyd is not the deepest actor, but neither is Gus Trenor deep. In fact he's to great degree, a backslapping facade. Despite his wealth and high standing, Trenor is pragmatic and doesn't turn his nose down at courting filthy-rich newcomers desiring social elevation - men like Sim Rosedale (Anthony LaPaglia) - if it means Trenor makes a buck. And yes, Eric Stoltz is not a convincing choice for a romantic lead, yet he's perfect for the role of Lawrence Seldon, since Seldon balks repeatedly at being Lily's leading man anyway. The sexual charge and arch, ambivalent fencing between Lily and Lawrence is intensified by something indescribable that happens between Stoltz and Anderson in every scene played between them. I can't figure out why it works, except that these two fine actors found each other. Stoltz's tenor crispness - his not quite boy, not quite man-ness - adds to his character's elusiveness, cowardice and vulnerability. Finally, Laura Linney is devastating as Lily's reptilian nemesis, Bertha Dorset. For me, she evokes some of Glenn Close's lethal devilishness and charm. It is Lily's sense of propriety, her fine upbringing, that makes her incapable of finishing off Bertha in when she can, and should.Davies' laser accurate sense of place and character sets House of Mirth apart. He's successfully created the last years of Wharton's treacherous gilded world, when carriages were what fine people still rode and automobiles were considered vulgar. Davies' production designer, art director and set decorator have created sumptuous yet stifling enviroments where Davies and his players can move us back one hundred years into a time we can only imagine and smell when we tour a Vanderbilt Mansion. And he did it without Titanic's budget. It's clear from his commentary that Davies had to repeatedly make do and it sounds like this production was a struggle. All I can say is, limitation is sometimes a fortunate mother. I hope Davies, now 57, will soon be up and running with a new film. I'm suprised to see no new project listed yet. If I were a producer, I'd pounce. This director has the magic. And excuuuse me...! No new projects listed yet for Gillian Anderson?A short note to the Snatch fans that have dissed this film here  I loved Snatch too, loved it, but where's your freakin' RANGE kiddies? SNATCH and HOUSE OF MIRTH were my TWO FAVORITE films of 2001. Tell ya what. Go back to your videogames and Hollywood spectacles and only comment on classic adult film when you've spent a few more years watching much of the worlds great film literature. If HOM is too slow for you, let your hormones rage for a few more years and come back when you're ready to pay attention to human, not cartoon, reality.  Meanwhile, don't drop your smirking, restless, impatient and limited verbiage on films like this one. "},{"Title":"A Period Drama For A Modern Audience","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Along with Scorsese's, The Age of Innocence and Iain Softley's, The Wings of the Dove, Terence Davies' The House of Mirth forms a triumvirate of modern period drama for a discerning audience. Davies is not interested chiefly in either scenery or costume - that is, in history as a heritage theme-park - but in the story, its themes and characters, and in teasing out good performances from his cast. The modest budget of this film works in its favour. Most of the best scenes and shots are framed in intimacy, not lost amidst panoramas of superficial grandeur or the shallow aesthetics of Merchant-Ivory-style film making.At the heart of Davies' film is Gillian Anderson's brilliant performance as Lilly Bart. Since she is on screen almost all of the time the film really stands or falls by her performance. She sheds her X-Files persona in moments and conveys an enormous range of subtle emotions as her character vacillates between an almost involuntary avarice and moral scruples, foolishness, charm, fortune and tragedy. The affect of Anderson's performance is lasting and deep. Indeed, this film lives on long in the memory and continued to trouble me for weeks after I had seen it. "},{"Title":"Merchant-Ivory in darker, deeper hues","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  From the moment she steps out of the smoke at a train station, Gillian Anderson is amazing as Lily Bart, a woman torn between being true to herself and securing a place in her world. Althought the movie is set in the early 1900's, her struggle with making a life for herself while surrounded by treacherous friends with their own agendas feels completely relevant. Working from a terrific script, Anderson draws nuance, meaning and emotion from her lines and the circumstances in which she finds herself, as she puts it, doing the wrong thing at the right time. The journey she took me through in this movie was invigorating, thought provoking, engrossing and ultimately heartbreaking. The supporting cast, including Day Akroyd, Anthony LaPaglia and Terry Kinney, hold their own and fill out the movie beautifully. But Laura Linney deserves special mention as Lily's cunning, manipulative rival posing as a friend. Although very much a period piece, the film goes beyond some of the best pictures of Merchant-Ivory in bringing to life Wharton's novel, presenting a darker movie about the consequences of choices and the cost of guilelessness in a ruthless world. It also pulls Scully out of her basement and into the spotlight where her talents deserve to have her. "},{"Title":"Like taking a warm bath in a quick shower world.","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite of all the Wharton novels adapted for the screen.  The precision and depth with which the director and actors go is absolutely true to the novel in almost every respect.Gillian Anderson is a revalation here, she perfectly captures the repression and pain of being a woman stuck in that time and place with no way out. You can feel her pain and torment in every quivering close up, and the passion contained in her kissing scenes (or to be more precise, her NON kissing- kissing scene) with Eric Stoltz is something to behold.Eric Stoltz is equally amazing in one of the most complex and difficult roles for a man to play. I must disagree with the viewer from China, Mr. Seldon is NOT meant to be terribly masculine or deep voiced or unbearably handsome- those are modern readings that perhaps we expect from the role of the 'male hero' in modern films- but here Mr. Selden is written exactly as he is played- walking a fine line between what is correct behaviour for the time, and what he was or wasn't allowed to do in regards to her rescue. He is torn by love of Lilly Bart and the realization that he is not the right man for her, as the all important social scene would frown on their union. The actor portrays this ambiguity perfectly, and I for one found it a relief that the man didn't ride in and save the day in that cliched movie way.I also must commend the supporting players of Anthony LaPaglia (whose role Sim Rosedale is originally written as a Jewish man, one of the few changes made to the n script adaption of the novel) and Laura Linney as Bertha Dorset, the 'bad girl' of the story. They both bring a life to the story that is rare to see in a period film, most actors seem to be too afraid or respectful of the material to really bring it to life.I even enjoyed Dan Ackyroyd in a role that I didn't see him in or expect to like him in. I suppose my feelings about him are coloured by old Saturday Night Live shows, or Driving Miss Daisy, but I think he was terrific in a role that is not the most explored in the novel or the film.Everything about this film held my interest and moved me, and I'm a very tough audience as far as Wharton goes. The pacing is indeed slow, but if you give yourself over to it it is like taking a warm bath in a quick shower world.Very well done! "},{"Title":"A beautifully filmed masterpiece !","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Being a fan of both period pieces and Gillian Anderson I was greatly looking forward to the premier of this movie, and I was not disappointed.  House of Mirth is a gorgeous looking film, full of color, style and history.  The costumes and locales are worth the price of admission, and it doesn't hurt that the story is both compelling and dramatic.  The cast did a great job of bringing these characters to life, and creating sympathy in main character Lily.  Great acting all around, Laura Linney was fantastic in a diabolical role, and Eric Stoltz actually made me cry right there in the theater!Kudos to all. "},{"Title":"A richly painted tapestry of early New York society, Anderson is terrific.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  House of Mirth is a richly painted tapestry of a piece of early American Society all but unrecognizable to most Americans. It's a great story and great looking, but the real surprise in Terence Davies' adaptation of Edith Wharton's novel is how deftly Gillian Anderson among others manages to gracefully convey the stilted rigors of the period language. The film is largely about the traps and deceits verbal gamesmanship and class one-upsmanship. It is a deadly and vicious internal warfare that goes on with the upper class bourgeois in New York City in the early 20th century. The price one pays &#150; particularly that a woman pays &#150; for straying too far from the unwritten laws of that society can be severe. Lillie Bart's flaw is not really in her indiscretions, but in her inability to compromise at the right time. Her timing is fatally flawed. That the film is so relentlessly tragic, really takes the viewer by surprise, partly because Anderson gives her character such spunk and vivaciousness that you find yourself surprised by the endless bad luck that she brings on herself. Anderson's remarkable beauty, poise as an actress, facility with the dialogue, in my mind, bring her to a whole new level as an actress.It is also wonderfully cinematic.  There are rich colors and textures, beautifully framed scenes, marvellous costumes. Though steeped in tragedy and melodrama, you'll find yourself so swept away in this world that it will seem centuries and not merely decades removed from our time. Perhaps this is why the titles at the beginning and at the end are `New York 1914' &#150; you need this reminder by the end.With a host of good performances and a rich sense of place you will get emotionally and imaginatively swept up in this world. Just be prepared for the landing.  "},{"Title":"May be too intense for some, but well worth seeing","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The story that this film is based upon is almost unbearably tragic and as the film is a reasonably literal adaptation of it then prepare yourself accordingly. Though it seems there is no relief from suffering for Lily Bart once she starts her tragic descent to say that this film is an unrelenting grievefest would be unfair. The film is basically divided into two halves and the first half showing a somewhat frivolous Lily amongst her many suitors contains many upbeat moments and is peppered by some witty exchanges between the characters. The second half of the film is very effectively introduced by the kind of long tracking shot that Terence Davies is renowned for as the action shifts from America to Monte Carlo and Lily's descent becomes the main focus of the movie. One thing that is very obvious about the film is the almost total lack of incidental music. Everything is driven by dialogue and the subtle interactions of the characters. The lack of music creates many moments of silence (or near silence with ticking clocks, etc) and this gives the film a hermetic quality which may not be to everyone's taste. A certain claustrophobic feel is not unknown in Davies' films but the lack of music is a new departure. Another feature about the film is the emotional restraint required of the characters, particularly Lily who despite undergoing grievous torments does not break down until close to the conclusion. Fortunately, Gillian Anderson proves to be perfect for this sort of role. The nuances she brings to her character, with an unending variety of subtle expressions and delicate movements of the eyes, allow us to see how Lily is repressing the emotions and passions within her, until it is far too late. Only the most hard-hearted could fail to be moved by her performance and it is in the middle part of the film, where the compromises she endures start to chip away at her frivolity, where she truly begins to shine. Other performances are suitably accomplished, particularly Laura Linney as the sinister Bertha Dorset who is central to Lily's downfall. Davies' insistence on a literal and austere interpretation, in part due to the miniscule budget, may mean that this film is not geared up for being a mass-market vehicle. Those whose idea of a period drama comes from watching Gwyneth Paltrow may find the genuine authenticity that House of Mirth supplies, with it's clipped accents and formal constraints of behaviour, a little too hard to take, though I find Davies' interpretation far preferable to that of others in the genre. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Riveting","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure how this movie could get a bad review. Of course, there are those people who find its pace too slow. However, one must realize that this is a period drama; it's not meant to be an action-packed suspense thriller. Everything is subtle, but it is so beautifully prepared, thought out, and executed by all.1. Were it for nothing else, the technical aspects of this film would have kept me watching until the very end. The music was perfectly placed to rise and fall with the internal emotions of the characters - especially Lily and Lawrence - and to express the turmoil of the social downfall of Lily. On top of that, you have phenomenal costumes and set with the most lavish colors. Lastly, and possibly what I found most fascinating about the film, was the lighting. it always seemed just bright enough or just dark enough to reflect the romance or dreariness. In addition, there is just not denying that the way the light fell upon Gillian Anderson in every, single scene is something I have never seen before.2. The all-star cast! Gillian Anderson. Eric Stolz. Laura Linney. Anthony LaPaglia. Dan Akroyd. Do I have to go on? I can almost guarantee that you'll find yourself, at one point or another, yelling at the screen. These characters are so manipulative and deceitful and malicious. And Lily is so naive and just won't accept love when it's given!! I think the best thing about the cast and performances in this film is that watching the film and listening to it are 2 completely opposite experiences. The actors convey one thing with their faces and another with their voices; it's pure talent. I was amazed.3. If nothing else, this film should watched purely for Gillian Anderson. This project was so different than her 'X Files' persona - and such a success, at that. The way she uses her eyes to express 5 different emotions in a matter of seconds blew me away. Her acting and utter vulnerability was awe-inspiring. "},{"Title":"A harrowing ordeal.  (possible spoiler in penultimate paragraph)","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This year has been an annus mirabilis for the period drama, a once-dessicated, inert, bourgeois-pampering sop enlivened by intellectual and formal rigour, cinematic innovation and visual beauty.  Now that 'Le Temps Retrouve', 'Mansfield Park' and 'In the Mood For Love' have set the stakes, certain famous practitioners (or embalmers) of the genre for a lazy, cinema-hating, I-don't-have-to-read-the-books-to-be-classy audience have been made redundant.  'House of Mirth' belongs to this iconoclastic group.  If the period film is traditionally concerned with offering pleasure - costumes, big houses and estates, decor, dialogue etc. - than 'Mirth' is not traditional - it is a relentlessly observed depiction of one not particularly remarkable woman's fall from grace, lingering particularly on her decline into the working classes (quelle horrible surprise!).  It is a rigorously austere film - the surface trappings are minimised, made deliberately artificial or obscured by dull lighting; the use of music is economical, what little there is comes from over a century before the drama is set, less lush, less wallowing, more ascetic, brittle, thin than contemporary late Romantic music would have been; there is no witty dialogue - the dramatis personae are either bores or monsters, all speak with elaborate stiltedness.  Moments of epiphany or beauty are rare; what few there are usually end in artifice, banality or irony.  This is a gruelling film to watch, especially in the second half; this doesn't mean that it isn't very moving, or beautiful in a non-superficial sense (much of the emotion comes not from the plot or characters' reaction to it, but Davies' subtle camerawork).Edith Wharton's story is basically an elaboration of Henry James subject matter, a showing of what he conceals or implies.  There is the same horrified fascination with the machinations of class - a viewer has to be quick and alert to catch what's going on, the rules and transgressions only acknowledged by a look, or a seemingly irrelevant sentence, but which have devastating, life-threatening consequences.  Davies doesn't offer us a traditional fall from grace narrative - it is clear from her opening scenes that Lily is no grande dame about to be felled; she is barely hanging on to a hierarchy that barely notices her.  Her first appearance announces Davies' intentions as she emerges from the dense steam of a railway engine in a dank railway station.  As she walks in the centre of a perfectly symmetrical composition against a neo-classical background to neo-classical music, she looks out of place, almost out of time, a dark silhouette, with no visible features, like the shadow or ghost she will eventually become, or like a strange, mocking figure of 18th century Venetian theatre, with her strange, birdlike hat. This sense of weightless rootlessness also makes us enquire about her elusive background - Lily literally seems to emerge from nowhere.  She is slowly, but definitely, thrown from the unwritten laws of society to a very real material social order, reduced to making hats badly for a living.  Her sense of time altars radically too - although society life seems a distinct realm from the 'real' world, there is a noticeable narrative flow, in spite of all the gaps (and this is a film so full of narrative holes, you often think you've been nodding off) and temporal elisions. But when Lily joins the world of work and time-keeping, narrative time seems to suspend - narrative events don't seem to follow coherently, but in a blur; when Lily first takes laudanum, and the camera floats out the window to the babble of voices from Lily's life, we assume she is dead.  Of course, in a sense she is, and this painful second half is like a nightmare hallucination, as Lily floats away from whatever tenuous moorings she ever had.  Her opening scenes with Sheldon have a brittle, nervous quality that initially seems false and irritating, until we realise the full extent of Lily's plight, her ineptitude for the role she is required to play - Gillian Anderson's performance is remarkable, as quietly tragic as those great actresses of the 30s and 40s, her face doing all the acting as she registers the horrors she cannot verbally acknowledge. "},{"Title":"Mesmerising film","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This is a slow paced mesmerising film. If your only knowledge of Gillian Anderson is as Dana Scully in the X-Files then you are in for a big surprise. Firstly the lady can act, and secondly with great subtlety. If you have read the book then clearly the writer/director Terence Davies has taken a few liberties. But so much script has been lifted word for word from the novel that I think he can be forgiven any eccentricities. This is a story of manners in early twentieth century New York and environs. Everyone seems so decent and 'proper', but each plays their own manipulative game. No-one (with the exception of Sim Rosedale) tells the truth. As a morality tale it seems as relevant today as when Edith Wharton wrote it. Davies has succeeded in losing none of its mood or punch by transferring it to screen. Unfortunately I think this is a film that requires watching more than once as some explanatory scenes appear to have ended up on the cutting room floor. Generally the acting is excellent throughout though I felt that at times Davies's enthusiasm for detail hamstrung some actors where others appeared to have relished the close direction. This is a film to add to your personal collection. "},{"Title":"Stellar acting and a very picturesque film!","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The house of Mirth tells the story of a lovely turn of the century American beauty named Lily Bart (played by the ever surprisingly stunning Gillian Anderson) and how she falls from grace. Lily Bart is an enigma of a woman within herself. Her beauty is stunning and stuff of endless jealous by other women. She has never met a man who was not attracted to her, yet in her quest to conform to society's standards, this socialite misses her chance at true love and happiness by brushing off the only man who could be right for her, Lawrence Seldon (played efficiently by the dashing Eric Stoltz). A series of wrong investments and bad company contribute to the tragic alternative that Bart chooses when she feels there's nowhere else to turn to. You've never seen Gillian Anderson like this before. A must see for everyone and anyone who appreciates fine film making and the beauty of cinematography. Laura Linney, Dan Aykroyd, Anthony LaPaglia and Elizabeth McGovern co-star. "},{"Title":"The heart of fools is in the house of mirth","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The House of Mirth is that rare thing, a British film about America. Officially it is an international co-production, but it was not only made by a British director, Terence Davies, but also shot on location in Britain, even though most of the action is supposed to take place in and around New York. (As a keen birdwatcher I have to say that I could tell that it had been shot on this side of the Atlantic from some of the typically European birdsong in the background). It is, in fact, a good example of the sort of costume drama at which the British film industry has traditionally excelled, although there have been some notable American examples such as Scorsese's The Age of Innocence, also based upon a novel by Edith Wharton.The action takes place in 1905. At the opening of the film its heroine, the socialite Lily Bart, appears to be living a charmed life. She is young, beautiful and the niece of the wealthy Mrs Julia Peniston. Yet her position is more precarious than she realises and the film traces her downfall from wealth into poverty and from respectability into social disgrace. The title is deeply ironic; this is a tragedy, not a comedy, and there is nothing about Lily's position that might arouse mirth. Wharton took her title from the Biblical book of Ecclesiastes The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.The implication of this title is that those who live merely for mirth or pleasure are foolish, and certainly Lily's downfall is partly the result of her own folly; she incurs, for example, large gambling debts which she is unable to meet. Yet it is also partly the result of the hypocrisy of American high society in the early years of the twentieth century. Although some Americans tried to pretend that theirs was a classless society, the ultra-rich of New York could be just as ruthlessly snobbish as their counterparts in London, Paris or Berlin, and just as ruthlessly unforgiving of those who fell foul of society's unwritten rules. Lily's reputation is damaged not only by her gambling habit, which alienates her puritanically religious aunt, but also by an untrue allegation of an affair with a married man. (The allegation is made by the man's wife, who wants to distract attention from her own adultery). At times Lily's own good nature works against her; she has the opportunity to revenge herself on the woman who has unjustly accused her, but refuses to take it because to do so would also compromise Lawrence Selden, the man she loves.The star of the film is Gillian Anderson, which surprised me when I first saw it in the cinema as I had previously only though of her as that bird from the X-Files or the girl who, a few years earlier, had been voted Most Beautiful Woman in the World by the readers of FHM magazine. (This aroused some ungallant comments from members of the anti-redhead brigade, who opined that Gillian had only won the title because readers had confused her with her namesake Pamela). The House of Mirth, however, proved two things. Firstly, it proved that Gillian was a much more versatile actress than I had hitherto supposed. Secondly, it proved (to my satisfaction at least) that she was far more ravishingly beautiful than Pamela Anderson ever knew how to be. Her Lily Bart is one of the great tragic heroines of modern cinema; I was reminded of Nastassia Kinski's performance in Tess, another period drama about a beautiful young woman who struggles vainly to escape a cruel and inexorable fate.There are other good performances from Laura Linney as Lily's accuser, the spiteful Bertha Dorset, from Dan Aykroyd (an actor I more normally associate with comedy) as the financier Gus Trenor who unsuccessfully attempts to seduce Lily, Jodhi May as Lily's quiet but scheming and hypocritical cousin Grace Stepney, who eventually inherits Mrs Penistone's fortune and Eric Stoltz as Selden.Like many British period dramas, the film is beautifully photographed and makes use of some sumptuous sets and costumes. My one criticism would be that, in the early scenes it moves too slowly, but the pace gradually quickens as Lily's tragic drama is played out to its climax; the ending is particularly moving. This is one of the finest period dramas of recent years. A film to savour. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Stunning in every way","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Wow. Terence Davies' House of Mirth is a film that is just brilliant.Essentially, the plot focuses on Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) a socialite in the early 1900s in New York who, through a series of tragic circumstances, goes from being popular and admired to being a social outcast. Anderson is perfect in the role, and we feel all of her emotions. The superb cast includes Dan Aykroyd and Eric Stolz as two of her suitors, and Anthony LaPaglia, great as always, as a man who tries to help Lily out despite her pride winning over.Davies' direction is incredible, one scene is simply of an empty house as it rains and it is just mind-blowing. The script, also, feels real all of the time which is a credit to the actors also.I definitely recommend this movie, but don't expect it to zoom straight by and then be forgotten!  "},{"Title":"Exquicite","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" i have recently seen this film and i must say that even though I am not in for all drama-cry movies myself, by the time the movie was finished, i was crying my heart out!!! From my point of view, Anderson managed maestro discipline in her acting, she was not driven away and made us audience to really feel the claustrophobic atmosphere of that time and the pain of heroine's choices... A wonderful book given life with the best possible way and although the director lacked the abilities of a bigger money budget which would have made this movie an epic- drama he used it to his advance and turned the movie into a , what we here in Greece call it, ethografhma focused on one character's ethics and actions in certain time-era . Well done people, well done!!! "},{"Title":"Faithful Interpretation of Wharton's Bitterness Towards Society","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I haven't read The House of Mirth by Edith Wharton yet, but I intend to now. This movie interpretation captured Wharton's acidity towards NY society more than Scorcese's Age of Innocence did, which focused more on personal failings. Here a magnificently beautiful Gillian Anderson's character is stupid and stubborn, but doesn't really do anything wrong that society manipulates and revenges on her. She is absolutely superb with a very wide-ranging performance and it's a real shame she's being overlooked in end of the year awards.The costumes are absolutely gorgeous. Having worked at a Hudson River estate museum I thought the movie absolutely captured the feeling of those hazy summers out of the city then was astounded to see it was all filmed in Scotland (which would explain the rocky coasts that were the only thing that confusingly didn't look like the Hudson).The long movie is a bit slow and I think my mind wandered such that I missed a crucial plot point here or there - not sure we needed all the twinkling on the water shots. Laura Linney plays against type as a practically evil duplicitous friend (worse than her wife in The Truman Show).It was interesting to compare this to Jane Austen interpretations which tend to emphasize the humor of her pot shots at silly society figures, but those folks were in small towns, not the big leagues where raised eyebrows affect fortunes. For society types, this is The Show. Ebert (and my mother) gave it negative reviews because they absolutely refused to believe that a woman in her social class in 1906 had no other choices besides marriage but I think it was historically accurate, as Wharton was writing, bitterly, about a society she had observed (in a line from George Eliot to Hardy's Tess and Crane's Maggie). The women coming out of the theater agreed that we'd want to see it again.(originally written 1/28/2001) "},{"Title":"A Fine Film With Great Emotional Depth","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD.Director Terence Davies sensitively directs a fine group of actors who portray the characters in Edith Wharton's most famous novel.   THE HOUSE OF MIRTH is an excellent art house presentation with the added allure of Gillian Anderson in the uncharacteristic role of Lily Bart-----a beautiful, vulnerable, but shortsighted woman who knows what she wants but is driven to pass up every opportunity for a brilliant marriage to a scion of New York society.  Miss Anderson's personality is a bit too modern for the role of Lily, but she does a commendable job in the part.  There is perhaps a bit too much of a feminist message in her comments on a woman's role in society.  We are, after all, seeing the events of a century ago, and judging the past by present day standards always gives the sense of belatedly condemning history.  But despite the cross-cutting of emotions, class and subtle sexism, the general theme of the story is that most people find out the truth about themselves and their milieu too late.  Eric Stoltz is remarkably affecting as Lawrence Seldom, a man who understands Lily, the world, but not himself.   The scene in the garden at the Trenor party where he and Lily almost declare their love for each other is one of the most memorable I've seen in years.   Anthony LaPaglia as the social climbing businessman and Dan Aykroyd as the lustful Gus Trenor are right on the mark with their characters.  Terry Kinney as the weak-willed George Dorset has an understated intensity that few actors could successfully convey.  Laura Linney as his malicious and scheming wife Bertha turns in an excellent performance as the woman who dramatically delivers the coup de grace to Lily's social ambitions.The standout for me, though, is Jodhi May who plays Grace Stepney.  Her face can show conflicting nuances of emotion that deeply affect the viewer.  Where has this actress been hiding?  There are scenes between her and other actors where she is saying one thing, yet conveying quite a different meaning to the audience through her facial expression that are positively heartbreaking.  One scene in particular has her turning Lily down for a desperately needed cash advance in the full knowledge that her denial will end in tragedy for Lily.  She denies her the money for supposedly moral reason, yet has tears of regret in her eyes because of the jealousy that is making her do it.  Portraying a conflict of emotions in a single character is a rare talent and Miss May's ability is magnificent.Let's hope we see more of this very gifted actress and that her next role will be more prominent.  Hers is a performance not to be missed in a film of great emotional depth.Jay F.  "},{"Title":"Amazing acting and great plot","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This film is about the downfall of a high class lady who ruined her life and reputation by gambling.The beginning of the film is slow, as it sets the scene and introduces the many characters in the film. Fortunately, it becomes so captivating towards the middle. Lily is a character that is very well developed and sculptured. Her initial lack of sense of responsibility is well portrayed. It contrasts her noble virtues and her insistence to live her life without help from others later in the film. Gillian Anderson is superb in the film. Her range of emotions is amazing. her final portrayal of a depressed woman is memorable, touching and affecting.I really like the contrast between the vain and good for nothing Lily and the self reliant but depressed Lily. I find this film very affecting, with very impressive performance by Gillian Anderson. "}{"Title":"Can virtues, high moral values and trust can be fatal?","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Anderson's membership to high society was purchased literally with her life. Rules of engagement in high society are no different from those of a society of primates. Had Anderson's character as a child adopted a different set of values, her view of her own self-worth would have been different. Social acceptance exacts compliance fueled with the fear of rejection. Though I am a big fan of God, I can only admire His plain simple, written truths because I myself quite frankly am not strong enough to follow them. The Bible clearly warns of the dangers of placing in man's hand the trust and dependance of which only God himself is worthy. In this, Anderson's 1907 character and the character I play in 2004, we are equally guilty of the same errors of judgment of our own self-worth. This is a Damned superbly directed recreation of the common pain we all have tasted. "},{"Title":"aaaaaaaahhhhh!!!!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I saw the film yesterday (in the sneak preview, so I had no choice), and it was a complete waste of time. A never-ending story lasting 2 hours 20 minutes!!! I saw Scary movie 2 last week, and I thought I found the worst movie ever, but House of Mirth taught me something else!!! Don't watch this film, it is not even worth the $5 in the afternoon screening!!! What I don't understand how does this film get a 7.4 on imdb.com!?!?! "},{"Title":"Sista be keeping it real","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Caught this flick at my home Trysons pad last night. He was chilling with his Bea Lawanda at Wendys but wanted to keep his crib legit, be a lot of creepers rolling up in here so I stepped up for my dog.Situation is like this, Lily Bart be a total honey, DA moment she walk on DA screen I be like DAUM GIRL YOU FINE. Problem is honey knows she fine and is a total PLAYAAA!!! First home she meets be my home Lawrence Selden, brutha is like DAUM, Im gonna tap that ass. Lily be playing tho, wont let the brutha get his swag on, she be creeping for a legit brutha not some wannabee porch rat.Dudes heads be turning everywhere, Lily holding out on the broth-as though, waiting for a certified situation so she can get her own pad and not have to shack up with her Aunt. Her Aunt be nasty ass hoe, no respect and always fronting.Then dis Dude Sim Rosedale try to Holla at Lily. He be all like marry me and sh1t but my girl Lily keeping it real for her man Lawrence Selden. Yeah they be hooking up and sh1t when peeps not looking. I was like WHAAAT!! You go Lily, keeping them homeys guessing. My home Selden not be getting all ubiquitous and sh1t, you know he wants DAT ass. Honeys be playing tho, homeys be treated all Obliquely, it ain't rite.Girls be nasty like you never seen up in this joint.Den this Otha honey Bertha Dorset be all stepping up on Lily, fronting and talking smack in front of Lily with her peeps present. Lily be getting a bad rep. Den another dude, Augustus 'Gus' Trenor, be trying to pimp Lily, he be getting my girl in debt and sh1t, dis guy be creeping. Times be tough for Lily, I feeling ya sister, times tough for homeys all over this joint.Girls be nasty like you never seen up in this joint. Bertha be spreading rumors that Lily ain't legit, sh1ts about to get serious. Lily not letting these plays be front, when Lily hear of Bertha rolling with a new posse she be like No doubt the rabbit always thinks it's fascinating the anaconda  I be like BURRRRNNNNNNNNNN!!! Dtas what you get for fronting Bertha.Den Lilys aunt be all dying and sh1t, ain't leaving no dollars for Lily either. Situation ain't right, pl be talking more smack about Lily too, now Lily out on the street.Homies try to help but Lily ain't fronting, now she going Solo but its ain't easy for a Sista to make it on her own, sh1t be to real out there and Lily don't make it. I was like DAUMMM girl, sister took it all the way, big respect.So DAT about it homeys, time is tough back in De olden days too for a brotha and sister, not one Homies got to tap DAT ass either. SHEEEEEETTTT!!! "},{"Title":"interesting casting and opulent production","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Director Terence Davies has done a magnificent job of recreating the turn of the century in The House of Mirth, a 2000 film starring Gillian Anderson, Eric Stoltz, Dan Ackroyd, Laura Linney, Anthony LaPaglia, and Terry Kinney.Anderson is Lily Bart, a beautiful young woman of good social standing, traveling in the best circles, who throws away her opportunities for a good marriage because she wants something more meaningful. However, her reputation begins to suffer due to her circle's misreading of an innocent situation, and things go from bad to worse for her as she descends down the social strata. She has it in her power to win back everything she has lost but refuses to stoop that low due to her love for one man.It's obvious that Davies took a great deal of care with this film. It is not infused with modern sensibilities, the period look is authentic, as is the look of the cast. By that I mean, Gillian Anderson's sumptuous red hair, full beautiful face, and lovely figure are much more period than, say, Gwyneth Paltrow's -- and yet films are rarely cast with an eye toward capturing the period in that way. The casting of Dan Ackroyd as Trenor is unusual but very right - he's not truly of the class he travels in and a real glad-hander. Eric Stoltz is Selden - handsome without being drop dead gorgeous, gentile without being effeminate, who has good chemistry with Anderson.The villainess of the piece is Laura Linney as the awful Bertha Dorset, a cunning witch, and as usual, Linney is perfection -- smiling, subtle, and you can just see the knife going in. In the book she is more responsible for Lily's troubles than in the film. In the film, we see her making initial trouble for Lily; in the book, she continues to work on destroying her with a whisper here and word there.What makes the story of Lily so frustrating is that she can ruin Bertha in five minutes but refuses, suffering instead, which drove me crazy. That's not the film's fault.This was an era where no one expressed emotions, so when someone says, thank you or I understand, there is a world of meaning to be read in the eyes. It's a world of artifice, and Davies obviously worked at getting this from his actors. Everything is in what lies beneath.The acting is uniformly excellent; only Gillian Anderson falls a little short of the mark. Lily is an extremely difficult role, and Anderson at least in 2000 did not have all the necessary skill to completely pull it off. She has the look, the bearing, and the intelligence. What she lacks is the ability to actually become someone of that era, rather than putting it on like an overcoat. She does much better in the latter part of the film, which calls for a different set of acting muscles than in the beginning.Reminiscent a bit of Sister Carrie, The House of Mirth points up the difficulties of women in that time period to make their way, of the boundaries of class, and the rigidity of the upper class. Highly recommended, but not an easy, cheerful film by any means. "},{"Title":"Beautifully done central performance carries another Wharton wallow in misery","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" If this film adaptation depicting lives ruined by the social mores and hypocrisy of turn of the century upper crust New York society seems to have a lot in common with the similarly plotted The Age of Innocence, it would be because authoress Edith Wharton was responsible for both novels. Unfortunately, like The Age of Innocence, this is yet another wallow in victimization and misery that Wharton seemed to specialize. However, unlike The Age of Innocence where director Martin Scorsese seemed psychotically obsessed with the elegant trappings at the expense of his story, director Terrence Davies is actually more interested in the players of his piece.The primary player is one Lily Bart (played by Gillian Anderson), a lovely, elegant young woman, who not only bungles her chance at true love, but comes to realize to her detriment how much she is at the mercy of a fickle high society filled with pettiness, envy and jealousy.Lily is at heart that rarest of beasts - a genuinely decent person. She has had the misfortune of accumulating a sizable debt from card playing, which she anticipates paying back with the inheritance to be left her by harridan aunt Eleanor Bron. As Bron is infinitely more taken with dishrag ward Jodhi May, it is questionable how much Lily can count on this development. Lily pines for scandalous attorney Eric Stoltz, who is the sometime lover of society grand dame Laura Linney, but finds bad timing and circumstance consistent obstacles to a relationship. In fact, bad timing and bad luck seem to relentlessly dog Lily in every endeavor. Trusted friends and companions reveal themselves to be bitter enemies beneath the surface. When some scandalous letters fall into her lap that would prove to be her personal salvation, Lily takes the high road to her further detriment.The House of Mirth does not have much mirth in it. It is depressing, gloomy and leaves the viewer in an utterly hopeless state. It is a despairing experience to watch the destruction of a person, who did not invite it, does not deserve it and is left broken and battered by life, while some appalling specimens of humanity glide past unscathed. This is by no stretch of the imagination an enjoyable viewing experience and one would imagine that it would be an even more trying reading experience.All that aside, there are definitely reasons to watch the film. Davies' assured direction and the fine literate screenplay being two of them.Another compelling reason would be Anderson's central performance. Anyone who is only familiar with Anderson from The X-Files and oblivious to the stellar acting she has also contributed to British TV and films, will most certainly be impressed with the appealing, nuanced and heartfelt performance she contributes here. What makes Lily's inexorable downward spiral a spirit crushing blow is that until the final moments where she confronts her dismal future, Anderson never plays Lily as a victim. She seems entirely too self-assured and confident in her quest to do the right thing. The climactic moments where her emotional walls crumble at what life has in store for her is a powerful sequence. The entire performance is a demonstration of understated grace.The supporting cast is strong with one notable exception. Linney is matter-of-factly monstrous as society force of nature Bertha Dorsett, who throws Lily to the wolves on a whim to make herself look better. Terry Kinney is sympathetic as Linney's cuckolded husband. When he makes an offer to Lily late in the film that would make both of them whole, it comes across as a meeting of two lost souls and one is disappointed that Lily does not take him up on it. Dan Aykroyd is terrific playing against type as a joyfully manipulative scoundrel.Unfortunately, the film is thrown off-balance by the miscasting of Stoltz in the pivotal role of the scandalous lothario that inspires so much consternation among the female characters. I usually find Stoltz underrated, but here he is all wrong. Pasty-faced and limp, Stoltz adopts an effete fey attitude that is more off-putting than attractive. It reminds one somewhat of the miscasting of John Malkovich in Dangerous Liaisons. It is difficult to believe that one woman would find him irresistible, but the fact that three women are in such ardor over him as to launch campaigns of betrayal on each other strains credibility at every turn. Worse, Stoltz barely registers a pulse when Anderson shares the screen with him so that it hardly seems that Lily is letting much pass her by with this colorless smelt. He seems less like an unrequited love than a chance acquaintance. When Lily makes the ultimate sacrifice to spare his reputation, it seems like a wasted effort. This casting leaves the important unrequited romance between the two characters a bust. And while it may be believable that a milksop like May would be enamored of Stoltz in this film, it is inconceivable that a being depicted with the voracious appetites of Linney's Bertha Dorsett would stoop to inspect him much less expose herself to vulnerabilities to chase him. A really foolish bit of casting here that nearly throws the film off balance. "},{"Title":"This adaptation of Edith Wharton's classic novel marks yet another departure for British filmmaker Terence Davies.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The House Of Mirth is a substantial, well-upholstered picture with more sinew and power than almost any other period drama of recent times... a brilliant film from a great British director. A cash-strapped single woman (Gillian Anderson) in early 20th-century New York fails to marry for love or money, and finds herself stuck with a scandalous debt that threatens to bankrupt her entirely.The film is a stunning adaptation of Edith Wharton's novel about a doomed social butterfly, elegantly crafted on a limited budget, and built around a piercing lead performance of Singer Sargent-esquire luminosity. It makes harsh points about an even harsher social order, and makes them feel fresh. "},{"Title":"An interest has been piqued","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I caught this movie on different occasions and always at the end. Finally I was able to watch it from the beginning. And I am glad I did. I have not read Wharton's book of the same title, but plan to now. I have to know the background of Lily Bart and everyone involved in The House of Mirth.The casting of Gillian Anderson in the lead role was genius. Anderson's beauty is unparalleled and her performance should have been Oscar-worthy. She captures Lily Bart with all the emotion that one can ask for. She is snobby, selfish, sympathetic and sorrowful. You cannot help but want her to win. I was drawn to the movie because I am a fan of The X-Files and I was glad to see the actress who played Scully leaving her comfort zone for a once-in-a-lifetime role. Eric Stoltz also gives a memorable performance as Lawrence Selden. I could tell immediately that he was in love with Bart, but also knew her too well. He knew that she would never marry for love and so he never proposed. But you can see the jealousy in his face when she is being courted by other men. The kissing scene was marvelously done and kept me wanting more. And his weeping over her corpse at the end of the film is heart-breaking. Other big names who appear in the movie are Dan Aykroyd as Gus Trenor and Laura Linney as Bertha Dorset. Both are intriguing and fun to watch. Anthony LaPaglia also appears in the film. At times, I found myself almost wanting him to win Bart. Almost. A period-piece, the costumes are stunning and at times, real. The director had some of them using real clothing from the turn of the century. The women even wore corsets; this helped them appreciate what women went through at a time when they were still considered property. Wonderfully directed, acted, costumed and everything else, this movie has stuck in my head. I look forward to reading the book and learning more. When a film can draw someone in like that, it is a success. "},{"Title":"A Handsomely Paid Off Gamble","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Terence Davies' adaptation of Edith Wharton's The House of Mirth follows in the Merchant Ivory tradition of faithfully recreating classic novels for the cinema. Visually it's every bit as beautiful as their films, (or for that matter Scorcese's Age of Innocence) but to Davies credit far less self congratulatory. There are no self aware moments of the camera loving panning the meticulously designed sets and costumes in effect demanding our attention as to  how wonderfully  a bygone era has been recreated. There are shots in which equally meticulous backdrops are skimmed over. They are in fact what they should be, backdrops, with the focal point firmly on the characters.  Davies thankfully steers clear of using theatrical stalwarts in favor of actors not associated with this genre. It's a risky tactic which in the hands of a lesser director could have gone horribly wrong. Dan Ackroyd, Eric Stolz and Laura Linney seem completely at ease in their roles, but the real surprise is surely Gillian Anderson.The House of Mirth is a tale of the downfall of one Lily Bart and as such it's clear the film would succeed or fail on the strength of the portrayal of this central character. With Gillian Anderson's unexceptional big screen record, casting her in this role was certainly a gamble. It's one that pays off immensely. Her performance is up there with the best.One has to view the film with the same mind set as one would  picking up an Edith Wharton novel. It's to be savored slowly and despite the length, Davies keeps it well paced.   One has to be in the mood for such films. Should the mood arise, keep this one in mind. "},{"Title":"This was a fabulous movie!","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! I feel that the film makers got the theme of Edith Wharton's novel perfectly. Being an English major, I have had to watch terrible renditions of my favorite novels on the big screen. I was pleasantly surprised when I watched The House of Mirth.While not exactly like the novel (that would equate the making of an epic) I think that the film makers did a great job in condensing the novel down. Gillian Anderson does a fantastic job at the role of Lily, as do the other actors in their particular roles.  A must see for fans of the novel.  "},{"Title":"Even better than I expected","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I had read the reviews and various other bits and pieces beforehand, but was altogether unprepared for just how good an actress Gillian Anderson has become. A superb movie. Why hasn't this been on general release in this country ? "}{"Title":"A Beautifully Made but Ultimately Disappointing Film","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  As another poster commented, some novels are simply not good candidates for film.  Alas, Edith Wharton's, The House of Mirth was such a novel.  Despite an effective screen play that is faithful to the book, and uses much of Wharton's dialogue, the movie is talky and often slow.  Despite these failings I give high marks to the cast, particularly the luminously beautiful and charismatic Gillian Anderson, as Lilly Bart, and Anthony LaPaglia as Sim Rosewood.Wharton's story is intensely sad and often bitter.  It's characters, members of upper class New York Society a hundred years ago, talk in a code that is difficult to understand without Wharton's helpful narrative.  I particularly missed this in the film because Wharton was an acute observer of that milieu and was very, very smart, to boot.  Despite the absence of Wharton's narrative, however, the film has merit.  Lilly Bart is a tragic heroine in the classic sense of the word.  Like Hamlet, she is her own worst enemy because she cannot commit to any given course of action, and her problems are exacerbated by ill luck and genuine evil committed against her.One note on the quality of the print I saw.  The Showtime print had a distressing yellowish caste that made it appear that all of the performers had malaria.It's weaknesses aside I recommend this movie but warn that those who have not read the Wharton's novel may not like it as well as do those of us who have read the book.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Played to perfection","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Everyone, actors, directors, set designers, etc. should be recognized for this film. It is wonderful & moving even if it does seems to drag at times. the characters are beautifully dressed as is the scenary - truly an artistic masterpiece. Gillian Anderson never once makes you think to yourself Where is Mulder anyway? in her performance. she is brilliant.   "},{"Title":"Lily, a believable heroine","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  It's been a long time since I have truly seen a heroine so believable in a movie. Lily, despite her follies, had my sympathy from nearly the beginning. Everything that happened to her from the incident concerning Bertha, her debts and her love for Lawrence, Gillian Anderson's brilliant performance stays true to her tragic character. Lily may not be as strong as other heroines in historical or contemporary dramas due her many flaws but it was precisely the flaws that made her human.  "},{"Title":"very beautiful sad story","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Often the film cannot match the book an here again this is the case. Although fantastic scenery, eventhough Scotland for whatever reason,  and good sets and fine actors and excellent story but it seemed to me that the rather wooden direction spoilt perhaps my too high hopes. And I thought that our heroine tried to cry at us and that it didn't work as I didn't see her tears. And the camera seemed to close for comfort if she wasn't able to cry. And that I had cried at the end of the book much more than I thought I would. Plonk plonk went the camera too much like television.  "},{"Title":"Don't miss this movie!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Because if you do, you will loose out on a great movie! It's not only beautifully adapted from Edith Wharton's classic novel, but Terence Davies shows great touch and understanding of the material! And the photo is superb!!! Surprising choices in the casting(Dan Aykroyd, Anthony LaPaglia)but especially LaPaglia makes a good, solid impression. But it's Gillian Anderson who steals this movie away from everybody else! If anybody doubted her ability as an actress this is the proof that you were wrong! She is absolutely magnificent as the beautiful but somewhat vulnerable Lily Bart. The story leaves you breatheless and it's emotional and sad and yet I left the theatre feeling almost uplifted! It's such a beautiful movie and it deserved a better fate! I can't for the life of me understand Sony who went through a lot of hazzle to buy the rights for this movie, and then did nothing to promote it!!! "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning, Anderson's performance is beyond words","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"       The House of Mirth was one of the best looking films of 2000. The costumes, sets, the cinematography were all excellent. THOM was adapted from Edith Wharton's book of the same name.       The look of the film makes it worth seeing but what distinguishes it is the absolutely astounding, breathtaking performance by Gillian Anderson. Her work on the X-Files always impressed me, (especially when she found out she had cancer, and when she thought Maulder was dead.) but here she really is a revelation. I had no idea she was this magnificent an Actress.     In THOM she plays Lily Bart, a basically modern thinking woman living in turn of the century New York. This will cause her an enormous amount of problems as the story develops.       The supporting cast is also very good. Laura Linney gives a vicious performance as a friend of Lily. Elizabeth McGovern is good as a sympathetic friend of Lily's. Dan Aykroyd and Anthony Lapaglia are excellent in their roles.      The House of Mirth is an excellent film and worth seeing. Four, out of a possible four stars.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for Anderson's knockout performance","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I'm generally not a big fan of period dramas- during a time like the turn of the century when so many people were suffering in the streets and being ignored every day by society, it's hard to feel sympathy for the people who were at the very top of society simply because they had their own emotional problems. However, I'm a big fan of Gillian Anderson and had heard great things about her performance. My main fear was that I wouldn't be able to see her as more than her X-Files persona, which is how I've always seen her, despite her playing very different characters in Chicago Cab and The Mighty. I must say, I was very surprised by this movie- not only was it a cut above the usual Jane Austen-type fare, but Anderson's performance in the lead is simply mesmerizing. Never for a moment did I see anything in her but Lily Bart, this character that she disappeared into completely. It is a travesty that she wasn't given more attention when Oscar time came around. She is supported by such familiar faces as Eric Stoltz, Dan Aykroyd, Laura Linney, and Anthony LaPaglia, all of whom give excellent performances. Anyone who likes this type of movie would enjoy this one, but take it from someone who DOESN'T like this type of movie- it's worth checking out, if for nothing else then for a virtuoso performance by one of the best actresses of her generation. "},{"Title":"Amazing job by Gillian Anderson and rest of cast","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I would wholeheartedly recommend this spectacular movie.  Most movies cannot do justice to an author's work, but Terence Davies does an amazing job translating Edith Wharton's tragic novel into a masterpiece.  Gillian Anderson, especially, and the rest of the superb cast manage to captivate a modern audience with this tale which details the unscrupulousness of New York society at the turn of the century. I really enjoyed Ms. Anderson's excellent acting--I cried at the hopelessness of the tragic ending (that never happens to me).  Congratulations.  The movie and the actors deserve many awards (Oscar, anyone?) and kudos for their work.  "},{"Title":"This film is an instant classic","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I saw this film back in November and out of all the films I saw last year this is the only one that has stayed with me. I know Terence Davis is not everyones cup of tea but when you get use to his direction this film instantly becomes a classic. It is beautifully shot and even though he has made some major changes to what is a complex book it has not been over simplified. When I saw this film I can remember thinking that it will not go down well in America it was made on a shoe string and Mr Davis is not one for glossing things up, but seeing the positive reviews from the critics it seems I was wrong. As for the casting well I must admit I was unsure about the casting of Ms Anderson in the roll of Lilly but having seen the film it was an inspired casting choice. One of the best performances I have seen for years, she gives a subtle and intelligent portrayal of Lilly well deserving of the Best Actress Award she won at the British Independent Film awards lets hope justice is done at the Oscars.  "},{"Title":"Haunting & memorable","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a hauntingly memorable movie about a woman who had it all and let everything slip away because she didn't know how to play hard ball in the real world.  Time and again she is her own worst enemy because a of high moral code which she will not compromise.  I admired the character and at the same time wanted to shake her by the shoulders and yell Wake up! Get a clue! You're the only one playing by the rules. The director evokes the early 1900's beautifully and the cast is indeed very strong.  I would like to see the film again. "}{"Title":"A literary film to be seen more than once.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A moody, well-adapted film, cinematic in the best sense...it's ambience and subdued lighting create just the right tone.  I loved the novel and wasn't let down by  Terence Davies' interpretation. While others, including professional critics, have praised Gillian Anderson's performance as Lily Bart extravagantly, I would take issue.  There was a self-consciousness, a kind of deliberateness about it that distanced me somewhat.  Obviously not enough to destroy the overall pleasure of the film.  Laura Linney was, as usual, marvelous, fully into her character.  Eric Stoltz gave a convincing performance as the stiff, repressed Lawrence Sheldon...and managed to convey a strong sexiness nonetheless.The movie's theme (as in the novel) is certainly a feminist one...How a woman untrained for any work in the world is totally dependent on her social position, reputation and the kindness of strangers.  But how she can maintain a high moral stance, despite the cruel and spiteful gossip that destroys her...tragically.  There is an echo here of an old flick, Quartet, with Isabel Adjani in a similar situation.It is certainly a movie I'd recommend and will undoubtedly see it again.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful piece of cinema.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not your typical period piece.  In fact,  it's almost theopposite of any film you can see this season.  In the midst of thesentimental glop that is foisted upon us (see Family Man)  it'snice to know that some filmmakers don't look down upon theaudience as complete idiots.  The plot is quite simple,  so I won'tgo into it.  What is astonishing is the acting.  Gillian Andersonfinally proves herself worthy of the fame she's had for so long.  EricStolz achieves perfect pitch in a character that is,  essentially, devoid of any action at all.  I'll agree with the review in The NewYorker,  that stated,  when the two of them kiss,  the clash ofredhead on redhead seems more than likely to trigger an electricalstorm.  The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent,  from AnthonyLaPalia to Laura Linney to Elizabeth McGovern to Terry Kinney. There's not a weakness to be found in the acting.  Be warnedthough-  the pacing is slow.  This is not your MTV,  so drink a cupof coffee beforehand.  I found myself wishing the director hadpicked up the pace a bit,  but once you give yourself over to it it'skind of a relief not to feel rushed.  It actually gives you time to thinkduring the scenes,  which is something no movie has dared us todo in quite some time.  Enjoy.         "},{"Title":"Those Lips!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Gillian Anderson has the most expressive mouth  since Judy Garland.  Her performance here is beautifully underplayed even at the most  overwrought moments.  Anthony LaPaglia is  becoming one of my favorite actors.  Everyone in The House of Mirth is excellent.  Terence Davies has worked wonders.  The water scene is  exquisite, a welcome taste of nature's beauty, to compare with the human natures on display. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I have seen this year!!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  After many, many months of waiting to see this film, I have finally seen this magnificent film. What a great film!! The story and performances are still on my mind today, and will continue to be for days to come. The movie is over two hours long, but it went by fast. Gillian Anderson was amazing in this film. She embodies this character with incredible believability. She is in almost every scene of the film, but I never got tired of her. The way she delivers her lines conveys so many emotions. Just looking at her eyes tells so much about how she is feeling. She has beautiful eyes. Also, the tone of her voice in delivering some of her lines is done perfectly, and those lines stay with you after the film is over. The whole cast was great especially Laura Linney, Eric Stoltz, and dn Aykroyd. I just love this film, and can't wait to see it again. I also got to talk to the director, Terence Davies, after the film because I saw a special screening and he was so nice, and you can sense the passion he had for this movie. I'm crossing my fingers for him, the movie, GA and everyone else come Oscar time!  "},{"Title":"A truly excellent film","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I am reluctant to give any film 10 out of 10, but I will make an exception for House of Mirth. This is like a grim version of Jane Austin , no happy ending no easy plot resolution. The film does not tell you what to think and feel, it describes and asks the viewer to interpret.The film does teeter on the brink of self importance and does cross the line with a five minute shot of water, that is frankly self indulgent. (Just because we watched a paper bag in American Beauty, doesn't mean we want it every time). However i came out of the film wanting to go straight back in and see it again as I am sure there are all sorts of things I missed on just one viewing.Gillian Anderson is a revelation she commands the film throughout gaining without demanding our sympathy. The photography is ravishing (with above exception) and the slow classical score complements the action and adds complexity rather than simply resolving awkward moments. "},{"Title":"A lot of critics slated it - they just didn't 'get it'...","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Having witnessed some of the filming of this movie in my home town, I avidly awaited its release.  I read every newspaper review of it prior to its general release, and was incensed by some critics' reactions.Director Terence Davies' interpretation of the book was perfect, and his choice of Gillian Anderson as Lily Bart was inspired.  Gillian rightfully won her award for Best Actress at the British Independent Film Awards just two weeks after the film's limited UK release, the first of many nominations and awards, I'm sure.I saw this film three times, and each time gained something different from the experience.  Unfortunately, it WAS only on limited release, and has now departed from our cinemas, so we can only look forward to the VHS release! "},{"Title":"Tragic period drama meticulously portrayed","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  On a comparatively tiny budget of 10 million dollars, including National Lottery Money, House of Mirth seems to have pulled off an amazing feat in producing a flawlessly told and very detailed period piece.Set just after the turn of the century in and around New York, this story of genteel society and tragedy is a wonderful recreation, especially when one considers it was shot mostly in Glasgow, Scotland.Whilst her performance is not uncontroversial, many will agree that Gillian Anderson's acting in this award-winning film (she's in practically every scene) is little short of outstanding - and we can be thankful that she will be permanently rescued from the typecasting of X-Files as a result.One of the interesting areas is comparing American early twentieth century society with that of England (which has been portrayed in films so many times), but the bigger interest for me was how a woman of firm moral character was dragged down by a society where women were expected to fit into certain pre-defined stereotypes. In a darker sense, it comments on the evil that can be perpetuated by basing social mores too firmly on outward family values rather than true integrity. "},{"Title":"A great review of an Oscar worthy movie","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie three times now and each time I understand it more and appreciate the great directing on Terence Davies and the wonderful acting.In the beginning when we first meet Lily, she comes across as unlikeable but soon as we get to know her better all the changes and at every wrong move you start screaming Lily what are you doing.I found the story very intense, but good as it's not often a movie can capture me at a first scene until the end like this one and I was so involved I needed time to think at the end of the movie about what I had seen.Gillian Anderson is amazing as Lily Bart as are the rest of the cast but the emotional rollercoaster she goes through in just two hours would be tough for any actress to play but with expressions and the dialogue Anderson captures the audience with that first shadow at the station until the ending. Even those who haven't enjoyed this movie as much as I have cannot deny that Gillian Anderson is a brilliant actress and that Terence Davies is brilliant for giving us a movie with such beautiful shots of parasols, water and countryside.If you weren't sure about this movie the first time, go see it again as it I found it better with a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Xcellent","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Based on the novel by Edith Wharton House of Mirth is a masterpiece from British Director Terence Davies,(Long Day Closes) with the excellent casting of Gillian Anderson as Lily Bart this film is for anyone who appreciates film-making at its very best.  Davies work is on a parr with Martin Scorsese's Age of Innocence especially given the tiny budget he had to work with.  An excellent cast headed by the stunningly beautiful Gillian Anderson who has proved undoubtedly she is much more than a television actress, good performances from Jodhi May Eric Stoltz Anthony Lapaglia and Eleanor Bron. This film should not be missed. "},{"Title":"I truly enjoyed this film.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I loved House of Mirth, the movie, as I loved the book.  The cinema version did not sell out to the pleasure of the lowest common denominator. One must listen to the words and not be told what emotions to experience by the musical background.  And I was delighted with Gillian Anderson's portrayal of the tragic heroine, Lily Bart.  The nuances she uses, her eyelids, the lifting of a finger, a flare of her nostril - alerted you to her feelings.  The entire ensemble complemented each other and fulfilled the intent of Edith Wharton. "}{"Title":"Stunning movie--a complex and moving tragedy","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I expected a grim and lifeless movie, but was amazed by a beautiful, haunting evocation of a cruel and unforgiving society in turn-of-the-century New York.Gillian Anderson proves herself to be a wonderful actress.  The camera is with her all the time in this 2 hours, 20 minute movie, and one never tires of her.  She changes from a seemingly frivolous and cruel society girl to a wise and poor and honest woman in the course of the movie.  It is filled with events that lead to her downfall, and one dreads each new tragedy in her life.  You believe that she will somehow prevail, but she falls further as she insists on establishing her worthiness.  Much of the movie is lighthearted and fun, but ultimately the movie becomes a tragedy.  Do not look for happy endings here.In addition to Gillian Anderson, particularly good are Eric Stoltz as Gillian's true love, Dan Aykroyd as her financier, Jodhi May as Gillian's pious cousin, Laura Linney as her scheming friend, and particularly frightening and wonderfully evil (yet holy) is Eleanor Bron as Mrs. Peniston. "},{"Title":"Excellent casting and a great adaptation of Edith Wharton's book","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Gillian Anderson is very convincing as the lead character Lili Bart, a young socialite who moves up and down the social ladder of the early 1900's. Kudos also to Eric Stoltz and Laura Linney.  Along with the acting talent, the amazing costumes and make-up artistry complement this Terence Davies movie perfectly. "},{"Title":"Gillian Anderson in an Oscar winning role.","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movie 4 times and plan to watch it again and again. Never have i seen such a beautiful and more moving film in my 34 years on this planet. Gillian Anderson is fantastic as the femme fatale/heroine. She gives the performance of her life and it sickens me she got no recognition for her efforts. Her subtle acting and graceful demeanour make her perfect in this role. Its so hard to get as excited about the other characters in the movie as she seems to steal every scene. I am a massive fan of Merchant & Ivory films but this production just blows them out of the water. Everybody in this film are excellent - the dialogue is beautifully spoken and the lack of music in it makes it even more real and lifelike.I can say only two words to describe this film, and i quote Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) -  HOW DELICIOUS. "},{"Title":"Dramatic portrait of 1900's society","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I will be the first to admit that I am quite attached to well-done period films, as well as to classic literature. I found this particular movie to fit my taste fairly well, and Gillian Anderson as Lily Bart makes the movie all come together. The acting was a little off in some parts of the film, but those glitches were usually from the smaller roles. The cinematography in this movie (by Remi Adefarasin) was one of its best aspects, as light and dark and slow camera spans around rooms added greatly to the drama. I appreciated the casting of the lead roles (such as Anthony LaPaglia), and overall my view of this film is moderately high. Definitely a film to be examined more closely by those who also enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary film","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film has got to be one of the most stunning displays of acting I have seen in some time.  House of Mirth is very well-filmed and offers a truly gut-wrenching ending that might bring the stone-faced to tears. Anderson's portrayal of Lily Bart is spot-on and begs sympathy from the watcher. Although I questioned the other choices in the cast before I saw the film, I was VERY pleasantly surprised with the all-around performances.Not remembering the book too well, but being very familiar with the author, the dialog is phenomenal and fluid as is expected of her other writings. (Some of the lines are worth repeating today!)  Witty tongues and hidden meanings are throughout and played well.This film is an all-around success The choice of music (or lack of), the costumes, the casting, the acting, the exchanges and all the presentation is exquisite. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Performances","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie takes Edith Wharton's story and unfolds it gracefully and with the humanity that is typical of Wharton's work. (Ethan Frome was much the same feat.) Anderson's performance is stellar, as is Stoltz's. I have seen the movie before, but seeing it today still made me cry at the end. That denotes a real effect in the effort. "},{"Title":"A terribly sad but wonderful drama","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  THE HOUSE OF MIRTH is not just a costume drama. It's Terence Davies' adaptation of Edith Wharton's novel, a study of a rotten society. He creates a film that is beautiful for the eyes and that stays with you for some time. And you can't deny that he's worthy of recognition for turning Gillian Anderson into an ill-fated heroine of the early 20th century. By the way, her performance is really good.8/10 "},{"Title":"Very fine film","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I thought this a very fine film and would love to see more like it. I have seen enough super-heroes and want to know more about real lives. Though this film is based on a book set in the 1900's the observations are true to 2003.  A beautifully realized film. "},{"Title":"Beautifully done.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. It's an acquired taste to be sure, but it's all thereif you're willing to visit. I'm a big fan of Whartons book, so I wasalmost looking for it to let me down, and it didn't which is rare. Thesupporting players are all perfectly cast. Dan Aykroyd is a great GusTrenor, unexpectedly turning from friend to foe with a smile thatlingers a bit too long. Anthony LaPaglia is a wonderful Sim Rosedale,although why they avoided his Jewishness is a mystery to me- the onlynod to politically correct revisionist history in the film. Laura Linneyis an icy Bertha Dorset, all smiles and warmth till you cross her, andElizabeth McGovern is the perfect Carry Fisher (no, not the one fromStar Wars) the woman who fascilitates everything. But the film belongsto Gillian Anderson and Eric Stoltz. Stoltz is the perfect Seldon- allrepressed passion and loving desire coupled with inaction and a ghostlydemeanor that is just as Wharton wrote him- it's a difficult role thatwe rarely see in films these days, the 'passive lover'; he's theequivalent of a female supporting role in that he does nothing to helpher but love her, and I believed every minute of their screen timetogether and was quite moved by it. The scene where he lets her leandown and kiss him (this is framed, interestingly enough, with Andersonon top and as the aggressor) was wonderful. And Anderson surprises anddelights throughout, throwing herself into the role of Lily Bart likeshe's never thrown herself into a role before. I've seen the X-filesonce or twice, I'm not a huge fan of the show (I'm not really intosci-fi) but what Ms. Anderson does here is so wonderful and unexpectedthat it took my breath away. Her Lily Bart is conflicted and needy andbeautiful, so torn by her circumstances that she doesn't know where toturn, and this is all shown on Andersons face at any given moment. Iparticularly loved the way she smoked, or held her umbrella, seeminglynon-chalant but actually quite studied, as if everything she does, everymovement she makes is designed somehow to get her what she wants. It's aterrific performance, and it holds the movie together. She has clearlyjoined the ranks of the major American actresses with this role. Thephotography is gorgeous and the music (what little of it there is) isjust perfect. My one wish was that it moved along a little faster, attimes it felt rather indulgent, but then again it gave me time to soakin the fantastic scenery. This is not your MTV Wharton, it expects youto sit with it and think on it and not be afraid of the fact that in1905, things moved much slower. After fighting with it for a while, Igave in and had a wonderful time. A great film, surprisingly relevant, and well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"The Oscar snub an obvious crime.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The House of Mirth, base on the turn-of-the-century novel by Edith Wharton, becomes a beautifully told story of young woman crushed under the weight of social mores and the rigid sensibilities of the time.  From its opening shot to it last, the film exudes a subdued tragedy that finds its focal point in Gillian Anderson's face.  She is simply luminescent, giving one of the best performances of the year hands-down.  She personifies the naivete, dignity, pride and hopelessness of a woman trapped by the pressures of her society.  How the Academy Awards could snub this performance and the many technically brilliant choices of this film is baffling.  The direction, costuming, art direction, editing and supporting performances all add up to that rare find a subtly crafted film of intense power.  It brings to mind a quote by playwright David Hare, The most dementing of all modern sins is the inability to distinguish excellence from success.  The House of Mirth is pure excellence on celluloid.  "}{"Title":"Stunning and Beautiful","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I had no idea that Gillian Anderson was such a powerful actress. Her final scene with Eric Stoltz was riveting, proof that she deserves respect among the greatest of today's actresses. It's a crime that she wasn't nominated for an Oscar. Although this film was made on a smallish budget, director Davies compensates with some wonderful touches, like the long, gorgeous transition between rainy New York and the yacht sailing on the sunny Mediterranean. Breathtaking. "},{"Title":"A Delightfully Agonizing Film","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Terence Davies' film adaptation of Edith Wharton's The House of Mirth is a delightfully agonizing film.  Gillian Anderson definitively portrays the full extent of her talents as an actor in this film about the social downfall of the tragic heroine, Lily Bart.  Set in 1905 New York, this film describes the viciousness of the early twentieth century upper class.  I can't begin to explain the perfection of this film.  All I can say is that it FELT like the book (All of you who have read it will know what I mean.). There are many film adaptations of literary works out there, and many succeed because they remain faithful to its written counterpart.  But Terence Davies took this one much further than that.  He took that extra step of portraying the same feeling the book actually gave.  He successfully recreated Edith Wharton's novel visually, without adding the fluff that would normally act as the distinguishing factor between the two formats. With the beautiful sweeping long shots and time-lapsing transitions as a backdrop, Davies sets the tone for Lily's tragic, slow downfall and internal struggles throughout the film.  Davies did not depend on background music in order to convey the emotional state of each scene.  Instead, every scene was character driven, giving full credit to the talents of the cast.  Music was used sparsely, only to introduce significant points in Lily's life.  What a feat to accomplish! "},{"Title":"A breathtaking masterpiece of modern cinema","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I made my way out of the cinema, tears streaming down my face, my hand trembling as I reached to brush them away..... I am afraid that the english language has yet to come up with words that could justly discribe this film.I will therefore just comment on my emotions. I was spellbound. mesmerised. apalled.stunned. heartbroken.No film I have ever seen (and that is one long list ) has ever effected me in such a way. All I have to do is think of it and the tears well up in my eyes. Such beauty, and such powerfull acting.A true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Dana Scully and Elwood Blues in the Victorian Era...can you dig it?","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" No doubt the thought of Gillian Agent Scully Anderson and Dan Blues Brothers Aykroyd in a movie set during the Victorian Era would probably sound like a joke; think of it as Leslie Nielsen meets Merchant and Ivory. It turns out that The House of Mirth is worth seeing.* Anderson plays a woman who risks losing her lover. True, how many Victorian-era stories can there be, but everyone brings a certain charm to this one. Watching the movie, one gets the feeling of how unpleasant life was for women back then, and there's lots of tension amongst everyone to add to the story. Also starring Eleanor Bron (of Help! fame), Terry Kinney, Anthony LaPaglia, Laura Linney, Jodhi May (of A World Apart fame), Elizabeth McGovern and Eric Stoltz.*I would actually like to see a Victorian-era movie starring Leslie Nielsen. "},{"Title":"Dreary, dull and boring","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Dreary early 20th Century period drama that more than outstays its welcome at the half hour mark.Lily (Gillian Anderson) is on the lookout for a husband - one that can help her out with her financial problems and steer her back into civilised society.  She is taken advantage of by various suitors, notably a slimy American played with relish by Dan Ackroyd.That is pretty much as far as I got with this tepid tale before I walked out on it.I pity the people that had to remain for its entire 140 minute running length.Does anyone have a job in these sorts of movies? All the woman are either automatically rich or live on allowances handed out by rich rellies.We have a world where every conversation is of Oscar Wilde proportions, every stolen kiss an orgasmic marathon, and nobody walks faster than 2 metres per hour.A bit more incidental music might have lightened up the proceedings somewhat.Anderson however is quite good - any thoughts of her alter ego on the XFiles are quickly forgotten as you are immersed in her part.Boring, slow and directionless.1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Truly beautiful","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The book is a masterpiece and this adaptation is almost up to that level, just as richly told and emotional. It is not the kind of adaptation that will suck people in straightaway but the slow pace and how subtle a lot of aspects are actually add to the storytelling rather than distract and shouldn't be reasons to dismiss it. While I can understand completely why not everybody will like The House of Mirth some of how the detractors express their opinion reek of ignorance, like with the I'm-right-you're-wrong attitude. The House of Mirth does have a slow start and Eric Stoltz's performance can seem rather lightweight for such a complex character, though he is not without his affecting moments. The casting does have the is this going to work thought initially but the performances come across really well. Laura Linney sinks her teeth into her role and is suitably bitter, Eleanor Bron is formidable, Dan Aykroyd also comes across surprisingly well in a menacing and cunning turn and Jodhi May is charming and sympathetic. Terry Kinney, Anthony LaPaglia, Penny Downie and Elizabeth McGovern are also very good. The best of the lot is Gillian Anderson, whose performance is magnetic and truly heartfelt, her last scene with Stoltz is just heart-wrenching. The House of Mirth is shot very elegantly and the whole adaptation's period detail looks gorgeous. The lack of music is a good choice, allowing the intimate, understated atmosphere of the storytelling speak for itself. The dialogue is distinctively Edwardian and very literate without being stilted, how it's adapted is very thoughtfully done and any observations of the attitudes and classes of the time are sharply done. The story takes its time to unfold which is not a bad thing, period dramas often benefit from this especially when it's adapted from complex source material, and thankfully this deliberate pacing is not done in a self-indulgent way. Narratively The House of Mirth is incredibly touching and rich in theme and character, allowing you to identify with the characters(written and characterised believably) and with the interactions and the emotion it always maintained my interest. The direction is very intelligent and subtle. All in all, a truly beautiful adaptation. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A well-fabricated period drama","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This Terence Davies emotive period drama could be a sterling double-bill with THE GREAT GATSBY (2013, 8/10), which is the penultimate film I have watched. Last year I hold my underwhelmed apathy towards Davies' THE DEEP BLUE SEA (2011, 6/10), my first Davies film entry, but a closer DVD viewing of THE HOUSE OF MIRTH greatly galvanizes my affinity to Edith Wharton's convoluted story of a woman's inept battle with the hypocrites and the iniquitous of the well-heeled echelon near the beginning of 20th century in New York, it is the dramatic demise of an unsullied soul, there is no mirth at all. Anderson's Lily, an ill-fitted maiden of upper class, sustained by her wealthy aunt Julia's (a ghastly Bron) charity, balks between her passionate desire with a lower class lawyer Lawrence (Stoltz) and her promising marriage with an upstart Sim (LaPaglia), to whom she has no feelings at all, meanwhile a bad investment or a guileless trust to the wrong man (Aykroyd) corners her into a financial predicament, which subsequently creates discord between her and Julia and eventually will cost her the endowment of the inheritance. That's not enough, she is also manipulated to be the pull-upon by her friend Bertha (Linney), while the most excruciating fact is that Lily has the substantial evidence to give Bertha the tit-for-tat, but she can never make up her mind to do it (out of self-respect or the dread of destroying Lawrence's reputation since he is the other partaker in the affair). So Lily is a woman of dignity, even when she is utterly at the end of her tether (she has to take a menial job to earn a living, which she will be dismissed for her incompetence), she refuses to take Sim's succor, her ill-fated life succumbs to a plaintive dirge of an irreversible tragedy.Davies conducts the film adeptly with elegant costumes, shady light compositions, the interior murkiness augurs the dark-amber and midnight-blue tinctures in THE DEEP BLUE SEA, grants melancholy its most suffocating ambiance to submerge audiences' compassion, the score of classical orchestra makes the story even more poignant. The film is also a victory for its cast, Gillian Anderson (I have never watched the X-FILE series and its movie spinoffs), under the bridle of the corset, most of her time her breath is visibly confined into an asphyxiated discomfort just like her character's situation, performance-wise, it may be her once-of-a-lifetime glory, carries out the emotional roller coaster throughout, shamefully it is less acknowledged. Eric Stolz, whose tender tune undergirds his man-child debonair, shows his best form as the man who fails to save his beloved woman. Laura Linney, pretty much nails the virulence and slyness in this less-known work. Jodhi May is great in turning on the waterworks but her character overall has been skated over. Admittedly I have a predilection towards period dramas, and I may miss out some literal undertones of the proficiently organized conversations by Wharton and the dramaturge (Davies himself), but the film is so close in my top 10 list in such a strong year. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good film","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I feel sorry for this movie. It rather reminds me of the Shawshank Redemption in that it did not do so well at the cinema.And yet, it is a very good film. The script is well written and the performances are very very good indeed. Sometimes you don't need those very big and expensive actors like Brad Pitt to make a film work.This film attempts to stand high on how good the story is and how well written and acted it is, something which can be a lost art when big budgets, special effects and big actors come into play, where they hope those alone will make a movie big.People are not that stupid.This movie has elegance. I even had a lump in my throat for goodness sake towards the end. It simply should not happen to a grown man. "},{"Title":"Not a bit mirthful, that's the point; a well-made version of Wharton's sad classic","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) lives in Manhattan at the turn of the 20th century. From a fine old family, she nevertheless has very little money. The big bucks, instead, belong to Lily's aunt and Lily makes her home with this lady. It is assumed that when the aunt passes away, Lily will inherit. Meanwhile, Lily hobnobs with the cream of society, a mostly married circle of friends that includes Mrs. Bertha Dorset (Laura Linney) and her husband, single gentleman Lawrence Selden (Eric Stolz), and Gus Trenor (Dan Ackroyd) and his wife. Naturally, our Lil must keep herself looking smart, so her aunt complains about clothing bills, and Miss Bart secretly plays cards for money. This last would upset her aunt, if she knew, so Lily tries to cover her tracks, as she does get an allowance. But, all too soon, her debts are high and she must set her cap on making a rich marriage, even though she may be harboring an affection for Mr. Selden. Its all for naught, you see, because Selden is not rich, either, but a lawyer climbing the ranks. A good match would be Percy Gryce, as far as money is concerned, but he is a bit priggish. When Lily flirts with him at a party, she sleeps late the next day and misses church. Away goes Mr. Gryce, only to marry another wealthy lady. Another rich gentleman, Sim Rosedale (Anthony LaPaglia) likes Lily and being Jewish, needs an blueblood wife to advance in society. However, since her heart is not in it, she turns him down. Learning of her desperation, Lily's friend, Mr. Trenor, says he will invest some of her money to increase her spending power. Too late, Lily discovers that he expects romantic favors and she refuses him. Bertha becomes jealous of Lily, too, so the circle of friends cast Lily from the group. Hoping for her aunt's money, Lily is stunned to learn she is mostly cut of of the will. What will she do to survive? This is a classic tale by Edith Wharton, one of America's best writers ever. Wharton came from the high society of old money New York and she knew it through and through. Lily is a most tragic figure in that she is beautiful, witty, and charming but that is not enough without money. Alas, she also throws away her chances for stability at every turn. Anderson gives a sensitive and wistful performances as Lily while Linney, Ackroyd, Stolz, LaPaglia, and all of the others do great work, too. The costumes and sets are to die for while the direction has a careful, studied touch that aids the tale. No, don't watch this one if you are not having a mirthful week. But, if you want a good cry or are looking for a film of substance, choose House of Mirth. "},{"Title":"well done yet leaves some Qs unanswered","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Technically this film was great & it was a good story. The acting was excellent, BUT... it was also an annoying film for the following reasons1) She seemed so intelligent, how did she also make such a stupid mistake as to leave in the middle of an opera with a married man where everyone could see her go - what was she thinking?! 2) Why was Lily so damn proud as to not accept help from 2 well-intentioned friends, one of whom actually loved her & she didn't have the sense to follow her heart! Was this realistic? (Oh ya, it's a film!) 3) Why didn't she use those damning letters to re-enter the society she craved (tho why quite frankly, when it was by and large so hypocritical, is beyond me!)? 4) And to cap it all, she decides working is just too problematic so she tops herself! What a waste! 5) Why did Lawrence not chase her more if he was really interested in her? What game was he playing at? So he annoyed me!She seemed so clever at the beginning - I thought she'd find a way out of her troubles. Sorry but she was a complex & silly woman. (Yes, it's judgmental.)I'm annoyed that this film has affected me days after I saw it.7/10 from me "}{"Title":"Superb film, close to a masterpiece","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  If you settle into this, park your need for zap-zap action, watch the  faces, listen to what is said, really get engaged in the movie, you'll have an extraordinary treat. Itgoes back to,another world, l905, and the heroine trying to live on the edge of the Beautiful People of that era. Very powerful. "},{"Title":"Anderson carries this film","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I am not saying she is perfect as Lily Bart, but this movie had nothing more than lavish sets and striking costumes going for it.  I am mainly rooting for her because she is trying ever-so-hard to break away from Scully, and if anyone has the talent to pull it off it's her.  I wish her much luck, though I feel at heart she doesn't need it. "},{"Title":"SHOW ME THE OSCARS!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  An absolute travesity that this movie was overlooked come Oscar time. If Laura Linney could get a nomination for her breakout performance in YOU CAN COUNT ON ME (which she deserved), then Gillian Anderson deserved one as well. Boy, visions of Dana Scully were put aside in about five minutes.  She was gorgeous and intelligent and glowing and handled the dialogue perfectly. I can't wait to see her do more juicy movie roles.I won't rehash the plot, but suffice it to say this is a gripping, but slow-moving romantic suspense story. Will she or won't she is putting it pretty simply.  The social politics involved are foreign (somewhat) to us, but the screenplay keeps things simple and understandable. (Where was this screenplay's Oscar nod?) We are sucked into the movie as our heroine's plight gets more horrific. The women in this movie are all terrific. Eric Stoltz is even quite good. The ending is devistating in its simplicity and tragedy. I highly recommend the movie for anyone who doesn't feel their movies need to move at the speed of a jet plane.  "},{"Title":"Astonishing performance by Gillian Anderson","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful performance by Gillian Anderson would be reason enough to see this movie, but there is virtually not a single wrong note in the whole film.  Excellent supporting actors and direction make this one of the must see films of last year.  "},{"Title":"We've Come a Long Way, Baby","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie truly bothers me, although we should take all our children and grandchildren to see it for it's cautionary use.  Funny, how movies now are taking the place of Sunday School don't gamble, don't drink laudanum (or shoot heroin or cocaine or ecstasy), and don't give folks the semblance of unseemly conduct.I never will get over how our virtue is sold in this society  it really goes along with the economic ideas of supply and demand.  If I screw every man I go out with, or even give the gang the IMPRESSION that I do, then I will be a 'bad girl'.....what my grandson calls 'loosy Suzy' in his 6th grade patois.  Times don't really change where it comes to sexual morality. And boy, does this movie point it up!!!!Major difference  I can say, Screw you and go out and take a job making more than any of my so-called swains.  If marriage is not the carrot that causes me to suppress my natural animal desires, then hopefully I've got enough sense to use condoms and prevent the social diseases that have always come along with promiscuity.  The 10 Commandments, after all, are based on some very wonderful concepts for living together healthfully in community. Spoiler Alert No matter, this movie really brought me down.  See this along with The Golden bowl and you'll be hard put NOT to slit your wrists, if you're female.  But the illogical parts of it  was this woman really so dumb as not to question her best friend's husband more closely about her investments?  Was she so duuuuhhhhh that she couldn't discuss or mention to her so-called 'best friend' that she had bought the letters that were written to him by the woman that ruined her?  It was obvious that the lawyer could have prevented her from further downfall, but she turned him down. My only conclusion that makes ANY sense is that the sleeping potions had really destroyed her cerebral cortex.An excellent movie, but please make sure you're not depressed BEFORE seeing it.  If you're an MCP (Male Chauvinist Pig), take whatever woman is dumb enough to go out with you to this movie, and point out to her what fate befalls her, if she doesn't obey you.  Hah! "},{"Title":"Gillian anderson was terrific","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The house of mirth was beautifully built up till the climax where it came crashing down with the elegance it was meant to have.  We feel so much for Gillian Anderson's character (Lily Bart) that i had a tear in my eye for the whole last half.  The acting was exceptional and i haven't seen a movie of this genre for a long time that pulled at my emotions the way this one did.  "},{"Title":"great period piece","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  It was a great performance of Gillian Anderson. I'm a big fan of X-files but not once I thought of Agent Scully while watching her. Very well done. The characters were all well acted although I needed the help of the book to understand the evil influence that Bertha wielded over the society.Compared to the movie Age Of Innocence also written by Edith Wharton I missed a certain flair to the story telling. It was slow going  sometimes - definitely worth it because the cast was soo good - but it might have given the movie a deserved boost. "},{"Title":"Merchant-Ivory, eat your heart out","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Merchant-Ivory films, and all their stuffy descendents, havehistorically been great soporifics for me.  Show me even acommercial for Howard's End or The Wings of the Dove and I'mslumbering like a baby inside of a minute.  I'm not sure, then, why Iwent to see House of Mirth.  I'm not an X-Files fan, whichmeans Gillian Anderson wasn't a draw for me, Eric Stoltz playedhis last good role almost seven years ago in Pulp Fiction, I lovedLaura Linney in You Can Count on Me, but I don't think I'd see amovie just for her, and Dan Ayckroyd can't even remotely be takenseriously anymore.  So why *did* I go?  The buzz, I guess.  Theword on the street was that House of Mirth is a great film, and so,against my better judgment, I sallied forth.  And in this case --pardon the switcheroo -- the buzz is absolutely 100% correct.Everything I dislike about period pieces is present here -- therestrictive manners, the uncomfortable-looking costumes, peoplewith names like Sim Rosedale -- but this time around it didn'tbother me.  Much like Dangerous Liaisons, one of House ofMirth's big themes is exposing the conventions of the time asoutright hypocrisy.  By the end of the film, we see the era'sstandards as being almost solely responsible for its tragicresolution.  And I can certainly get behind that.  In short, theconventions aren't just window-dressing; they're a subtleaccomplice which allows the characters to behave as they do.  ButI get ahead of myself.House of Mirth tells the story of Lily Bart (fantastically played byGillian Anderson -- her performance almost makes me wish Iwatched The X-Files), a woman in turn-of-the-20th-century NewYork who defies all the things that women of that period aresupposed to do she plays cards, she doesn't want to get married,she kisses men who look like Eric Stoltz in a chaperone-lessapartment.  This seems to be of great concern to everyone but Lily;she's having a fine old time, regardless of what everyone elsethinks.  But then she gets into money trouble with Gus Trenor (amarvellously miscast Dan Aykroyd -- so miscast that after a while Iwas actually cheering for him to pull it off), which leads to publichumiliation at the hands of Bertha Dorset (the wicked LauraLinney), which leads to an ever-steepening downward spiral,revealing Lily's supposed moral turpitude for all to see.  Houseof Mirth is a tragedy in the Greek drama sense of the word, withLily's tragic flaw being her unwillingness to change, her reluctanceto conform to the dictates of society.  I won't give away the ending,but tragedies, as we all know, end badly.The film is an adaptation of Edith Wharton's novel of the samename, and I fully confess to sitting there in the theater with a biggoofy grin on my face as writer-director Terence Davies layered theplot twists in ever-tightening spirals.  It is the strength of Wharton'snovel (and Davies's adaptation) which makes the movie work; thesource material (unlike the execrable Hannibal) is impeccable.  Imention this because the acting certainly doesn't help matters any. Anderson, as I mentioned, is fantastic, revealing Lily's characterwith equal doses of anguish and steel, and Linney, while not asfine as in You Can Count on Me, is good, bitter fun.  The rest ofthe cast, though, won't be collecting an Excellence in EnsembleActing trophy anytime soon.  Ayckroyd I've dealt with, Stoltz is asunintentionally weaselly as ever, Anthony Lapaglia (as theaforementioned Rosedale, one of Lily's suitors) is Smarm Central,and Terry Kinney (as Laura Linney's husband) just looks mopeyand sad all the time.  That this didn't detract from the film is atestament to Davies's work, and the excellence of Wharton's novel.House of Mirth isn't a good movie to see for anyone looking for aswell night out on the town (then again, nothing released so farthis year fits that particular bill), but those of you who prefer arsenicto sugar will like this immensely.  Our current crop of screenwritersand directors could do much worse than examine this film for amaster class in how to execute a complex plot, and how a film'ssetting can be just as much a villain as any flesh and bloodcharacter. "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw The House of Mirth I had to drive two hours to Detroit because it wasn't playing anywhere closer to where I live. I can honestly say that the two hour drive there and the two hour drive back where completely worth the experience.I've been waiting for this movie for around two years and it met every one of my expectations. In my opinion, the fact that it wasn't nominated for any Oscar nominations was a total injustice. The screenplay was awesome, the cinematography was awesome, the costumes were awesome and the acting was... beyond awesome.Gillian Anderson was simply breathtaking. I've seen this movie two times now, and both times she caught me up in Lily's downfall. She had me in tears both times, and I'm a person who rarely cries while watching a movie.I've seen every episode she's done of The X-Files, and I've known she was good. Afterall, she's one an Emmy, a Golden Globe, two SAGS and countless other awards. But this... this goes beyond anything I've seen from her. She truely is astonishing.In short, Gillian Anderson headed a marvelous cast with a breathtaking performance in a magnificent movie. "},{"Title":"chew it up, baby!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The set design is so gorgeous in this film you want to eat it up.  And the cast does just that, chewing it up and spitting it out.  Terence Davies is a fabulous director and this film looks fantastic.  Highly recommended if you're not a fan of acting.Ms. Anderson is a pleasant enough manniken for the beautiful costumes.  i love it when she gets shrill, close your eyes and you can almost see 17-year-old Judy Garland fretting, But she hurt Toto! "}{"Title":"Wonderful movie, misleading title","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Was there ever a less appropriate title?  For those truly seeking mirth, this is the wrong movie for you; I've never seen anything so bleak.  Gillian Anderson is wonderful, but was I the only one in the theatre who didn't think that the run-down boarding house didn't look so bad, or didn't weep at the thought of a privileged society girl actually having to get up in the morning and go to work?It's hard to tell the rich from the poor in this movie; Lawrence and Lily feel on the fringes, but they wear clothes as beautiful as their betters, and they all end up in Monte Carlo at the most opportune times... if you can overcome the cynicism of the above statement, this film really is very powerful, beautifully acted, sumptuous to look at, and quite moving.  Why no Oscar nominations, particularly for Ms. Anderson? "},{"Title":"A remarkable descent into darkness","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I have to tell you this film, although high in quality, is not for everyone. The best way I can describe it is that it's like a light bulb about to go out, slowly dimming, then darkness altogether. There are no happy endings here. Gillian Anderson portrays the film's heroine, Lily Bart. She is seen in virtually all of the film, which is about a woman who finds out the hard way pride does indeed goeth before a fall.Anderson gives a remarkable performance here; it would indeed be a travesty if she does not at least get an Oscar nomination (and anyone who says she is a second-rate actress should get their head examined). But the one person who surprised me the most (other than Dan Aykroyd as a cast-against-type would-be adulterer) is Eleanor Bron as Lily's aunt. She may be older now, but she is still as beautiful as she was in the early part of her career. And she can pull her weight with the best of them, especially with her final scene, which had me riveted to the screen.It should go without saying this is a four-star film. But pay heed to what I said at the beginning. "},{"Title":"Must See Mirth","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Completely moved by this film and especially by Gillian's performance of the tragic and torn Lily Bart. This film has justly brought to life this novel that I have been a fan of for a long time. However grand the film was, Gillian's portrayal was divine. "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A good adaptation of the novel. Terence Davies does a fine job in his direction. The performances from Anderson, Aykroyd, Stoltz and the guy on the balcony were particularly good. Also, a fine job was made of making Glasgow look like early 1900s New York. "},{"Title":"Move over 4 Weddings and The Full Monty, this is British made film to see!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The novel The House of Mirth by Edith Wharton is one of the best things I've ever read. The film makers describe this film as emotionally violent which (if the book is anything to go by) is certainly true. This film was made on a relatively small budget and shot primarily in Glasgow - Scotland. However, the small budget will in no way impair this amazing film. The plot, cast and locations are arguably better than they ever are in all the big-budget Hollywood turn-outs. The cast is superb. Gillian Anderson will prove to everyone that sees this film that's she's capable of performances that far exceed what is required from her on The X Files. Go and see this film now - you really won't regret it. The story is moving - emotionally violent, and very different indeed from all the other period dramas we see. If you're not incredibly keen on Romantic story lines, please don't dismiss this film simply because that's how it's classed. There is so much more to it that just romance. It's about courage and choices, as well as the struggle for morality. Romance comes into it, but in truth that's just a surface factor. Excellent, well worth seeing again and again.   "},{"Title":"Gillian is Excellent!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Gillian is excellent in this movie. She plays the role better than anyone else could've. Basically, they couldn't have found someone better to play this role. Gillian is a great actress. One of the best. If not the best. Who says your discipline in high school counts for anything in the real world? I send this shout-out to one of the greatest actresses to ever grace the silver screen! "},{"Title":"An Amazing Adaptation the Academy Ignored","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I recently read the novel The House of Mirth by Edith Wharton, and then I watched the movie.  This adaptation was simply brilliant, and I was amazed at the means by which Terence Davies brought the novel to life, stream-lining the untranslatable details, but maintaining the original intention and feeling of the movie.The wonderful aspect, I truly think, is his trust in Gillian Anderson's performance.  It is my opinion that she is one of the most unappreciated actresses of our time, and she absolutely deserved, at the very least, an Academy nod for her performance in this film, one that is so amazingly full. Davies trusted her in character enough to let plenty of celluloid go by without any dialogue, but the audience is moved simply by Anderson's means to portray the internal turmoil facing Lily Bart.I could go on for hours about this movie, but I simply feel that it is definitely a film that requires little critique nor explanation, but simply should be taken in as a whole.  I challenge any viewer (whom actually watches and engages) to walk away from this film unmoved. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a grand movie for the ladies. I'm not so sure the men would find it very entertaining...extremely slow with no action, but right up most women's alleys.Gillian Anderson did a remarkable job with her facial expressions alone when she was feeling abject rejection.  She really tore at the old heartstrings. "},{"Title":"How did this movie get away from the Oscars?","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This brilliant version of the classic Edith Wharton novel is truly a brilliant film. Gillian Anderson is superb as the tragic heroine. The movie is beautiful from beginning to end. I just don't understand why it didn't get nominated especially Gillian Anderson for Best Actress at the Oscars. She is far more deserving of such an honor. This film suddenly was deserted by any promoter or the company. This film should have had a boatload of nominations for it's art direction, actors, screenplay adaptation, and costumes. This film was a period piece and a classic that the late author Edith Wharton would be proud to call her own. Gillian Anderson sheds her X-Files persona to fill the lead role and she does a superb job. This film had Oscars written all over it at least nominations. "},{"Title":"A very fine House.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  WARNING  REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!The House of Mirth begins idyllically, almost dreamily.  However, the atmosphere quickly becomes more foreboding as Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) begins her downward social spiral.  Thus begins Terence Davis' masterpiece.I did not enjoy the film on my first viewing.  The dialogue seemed stilted, the plot seemed unbearably slow, and every single actor seemed stiff.However, I've greatly revised my opinion of the film since I learned more about life at the turn of the century and thought  about what themes Edith Wharton was trying to convey.If the actors initially seem stiff, it is because  the story they are playing out is set in a time when manners were far more formal than they are now.  Also, many of the characters are giving performances of their own. They do not say or do what they really mean, but rather change their behavior in order to manipulate the people around them.Gillian Anderson, as Lily Bart, has the most difficult performance within a performance and she rises admirably to the task.  A viewer must carefully watch her face at the beginning of the film to see the emotions Lily is really experiencing. The truth is that Lily, unlike her friends, is not genuinely at ease in the fake world in which she lives.  She pretends to be, however, and thus it is not until the second half of the film - when Lily's fall from grace is nearly complete - that Anderson is allowed to unleash her full emotional range.  She gives a powerful performance, brilliantly conveying Lily's desperation.Also excellent is Laura Linney, whose Bertha Dorset is the sort of person that is so charming that they never get the credit for being the nasty villains they really are.  Anthony LaPaglia is wonderful as a social-climbing businessman who initially seems callous - but may be the only character who is truly honest.  Eric Stoltz, Dan Aykroyd, et al. are sufficient though unexceptional in their respective roles.The film is still relevant today because of its portrayal of society. People still trade their chances for true happiness in exchange for professional success, and social ostracism can be just as hurtful.  Between its excellent acting, meaningful story, and fabulous direction, The House of Mirth can fairly be called a modern masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Wonderful interpretation of Edith Wharton's book","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful interpretation of Edith Wharton's novel. Stolz as Selden was perfect, and Anderson's Lily Bart, unforgettable. Davies's dialogue was faithful to the formal and stilted dialogue of the novel, and his own additions were perfectly in keeping with the tone of the book, and served well to augment the modern viewer's understanding. I saw the DVD with the deleted scenes and heartily deplore the producers' insistence on keeping the movie's length down at the expense of the dialogue and story. I hope one day that Terence Davies will be able to release a director's version, with the dense opening scenes restored. "},{"Title":"Gillian Anderson exceeds expectations in absorbing story of a woman trapped by social strictures.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is essentially a soap opera, in the tradition of Room With A View and Remains of the Day.  The action consists of conversations, silences, glances, written notes, and so on.  It is also about the beginning of a sea change in women's roles in society, fueled by changing expectations of both women and men.  While it is fiction, it is of great historical interest. It is also a tragedy of small proportions, made much larger by Gillian Anderson's clever acting of the lead character, a woman who, on the surface, is quite dislikable yet has a vulnerability under that hard exterior that eventually leads to her downfall.  Anderson has made an art form out of strong women who burst into sobs, and she is quite good at it.  The film is fairly long, and seems quite motionless at times, but that same stillness creates a sense of time and history quite appropriate to the material.  If you liked the two Merchant-Ivory productions noted above, you will enjoy this one.    "},{"Title":"Early 19th Century New York City Polite Society Sizzles!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This underappreciated, heartbreakingly tragic, and beautiful film is more true to its genre than either Age of Innocence or Portrait of a Lady.Gillian Anderson is remarkable is the passionate, impetuous, and fatally indiscreet Lily Bart.  Every supporting role is done superbly including Dan Akroyd As Gus Trenor, the married man who is falsely kind to her and then vindictively revenges her rejection of him. The actor is plays Mr. Rosedale who is at first cruel, then kind is also believable.   Eric Stoltz beguiles the camera and Lily as the seductive, mysterious Seldon. Laura Linney, as the scheming, social climbing, and cruel Bertha coldly uses Lily to advance her own ends.  But it is Gillian Anderson who shines in this film which faithfully adapts the best book Edith Wharton ever wrote. "},{"Title":"How could Gillian Anderson's performance be so ignored?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The House of Mirth is a tragic, well shot film which was generally ignored by critics in 2000. However, it was given good reviews and is the kind of period drama the Academy seems to go for.  So why was Gillian Anderson's performance passed over? She portrayed so much depth in the character of Lilly Bart, a foolish socialite whom is kind,yet proud. Her subtle facial movements also add to the character. The rest of the cast is excellent, with one glaring exception. Dan Akroyd is completely unconvincing as one of the villains. His personification of anger seems to continuously sneer. For such an important role, some better casting should have gone into it. Never the less, House of Mirth emerges triumphant, mainly because of Gillian Anderson and a clever screenplay. "},{"Title":"Very moving, very poignant","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film interested me because of seeing Gillian Anderson on the X-Files where she showed little emotion as an FBI agent. This film gave her a full range of emotions from being a beautiful socialite with many admirers, to being manipulated, confused, and finally self-destructive. The first hour of the film was rather confusing and tedious because it showed her moving among people who were the idle rich. I guess this set the mood for how boring her life really was. Perhaps she wracked up debts from card playing to bring some excitement into her life. When her aunt died, she was cut-off from any real inheritance. From a sense of honor, she became the prey of people who really sought to use her. Yet, her sense of honor kept her from becoming just a mistress or from marrying just anyone so that she could have the lifestyle she knew. The second half of the film was more interesting as we saw her declining into poverty, an addiction, and despair. The real sadness was that none of her so-called friends came to her rescue without strings attached. When she was forced to work at common jobs, she was excluded from her circle of friends. In the end, you have to admire her for her struggle to retain self-respect. All in all, it was a very good film. With her excellent credentials, Gillian Anderson will have a life beyond the X-Files.  "},{"Title":"Serious period/costume drama, for a mature audience.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a unique insight into the moral dilemmas of the early twentieth century. A well crafted film, one cannot help but have great sympathy for the main character (Miss Bart) played with much aplomb and subtlety by the mostly underrated Anderson. In truth Gillians' performance carries the whole film, and leaves a long lasting impression. There may be a shortage of events throughout but the discerning viewer will find much to enjoy in this film.Recommended for Gillian Andersons' performance (and fans) - BUT NOT FOR X-FILES FANS.  "},{"Title":"Ironic that the saddest movie I've seen is called the House of Mirth","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This was by far the most moving movie I have seen in a loooong time! I found it absolutely brilliant, especially the acting by Gillian Anderson, who carried the movie on her own shoulders successfully. Her interaction with Eric Stoltz was also amazing to watch, and Terrance Davies did a terrific job over all. 10 stars for sure! "},{"Title":"The higher your station the farther you fall.","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The House of Mirth is a tour-de-force by Anderson who is cast as an early 1900's New York socialite who wrestles with conflicts between her integrity and her station. Beautiful but without a fortune of her own, Anderson must deny the opportunities for happiness which are numerous but tainted as she is slowly strangled by the protocols of polite society.A solid period piece, House.. is technically and artistically well done with a script which may be a tad too clever and a screenplay which may muddle rather than clarify the archaic notions which will seem foreign to the contemporary audience. A must see for Anderson fans and lovers of period films. "},{"Title":"An Absorbing Trek Through the Social Quagmire","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  It's tempting to make comparisons with other films set in the Edwardian period - after all, American high society was much the same as that of Britain.However, to do so would be a great dis-service to Terrence Davies. Sure, it has a familiar style much like the grand treatment of a Liverpool slum in 'The Long Day Closes' but it's a very sensitive treatment which relies heavily on Gillian Anderson's complex presentation of a deeply flawed but independently minded character.My one criticism would be that we never really learn if Mr Selden actually has any character at all - but maybe the book was the same.Never a dull moment - and as someone with a tiny attention span, that can't be bad. "},{"Title":"quite an incredible movie going experience","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  As a fan of Edith Wharton I was interested (but doubtful) in seeing the film adaptation of the novel. I had reservations as I think that most great novels fail in their adaptation to another medium. This film was completely wonderful. Not only is does it deliver the themes of the novel, I was bowled over by Gillian Anderson's performance as Lily Bart. She shows what a truly remarkable actress she is. The most amazing thing is that she changes her acting style slightly as the film progresses, which is quite remarkable given that the film was obviously not shot in sequence. The power and consistency of her performance was remarkable. Truly one of those great acting turns that will make this film watchable for years to come. Why wasn't she nominated for best actress? oh, I forgot, it's the academy awards... "}{"Title":"Eventually Ends Powerfully","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Rarely does a movie come out that portrays such a riveting, detailed, and extensive psychological evolution of a singular character so effectively. Gillian Anderson from the X-Files puts together one of the most compelling and intimate performances on screen. With a quiet patience and attention to detail, the persona on screen evolves through the movie towards an almost fatalistic climax. As a member of high society at the turn of the century (20th) New York, the highly rigid gender role expectations of Anderson's character are clearly on display throughout the movie. The movie moves in a delicate psychological dance, the slow pacing quickening with an emotional disturbance of a rumbling earthquake by the end of the movie. Anderson brings a superb performance with her entire character period thrust together with the audience into another world and into the center of movie magic as it should be performed. This haunting and sobering movie is great and is worth the initial build up which then speeds towards its inevitable ending.The House of Mirth joins along with the more aggressive masculine performances of Michael Douglas's Falling Down (1993) and especially William H. Macy's devastating performance in Edmond (2005) and contrasts with the more lighter fare of Diane Lane's character who nevertheless focuses a more contemporary spurned female character in a foreign country in Under the Tuscan Sun (2003) or the bigger than life fare of Salma Hayek's role as artist Frida Kahlo in a culturally diverse biographical performance in Frida (2002), Natalie Portman in an emotional intimate drama as a ballerina in Black Swan (201), or the ensemble performances that have strong period brush strokes as found in Pride and Prejudice (1995). Perhaps, Kevin Spacey's performance in American Beauty (1999) and most recently Leo DeCaprio's performance in The Great Gatsby (2013) have even more of a similar resonance with The House of Mirth even with Beauty's contemporary societal setting or Gatsby's outlandlishly stylish presentation.My thanks to The Tower theater in Salt Lake City, Utah for bringing real motion pictures to the state in 2001 and again to the Fox television affiliate in 2013. "},{"Title":"A film of great resonance","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  My personal test of the artistry of a film is how long it stays with me after the initial viewing.  It is a full 12 hours after I saw 'The House of Mirth' and I'm still consumed by the power of this film.  Achingly sad, this is a superbly paced portrait of the destruction of a woman whose major flaw was her sense of honor in a time when appearances counted more than truth.  Gillian Anderson is incredible as Lilly Bart, her face revealing what she can not and will not speak in words.  This is the key to understanding the story - pay attention not to what the characters say, but how they say it.   "},{"Title":"A first impression","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  It would be hard to post an original comment after all the terrific, insightful review I've read during the last months about this unforgettable film and its MARVELOUS actress (definitely my favorite - and so versatile, see her in other roles and you'll see what I mean), so I'll transcribe the few lines I wrote right after seeing the film.So, you want to know about the taste of solitude? Solitude is non-communicating rooms, it's a waste land in which the only mirage is a fleeting moment of abandon, it's a shoulder you can not cry on, it's a piece of music stopping abruptly when you longed for the climax. It's sitting close but each in a little, confined world, it's seeing your reflection on the window fading into a black void, it's noises echoing too loud... "},{"Title":"'There is special providence in the fall of a sparrow'","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I admit, I have a hard time enjoying these Victorian dramas, even this one, set in 20th Century New York City, seemed like a hard row at first. Based on a novel written in the early part of the century, such a film must fight the very likely possibility that the material will seem stale. The story is, of course, not a new one. But it is Wharton's characters that come through to make this tale unique. And Davies' skill as a director that ultimately makes it work. Consider, people from this era were trained to never reveal themselves. Their joy and despair is always telegraphed as serene calm, lest it ruin their social standing. Davies use of close-ups help bring the audience to a closer proximity with the characters, especially Lily Bart. We can see her face, study it. It is not perfect, though we can tell it once was, just a few year prior, probably. When we see her face share the frame with Lawrence Selden's, we feel their proximity, realize how the social structure would drive insane anybody whose brain dared to think beyond it. And so it goes.So although I felt some elements, especially at the close of the film were a bit cliched, I could truly see what was at stake, and could feel the tragic system at work. Even Selden's final scene, the soul of filmic cliche, has a cathartic element that makes it rise above being just another period drama.  "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The only thing preventing me from giving this film a '10' was Gillian Anderson's uneven performance. At times, especially at the beginning of her character's journey, she seemed uncomfortable in her body, in her clothes, with her words. Unless the film was shot in sequence (which I highly doubt), it's just a coincidence that, as the film progresses (and her character becomes less comfortable), Anderson appears more to relax into her environment and performance. The other borderline performance belongs to Dan Aykroyd, who always seems to play the same womanizing buffoon, regardless of era. Stoltz and Linney are both brilliant (and if I'm not mistaken, they have considerably more experience with period pieces), as is LaPaglia.Beautiful costumes, locations, cinematography, music -- all come together perfectly. A caveat if you're not familiar with Wharton's story despite the title, this is a bleak and depressing film. But a wonderful one. "},{"Title":"A decent adaptation of Wharton's novel (spoilers follow!)","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Who would have thought Gillian Anderson would take on one of Edith Wharton's most famous characters? Were that the only virtue of this film, it would be enough to see it, but the movie holds even more. Anderson is excellent as Lily Bart in a film that does not quite capture the world Wharton so expertly illustrates, and we are instead given the core of the story without the Lily's background and personal demons. Her need to be accepted as part of nineteenth century New York society and her utter failure to do so work to show us Bart's character as one Edith Wharton must have known once personally. The casting of Dan Aykroyd as Gus Trenor is a major error here, but fortunately Eric Stoltz' Selden and Laura Linney's Bertha add to Andersons performance to save this film from obscurity. To modern readers more used to New York Times Bestseller fare, i.e., Grisham, Crichton and Stephen King,  Wharton's prose can only be alien, but for the patient and contemplative reader there is some of the best work in American literary history. For that reason, any film maker who ventures to put her work on the screen had better be up to the task. Here director Terence Davies takes a good stab at it, but comes up just a bit short. No doubt his cut of the film was a full hour longer, and some Hollywood suit ordered him to cut to the chase. Still, what you get is essential Wharton with a memorable performance by several good actors. Don't listen to the nay sayers who may slam this film here; make up your own mind, but read the book first. "},{"Title":"House of Blues","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Tragical?, Cynical? The word I'd use would be disappointing. Upper crust hypocrisy revealed? We know that's not what we really expect of an adaptation from an Edith Wharton novel since that's the context of her whole work but rather how a character copes with or uses it. On that premise, I expected a grand tragic figure out of  Lily Bart, willing to sacrifice her own social position and even her life for the man she loves and her own principles and dignity.What we have in Terence Davies's precious and exquisite vision, is a plain dumb and vain socialit who never actually makes a commitment or is willing to work hard for what's best for her. Some examples1) Wants a rich husband but deliberately misses all her chances to please a suitable candidate. 2) Would like to marry the man she loves but never really becomes serious about it, she'd rather keep the flirtation game but doesn't even play it well. 3) Is aware of a friend's betraying practices but never realizes she could be framed. 4) Needs money but never really develops useful skills or work for someone willing to help her. 5) Likes to gamble and to smoke but is to afraid to become a rebel. 6) Would love to inherit the money from her aunt but seldom pleases her.DOES SHE EXPECT THAT ALL FAVORS COME FROM HEAVEN JUST BECAUSE SHE EXISTS?I know we all could be somewhat fools and fall into subtle traps as the ones presented in the film, but watching her so stupidly fall into them is despairing. The best moral we can get from this film would not be beware of believing social appearences but rather if your a fool, at least be aware of it. "},{"Title":"Inspiring and moving","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I began to like the classic literature recently. My first language is not English so I did not have the wide knowledge of English literacy. However, being in this country for more than quarter of a century, I started appreciating the old literature. I saw several adapted films like The Age of Innocence, Pride & Prejudice, The Wings of the Dove, Lady Chatterley's Lover and this one. They are inspiring and worthy of spending time on. One thing appealed to me was the dialogue. You can learn some good English writing from them. People felt bored because they usually did not have actions more than talking, walking and eating in the scenes. The excitements were well hidden in between the lavish conversations and well- planted landscapes. The details of surroundings prelude the story in front of you if you care to look for them. Lily was a tragic figure at her time. She was not equipped to do cruel things to others. She thought to act upon. However, she was never able to bring herself to do it. The dreadful situation to her was over thinking. She also fell in love with a subtle playboy which might be more perilous to her than a flamboyant one. She looked for love in the meantime also the security. The ideal match rarely goes together even nowadays. Nonetheless, we are reluctant to blame her for her own destiny. We might make the same choice as she did just we are living in the different era now. Whatever choice we made present no threaten anymore. On her own account, her lack of knowledge or you may quote ahead of her time thinking caused her dire end. Just like Lawrence told her she did not have that kind of upbringing to become successfully independent. Those views will not be disconcerted in the modern days. But they were detrimental in the turn of the century. I do wish to see Lily and Lawrence would end together like most of Jane Austen's stories. But realistic approach somehow gave me the reflections for a change which I would say is a good thing. "},{"Title":"Not my thing, I admit","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I've never been big on costume dramas, and this is no exception. I was mostly bored during this. Based on an Edith Wharton novel, the film stars Gillian Anderson as an independent woman. She's getting close to being out of marriageable age, but she refuses to pick between the many men courting her. She believes she has plenty of time, knowing that she's highly desirable. Unfortunately, her gambling debts are starting to haunt her, and they eventually pull her down to a lower class. Soon she finds that her marriage prospects are no longer available, and she must (gulp!) work for a living. For me, it's the dialogue that really kills it. Perhaps people spoke like this in early 20th Century New York, but I can't hear I have been foolish to the point of being compromised! without rolling my eyes a bit. As one might expect, the costumes are excellent, and, as with all Davies films, the cinematography is beautiful. But I found it to be a slog. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I think this was, overall, a successful work. I say that without having read the source material, but as a film it stands alone well and it's able to get across most of what it intends. Of course, that doesn't mean it's not without its share of flaws. Gillian Anderon is pretty great for most of it, but at times her portrayal sort of strains, as if she's just acting and it shows. Still, she's mostly effective, as are the rest of the performances. The period drama isn't as stuffy as one might expect, and for some reason it reminded me a lot of Dangerous Liasons. The ending is earned though, and because of it I have to say that I do recommend this. "}{"Title":"An acting showcase for Gillian Anderson who plays lead character Lily Bart","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS - Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson of X-Files) was ahead of her time. She was an attractive, smart, impulsive, headstrong woman who was NOT mentally preparing herself for a life as a housewife in this novel set in 1905 through 1907. She spurned security by refusing to marry the suitor (Anthony Lapaglia) who could have provided her with a very nice life, holding out for the man she never could have (Eric Stoltz). She disgraced herself by gambling and incurring $9,000 debt, very deep for those times. When her wealthy aunt died Lily only received  legacy of $10,000 while the bulk of her wealth was left to the good niece. Lily had to go to work, not very successfully. Her former suitor changed his mind and withdrew his offer. She began to consume more and more of her former employer's medicine and after one large dose never awoke. The story is a tragedy, there is no uplifting ending. I don't understand the large number of 10 ratings this film has received here. To me the correct rating is somewhere between 7 and 8. It is rather long and slow-moving. It used a lot of stilted language that was common for turn-of-that-century times. Many times it was difficult to decipher what the characters were trying to communicate. However, it is a well-done and interesting film, for those who like that genre. In many ways similar to Out of Africa, Pride and Prejudice, An Ideal Husband. "},{"Title":"Gets beyond difficult start to finish strong.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The film's first scene surprised me. One The director actually chose to start the film with the scene that began Edith Wharton's rather long, detailed book. Two  Ms. Anderson and Mr. Stoltz seemed more to be reading a script than acting. I had a feeling I'd made a mistake seeing the film - but the film picks up speed and the actor's handle the written material with skill as the movie advances.The film actually tracks the book well without getting lost.  And Anderson - who seemed miscast in early scenes - offers a strong performance.  It is a tear-jerker, so be prepared for that. The film is worth seeing for anyone who wants to see a well made period piece, and Ms. Anderson in a new role. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Edith Wharton's turn of the century novel about a woman who is not quite ready to do what the mores of her time dictate was adapted beautifully for the screen -- I felt although the story necessarily lost some complexity, none of the depth of character nor the resonance of their emotions were lost.Gillian Anderson turns in a spectacular performance-- Lily Barth is a smouldering, complicated woman-- and she conveys all of that magnificantly.  "},{"Title":"If obliquity were a vice, we should all be tainted","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. - Ecclesiastes 74 One of Terence Davies' weaker films, House of Mirth is an intermittently interesting tale starring Gillian Anderson as Lily, a late 19th century socialite who finds herself slipping down the rungs of New York's leisure class.Much of the film watches as Lily degenerates from a dazzling socialite, sharp-witted and beautiful, to a social outcast and impoverished spinster. Left without money, Lily is forced to associate with various unscrupulous individuals, all in order to pay her bills and maintain her expensive lifestyle. But it's a futile endeavour. Trapped in a vicious cycle, the more Lily fights to escape her debts, the more she incurs debts, the more she is subject to slander/gossip, the more she is pushed back down the social hierarchy. Wealth and status, then, is oft a fickle thing that comes at a price. Elsewhere Lily's forced to turn her back to lovers (and private passions) in favour for financially advantageous marriages and/or relationships.Davies direction is dry and stuffy, his cinematography poor and his film as a whole more radio play than cinema. Some of Davies' visuals recall the work of such Edwardian painters as John Sargent and Carolus-Duran, only less inspired. Most of his actors are miscast, especially Eric Stoltz, Dan Aykroyd and Anthony LaPaglia. Welles' The Magnificent Ambersons seems to be an influence. The film at times tops best-of-the-decade polls, but to my eyes suffers when compared to other auteur period pieces (particularly those by Visconti, Kubrick, Tarkovsky, Kurosawa, Powell/Pressburger, Rossellini, even Ivory and Scorsese).The film was based on an Edith Wharton novel, to which Davies is mostly faithful. He removes some of Lily's associations with the working class, keeps Lily's tragic ending, and, though the film is filled with vicious, conspiring men and women of power, never questions why we should be rooting for Lily to regain her status in genteel society. The film's acting has been praised, but this is TV level Edwardian drama, mannered diction mistaken for historical authenticity and/or good acting. The exquisite, razor sharp conversations of Wharton have been preserved, but perhaps should have been ejected completely. Better to keep things visual. If not, go the Hawks root, and fire dialogue like a machine gun. Davies film is too slack, and spends much of its time repeating the same motions.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"a fall on the social slope","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The local cinematheque screened a few weeks ago the 2000 adaptation of Edit Wharton's now classic novel The House of Mirth, whose first screen adaptation to screen dates back from 1918.The House of Mirth is a combination of a social and personal drama the story of the descent of a young woman from high class into poverty, of the price to be paid for keeping the dignity in a society that seems to define rigidly the place and track in life of each human being according to their birth, their place in the social hierarchy, their sex, and their material fortune. The American society at the beginning of the 20th century does not seem to resemble too much to the land of all opportunities described in many other literary or cinematographic works. Lily Bart, the apparently apparently frivolous character who stays in the center of the action is smart and beautiful, apparently high in the social hierarchy but too poor to be allowed to make her own choices and play a different role than the one of the well-married girl, or of the woman supported by rich and powerful men. Her refuse to surrender to the social pressure ends in catastrophic results.12 years only after it was made Terence Davies' film looks much older than it's age. A team of TV stars from the 80s (Eric Stolz), 90s (Gilian Anderson) and 2000s (Anthony LaPaglia) do more than a decent job, but I felt like the adaptation to screen borrowed some of the stiffness of the social environment described in the story. More passion, more nuances in the relationship between the characters would have made this film more interesting. Gilian Anderson is a great actress but her discrete acting seems pushed one step too far, her breaking down comes too late to give meaning to her self-sacrifice. This too academic version to screen is interesting mostly for the fans of the social historical American dramas. Which is kind of a paradox as the novel was at its time an exercise in contemporary prose. But this is also history. "},{"Title":"Very Good, Underrated Movie","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Lily Bart is a woman trapped by society's expectations.  If she could only mentally break out of her ingrained thought process, she might be able to lead a happy and successful life.  By not thinking outside the box she missed many opportunities which would have prevented her downward spiral.  This could be applied to anyone's life in any time period. "},{"Title":"Why is this woman so clueless?","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  My feelings about House of Mirth (**1/2) and Lily Bart, the leading character were decidedly mixed.  I wanted to be sympathetic to her plight as a single, independent woman in a hypocritical society hidebound by artificial notions of propriety, but her own actions kept getting in the way.  First, she makes the huge mistake of offending her aunt, her primary source of income, by losing money at cards, then makes it worse by naively entering into a dubious scheme with a caddish married man to pay her debts.  Then she turns down a young lawyer, the only man she really loves, because he's not rich or socially prominent enough (and also because he's oddly unwilling to make a definite commitment).  When she stumbles upon a treasure trove of compromising letters written by the very married Mrs. Dorset to the lawyer, she refuses to make use of them after her arch rival maneuvers Lily into a compromising position with her husband in order to hide her own indiscretions. You might say that Lily takes this stand at least partly to protect the reputation of the man she loves, but when he offers to help her after she has been reduced to working as a companion/secretary to a rich biddy, she stubbornly turns him down and never tells him about the letters she has in her possession.  Why is this woman so stupid and passive?  Why is she so reluctant to take good advice and help when it's offered, even in good faith?  Why doesn't she fight back with the weapons at her disposal?  Writer-director Terrence Davies seems to be more interested in making Lily a martyr than a true heroine, but by the end, I couldn't help feeling that she had mostly herself to blame for her downfall.  Despite my exasperation with the leading character, I was quite engrossed by the film.  I love dialogue in which the characters speak in trivialities when you know that there's a whirlwind of suppressed emotions going on underneath.  The movie was beautifully mounted and acted, especially by Gillian Anderson, but ultimately it's a frustrating downer. "},{"Title":"A film that has remained in my mind","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that some have said was slow or difficult; I found it to be neither.  I feel that at the beginning, the first ten or fifteen minutes are a bit disorienting as we step into NYC, circa 1905, a world of corsets and discreet cuts of alleged friends.  Under the veneer of civility, traps and malice abound.Soon, however, we focus on Lily Bart, a woman who seems to be all surface; we spend the rest of the film discovering depths that she herself probably didn't suspect she had.  Circumstances cause her to change; it is a fascinating portrait delivered in the most careful, nuanced artistic fashion by Gillian Anderson.  The viewer need only look into her eyes to know how Lily, a creature who lives by the surface appearance of things, is feeling inside.  It is a voyage of self-discovery and a discovery of what the others are truly like in one's world.  Lily is the passenger who eventually sees and realizes all.  It is a magnificent performance, surely worthy of Oscar notice.  Anderson's subtlety and artistry cannot be overstated.The rest of the cast is good, but not on Anderson's level.  Stoltz is disappointing, but then he has the thankless task of playing a character who has little character.  Ackroyd's Gus Trenor is one-dimensional and he handles the role easily.  Davies has rewritten Rosedale, and Anthony Paglia does a terrific job in showing the various sides of this social-climbing man.  The characters of Grace and the aunt slide over the edge into melodrama, but these are not major flaws.Davies removes several elements from the novel and combines two of the characters.  It works.  His screenplay is literate and his cinematography is flawless, sometimes inspired.  It is a very beautiful film, ironic in that it camouflages the ugliness of a highly stratified and cruel society.  Davies has a complete artistic vision, and he has helmed a beautiful film.It is no costumed bore, either.  These are real and vicious people that he presents to us.  If you prick us, do we not bleed?  Davies' answer is a resounding yes.This is a film that made this viewer ponder it for days afterwards.  That's the mark of a great film. "},{"Title":"Very Slow And Very Dull -- Like The Book, Only Boring","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" In Old New York, a lovely and exquisitely refined young woman without money, friends or family is slowly ground down and destroyed by the city's uncaring elite.Edith Wharton's classic novel works solely because Lily Bart is such a gentle, refined, and sensitive personality. Time after time, she does foolish, cowardly things -- but she is never coarse, cruel or vulgar. That is what sets her apart from the rest of New York society, and that is why she must die.Unfortunately, director Terence Davies and his star Gillian Anderson both fail to grasp Lily's essential charm. The Lily they create is dumber, lazier, weaker, and greedier than her literary prototype. Each classic scene is redone in a way that makes Lily less a sensitive soul and more a luckless tramp. Instead of being an angel fouled by gossip she's simply a sexy girl caught with her hand in the cookie jar.In the book when Lily and Lawrence Selden chat it's purely a meeting of kindred spirits. They enjoy each other's company, certainly. But there's no real sexual tension, let alone heavy breathing. In the movie Lily all but devours Selden with her eyes, and the effect is comic rather than tragic. Poor Lily looks so heated and rumpled leaving his flat that it's entirely reasonable for outsiders to get the wrong idea.The same problem mars Lily's relationship with the women in her set. In the book Lily falls in with cruel Bertha Dorsett only because she's naive and innocent. In the movie it's obvious that Lily longs for the luxuries and pleasures of being a perpetual house guest, especially when Bertha and Bertha's husband George are paying the bills. Watching Lily moan with pleasure on the massage table while sly Bertha promises her an extended Mediterranean cruise totally underlines the wrong point -- that Lily is weak and easily tempted, not refined and easily misled. And it's even more ridiculous when Lily's shown gorging herself on fruits and ices, resting in the shade while sly Bertha plants rumors in the ears of the gentlemen that she's easy and available! In the book Lily's story is excruciatingly sad. In the movie it's sleazy, tawdry, and often unintentionally funny. All in all this film is a classic example of what happens when a modern director completely fails to understand the spirit of classic literature. "},{"Title":"beautiful, but like watching a train wreck","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I haven't read the book, so maybe this is a faithful rendition of the plot. The casting is a little goofy. Wharton refers to the heroine as a captured dryad, but Ms. Anderson mostly looks sad (and short). In fact, one problem I had was trying to figure out how she's supposed be driving all of these men crazy.Wharton was no revolutionary, but she did have an unflinching eye for her time and place, and I can imagine that the story of someone spat out by a rigid system would be interesting, but in this case the Lily Bart character is just so stupid that her rigid little world is better off without her. Since I haven't read the book, I can't tell if she is completely clueless and destructive (not just self-destructive, either) there, but she certainly is in the movie. I generally like this sort of movie, and I really enjoyed The Age of Innocence, but I got really, REALLY tired of watching the Bart dimwit repeatedly set herself up and then turn down chance after chance to rescue herself.The sets and photography are beautiful, though, and the acting seems to be what the director wanted, even if I just can't buy Anderson in the lead... "}{"Title":"A classic tragedy.  Anderson soars.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  `House of Mirth' is an absorbing character study of a proud woman's social downfall at her own hands, leading ultimately to her complete demise.  The story is intricately told, accurately portraying the subtleties and treacheries of polite society in more stilted times.  Director Terence Davies does an outstanding job with a limited budget in rendering the look and feel of the period.  His character development is probing and filled with nuance, although the pacing is a bit slow and perhaps too inclusive.The story of Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) is a classic tale of a fall from grace resulting from excessive pride and self indulgence.  Davies draws us in to her world, laying bare both her noble and arrogant sides and giving us conflicted feelings about her eventual fate.  On one hand, her adherence to her principles is admirable, yet on the other it is difficult to pity her when her decadence and inability to compromise almost assure her doom.I cannot rave enough about Gillian Anderson's performance in this film.  Prior to this film I had little regard for her acting ability, assessing her to be a one dimensional character actor propelled to cult status by a popular TV show.  Taking this part was a monumental risk for her, shedding the familiar bonds of her emotionally contained Scully persona to take on a character swirling in a volitile hurricane of emotion.  She handles it magnificently.  Her performance has great volume, reaching far, wide and deep into her character's psyche and bleeding it effusively onto the screen.  After seeing this tour de force performance, I am left wondering why she wastes her time on television (I guess her multi million dollar `X Files' contract might have some bearing on it).The rest of the cast is barely adequate to the task of supporting Anderson.  Dan Aykroyd is miscast for this part.  He simply doesn't have the sinister side that the role requires.  Eric Stolz' character is supposed to be very stolid, but Stolz so understates the character that he comes across as lifeless and wooden.  Laura Linney is the best of the supporting cast portraying Bertha Dorset as charmingly diabolical and affected.This film is a wonderful throwback to the days when the story mattered.  Its classical underpinnings give it a tragic richness you don't see much anymore.  I rated it a 9/10.  It requires a patient and intelligent viewer, but for those who appreciate powerful character studies it will be a treat. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Terrence Davies sets a scene terrifically - bringing to life all of the vivid imagery that Edith Wharton originally envisioned.Gillian Anderson brings to life our heroine, Lily, with such composure and subtlety that with a touch of her costumer's wand and an arch of her brow she immediately transorforms into Lily, the troubled, beautiful, fragile, and complex woman of 19th Century New York's social scene. The film is also rich with lush photography and poignant music - mostly operatic numbers that gorgeously accentuate the pictures on the screen.The only real misfires of this film are Dan Ackroyd playing the villain (he should stick to his strong points - and they sure aren't acting!) and the women who play Lily's Aunt Julia and cousin Grace.  These two actresses suffer from extremes of over- and under-acting, respectively.But this film lasts in the memory, just sitting on the surface waiting for its flame to be rekindled again and again and again.Must-see! "},{"Title":"Something missing","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I wonder how good this film would've been if it weren't so badly miscast. Starting out with the obvious  Dan Ackroyd?  Comic or character actors sometimes turn in surprising performances in serious films, but Ackroyd doesn't here.  You can practically see him remembering his lines and looking for his marks.  And I've liked Eric Stolz in other things, but he's a ghost here.  He's certainly not the Laurence Selden Wharton created; he's not strong enough or interesting enough to hold up his end of the thwarted love at the center of the story.  Finally, Gillian Anderson tries hard--which wouldn't even necessarily be out of place, since Lily tries too hard, too--but there's just something missing, and whatever it is, it kept me from identifying with the character.  I felt sorry for her, and understood what it meant for a woman of her time to fall as she did.  But I spent the last part of the movie trying to understand how all her relationships had come apart, rather than staying with Lily emotionally.On the good side, Laura Linney's Bertha was quite evil.  That her petty unhappiness could have brought about another's woman downfall strikes the clearest note in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Couldn't Wait for this Dreadful movie to END!!!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  What a disappointment. I felt like Elaine from Seinfeld sitting in the theatre watching The English Patient and yelling Die,die already! Yes, Gillian Anderson is radiant on screen. The costumes and the mood of the film are visually appealing and appropriate to the time. But, the storyline, ike the movie itself, is a mess. In comparison to The Age of Innocence, almost nothing happens and you feel little or no sympathy for the main character who was, simply, a foolish Victorian snob. Nothing noble about her, or believable, for that matter. The character of Lily is the worst of both worlds of her time a smart woman who knows the rules of her social order, behaves like a fool, but then can't bring herself to behave quite badly enough to even stay alive. You end up laughing at her silly matters of conscience and her ignoble death.After Lily asks at least seven people to save her by giving her money and is turned down every time, you want to scream Don't you get it? Save yourself, you twit!The movie is also edited so badly that it is difficult to follow the story in several places and the idea of three women being in love with the foppish Eric Stoltz just doesn't pass the laugh test,either.    "},{"Title":"Tedious, irritating, 2D, mind numbing. Need I go on?","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Oh dear. Throughout this film I caught myself shouting at the screen, in my head of course, Hurry up!, Pan that camera quicker!, Say your line!. Every single scene was drawn out and piled tedium upon tedium. Once lengthy sequence is to show the change from rainy home to a sunny cruise, multiple shots of the outside of a drenched house, pans slowly to rain falling on a pond, then panning across the water it takes almost a minute to change to sunny seas.It's all very arty, and looks lovely, but there's no characterisation. You simply cannot get involved with any of these characters, you're never shown anything more than a 2D cardboard image. With character interaction which is both dull and irritating, there's nothing that makes me feel any sympathy for these people. Welcome Sympathy, may I show you the window now?.I must say though, that Gillian Anderson is excellent, not once did I think about X-Files, and she pulls off her role excellently. Shame about Eric Stoltz though. Dan Ackroyd and Anthony LaPaglia are both very good and my score is no reflection on their performances. "},{"Title":"Painfully over-acted, self-conscious articulation of lines.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a painfully self-conscious film.  The director has allowed the actors to over-articulate their lines and movements as if they were in the initial stages of learning.  The visuals are similarly amateurish --a scene/season transition in which the camera pans to a mirror above a mantel just for that purpose; the intrusive self-conscious focus on Lilly's breathing (and yes, on cigarette smoke) almost destroys the effectiveness of the final image.  The Scottish and Provencal settings  are pretty, as are the set decoration and costumes.    "},{"Title":"Gillian Anderson is magnificent, a shame the movie is not that great.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I rented to movie for the sole reason that Gillian Anderson was the lead actress.  As usual, she was mazing, but I doubt she could be any less than that, so..  But it's worth being watched for her performance only.  The supporting actors also give credible interpretation, but she carries the movie on her own.  The movie was rather enjoyable when you're in the right frame of mind, but what killed me is my understanding of the movie.  Some might called it simplistic and so called intellectuals who see stuff that really isn't there in movie are going to be offended, but the only reason we watch the two year downfall of Lily Bart is because she was to stuck in the high society's conventions to admit to Lawrence Selden that she was in love with him and he's too chickens*** to admit the same.  As I said, it look simplistic and very first degree to everyone, but it doesn't make it any less true.  Had she been a tad bolder in their talk in the Garden and asked him if he was interested in a 'jeune fille  marrier' (Interesting accent there! ) ) she, and we, wouldn't have waited until she had passed away to hear him FINALLY admit that he loved her!  And dad he been less frighten, he wouldn't have waited two years to tell her.  But when you pass that minor (!) point, it is enjoyable, but not one of the best movie I've seen. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm...just another period drama?","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Hmmmm...not exactly a bad effort by the director, as the acting was nice, and visuals were really cool, but as far as the story and the plot go, there's nothing much to grasp. It's a really weak story based on a New Yorkian in the early 1900s, who seems to get into trouble with money. Gillian Anderson is good as the leading woman, but maybe a stronger actress could have been a better choice, as she was...quite flimsy, and flat. Eric Stoltz made up for that though, as he was superb as her other half. But Dan Ackroyd. Who would have put his name in the same sentence as the words 'Period Drama'. Hmmmmm....The film is too long, and I think 90 mins would have been far better. The characters develop nicely, but doesn't really save the story. Fans of Period dramas might enjoy this, but I don't recommend this to those who dont. Not a bad effort but certainly not a good one either.  "},{"Title":"Gillian's beauty is the only real reason to see this film.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the reviewers who thought this film pretentious and, for the most part, badly cast. The directing was unfathomable, and yes, Dan Aykroyd was an embarrassment--when isn't he, except in comedy? But to be fair, the same could be said for most of the other performances. To say this was not Eric Stolz's best movie would be nothing short of charity. The only two actors worth watching were Elizabeth McGovern, whose character was affable, even likeable, and Gillian Anderson. Yes, it did take forever for me to warm up to the plight of the heroine, and yes, she was awfully clueless. Yet, by the end, I found myself sympathizing with her. But let's face it, the only reason for watching this film would be to indulge in the remarkable beauty of the lead actress. Nowhere have I seen her more captivating. I'm not an X-files fan, and have only seen enough of Gillian Anderson on TV to get a more or less mildly favorable impression. But every actor must have a period, and a look that stamps them indelibly in the minds of their viewers. Kate Winslet had her moment of glory in Titanic, Sean Young defined herself eternally in Blade Runner, the impression of Sigourney Weaver (and Mel Gibson, for that matter) in The Year of Living Dangerously will never leave my mind, and Gillian Anderson has found her niche in this film, otherwise unnoteworthy except, perhaps, for the cinematography. If you have a weakness for a voluptuous, blue-eyed beauty in turn-of-the-century dress, Anderson will get to you. I thought her emotions registered nicely on her face, though the heavy breathing may have been a bit overdone. Too bad the writing and directing weren't worthy of what she obviously had to offer. Those who laud the film are too kind. It should probably not have been made, at least by this director. All is not lost, however; we saw an actress of whom it could be said that greatness (at least as defined in modern terms) was thrust upon her. Let's hope another vehicle will come along that will allow her to achieve true greatness.  "},{"Title":"Why bother trying to translate this book into a movie?","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The costumes and set design, along with most of the performances, are superb in Mirth, but this novel could never be made into a movie.  The series of internal epiphanies Lily has can only be felt through the reading of her thoughts.  With a movie there is this 2 hour period where images flash up in front you.  With a book, it's hours upon hours of building up a character, and watching them transform(in this case Lily transforms into a humble butterfly of sorts).  I did not get the satisfaction nor the understanding that came with reading the book.  It's a good movie, but Lily Bart is merely a shadow of what she becomes on paper. "}{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  House of mirth..Not horrible but very poor rendition of Edith Wharton's novel.  Casting was awful!  As much as I like Gillian Anderson, she was wrong for the role. The acting was practically so lacadaisical as to be nonexistant. Costumes were disapointing compared to the wonderful detail given them in the book  On the whole a disapointing film. "},{"Title":"I mirthed have mithed it","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The Norse lured migrants to the glacier-laden island off northeast Canada with the misleading name Greenland.  Edith Wharton adds a similar touch to this post-Victorian New York upper-crust melodrama, The House of Mirth. Welcome to the snake pit where a thick skin, acid tongue and perhaps a sense of humor will get you through the day. Ms. Anderson (Lily) is on the make and violates most of the Edwardian principles in private and public. She also uses a more potent elixir to arm herself during her descent into the working class. Among the bloodless techniques used to aid Lily's decline, we see blackmail with an ironic twist, snobbish intrigue, adulterous ruses and fundamental denial from many directions. If you liked Lily, you might care about her being jilted in the bachelor pad, at the altar, stiffed by an aunt who took Lily in and turned her out (Can you spell pariah?). And through all her pecuniary dilemmas, she manages to include more wardrobe changes than Erin Brokovich. Ms. Anderson's performance is far from her more familiar role on the X-Files (where are those alien kidnappers when you need them). I left feeling that some of her lines should be rehearsed before delivered to the camera. And oh those memorable lines delivered To Lily - if you do anything, do nothing, and This scene has been extremely painful to me, (and us too). Lawrence Selden (Eric Stoltz), Lily's lover/lawyer will befuddle you as he plays the Me Commit??? game throughout the film. And George Dorset (Terry Kinney) longs for the Steppenwolf days, or maybe that's me? Gus Trenor (Dan Ackroyd) is the investor/adulterer and generally bad actor reprises his Joe Friday - which is probably his Ghostbusters  - role so there's no reason to go just to see him. Bertha Dorset (Laura Linnet) is wonderful in her backstabbingly best as the treacherous wife and major contributor to Lily's demise. I came looking for mirth and left saddened that I'm looking for it in all the wrong places. At least I have Ms. Anderson as good company.CrCy  "},{"Title":"Mirth Just Shy of Worthless","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I enjoy every glimpse into this time period that I can get.  That is one thing that saved this film from not being worth seeing.Others Gillian Andersen is good.  Not outstanding, but good, and I liked seeing a bit more of her range.  In the beginning she seemed so utterly shallow, through an unreflecting vanity and coyness, that her later shift to wanting to marry for love seemed abrupt and nonsensical.  Some of that I attribute to the directing.  She portrayed the awkwardness of the Edwardian rich girl trying to work very well, but her moments of tears and deepest emotion seemed pushed and maybe overacted.  Jodhi May, in her role of Grace, carried her griefs off with a lot more naturalism.The costumes and scenery were nice, but I didn't like some of the shooting.  There was a quality to it that made me feel boxed into the wrong viewpoint, as if more interesting things might be going on elsewhere in the space.The movie starts off with some coy, game-playing dialogue between Lily Bart and Laurence.  We dont know or care about the characters yet, and they are speaking in extremely vague terms about things unknown or uncared about as yet.  Nothing in what they say holds my interest, or causes me to begin to care in the first few minutes.  This could have changed, but unfortunately, a lot of the first half of the movie carries on in this way short scenes with vague snippets of dialogue that I dont always understand or care about.  By the time I could have become engrossed, too much damage was already done, and I was awaiting the end of this 2 1/2 hour long debacle of a woman who makes decisions bad enough to put an end to Darwinistic theory.  "},{"Title":"The story of a very silly woman!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Even though the all the reviews I have read for this film have started by wondering why Gillian Anderson was chosen as the lead, I am inclined to do the same. She is very lovely and the part called for a beautiful woman, but I felt that she was overacting (something didn't quite gel) and that took the edge off the film for me.  Dan Ackroyd, also, was wrong for his part. The setting of the film in Edwardian times was very good with everything just as one would imagine it to be. What a lot of snobby people are portrayed by Edith Wharton.  Overall the film is beautiful.  A sad tale of a silly woman who should have known better, the scenes are  at times breathtaking and I particularly liked the scrolling pattern of the title frames - that was very ingenious. The cinematographer should be congratulated once again on a job very well done. I have given it 8/10 and would recommend it to anyone who likes period pieces. "},{"Title":"Is it really more than just a costume drama?  Not much ..............","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful sets, good performances but still felt like little more than a costume melodrama, as we steadily regress from the merely depressing to ultimate tradgedy.It somehow sustained my interest for as long as the movie ran, but in the end, what was I left with?  Not a not to think or talk about, really. Except maybe a view that sticking to principle has its limits in the face of obvious self-destruction. "},{"Title":"The House of Misfits","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS! DON'T READ!In the first shot of the movie, we see a uncomfortable character walking. It gets more uncomfortable when we see she doesn't know how to speak by the rules. So she acts another character. But only in the first scene. Little by little, we see that she was going through some changes in her mind, before the movie begins. And she made her resolution, despite some doubts during her despair. We know that she had lost a great deal of money (and so her financial independence) in gambling. Particularly in Bridge, you know? That game that we are supposed to speak after the deal and before the playing itself. In order to be acquainted of your partner's game and by consequence your adversaries, too. But she didn't have the touch to play the game. It was too embarrassing for her playing by those rules. But at the beginning of the movie, she's really interested to know how to play by the rules. Unfortunately, she is quickly stopped by others who can't imagine her in that role. And she falls deeply. And it's her frailty in facing her determinations that eventually leads her to death. Whether it's suicide or misconduct it's up to her.This slow-paced but staggering movie shows how thin is human relationships when it comes wanting to have a position and what it takes to climb at. No need to talk much as we all know how the world was at that time and how it still is. But at least we understand (do we really?) the perspective of a misfit (or misfits) in this world. And a female one. We know that it's possible to be health-minded and still wanting that as it shows on Elisabeth McGovern's character (Welcome back, dear Elisabeth!). The dialogues in this movie are terrific and the acting is superb in every character. Gillian Anderson may seem uncomfortable (I confess that in the first shot I was expecting that she pulled a gun and say F.B.I. Freeze!) but it is its tragic and suffered performance that give credit to its character. And Gillian is really wonderful as she showed in the X-Files and Playing by Heart. "},{"Title":"eh","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Usually, dialogue movies are my favorite type of movie, yet this was not the movie for me. It seemed to me that the jokes and so-called witticisms lacked hilarity, which caused the author to attempt to make up for this lack with big words; it didn't work. Also, although it's a dialogue movie, it should have at least some plot worth watching. I was somewhat annoyed at the substance of this tragedy a wealthy woman loses all her money gambling and must degrade herself by getting a job, oh my! I was all too happy when the tragic ending bore its fruits.  "},{"Title":"It's not everything you've heard.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I was a bit surprised after learning that Gillian Anderson was in this movie, and that it was supposed to be pretty good, that I found myself not really enjoying it.  I like Gillian Anderson movies, and I enjoy watching her on screen, but I couldn't say either of those things about this particular one.  The House of Mirth is a period piece, set in 1905 and involves a nauseating amount of characters, all with a different personal agenda, and all with different cards to play. But while there are several characters, the plot basically revolves around Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson), a well to do, good looking woman.  There aren't many things worse in the world than a woman who knows how good looking she is, and she does, and she uses it to her advantage.  Lily gets away with things that other women can't, until it eventually catches up with her.  She loses her money and her good name because of few little indiscretions, and is left with some decisions to make.  She must decide how to play her cards, knowing that they will affect her life and the lives of several of the other players.I'll be the first to admit that this is a rather brief and strange plot summary of the movie, but I just can't see it any other way.  Some might characterize this as the love that was never meant to be, as seen in Shakespeare in Love, and others might see the attempts of a woman to control her own destiny, as in Dangerous Beauty.  I'll admit that I saw aspects of both of those movies here, but I really saw a movie about one woman deciding if she wants to destroy the lives of others just to raise her own.  I looked at this as more of a poker game of life rather than a love story, and perhaps that might explain why I wasn't as impressed as many of the other critics who saw this.  As far as the rest of the movie goes, nothing really stands out.  The acting is decent, and the writing was fairly good, but I did have one glaring problem to report about both.  When dealing with period based movies, there has to be a line drawn between representing things as they were, and representing things that can be understood by today's society.  Shakespeare in Love did an excellent job in drawing that line as to highlight the best of both worlds.  The dialogue and accents in that movie weren't 100% Shakespearean, but it helped relate things to the current audiences that wouldn't understand it if it were.  The House of Mirth didn't draw that line so well.  I've no doubt that this is a very accurate picture of what society must have been like during the early 1900's, but that doesn't mean I could follow it.  The dialogue and accents here are good, but it's really quite hard to follow the plot and innuendos of the characters when they aren't speaking the same language as you do.  In those regards, Terence Davies, the writer and director, failed miserably.  I guess you could look at it in the perspective of such other movies as the Insider or Traffic.  Both of those movies went for the real heart of what they were showing, the critics loved them, the Oscar Committees nominated them, but they were a bit hard to watch at times.  They focused more on the content and making them original, rather than making the movie enjoyable for the masses, and they aren't very entertaining movies as a result.  That's exactly what I saw in this case.  The critics will love it, but quite a few of the people who see this, and are honest with themselves, will probably be checking their watches a lot, and wondering if their car is safe in the parking lot.  As far as movies go, it's not a bad one, but it is long, and it does get boring at times.  "},{"Title":"a slow moving depressing production","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A slow, stoney, depressing languid look back at New York high society at the turn of the 19th-20th century.  We could barely sit through it.  But we kept waiting for something real to happen.  Instead it was just drawing room after drawing room.  The only redeeming quality was the photography which was beautiful. "},{"Title":"An incomprehensible failure of a film","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  House of Mirth is one of those slice of life stories that leave you wondering.  Wondering, that is, what you were thinking when you decided to watch this monotonous, slow, and incomprehensible failure of a film.Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson X-Files) is a turn of the century women who can't seem to find her way in the upper classes of the painfully socially correct.  She wants to play the game of the idle rich, but wants to play it by her rules.  She wants to be naughty enough to be noticed, but not so naughty as to be ostracized.Finding her finances declining, it is clear that she needs to find a husband who will keep her in the manner to which she wishes to become accustomed. But, she admits that men either fear her or detest her.  They are right to do so.  She proves over and again, despite the films attempts to get the audience to feel sorry for her, that she can't commit to anyone or anything except her own comfort.She finds that others play the game with greater skill, but she refuses to change her ways.  As she slides down through the social classes, eventually having to take employment she clings to her feigned dignity like the soiled and ragged garment she has turned it into.  It is not a pretty picture and, since it leads nowhere, is utterly without point in her life or to the audience.Near the end of the film she does one truly good thing in her life.  That noble gesture, however, becomes twisted in her own mind into an act of futility, desperation and defeat.  Clearly, this woman is so mentally ill that noble self-sacrifice and conceited flirtations are seen inverted in the mirror of her mind's eye.Compounding this intolerable boorish character is the stifled and stilted language of the film.  Supposedly the dialogue is written using the phraseology and grammar of the turn of the century American aristocracy. It's not clear that this is clear.  It sounds like the language of British upper class twits of the same era.  It seems unlikely that independent minded Americans would have dared to have sounded so painfully English.Even if the language usage is correct, using period specific language has a place and a time, but this prose (if it may dared be called such) isn't Shakespeare.  It's lethargic and uninspired.  This forced languages adds another layer separating the audience from the characters.Another barrier created by the film is time.  Long, long scenes of houses, rooms, forests, streets, etc. go by with no sound, no dialogue, no action. Yet, in another scene we suddenly shift from Lily having a tense and tearful discussion with her cousin to seeing Lily taking orders from an older upper class woman and jotting her instructions into a book.  We learn, later in the scene, that Lily is now in the employ of this older woman.   How this change, a step down the social classes from the idle rich to the working class of household servants, is never explained.Finally, the cinematography is beautiful, but deeply flawed.  A lengthy scene is shown of water playing off the bow of a yacht, but also includes a painful glaring image of the sun reflecting in the water.  Another scene shows a delightfully appointed formal dining room, with floral arrangements blocking the faces of the central characters.  And, while the movie is shot largely on location, several of the yacht scenes show amateur blue screen effects where the background does not move with the foreground as the camera shifts.In sum, there is nothing to recommend this film.  "}{"Title":"Good film, but not great","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I had been waiting for this film to come out for two years, and although I enjoyed it, I must admit I was a little disappointed.  Despite what other reviewers have said, I thought Gillian Anderson was miscast.  Maybe it is because I have been watching her in the X-Files for so many years, or maybe it is because I have read Edith Wharton's novel, but I just couldn't buy her as Lily Bart.  She did do a pretty good job, though, except for one atrocious crying scene at the end that was poorly acted and completely out of character (I can't remember if this was in the book, but I doubt it). The storyline itself, although it contained all the typical Wharton-esque elements of a constraining society, star-crossed lovers, and a tragic ending, left something to be desired.  At the end, I found myself wondering what the Hell was the point of all this suffering.  That may not be the fault of the movie, though, because I remember having a similar feeling at the end of the book.  It was however an engaging and thought-provoking film, with a sharp indictment of early 20th century society and women's role in it.  Perhaps those who have not read the book, or either of Wharton's two superior novels The Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome, will enjoy it more than I did. "},{"Title":"In tradition of classic adaptations, beautifully shot and produced, yet ultimately banal and too abridged for its own good.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The costume design and art direction will take your breath away.  Also note a sharp, yet too brief, turn by Laura Linney as Bertha.  Gillian Anderson is quite strong in the role, but her demise is not deep enough to send me reaching for my tissue box.  While the social issues raised are still poignant today, this film remains merely a pictoral artifact of the novel's existence.  I was ultimately confused and even disinterested at times by the script.  Dan Akyroyd, God bless him, does not work in this attempt to beat his Blues Brothers rap.           "},{"Title":"Bad acting, bad writing, bad directing.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie was an experiment gone bad. I've seen most of the actors in other projects where their acting abilities were  good, so I'm going to assume the blame lies with the director/writer. The acting was stiff at times and overdone at other times, especially when certain characters were forced to cry at times when it was really forced and not true to the character. The ending was obvious about halfway into the movie, and at one time the lead character is referred to as stupid - that's correct. She doesn't do what she should be doing, she wallows around in a stupor instead with the audience wondering why she doesn't get smarter and fix her situation - she certainly has the ability. Any good story has the lead character go through something wherein there is a learning process and this is the main reason why this story doesn't work. The character gets weaker and weaker; and the final scene (with the emotional outburst) is laughable.  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointed","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" As someone who has read the book and enjoyed it immensely I was looking forward to seeing the film. However, the very first moment of the movie, when we see Lily Bart I got really confused. I remember reading the first chapter, in which Wharton described her as stunningly beautiful, charming and blonde. I'm sorry but this was completely ruined by the actress. The way she talked and moved was extremely annoying, not to mention she was hardly beautiful, what is wrong with her mouth??? When reading the book I imagined someone like a hybrid between Grace Kelly and Veronica Lake. A graceful, sublime beauty. Not this annoying woman. The same goes for Seldon. Wasn't he supposed to be handsome too? Dear god, who the hell cast these people? This alone managed to ruin the movie for me. I would urge anyone to read the book, since it's masterfully written. But the movie is an abomination. Once again, Lily was meant to be a stunner!!!!! "},{"Title":"Is this the Emperor has no clothes phenomena?","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I am astounded this movie got so many good reviews. I think it might have something to do with the theme which addresses the sometimes cruel lack of choices for women in the early 1900's.  And I DO get it that the characters were all, well, repressed.  But I think they would still at least seem to be talking to each other.  I swear my first impression was that this sounded like a read-through of a script where the actors sit around a table and read aloud without lending too much realism to the dialogue. Some of the lines were actually kind of unintentionally funny. "},{"Title":"not without value, but too dawdling","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  There's precious little mirth in `The House of Mirth,' a complex, though sluggishly paced, study of Victorian Era morality (though, technically, this film is set a few years after that time, during the first decade of the 20th century).  `The House of Mirth' was Edith Wharton's first novel and, although I much prefer her later works like `The Custom of the Country' and `The Age of Innocence,' this maiden effort is not without its virtues.Like many of the Henry James novels upon which Wharton consciously patterned her own, `The House of Mirth' is a harsh indictment of the class-consciousness and false values that permeated life for the well-to-do class during that era.  It casts a scathing eye on a society that offered so few opportunities for women, yet demanded that they live up to such an impossibly high standard of behavior.  In the story, Lily Bart (Gillian Anderson) comes to experience the subtle brutality of this tea-and-crumpets world, where favors come with hefty price tags of compromised virtue, where one's position of comfort can be suddenly obliterated at the whiff of a scandal or the utterance of a rumor, and where trusted friends, in such a case, can be the first to abandon one on the shoals of poverty - all in the cause of social expediency.  Taken as a bare-boned story, `The House of Mirth' is really quite interesting &#150; especially in its later, darker section wherein we see Lily stripped of all her social connections and forced to try to make her way in a world that has been designed to block her every move.  She becomes quite a sympathetic figure as the movie goes along.  But how long it takes us to get to the point where we really care!  For long stretches of this film, we find ourselves wishing it would at least pick up the pace somewhat.  We know that the film is not intended to be a fast-moving work, but `The House of Mirth' often confuses slowness and drabness with high drama and art.  Only in the latter stages, where the character connections finally fall into place and where Lily's plight becomes one with which we can identify, does the film truly pique our interest.The casting also seems quite problematic at times.  Anderson does a find job conveying the wistful sadness of Lily at the end of the film, but her hangdog expression seems inappropriate in the early scenes.  Eric Stoltz is far too much of a milquetoast as the man who might save her and Dan Akroyd is nothing short of an embarrassment as an older married friend who makes a move on Lily in exchange for some badly needed cash.`The House of Mirth' makes some profound statements about the plight of women living at the last turn-of-the-century.  I'm just not sure how relevant it is to women living at THIS turn-of-the-century &#150; except perhaps to show them how much better they have it now. "},{"Title":"Tedious costume drama","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I was amazed to read some viewers' comments on Gillian Anderson's range of emotion in this film. I can only assume that their level of expectation was very low -- it's definitely a greater range than Arnold Schwarzanegger, true, but beyond that? The *character* she plays is interesting in her shallowness, her abysmal judgment, and her complete lack of spine, but Anderson inhabits the character like a shroud. Someone, somewhere, apparently convinced the actress that her character had to speak through a clenched jaw for 140 minutes.One would certainly hope that a film set in this period would be visually enchanting, and it is. Lots of gorgeous dresses, gorgeous rooms, a gorgeous yacht, and blah blah blah. A cast of thoroughly unlikeable characters doesn't help. "},{"Title":"Total waste of time..","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Do not bother with this total waste of time. Does not compare to Merchant Ivory masterpieces. Lead actress of the sleep-inducing X-files bores to tears. Andersen's performance could not get me interested in this tedious mess. Put Julianne Moore here or for that matter anyone but Andersen. "},{"Title":"Not Merchant Ivory.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The genre of costume drama, taken from renown Literature, is a very tricky business, I guess. This film seemed at the outset to have all the ingredients of a winner. The art direction was stunning and just perfectly appropriate to the period. The look of the film, with mellow light and dusty interiors, was captivating. But, unfortunately, all that carved mahogany and walnut was less wooden than Gillian Anderson, who was also suitably curvaceous and pretty. I kept visualizing Emma Thompson just to get through it. Another notable thud was heard whenever Dan Akroyd appeared on screen. Terry Kinney and Laura Linney were doing what needed to be done with these socially constipated rich of the period. Eleanor Bron was well chosen for Lily's aunt, but she and Anderson did not seem to be able to make any music together. Jodhi May was excellent, as was Eric Stoltz, but their excellence, in the presence of Ms. Anderson's halting recital of lines seemed wasted. By the end of the film, I was ready to go out and buy Lily whatever amount of opiate it would take for me to be free go home. I wondered at one point if David Mamet would have written a better screenplay of this particular story, after enjoying his screenplay of The Winslow Boy. I enjoyed Mr. Davies' Distant Voices, Still  Lives, but this film was a visually attractive disappointment. "},{"Title":"For those who missed having a Hou Hsiao-hsien movie this year...","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" ....they can take comfort in Terence Davies' sepulchral adaptationof Edith Wharton's almost unbearably moving novel about a proudwoman of New York society (Gillian Anderson) who is pushed intoan ever tighter series of circumstantial boxes.Davies seems to have studied the two masterly modern films inthis mode, Kubrick's BARRY LYNDON and Scorsese's THE AGEOF INNOCENCE; and indeed, his film, made on a fraction ofeither's budget, manages to be as studied and deliberate as bothcombined. (Davies' necessary corner-cuttings are sometimes asheartbreaking as the story--as when Laura Linney and Andersonplay a yacht-deck scene on an obvious soundstage covered indrapes.) But for all the microscopically injected subtleties ofsubtext, one is never moved by this story--one senses merelyDavies' desire to solicit applause for his many elegant turns ofphrase. (The touches become Oxford-donnish. Putting Soave ilvento from Cosi fan tutte behind shots of Anderson's shutteredhouse? Does irony get more academic?) And in the end, one has to admit--painfully, shamefully--that GillianAnderson, who seems to be giving the role of Lily Bart every atomof her possibilities, comes across as the redhead they got whenthey couldn't afford Julianne Moore. I wish her well in herpost-Duchovny era, and I wish Julianne Moore had made thismovie instead of EVOLUTION. "}{"Title":"From Toronto International Film Festival Screening","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  House of Mirth Directed by Terence Davies This is an adaptation of a 1905 novel and maybe it should have been adapted a little farther. Better still maybe it should have been left alone.In a nutshell Gillian Anderson plays a young socialite of low means who is trying to marry rich but is frustrated by her love of a young man who is carrying on an affair with a married friend. Her character is so tragically in love with this man she sacrifices everything by accepting a scandalous disgrace rather than reveal the proof she has of the affair.While it's nice to see a film that does not unrealistically portray the position of women in the past and chooses instead to show the genuine struggles women went through this film doesn't do it in an engaging way. The main character is so weepy and spineless while all those around her take horrible advantage of her its hard to care. The dialogue occasionally shines when one can clearly recognize the clever line lifted directly from the original work; it is flat most of the rest of the time. It's hard to assess the acting when the rolls seem so unappealing. Anthony Lapagia is the only person to stand out both for acting and playing a character with some real sense. The chemistry between Anderson and Eric Stolz as her love interest is so lacking it is impossible to understand why this love is worth sacrificing a cab ride let alone one's entire life. Oh and after only a few days ago commenting on the refreshing turn Dan Ackoyd's career had taken with him playing a wealthy sex-obsessed sleazeball in Stardom I was astonished to see him playing an almost identical roll here!Perhaps worst of all the film rarely allows any moments of candor. The beauty of Dangerous Liasons was the shift between polite conversation and brutal honesty. Here honesty is all but totally lacking and film is poorer for it. Perhaps in 1905 these conversations were scandalously candid, now they are a yawn.I found myself checking my watch constantly and, after 2 hours and 15 increasingly excruciating minutes, I was `forced' to leave the theatre in time to make it to my next screening. I cannot even comment on whether the ending satisfactorily redeemed the movie. Given, however, that the movie seemed historically accurate up to that point and no plagues or disasters ravaged New York in 1905 that would suitably explain killing off the entire cast of characters I rather doubt it could have been redeemed. "},{"Title":"Ugh... I struggled to see this to the end.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Compelling? Not to me - quite a common story. Dramatic? I was waiting for the drama.I could foresee the outcome of every scene in this trite story. I couldn't feel anything for Lily or her suitors. The actors did their best with a boring script and with characters who deserved no sympathy. Eric Stolz really needs to be cast more often is he purposely on hiatus? Laura Linney continues to earn my respect; she is one of the finest actors today.I don't know why I saw this to the end - I really have to learn when to quit.  "},{"Title":"The House of Girth?","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Below Is A review that I completed for my Film Studies A Level there are 2 minor spoilers but I hope you find this an interesting read.The House of Mirth is a period piece based on the classic novel by Edith Wharton.  On hand talent is provided by the likes of Gillian (X Files) Anderson, Dan (Ghostbusters) Akroyd.  Other faces you may recognise are Eric Stoltz, Elizabeth Mcgovern and quite a few more.The House of Mirth's story is a complex long winded one set in the early 1900s. Anderson plays a single successful 'well to do' lady in her late twenties who has everything she wants bar a husband.  Her success does not last for ever as her money soon begins to run out (this is just one of her many problems) so Dan Akroyd helps her out by investing money on her behalf but this back fires on her when she finds out that she owes him money and he wants payment in kind.  Another problem of Lilly's (Anderson) is that she is not getting younger and she is trying to find a potential husband but this backfires as she is having an on off flirtation with a smarmy but dashing gentleman (Eric Stoltz).  All of this grandiose story is wrapped up and served on a pretentious plate by critically acclaimed director Terence Davis, well know in intellectual circles for Distant Voices and Still Lives to name but two.Now obvious comparisons will be made to the Jane Austin-esque novel but this is of no concern to us as we are only saying how the film stands on it's own, as a film.  The House of Mirth is in one word disappointing.  From such an experienced director you should expect more cinematically exciting visuals.  There is, however, one point where this omission is briefly discarded.  Before a location shift to Monte Carlo, we are dazzled by an excellent array of flowing water and flickering lights.  Another applaudable feature of this film is the excellent Akroyd who, considering the material he had to work with, gives us the most interesting, but under used character of the film.  Alas these are but two roses in a sea on excrement covered thorns.  Now if the first section of this review had you confused as to what the film's premise is, you are forgiven, as the bitter truth is that when you see the film you will be so bored by it's sheer dull plodding story. You will get bored and your mind will wander and you wont know what is going on within one and a half hours.  The House of Mirth has no mirth or indeed any kind of merriment, even though they have one of Hollywood's greatest comic actors.  If there was some kind of intellectual undercurrent of witty comment on modern society I missed it.It is not Terence Davis' fault that this film is a disappointment, even though the fades between scenes are too long and the majority of camera work is stale.  The main problem with The House of Mirth is that the story is boring and the characters are lifeless.  The finger is firmly pointed at the story for not being exciting or even interesting.  Anderson does work hard at playing her role but the harsh truth is that she is a few years past playing this sort of character.  Personally I did not care what happened to self-pitying, false, pretentious Lily Bart.  You may feel I have been a bit hard on this film, but how about asking what the four people who walked out of the screening thought about the 'film'.  Some people may feel The House of Mirth is a masterpiece other people may not.  Maybe if this was not on at the cinema and instead was shown over a few Sunday nights on BBC 1 it might have come across as a little better, but as a film it did not cut the mustard and in the opinion of this reviewer The House of Mirth is at best an extremely effective insomnia cure. "},{"Title":"There is *no* Mirth. None whatsoever.","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This was the absolute *Worst* movie I've ever watched. Yes, the scenery was nice, the costuming was fairly good, and the story line may have been a realistic portrayal of the powerlessness of women in that time period. However, the movie was not quite as exciting as watching paint dry, and significantly more depressing. Sooooo terribly Boring! And did I mention, depressing? How about depressingly boring? Imagine something like a root canal, without the fun and excitement, but lasting for hours on end. I couldn't muster the willpower to care about the characters, hoping that somehow the plot would lead *somewhere* - but it didn't. Last but not least, let's face it, the accents didn't cut the mustard. If you consider Jane Eyre to be an edge-of-your-seat action/adventure novel that you just couldn't put down, then this movie is for you! Everyone else, *please* do yourself a favor - don't watch this movie! If you ignore my review and watch it anyway, and if you have the fortitude to stay awake to the end, and if you manage not to hang or eviscerate yourself out of sheer depression, you will still curse yourself for not heeding this warning and wasting almost 2 & 1/2 hours of your life! "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I was really excited about seeing this film because I love movies set in the period, but boy was it a let down.  It was like watching a high school play. Nobody could act.  I can understand why Gillian Anderson isn't around anymore.  Eric Stoltz was its only saving grace.  I had to fast forward thru non-speaking parts, it was that bad.  "},{"Title":"Edith Wharton turns in her grave","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" If you want to see this movie because of an interest in Edith Wharton's novel- you will sadly disappointed. The film merges distinctly differing characters, changes locations and timings of events, and adds material that Wharton would have found distasteful. The themes of the novel are completely lost within this tragic rendition. I will grant that the costumes were beautiful and the director made some interesting, if not always successful, choices with the mode of acting. If one has no interest in the novel, he or she might very well enjoy this terse yet pneumatic performance. If you have any interest in maintaining the dignity of the original, however, I would suggest spending your time on another film. "},{"Title":"Interminable","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Saw this film recently on TV. It started off well enough - I mainly spent my time trying to identify the painters used as models for the composition (Tissot, Monet, Whistler, etc.). However there are only so many lovely Edwardian frocks one can admire.....The actors all seemed to live in an alternative universe where time stretches out endlessly (one of their minutes equals 2 of ours...) apart from Gus and Mr. Rosedale. There were a number of baffling points - that I haven't seen addressed here - although I have not read all the reviews. 1. The letters why did the cleaning lady bring the letters to Lily when they were signed by Bertha?how did the cleaning lady know who Lily was and where she lived? Was it the usual practice for young ladies to have one hundred dollars (presumably a very large sum at the time) about their person - Lily didn't even need to go to another room to fetch the cash... 2. How come Lily, a young lady living with her aunt, went all on her own to the opera with 2 men - neither of which was related to her? This seems very odd to me - after all one's reputation was very fragile I can't imagine this happening in Edwardian times. 3. Why did Lily not sell her earrings if she was short of cash? 4. Who was the duchess and why should she be invited to dinner - to impress who?? All in all, while the film seemed to drag on for ever none of the characters was properly developed and we kept meeting new and mysterious people. the whole story was quite uninvolving since we didn't really know who anyone was or their position in society. I assume Mrs Fisher was a lower rung than Bertha of the large yacht - as evidenced by her sloppy way of sitting! Lily comes across as a very silly person - but I think we're meant to sympathise with her. Selden meanwhile is just a rather smug lawyer - he never says anything amusing or interesting - and yet is not even a reprobate. "},{"Title":"This is a time waster","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  While I concur with the comments about Gillian Anderson's considerable beauty and acting, the direction of this film was so bad that nothing could have saved it.  It is ponderous, it looked more like a play than a movie, with terrible scene transitions.  It was stilted and its flow was herky jerky - If you must, watch it for Ms. Anderson - or maybe, like many others have mentioned, read the book first - otherwise save yourself some time and skip it. "},{"Title":"Laugh?  I didn't.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Not for me at all I'm afraid.  Must be a Woman thing.  House of Mirth falls into the Wella category of film - all Head & Shoulders.  My co-viewer reminded me at length that that sort of thing still goes on.  I'm afraid I was asleep.  I struggled to formulate what that sort of thing was. "},{"Title":"Impressive externals, but much that is missing","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The House of Mirth is in some ways a remarkable period film, the story of a young woman's gradual decline from the spotlight of 1905 New York society to humiliation and defeat a couple of years later. Gillian Anderson turns in a compelling performance in the lead as this young woman, Lily Bart. But, as has been noted by others who've read Edith Wharton's novel, this is not a fully successful literary adaptation.The book is over five hundred pages long. To deal with such complexity, the writers have sliced it into tableaux, which give an imperfect idea of the narrative, and many details of character and incident are oversimplified, including the omission of a key figure, Gerty Farish, the humble friend of Selden who represents what Lily fears becoming herself. Still, various characters appear lacking in context. The book is just too complicated to be turned into a feature film. Despite the fact that certain scenes and dialogue are followed quite literally, a great deal of explanatory material has of course been lost. Along with this blunting of the richness of the book, the cast isn't strong enough, and in some places is disappointing. The lovely look of the film, its very authentic locations and costumes, can't make up for these two huge flaws. Davies said he picked Gillian Anderson because she looked like a Sargent painting and at times she does, but unfortunately she has to act; she's not quite capable of conveying all the nuances of Lily's personality, and besides, is not the dazzling and delicate beauty Wharton clearly describes her as being. At times she looks almost plain. Further, the screenplay fails to convey that Lily was not just unlucky in cards and unwilling to do what was necessary to pay her debts but also a lavish spender on clothes and baubles and enormously spoiled.As the all-important Lawrence Selden, the respectable but not wealthy enough lawyer Lily loves but feels she cannot marry, Eric Stoltz is flabby, a washout. All he's good at is looking smart in his period costumes and wavy red hair, and smoking cigarettes. Selden is far too important a character to be so weak there needs to be strong chemistry between him and Lily and he needs to be compelling and magnetic not vacuous and pretty.For a novel about society, the film is at times badly off on details of manners, which must be conveyed first of all by good casting. Even if this is his finest role to date (Hoberman), Dan Ackroyd is nonetheless inadequate. Gus Tremor is a man of high society who is rich, fat, and boorish. Ackroyd as Gus is adequate only for the fat and boorish part; he doesn't suggest a person to the manor born. One of the embarrassing ironies is that while Sim Rosedale's Jewishness, central to the novel and an aspect of Wharton's own conventional anti-Semitism, is suppressed and converted by vague implication into Italianness with the casting of LaPaglia, an obviously Jewish actress is introduced, in the anti-Semitic climate of this narrative, in the person of Eleanor Bron to play Lily's aunt. That might be justified if the actress were good, but Ms. Brun's performance is a crude caricature. She plays Mrs. Julia Peniston, Lily's Aunt as a wicked witch rather than the disapproving prude of the novel. Something seems off in the conception of Lily's cruel nemesis, Bertha Dorset. Laura Linney, who has the role, is a good actress. But in her key scene she seems more gleefully spiteful than coolly calculating, not an appropriate attitude given the gravity of her own situation. This is a weakness in Davies' direction, surely one of many. He captures the big arc of Lily's decline effectively and there is drama and shock in Lily Bart's rapid decline as dramatized by Ms. Anderson; but do we ever understand it? As on other occasions when wonderful novels have been adapted into films that capture the outlines but miss the core, we can only recommend read the book. "}{"Title":"The House of Yawns","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie really tested my patience.  I make it a point not to walk out of movies.  The House of Mirth was as close as I've come in the last 5 years.  A big fat cup of who cares. "},{"Title":"The Dearth of Mirth","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Before the adaptation of a novel into a motion picture, many aspects of that story must be considered.  Though many great books have been written, most will forever remain on the shelf and off the screen.  `Siddhartha The Movie,' for instance, will never come into being.The cost of bringing a particular piece of fiction to life is one such consideration.  The amount of dialogue and narration also influence a novel's adaptability.  And, of course, the story's public appeal comes under consideration.  If such guidelines are heeded to strictly, the success of the film lies only in the hands of its director.   If not, movies such as the adaptation of Louis de Bernieres' Corelli's Mandolin come about, in which seventy pages and a few main characters are entirely absent.  It goes without saying that `Captain Corelli's Mandolin' failed as film.  `The House of Mirth' should not have.Edith Wharton's 1905 The House of Mirth has all the makings of a good screenplay.  It is a period piece, and one with a limited number of settings, all of which are described in full detail; it is rich with fast-paced, well-written, subtly emotional dialogue and a limited-omniscient narrator who sees things almost always in chronological order (with a few carefully-placed flashbacks here and there); it is also a piece filled with entertaining dynamic characters and powerful, yet relevant, central themes and conflicts.  A trailer for the film could refer to the story as either `a forbidden romance' or `a young woman's emotional journey.'  And yet, supported by a barrage of marketable possibilities, Terence Davies' 2000 film, `The House of Mirth,' proves to be little more than two hours and twenty minutes of heavily concentrated tedium.  It is, beyond a doubt, far more painful to watch than a balding Nicolas Cage attempting to play a mandolin.The film opens, closes, and does most everything in between, as the novel does.  The problem arises, however, in that apart from plot the movie is entirely independent of Wharton's creation.  The effort which the writer put into the formation of characters, tone and theme seem to have been thoroughly ignored by those responsible for `Mirth.'  This is not an uncommon occurrence, sacrificing character development and even characters in order to fit in the maximum amount of plot.  Even established director Chris Columbus did it in his first `Harry Potter' film, so afraid that audiences would react badly to the absence of a scene that the movie was wildly from setting to setting, sprinkling meaningless dialogue and special effects where needed.  `Mirth,' in this sense, is quite similar to `Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,' though without giant trolls and magical fight sequences.  And so, without computer-created marvels to add necessary flare to the film, `The House of Mirth' is simply an empty shell and a poor excuse for a movie.The film follows Miss Lily Bart, played monotonously by Gillian Anderson, through her fall from artistocratic prosperity to impoverished disparity. This transition, however, is all but suppressed by Mr. Davies' apparent ineptitude in subtlety.  Lily, as Wharton portrays her, is a beautiful, intelligent, money-hungry `girl,' capable, through an almost superhuman ability to manipulate men, to get whatever she desires from the opposite sex.  Attesting to Wharton's skill, Lily's character is a complex one, and at her deepest layer lies the insecurity one would expect from any other unmarried twenty-nine year-old with no parents and large debts.  Mr. Davies, astoundingly, picks up on this hidden side of Lily and decides to make it a bit less hidden.  The result is the teary-eyed, heavily breathing Lily, which Anderson, armed with her trademark grimace, accurately portrays throughout the film.  This butchering of Bart, while perhaps somewhat helpful to the moviegoer incapable of making personal conclusions, leaves very little room for the change of self that the character must later undergo.This transformation comes as a result of a change in social and economic status, brought on by antagonists Bertha Dorset and Gus Trenor, plays, respectively, by Laura Linney and Dan Akroyd.  In an effort to bring realism into the film, Davies avoided relying on social stereotypes to create his characters.  This, however, was an unfortunate decision since Wharton relied heavily on the method, exaggerating her characters in an almost Dickinsian manner.  The result is a collection of bland, unremarkable characters with the capability to speak only in soft, stilted tones, among which lie the Lily's two adversaries.  Bertha, a cruel, catty adulteress, only appears uncomfortable, not condescending, during her scattered appearances, and is made remarkably likeable by Ms. Linney, who is clearly out of her element. Akroyd, on the other hand, fails to even create a character of Gus with line delivery reminiscent of a high school staging of Shakespeare.  Mr. Akroyd does not do the character, who Wharton portrays as a kind of contemporary Jabba the Hut, justice, having apparently lost the will to play an unflattering character somewhere between `Blues Brothers 2000' and Brittany Spears' `Crossroads.'  Like so many of his fellow SNL cast members, Mr. Akroyd should stay with comedy, or at least at home.Amid this downward spiral of Lily's life and Akroyd's career lies one of the most finely crafted romances contained in Wharton's writings.  It is between Miss Bart and Laurence Seldon (Eric Stoltz) and is filled with passion, pain and social commentary.  It is, in fact, the central story of the piece, beginning in the first chapter and enduring through the changing settings. It is odd, therefore, that Davies chose to downplay it as much as he did. He seemingly brings it up only often enough to keep it in the audience's consciousness, so that he may call upon it again to improve the denouement. Any passion which Wharton envisioned between the two characters is absent completely.  Instead, the relationship becomes the meaningless chatter and sudden kisses of an uncomfortable Anderson and overacting Stoltz.  Seldon, as the actor apparently understood him, is devoid of the charm and insight Wharton awarded him, and is instead a slick haired man with a top hat that speaks too softly and with the vocal inflection of Adam West.  Holy bad actor, Batman; Stoltz showed more emotion as pot-smoking `Bud' in `Fast Times at Ridgemont High' than as the unbearably gentile Laurence Seldon.Anthony LaPaglia, as the foul-turned-friendly Mr. Rosedale, shines as the one and only actor who apparently understood the lines he had to deliver. He shows both greed and compassion beautifully and asserts himself as a strong, versatile actor, despite Davies attempts to reduce his character. However, not even a game of Quidditch could save this movie and, sadly, his energy and depth are forgotten as soon as he leaves a scene.Throughout the film, relationships, events, and even characters are casually mentioned having never been prior introduced.  This is characteristic, however, of a short adaptation of a long book.  It is inexcusable, however, in an almost two-and-a-half hour movie, where time constraints arise only as the result of poor direction and scarce editing.  The deaths of Lily's parents, and with them a much needed explanation of Lily's mindset, could have easily replaced on of the two minute long scenery shots.  At one point, the audience is entreated to the result of a camera's tour of an empty house, with Mozart playing in the background.  Slow pans and slower fades also lead to the slow tone of the film, along with Davies' decision to replace Whitman's clever, fast pace dialogue with scenes comprised entirely of Ms. Anderson's far-off glances and heavy breathing.  The resulting tone contrasts dramatically with the rapidity of most period pieces about high society, such as that which worked so well for Robert Altman's `Gosford Park.'It is a sad fact that the last half-hour of film, when Anderson's acting and such tone and timing are appropriate to Lily's situation, has the semblance of a good film.  It is too little too late and only makes clear what the film could have been the whole time and yet clearly wasn't.  By the end of the film, I was left tired and depressed, though this was entirely independent of the film, or Lily's, ending.  `The House of Mirth,' was, in all truthfulness, the most boring and painful movie I have ever seen.Most films have something, not matter how insignificant, to offer their viewers.  In `Deep Blue Sea,' for example, a movie about a sea lab of good looking people being attacked by giant super-intelligent sharks, Samuel L. Jackson gets eaten.  Unfortunately, `Mirth' is without offerings, and neither Akroyd or Anderson are devoured by fish.At the end of `The House of Mirth,' Terrence Davies credits himself as having `written and directed' the picture.  This byline tells it all. `The House of Mirth' is not based on an Edith Wharton novel.  It is a weak and heartless attempt at a movie and was most likely adapted from Sparknotes.com rather than the original source.  If an adaptation is a reflection of how one person understood a novel, then it is clear the Terrence Davies did not understand The House of Mirth.  Read the book.`The House of Mirth' is rated PG (Parental guidance is suggested for young children) for its lack of adult concepts, such as sex, violence, and character development. "},{"Title":"Make up your Mind!!!","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so this is a sumptuously beautiful film. So the costumes and sets are rigorously period. So the manners are, on the surface, correct. This still doesn't work. I know there appear to be a substantial crowd of supporters, but that is perhaps because they, like this film, want to specially plead for self-destructive women to get the break no equally self-destructive man would even be considered for. Lily Bart is obnoxiously self-centered and casually wrecks several lives around her. She puts herself into terrible risk, both with her aunt and with Gus, then expects to be let off. When, as should be the case, there is no release without compensation (repentance and determination to amend herself in the future for her aunt, sleeping with him for Gus), she then begins the long descent because she refuses to bend or consider changing herself.So, this should work, right? It doesn't because this is a fundamentally unsympathetic position and yet the filmmakers insist we sympathize with her. Well, I don't play that game. Either you have her prevented by real and EXTERNAL forces and thus be unable to change, or you focus on her as a willing antisocialite, but not both. It's both for Davies and I turn thumbs down on the effort, if only for that.Besides, of all the actors only Eleanor Bron and Dan Ackroyd have any feel for the actual attitudes and sensibilities of the period. Eric Stoltz would like you to believe he does and Gillian Anderson doesn't even bother. This creates what supporters are calling a 'painterly' version. By that they must really mean 'frozen into a frame', when films like 'Tom Jones' make it clear you can do this and have action too. There's just no heart to this film and, while I don't insist on a eucatastrophe, I do insist on a consistent tone and some kind of progress to finality.Wish I could have gotten that here. "},{"Title":"Shakey Foundation","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This moved so slowly, with so little to hold attention that I compared it while watching to `Mansfield Park,' `Portrait of a Lady, ` and `Up at the Villa,'In short, the good is a very strong source story which hasn't been trampled too much. And it has two strong actresses Laura Linney and Jodhi May. The bad is the wildly uneven cinematography and the blunt skills of Aykroyd and Anderson. Some viewers commenting here actually like them. But to me, they are in clearly over their head. Compare what Frances O'Conner did with less good opportunity in Park. Dazzling. Even Liv Tyler in `Onegin,' no giant talent, owned her character with more depth than what we see here TeeVee acting, not the slightest nuance.On the other hand, take as a lesson how artlessly the period was used, even understood, in `Villa.' We have much the same feel as here, despite more show of costume. There and here is a dearth of the eye. One example the extraordinarily expensive and technically impressive boom shot at the opera, gives no emotional impression at all. Waste. The closeness of the boxes and the peering from one to another could have been strong. Completely missed.Go watch `Wings of a Dove' instead. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand this movie. I admit it. I don't understand any of Lily's motivations or her actions. I am at a loss to explain why this movie even exists. The acting, aside from Linney, McGovern, and Lapaglia, is barely above community theater standards. The direction is ponderous. The script is incomprehensible.I am angry that people are allowed to make this kind of movie - one that fools everyone into thinking it has something to say. I am outraged that it has won so much acclaim. Flabby, pretentious, sentimental claptrap. About as subtle as a warthog without all the charm. Not only should the best cut of this movie have been 40 minutes shorter, the kindest cut to the audience would have been to make it 140 minutes shorter. "},{"Title":"the most longbreathed movie ever","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I have never commented a movie at imdb before, but this time it was absolutely necessary.please do not visit this film. it is longbreathed, uninteresting and boring, boring, boring. I saw this film as an sneak preview (you do not know what film expects you) and I saw horror. now I know what hell looks like. the cast was a miscast. especially gillian anderson and dan akroyd spent most of their career with science fiction and comedy and do not fit in this film. also the co-starring (laura linney etc) was a miscast. so please do not visit this film.but if you visit it, then stay away from weapons, sleeping pills and your car - if you survive this film, you do not want to live longer any minute. "},{"Title":"Watchable, if somewhat stilted","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Although I didn't dislike this film entirely, it was somewhat disappointing.  I have not read the novel, but have read other novels by Edith Wharton.  Her novels create a certain atmosphere of early 20th century high-society New York.  It seemed that this film was trying to create that same atmosphere, but was not entirely successful.  The costumes and sets looked accurate, but I was disappointed in both Gillian Anderson and Eric Stoltz.  Anderson seemed stiff and not quite comfortable in the role... this surprised me because I had previously heard compliments on her performance in this film.  Eric Stoltz seemed immature and a bit too soft for the part he was playing.  However, some of the other actors were very good.  Laura Linney was great as Lily Bart's friend-turned-enemy.  I liked Dan Aykroyd's performance, too, and Anthony LaPaglia was particularly good as the somewhat kind, somewhat unsympathetic Mr. Rosedale.Despite some reservations about the acting, I managed to enjoy this film, and tears came to my eyes at the end.  It's not the most upbeat of films... but, from other comments on IMDb I see that it is faithful to the novel. "},{"Title":"House of Miscasts","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" As a long time fan of Wharton's complex novel satirizing the hypocrisy of late Victorian upper class society as crystallized in the downfall of the central heroine, I was bitterly disappointed by this movie that reduces Lily Bart to a weak hapless teary eyed pathetic social climber. In the movie as in the novel, Lily makes a lot of mistakes but in the novel Lily is clearly shown to be a sympathetic and highly moral character brought down by a morally corrupt gilded age that only values surface appearance and outward trappings of money and power.Gillian Anderson gives a brave performance in her role but unfortunately is misdirected and often falls into melodrama. Eric Stolz comes across as a weak one dimensional cardboard figure with none of the critical high-mindedness desperately needed for this role. Dan Akroyd thinks being in a period movie means walking through a scene as if wearing a back brace. Other characters come across as equally flat except for Elizabeth McGovern and Terry Kinney who give creditable performances. As for the director, he was absolutely absent.For a more enjoyable look at Wharton's critique of the Gilded Age, stick with Scorsese's The Age of Innocence. "},{"Title":"Horrific acting of a terrible screenplay. Book beats movie by miles.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I've seen a long time. Edith Wharton books are usually wonderful to see as movies for their translations into lush sets and delicious costumes. The screen version of Age of Innocence was well done and I expected this book to follow in those footsteps (yes, I know, different director and screenwriter). There was no room at all to enjoy the costumes and sets because the acting was like having to listen to someone dragging their nails down an chalkboard the entire film. Gillian Anderson is abyssmal as Lily Bart and you never see that a spark of intelligence, honor, morality or purity behind her silly facade. Eric Stolz is miscast and his squeeky voice makes him an unconvincing and unsympathetic Lawrence Selden. Watching this on DVD, I was able to learn that poor judgement in editing was what started this movie on the wrong foot, mis-setting the tone of Lily and Lawrence's relationship in Act 1, Scene 1. The viewer is never put into a position to see or understand the superficiality and hypocrisy of the society that Wharton critiques, and never comes to once sympathize with the two lead characters, whose nobility, integrity and morality are supposed to set them apart, draw them together, and then rip them apart again in the sea of deceit. Watching this, you'll want to slap Lily and kill her immediately -- to put yourself out of your misery for having poorly chosen to see this film -- which I must say was not the reaction one is supposed to have to this character, as you know if you've read the book. Waste of time. Had nightmares after seeing this acting nadir.  "},{"Title":"Good acting with terrible dialogue","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The acting in this beautifully shot movie was quite good, but unfortunately the script was terrible. Anderson, forced to roll out the majority of the ridiculously florid dialogue, occasionally struggled with it, but her emoting itself was good. Aykroyd and LaPaglia did a superb job acting and seemed to have no problems getting around the lines, but I must emphasize that the lines themselves were painful at times. Nobody speaks like that! Nobody ever did! The style fluctuated far too often between poetics and colloquialisms, many of the latter seeming entirely too modern for 1905.Personally, even though I am a huge LaPaglia fan, I don't know if I could stomach this movie again, wonderful though he is. I'm glad I merely rented it.  "}{"Title":"Why does anyone like this movie??","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I really can't begin to understand what people liked about this movie. I saw the movie at a local art theatre and really wished that I had been tired so that I could have fallen asleep. If I hadn't been there with a group of people I would have walked out (I never do that).It's not as if I have low taste in movies, either. I very often enjoy movies that others find dull. I often like witty dialog driven movies where plot and action take a back seat to character development.A big part of the problem was that I couldn't feel sorry for Anderson's character. She basically goes around whining about life and being pathetic because she can't be part of the snobbish aristocratic lifestyle of the idle rich. Furthermore, its entirely her own fault that she is in her situation. After realizing how desperate she is, she is presented with an opportunity to redeem herself and return to the life of luxury she so desires. Does she do anything about this? NO! Her character believes that this course of action is BELOW her, and decides not to do anything.This movie is memorable as one of the most painfully dull I have ever seen. I should've taken a valium before going to the theatre. "},{"Title":"Gag me with a pitchfork. (Not really.)","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie gave me a migraine.And don't go saying I'm biased against period films, because I'm definitely not. I just don't like this one.I don't recommend this movie, and it's not only because Dan Akroyd is in a PERIOD FILM... which should NEVER HAPPEN... it's also that it just really sucks. And the costumes are pretty, but as a friend of mine once said, Pretty package, no contents. Good acting, bad script. A puke-green Pinto with a four-cylinder engine. So if that doesn't make my point, what possibly can?Go rent Snatch. That's definitely a good movie.But this is not a good movie. So I'm going to be nice and give it 3/10. Just because Dan Akroyd was so friggin funny with a fake accent. O_o "},{"Title":"Truthfull so Painful (DVD)","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" When I bought this DVD nearly a decade ago, it was for Gillian Anderson, a formidable actress whom I met every week with X-files and for its settings in the Victorian time period.Now, I realize it was actually America and not Great-Brtitain, and discovering the majestic mansions of the movie, I understand actually why I appreciate this era old, baroque, stylish, expensive, classical, it's simply like my parents building! In addition, I admire the British composure polite, calm, soft even when it comes to say dreadful sayings! Some say they are hypocritical, I think instead they are highly civilized because they tame the beast inside all of us and can face hard arguments in a peaceful way! Concerning Gilian, she delivers an amazing portrayal but sadly, her character is for me intolerable too many bad memories arise! Her psychological test would conclude that she's among the narcissus kind. Having practiced it for 4 years, you feel useless and frustrated in front of a narcissus loved one! Indeed, the narcissus person is alone and faces a lot of problems! Thus, they flirt constantly to ask for help and they crush their prey after using! Their conduct is materialistic and not emotional and they are unable to show empathy or caring about others! They believe their daily life is far too different than ordinary life and they think that they are saint, perfect and pure person while in fact, they fall in bad habits. They ask for true love but can't give it anyway! I don't know anymore if I depicted the movie or my relationships, but with Douches Froides, this movie figures among my doom list, this is to say one viewing is enough because too accurate with my inner pains... "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Such a great book, such a horrible movie. This one is bad on the scale of the badness of the Keira Knightly in the latest Pride and Prejudice, and for the same reason - terrible casting. Gillian Anderson plays Lily exactly wrong in every way. Lily is a very light, self-contained character. Anderson plays her in this very heavy, overly enunciated, slow-speaking way that irritates me with every sentence. Why does she TALK like that? Every sentence takes twice as long as it should. And the heavy sobbing and yelling at the end - good Lord! Did she even READ the book? Lily would never have done that. Lily was like a butterfly; Anderson is like an elephant.Lawrence Seldon was similarly miscast; I would never have picked Eric Stoltz. Not that Seldon was a somewhat deep character - Stoltz has nothing to him. He's a total lightweight. And Dan Ackroyd! Where did HE come from? The aunt - another one who talks in this totally unnatural, stilted way. Ugh, I barely sat through it the first time in the theater, and just now on free cable I couldn't stand more than five minutes. Read the book. It's light years better than this mess. I don't know who cast this movie, but s/he should be fired. "},{"Title":"Tedious and slow adaptation of Wharton's masterpiece","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Edith Wharton's writing in House of Mirth is intense, vivid and insightful...all the things that are lacking in this slow-moving though sumptuously produced movie. It is shot in Scotland of all places, looking not at all like the Hudson Valley, with the wrong plants, the wrong birdsong, and nothing at all of the flavor of Wharton's New York, about which she wrote with such perception.The screenplay uses a lot of Wharton's dialogue, but, sadly, as is true of so many contemporary actors, especially Americans, those in this picture haven't the voices, diction or understanding to speak it well. This is literary dialogue, in long, complete sentences, which is the way educated people spoke in those times. Naturalistic readings of it simply do not work.It is the actors' lack of technique that really sinks this project. Besides lacking the voices to read the dialogue with some conviction, they none of them move well in the period costumes, or they gesture in ways that the people of this period would not have. They slump in their chairs, walk with awkward gaits and use their hands inappropriately to the time and place. These people, all upper class educated people, were taught to dance, move, speak well. They were all well-read, especially compared to our times, they spoke and read in languages other than their native American, and they traveled extensively. The actors in this piece never can show this, because they lack the technical means to do so. So the characterizations fall flat, the slow-moving plot is not fired by the actors playing the characters in it, and ultimately, the viewer loses interest. "},{"Title":"Best left alone...","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" If ever there was a flick calculated to annoy and depress,this is it.Short on dialogue and long on funereal settings,House of Mirth is anything but. Not that I expected a cackle-fest! Best acting can be blamed on Dan Ackroyd though.I thought things were warming up when he appeared.No such luck. I really would have liked the pretentious heroine to have become,a scheming blackmailer,rich,beyond her wildest dreams and the toast of New York!But it was not to be.She was,in her own word,useless.Without any ability to marshal resources offered by friends,this lass's fate was sealed. To all 21st century young ladies who now think a kick*ss attitude will get them through life-beware,take heed of Lillie's fate. "},{"Title":"I'm Sure They Had Good Intentions","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I remember walking out of the theater in confused disgust after viewing Apocalypse Now, disconcertingly aware that a pretentious, aimless, even dopey, film had been parasitically grafted to Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness. Coppola's film featured stereotypical press corps fellatio, including a camera laden idiot played by Dennis Hopper, a besotted Brando, whose intellect was exclusively represented by a still shot of a pile of mostly harmless, liberal books -- in lieu, I suppose, of any exertion at acting on his behalf, but with a hefty purse, nevertheless.At least, I told myself, I will not -- ever -- have to come across anything like it, again. In my life.And then, I viewed this peculiar hybrid of plagiarism and idiocy, and another slice of innocence was burned away.First, let me admit that I have not read House of Mirth, nor have I any intention whatsoever of doing so. What I say here, therefore, has solely to do with this film and nothing to do with Edith Wharton's work, in any sense.I was appalled, if not surprised, by the numbers of the uninformed and unaware who have strenuously worked their keyboards on behalf of this innocuous, but truly execrable, film.Never mind that the acting is -- monotonously and without exception -- wretched, or that Gilliam worshipers, escaped somehow from the fog of the X-Files, have turned out in their unthinkable thousands to publicly smooch this deformed bauble; never mind that Eric Stoltz -- deservedly called brilliant in Mask -- was absolutely clueless in every category of acting skill, in this film.Never mind all of that, which is obvious and not worth discussing, but add this House of Mirth is a condensed, abridged, pamphlet-scale version of Flaubert's masterpiece, Madame Bovary. Emma's best, and most boring, hope for marriage, whom she spurned; her male benefactors demanding the price of her flesh for her debts, her scrambling from one mistreated lover or friend or shop-keeper to another, and finally, to her suicide by poison.This observation cannot possibly be original to me -- but I have not read it anywhere. If no one in the crowd of mainly X-Files viewers bothered to see this film at all, I have no doubt that thousands of literary critics have -- surely -- noted the literary plagiarism, in the instance of this novel. I don't care, personally. I don't enjoy, or even get, Wharton's stuff. Never did.But my indifference to Wharton is not the cause of my outright hostility to The House of Mirth, the film. This film plainly sucks, and it sucks under any possible criterion of acting or film-making that may be applied.Now, my continuing hope for cinematic excellence in the U.S carries two wounds -- one, as I've said, Apocalypse Now; and, two, this sad act of cinematic desperation. "},{"Title":"Suicidal? Need a Final Push Over the Edge?","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" House of Mirth is one of the most depressing movies I've ever seen.To be clear I've seen movies like, oh, say, Schindler's List, or The Heart is a Lonely Hunter that treat tragic events, either in the macrocosm or the microcosm, that did not leave me depressed. Rather, they were powerful works of art that moved me and made me think.House of Mirth deals with tragic themes, including human society's ability to destroy its own, and the power of hypocrisy and hypocrites. It wasn't, though, moving or thought provoking.I wasn't moved by Gillian Anderson's portrayal of a betrayed woman who lives by her own sense of honor. I didn't believe Gillain Anderson's portrayal of a betrayed woman who lives by her own sense of honor.Rather, I was bored. I kept wanting the film to go faster. It's a great irony; Edith Wharton's novels are real page turners. Quick, to the point. Hollywood has yet to adapt one of her books in a way that honors this quality.House of Mirth has gorgeous clothing and sets. I didn't care about anybody on screen, though. I didn't believe anybody on screen.I felt that this movie had a misanthropic agenda, and it moved its players around as if they were chess pieces, as if to prove these points people are hypocrites, see! People are insincere, see! If a person has any decency at all, that person is destroyed, see! I would tend to agree with all of the above points. So ... why do I need to watch this movie? Also, as a woman, who, as Lily Bart was meant to, has lived her life by her own code of honor and paid the price for that, I felt that this movie, no less than the Polite Society it depicts so brutally, betrayed Lily Bart.Lily Bart is just a step above a passive masochist in this film. She all but participates in her own destruction. You want, just once, for her to show some initiative, some intelligence, some ability to create her own fate.The film denies her those abilities. In this crippling of Lily Bart, the film seems to hate her as much as polite society does.Movies like Gone with the Wind that depict spunky heroines occasionally winning, and occasionally gaining some power, imo, are much easier to watch.One might argue that such films are not realistic. I don't know. Even we real-life Lily Barts have our resources, and our triumphs.And, again, watching Lily Bart in House of Mirth slowly being eroded on screen was not a feminist experience for me. It was more of an art house snuff film that utterly disempowered its female heroine. "},{"Title":"Desultory Adaptation","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Coming into this adaptation of the Edith Wharton novel, I thought that Gillian Anderson was the element of the film I would most dislike. I'd only seen the occasional clip of her from X Files or the odd award show, but she always came across as vapid and slightly unlikable. My opinion didn't exactly change after watching this movie, but she handled the role better than I anticipated.No, what I disliked most about this film was pretty much everything else the plodding, dull direction that misses every opportunity to invest the story with the vitality and suspense it has in the novel; and the screenplay, which obligatorily hits all the plot points but misses all the nuances and shades of character that Wharton offers. The resulting movie is even drier than the stuffiest Merchant/Ivory project and wouldn't give anyone a sense of what makes the book so powerful. The novel is a page-turner, believe it or not. It's at times unbearably suspenseful--but you wouldn't know it watching this movie.Lily Bart is one of the best heroines ever created in the history of literature, and Anderson, even if better than I thought she would be, simply isn't up to the task of portraying her. Lily should be a life force; there should be something startling and enigmatic about her. Heads should turn when she walks in the room. Anderson's approach is much more waif like. Her Lily is passive, submissive, meek. The scene in which Lily attends the reading of her aunt's will amid a batch of disapproving relatives should come across with the force that Scarlett O'Hara's party entrance wearing a bright red dress has in Gone with the Wind. And the scene in which Lily finally says goodbye to Selden should be heartbreaking, but it doesn't resonate here. Nothing resonates.The House of Mirth would make a terrific movie in the right hands. Just because it's a literary adaptation doesn't mean it needs to be freighted with ponderous pacing and a restrained, embalmed atmosphere. On the strength of The Age of Innocence, I could see Martin Scorses doing the story justice, with perhaps Reese Witherspoon in the leading role. As for this version, pass it by on your way to the library to pick up the book.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Edith Wharton as visualized by a Lifetime Channel movie . . .","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I'll get right to the point - this is a cheap-ass movie. Forget what other people have said about the lush interiors and vintage costumes. When you put this movie in, you will wonder if it was ever shown on theater screens or if it went straight to the Lifetime Channel. Even the film-stock and cinematography scream BBC Television. I can't forgive the stilted delivery that sinks the movie in the first 5 minutes. In the book, Lily Bart shows little weakness publicly - she's a master of her appearance and presentation. In the movie, Gillian Anderson is waxing philosophic and pouting from her first meeting with Seldon. This effectively destroys all of the subtext for their future dealings. Was Terrence Davies reading the Cliff's Notes instead of the book? Dear Mr. Davies - the character of Gerty Farrish is KEY to the meaning of the whole story. Combining her with Grace Stepney was totally uncalled for, save for your convenience. The ending of the novel calls for the reader to interpret for his/herself whether Lily committed suicide or made yet another poor judgement call. The movie makes it pretty clear that she took her own life and eliminates any interpretation on the part of the viewer. "}{"Title":"dreadful acting, dreadful script!","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" i watch tons of films and this was the worst movie i have seen in ages- anderson was a complete bore and was a terrible actress in this film- i never minded her on the x-files and always thought she was quite engaging, but in this film she is so dreadful- she was embarrassingly poor in this film with the same expression over and over- i was really shocked- and the script?? oh my god, i can hardly blame the actors with what they had to work with- the dialogue was so bland and attempts at wit were awkward- and there was zero chemistry between stoltz and gillian though it was supposed to be there- as well, gillian's acting was so poor that one had trouble understanding the fascination everyone supposedly had with her character- this film was a complete waste of time- i don't mean to insult anyone, but i think the good reviews come from either people who haven't watched many films and are perhaps less-sophisticated movie goers who are rather easy to please or are young (heaven knows my idea of a great movie has changed a lot in the last 10 years!) - because for me and the others who rated this film poorly, this was junk- there are far better period pieces than this one- shame to waste an evening like that- but on the bright side, my husband and i saw babel and the departed recently and talk about great films! "}]