[{"Title":"The awakening of a salesman","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This little gem of a film was shown on cable. Since I don't think it ever had a commercial run, at least locally, it was a delight that came out of nowhere. Dan Cohen, working with his own material, has dome wonders with this buddy/road picture in which two different men with different mentalities and background, come together as they touch each other's lives in more ways than expected. If you haven't seen this film, please stop reading.Eddie Miller is an old salesman who loses his job after having a mild heart attack. The firm he has been working for years suddenly decide to fire him because he cannot be insured any more. Eddie is in a difficult position; his wife has died and left him with debts that he must repay. This is a decent man who has done honest work for his company and suddenly finds he must either stay for a few weeks training the new guy, who is going to inherit his job, or else, go into an unknown future, probably doing menial work.The new man, Bobby is a happy go lucky kind of guy who enjoys his time on the road as it gives him the opportunity to play around all over his territory with waitresses, bar maids, or other women who are willing to have a good time with a handsome fellow. The contrast between Eddie and Bobby is notorious. Eddie prefers to stay in the motel room and solve puzzles rather than go drinking with the apprentice. This is a story of contrasts between two different generations. What makes the film so endearing is the great work by the two principals. Robert Forster has been around, behind the stars for quite a while. He is a reliable character actor who is dependable, does his work well, but one never sees him in a lead role such as the one in here. Donnie Wahlberg, the new partner, is excellent in that he is just the opposite of the older man, but one can see the rapport between them. Donnie Wahlberg makes a magnificent contribution to the movie.Bess Armstrong, makes the most with the small role of Katie, the woman who meets Eddie in the worst possible circumstances, but immediately recognizes this man is honest and decent. Eddie is the answer to her prayers and hopes. The two have incredible charisma and ease in their scenes together. Also, in a small part, Jasmine Guy, who is the kind hearted Tina, the owner of the house of leisure where Bobby convinces Eddie in going. Ms. Guy does wonders with her small time in front of the camera.This is a film with an unpredictable ending. Director Cohen takes us into a wonderful road trip all over the state of Pennsylvania, and what a treat it turns out to be for those willing to embark in this adventure. "},{"Title":"Who could not like this slice of life?","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An escape from the gratuitous mayhem, crashes, gun play, torture, nudity, lying, cheating, and sex of many contemporary movies.This movie tells a great story, complete with emotions, situations, and predicaments that most people can relate to. It has a touch of violence and sex, but only in context with the storyline. Forster is superbly cast, and Wahlberg is delightful. The minor actors are believable and credible. Locations are just plain down-home rural America.All the previous user comments are right on target. I can offer only strong agreement. This is one fine movie. Watch it with your loved one or your best friend (or both). "},{"Title":"Brilliant dialog, mood, acting and direction","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film takes us into the world of diamond selling, with brilliant (like the diamonds being sold) cast, director and script. Slowly, we come to know these people, seeing their flaws and then learning to love almost all of them. This film should have had wider release when it was first introduced in theaters...and should be used as a lesson to film makers in schools across the country.  "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those gems you happen on by accident and then wonder why you never heard of it.  A stellar performance by Forester, and Donny Wahlberg is a real suprise.Notable name behind the camera is Rick Derby -- director and producer of Rocks With Wings -- one of the best documentaries to air on TV in 2002.Check it out, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Great movie about FRIENDSHIP","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this on the BIG SCREEN.  Donnie Wahlberg was terrific in it.  It is obvious that he has a lot of similarities with his brother, Mark.  Robert Forrester plays an OLD SCHOOL diamond salesman.  He is assigned to mentor Donnie...the new guy.  It's amazing how STIFF Forrester's character is.  He ALWAYS wears a suit, has well manicured hair and drives a lincoln town car..oh yeah, and he listens to mellow music.  There is nothing remarkable about this stiff.  That's where Donnie comes to the rescue.  At first, Donnie is kind of put off my Forrester...but he grows to respect him.  Out of respect, he tries countless times to hook Forrester up with a woman...to loosen him up.  The chemistry is interesting.  Forrester eventually loosens up and after a series of events.  I won't spoil it.  There are few characters in this terrific movie and it's a joy to follow these two diamond salesmen as they hit the road to make sales.  "},{"Title":"A Little Charm Goes a Long Way","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Charming. That is all one really needs to say about this movie. Okay, okay, it's basically a road movie. We've all been there and we all generally know what happens when you get two people from different walks of life stuck in a car for under two hours of film. Sometimes you have to ignore your jaded movie-dissecting tendencies and just go for it. The script has genuine charm and some great laughs jammed into it, without ever actually trying too hard to be witty or funny in the first place. Of course, the chemistry between Robert Forster and Donnie Wahlberg has something to do with it as well. They just seem, well, effortless together. It's really quite something to witness, and not something you see very often in films, mainstream or otherwise. They just have that... thing together. You know, that thing? That indefinable thing? Well, they got it. They got it in aces and spades.  "},{"Title":"Lovely, Warm, Humanistic View of Salesmen","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Diamond Men is a wonderful slice of Americana.Arthur Miller's indelible use of a salesman as a symbol of much that's wrong with American capitalism and families so influenced cinematic imagery that it was continued corrosively by David Mamet in Glengarry Glen Ross and imitatively by Roger Rueff in The Big Kahuna. (Yet, somewhat diabolically, salesmen are now more and more being used as role models for fund raising for nonprofit organizations.)First time auteur, and diamond business scion, Daniel Cohen, has taken a similar situation of an aging road warrior (brilliantly subtle Robert Forster) and his apprentice (Donnie Wahlberg, with his brother's smiling charm and with NKOTB far behind) and the women they love and leave, and brought forth the shining humanity.The small towns of Western Pennsylvania and their store owners, waitresses, and schemers provide an authentic background (well, maybe except for the brothel -- though I did get a kick out of the touch that had the madam scoring very high on the corporation's customer service exam) and the dialog, particularly about jewelry stores and diamonds, sounds completely genuine.Even if the finale is a bit Hollywood, it feels redemptive, unlike other salesmen movies.(originally written 10/6/2001) "},{"Title":"Spoiler re Getting away with it","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Can't emphasize enough Don't read this if you haven't seen the movie yet.I've taken to putting movies in which the protagonists steal on a scale.At the low end, you have a movie like The Score. It was a weak movie in many ways, and one of its notable failures was that it failed to redeem the criminal protagonists from the reality that they, after all, were taking something that didn't belong to them.At the high end (and also with Robert Forester) you have Jackie Brown. It was a strong movie, and it earnestly and convincingly invites you to put Jackie's scheme (again, to take what ain't hers) within a complex moral/logistical web that at least demands that we think of the implications. You may not agree, but at least you aren't insulted.The ending of Diamond Men, for me, was somewhere between these two points.Is the ruse Robert Forester's character pulls off at movie's end morally acceptable? It certainly is an undeniable case of comeuppance. His company is the process of demonstrating the kind of selective institutional memory that many boomers are experiencing first hand these days as companies are saying, Pension? What pension? Was his situation carefully engineered to touch base among the boomers? Even so, as carefully calibrated as the story is to deliver comeuppance to corporatist creeps, the feeling at the end is a sort of middle point.As good as the movie is in microcosm (acting, most (not all) of the editing, well-intentioned direction), the best intentions fail to completely overcome the prime necessity of such a story; make me feel fully satisfied with Eddie's (Forester) decision to ream the suits Keep me from leaving the theater feeling dirty.Fact is, I was only half satisfied on this count.This is a great movie to see for the acting; highly recommended if you're an acting student. I was totally wowed by Wahlberg. A strange little man in my head was telling me that I shouldn't like his work; that I'd be sure to find something to complain about if I watched him intently enough And the more closely I watched him, the more I respected him. I don't know how flexible he is, but he certainly shone in this role. I get the sense that he takes direction stunningly well, and I hope to see more of him in the future. "},{"Title":"Zirconium film","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Diamond Men is a slice-of-life flick about an aging traveling diamond salesman (Forster), his protege (Wahlberg), and their experiences on the road. In spite of being a good natured light drama with a heart, Diamond Men can't escape its amateurish screen play and obvious low budgetness as it wanders through fields of pure corn all the way to its feel good conclusion. A mildly enjoyable B-flick which should be an okay sofa spud watch if it makes it to broadcast. (C) "},{"Title":"A good story, but too cynical.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another in the genre of Average Guys Have Feelings Too. Grainy film, home movie locations, good character roles, well played. The story is engaging, despite its worn character types. Forster as Eddie is perfectly cast and works his minimalist magic. Wahlberg as Bobbie is trying to be Brando at times, but manages to show some range of acting skill. Katie, as played by Bess Armstrong, is well written and adds needed depth just in time to the flat story line. Katie and Eddie end up being just as unethical and immoral as the rest of the blue world they occupy. The twist at the film's end, in my opinion, gives the story a flat tire. A good story, but too cynical.  "}{"Title":"Very Well Done","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Went into this movie not expecting much but came out very satisfied. Lots of cliches but all characters very well portrayed. Moves along well without slowing down. If you liked Robert Forster in Jackie Brown, you'll like this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent mix of humor and drama to tell a basic story","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie!  There are moments of absolute laugh out loud humor, and serious drama to tell the story of an average man who is pushed out of his career by uncontrollable circumstances.  Donnie Wahlberg and Robert Forrester are a wonderful, unexpected combination.  Go see this movie! You will NOT regret it!     "},{"Title":"A Doggie Dog World","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a doggie-dog world, as one of my students once said (who could have been talking about Amores Perros, I suppose).  That's the ultimate, &, as Mr. Creeden said, cynical point of this movie, that begins so wonderfully &, as he also said, gets a flat tire about 3/4 of the way through.  Here's how I thought it would develop  our hero, the older diamond salesmen, who's depicted as an honest, decent guy throughout, would reveal the true state of affairs to the police & to his employer, would (true to form in the modern business world) get absolutely no credit for it, would go home utterly discouraged (but not cynical), would be rescued by his lady-friend, & with her, go into the dog-breeding business, where both would be poor but happy.But, no, such an ending would have no appeal for cynical modern folks (did you know that cynical comes from the Greek word for dog?).  So this movie ends where Sexy Beast begins.I guess the most cynical (& to me unbelievable) aspect is that we are supposed to believe that this man, who never cheated on his wife during a long marriage (& even during a period of grief after her death), would willfully & merrily cheat his employers' INSURANCE COMPANY (& thereby ALL their other clients, to whom their loss would be distributed).   No, it's obvious to me that the scriptwriters lost their way.  Too bad, because this movie, destined to be a little gem, was thereby seriously flawed. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very nicely directed, acted, and written movie.  Not brilliant and not highly original but a very nice update to an old story.  Much better than many movies out there now.  The plot has a couple of 'holes' but that doesn't really affect the movie. "},{"Title":"A great flick!!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best part about this movie, for me, was seeing Lancaster's Neptune Diner, Elizabethtown's Red Rose Motel, Lebanon's Farmers First Bank and tons of other Central PA landmarks on the silver screen. It's so cool to see a movie filmed where you live, especially when you live in such a po-dunk area. But beyond the local attractions, the movie is great! The acting is superb, the plot line keeps the viewer interested and the ending does not disappoint. It's the best work Donnie Wahlberg has done since NKOTB. Honestly - he was really good!! His character was very believable. Bess Armstrong put in a great performance - it took me the whole movie to figure out who she is ... she played the mom from My So Called Life. And Jasmine Guy (Southern Princess from A Different World, as some might recall), also puts in a great performance as the Madame of a whore house. Of course, Robert Forster is always great. All in all, a great movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Robert Forster leads a great cast in a sweet little film","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie!! Diamond Men is a fabulous character study with an intriguing plot.  The cast is solid across the board, but the standout here is Robert Forster.  Mr. Forster is one of the most talented, likeable and attractive 50-something actors around!  It sure would be nice to see him get more roles like this one.  He is a joy to watch -- very subtle, yet very strong.  Donnie Wahlberg is very good as the young, brash Bobby Walker -- slightly over the top at the beginning  of the film, Wahlberg grows into his character and meshes nicely with Forster's older and wiser Eddie Miller. The story is sweet, clever and low-key with a very pleasant twist. "},{"Title":"A quirky small movie for people who like good movies","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw a free prescreening of this movie at the Motion Picture Association screening room in Washington DC.  Apparently this movie is being re-released.  Don't know if it's any different from the version released last year, which I didn't see.  Anyway, I highly recommend it.  This is a movie for adults, with interesting characters, fine performances by Robert Forster, Donnie Wahlberg and Bess Armstrong in the leads, and an entertaining, unpredictable storyline about a 60-ish wholesale diamond salesman (Forster) who has to break in a 20-ish rookie salesman (Wahlberg) to take over his job servicing jewelry stores throughout central Pennsylvania.  Armstrong plays a masseuse and sometime prostitute who becomes the love interest of the older man.This is one of those quirky small films with no big name stars, which probably won't do nearly as well at the box office as it deserves to.  It focuses on character development and telling a story, with no special effects or shoot-outs or car crashes.  I was most surprised by Donnie Wahlberg, who showed himself to be a much more attractive and nuanced actor than his more famous brother Mark.Go see this if it opens at a theater near you.  If it ends up going quickly to video, then rent it.  You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Diamond Men Brought the Best out of Donnie Wahlberg!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the opportunity to watch Diamond Men two nights ago, at a private screening in Manhattan, NY. The perception seemed to be that this movie was geared towards a more mature crowd but my sister and I (in our twenties) seemed to enjoy the humor and dialogue between the two very talented actors - Robert Forster and Donnie Wahlberg.The flow of the story was well connected and the locations in the film were well-suited for its plot.I give it a thumbs up and would definitely watch it again. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday, August 15th, 2001.  It was a great movie.  The characters were great and the story moved at a steady pace which kept me very interested.  It never got boring..it kept me anxious as to what would happen next.  Donnie Wahlberg gave a fantastic performance.  Move over Mark..your brother is right behind you!  He's a definite up and coming actor. "},{"Title":"VERY ENJOYABLE!!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the chance to see this movie at a film festival last summer in the Hamptons. It was definitely worth the 2 hour ride from the city. The film is light hearted w/ a very nice story. Donnie Wahlberg's character is charming & lovable. He tries to act like a know-it-all but he has a heart of gold. I can't picture anyone better for this role then him. Robert Forster was great as the so called straight man. It was nice to see him in the role like this. As for Bess Armstong & Jasmine Guy,it was like these roles were made for them. These women DEFINITELY know how to pick & choose their roles. Both women were strong characters who were in total control of their lives & knew exactly want they wanted & how to get it. If you get the chance go & see this film. You will not regret it.   "}{"Title":"Great interactions between great actors.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! It was light-hearted but it also had a message.  One cannot leave this movie without feeling fulfilled. The chemistry between Robert Forster's and Donnie Wahlberg's characters is great! They show that even two guys with nothing in common can find a common ground and become friends.  Plus one gets to see a whole new side to Mr. Wahlberg's acting. Proving that he can play more characters than just a thug with a heart. It is definitely worth the ticket price! "},{"Title":"Over-rated and pointless","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am shocked by all the good reviews on the cover of this movie and on IMDb. It belongs in the $2 bin at your local video store. To say that this is a B movie is extremely generous.Besides lacking a single redeemable character, only slightly better than average acting, and an ugly 80's style picture quality, the script for this film is dull and lifeless. This film is not only boring--it is pathetic. (Admittedly, there is occasionally some mildly interesting chemistry between the two main characters.) Even the final plot twist--rather, the only plot twist--does not save this film.Rent Diamond Men if you must, but do not hesitate to turn it off once you become appraised of its worthlessness. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A diamond in the rough","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great film about Eddie (a superb Robert Forster) having to train young upstart, Eddie (Donnie Wahlberg) in the diamond selling biz. Their chemistry is superb. The dialog just crackles & it pulls you right into this film. Of course one knows where the film's headed way in advance, but that doesn't distract from the brilliant acting in this character study. I highly recommend it & i rarely hand out suck accolades easily.Where I saw It ShowtimeMy Grade AEye Candy Both Kristen Minter as Cherry and Sannah Laumeister as Amber drop their tops (and at what may be a first Nikki Fritz as Fran leaves hers covered, heh go figure) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but forgettable","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this film for two reasons one, because I stupidly thought it was a Coen brother who directed it (wonder how many people made the same mistake!), and two, because the reviews I read said it was a small film. I generally end up being disappointed by big films, so I thought let's try this.It was enjoyable, indeed, as everyone has already said, but I look for more than just entertainment in a film.This one had a predictable story, and what kept me watching were the likeable characters, who unfortunately got a tad bit too likeable towards the second half of the film.I enjoyed watching it, but wouldn't see it again.  Go and see something more challenging instead, like Buffalo 66. "},{"Title":"Delightfully clever.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this film at the Stony Brook Film Festival.  This is a very clever film with very good acting and writing. Robert Forster's performance is key to the success of the film and he pulls it off wonderfully. Donnie Wahlberg, while not my favorite actor, provides capable support.  Bess Armstrong looks great, she has been a favorite actress of mine for years. The rest of the cast does well in support, but ultimately it is Forster who carries the movie to its success. Dan Cohen has a hit on his hands, I hope to see more of his work in the future.  "},{"Title":"Good Character Study","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A veteran diamond salesman has a heart attack on the job and is asked by his employer to train a younger man to take over his route. This low-budget Independent film gets off to a slow start but builds momentum and draws in the viewer. It is basically a character study and the characters are quite likable. Forster is terrific as the recently-widowed old guy who is afraid of starting a relationship with another woman. Wahlberg is equally good as the goofy but sensitive young fellow who comes to respect the old man. Cohen has written a good story, although he has an annoying directorial style that tends to favor extreme closeups for no good reason. "},{"Title":"Corny pay-off spoils low-budget gem","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Please don't read this if you haven't seen the picture.Lots of useful comments here say it nearly all, but there's one point that bothered me, I wonder whether others who liked this little movie found this point bothersome too. I'm not talking about the twist at the end in itself, which as some have noted is an ambiguous pay-off, but about Robert Forster's character's explanation of it.I had this hidden drawer installed in my car-trunk where I would put the real diamonds, leaving a briefcase of theatrical jewellery in the trunk instead, he told his friend, and the movie cameoed him opening the hidden drawer. My immediate problem with this was excuse me, a briefcase full of glittering fake diamonds is going to cost a small fortune in itself --- perhaps one-twentieth the value of the real jewels, or about $50,000. Where was a humble salesman going to find that kind of cash? Oh well, just another far-fetched plot element to add to the great big heap of them in Movieland, but for me the twist at the end spoiled a film whose charm lay in its feel of authenticity. For me, this could have continued into the pay-off, with the couple finding happiness living together on humble incomes on realistic trajectories. "},{"Title":"A great movie with an unexpected twist","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Forster has made many movies in his career, however I can't name one of them, until now. The dynamic duo of Donnie Wahlberg and Robert Forster was unexpected.Forster plays a traveling diamond salesman in the business 30 years, when he has a heart attack, and the company he works for begins to lose faith in him. He's forced to team up with the new trainee, Wahlberg. Forster begins to teach Wahlberg the tricks of the trade, however, at first Wahlberg doesn't want to listen. He's more interested in hooking up with girls and partying. As time goes on, a special kind of friendship begins to form.At various points along their journey they stop off at a massage parlor to relax. Let me just say you will never forget the girl with the giant eyeball tattoo on her chest. If you can find a way to see this movie, then just see it, you won't regret it.I don't want to sum this movie up in euphemisms, but I left the theater (when I saw it at the Stony Brook film festival in 2000) in awe. The audience applauded and it won the audience award that year.I was hoping Dan Cohen made some other great movies, but according to IMDb, he hasn't. Anyway, I recently bought it on DVD, and the second time around, 8 years later, it's equally as great. GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"60's look, 43 ratio yet gritty and addictive","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're ready for a film which challenges current ideas of what movies have to be (ie glossy, widescreen) then like me you may return to Diamond Men again and again to re-live some of the magic movie experience you felt in your childhood. Apart from music movies, this is the only film I have wanted to own.Avant-garde for the common man. Gritty and addictive.Steve Peters35 mm Cinematographer,Alice Springs,Australia "},{"Title":"The World's Best Sexy/Philosophical/Road Trip/Buddy Flick","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is perfect in that it embodies so many different genres at once. It's a buddy flick with the perfect pair of actors (Forster/Wahlberg) since Redford/Newman, Nolte/Murphy and Sarandon/Davis. Bess Armstrong is a mature actress with plenty of sex appeal. Jasmine Guy (best known as the ditsy, southern belle on A Different World) shows that she's got some serious acting chops. Veteran actor George Coe and Jeff Gendelman do great work in their smaller parts. The story is believable, engrossing and smart. Director Dan Cohen filmmaking style is a hybrid of documentary, 70's buddy flick and morality tale. There are some cool and clever surprises throughout the film including the ending. I'd watch this film a hundred times. "}{"Title":"A Classic Generational Film","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Explores the ignorance and hormones of youth versus the wisdom and frailty of age.  Great character development. Probably Forster's best acting role yet.  Wahlberg shows great promise here and Bess Armstrong is just too believable.  A down to earth, funny, ironic film.  Especially recommended for young people who find themselves impatient with middle aged peers at work, or for middle aged business people who seek a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Diamonds turn out to be everyone's best friend.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  These guys are diamonds in the rough-Robert Forster an aging traveling diamond salesman and Donnie Wahlberg the slacker trainee. `Diamond Men' is much less like Denzel Washington and Ethan Hawke in `Training Day' and just a bit like Ned Beatty and Liev Schreiber in `Spring Forward.' This unlikely team develops a respect and caring that are palpable, right down to Wahlberg fixing up the recently-widowed Forster with the heart-of-gold masseuse.What happens to the lovers and the buddies has been told many times before, and the twist is a not new territory. Yet the sweetness in the way they treat each other is refreshingly new. An undertone of love and respect allows the reclusive Forster to embrace Wahlberg's energy, while Wahlberg stops calling Forster `old' and learns some valuable professional and life lessons, as when Forster tells him how to make a tough sale When they say 'No,' they're looking for a way to say 'Yes.'   Forster's new lover helps him see beyond her past and his suddenly complicated present; Wahlberg's life begins a slow ascent up the maturity ladder because of Forster; someday Wahlberg may stop wearing leopard-skinned underwear.The ending is straight out of Elmore Leonard--the location and resolution are breezy and benign.  What have survived are love and a renewed sense of life's possibilities.  Diamonds turn out to be everyone's best friend.  "},{"Title":"a leisurely-paced character study","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Diamond Men is a leisurely-paced character study of a man who is about to lose his traveling diamond salesman job in Pennsylvania after 30 years of dedicated service.  He has had some recent personal problems and this job has become his whole life.  He begins training his replacement and becomes involved in a whole new world.  This almost seems like a documentary and is for mature audiences.  "},{"Title":"I liked it.  Very good interaction between characters.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting in this film is very good.  All of the cast fit well into their roles, and they come over as very real.  The dialogue is never forced or too cute, which is a refreshing change.  I really enjoyed it, and would recommend it to anyone. "}]