[{"Title":"An adult action movie","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"115 out of 145 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I used to like movies like The Matrix and Bad Boys. But I've grown very tired of violent conflict portrayed as easy, fun, moral, and without risk. This is a movie where all the violence is fearsome, difficult, and wholly unpleasant. As it should be, anything else really is dishonest and evil. This is one reason i think most people don't like this movie. There are two more. One is a somewhat complicated plot. There are about a dozen characters and each one have different motives and I think most people can handle no more than 4 motives. The other reason is that the main characters are not the heroes of the story. They set the story in motion and keep it together but they are not who the movie is about and to tell a story in such an unconventionally roundabout way is entirely confusing for some people.So you may not like this movie if...You are uncomfortable with violence being violent,You can't keep track of the motivations of 8 separate characters,You automatically believe that the story is about the characters played by the actors pictured largest on the box.otherwise you may really like this movie because it's really well made in all its aspects.  "},{"Title":"Sam Peckinpah is Looking Up Smiling","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"63 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Way of the Gun is the best western to come down that perverbial turnpike in a great while. Like the aging cynical worn out outlaws in Peckinpahs Wild Bunch, these modern day anti-hero's whether Old or young realize that  sometimes life gives you that one chance. It is up to you to seize it . whether its kidnapping your fortune or giving birth to it we all soon realize that in the end  we all come in the same way & go out the same way the difference being on how hard. Although I know I am in the extreme minority Way of the Gun is a much more complete film than Usual Suspects it is a metaphor for the careless way we lead our lives only realizing that the one most innocent and beautiful thing is life it self. Bravo Christopher a fine film indeed!!! "},{"Title":"I thought it was great","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"59 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can only comment negatively about one scene in the movie. I thought the movie was extremely effective in building up the intensity of certain scenes, however they used probably their most dramatic and climatic orchestra number for a scene where they simply dumped bags of money into a truck and drove off. My girlfriend and I stood confused as the music built up and built up, then finally climaxed. Didn't make a bit of sense to either of us.With that said- I thought this movie was outstanding. Benicio Del Toro has this presence about him that radiates coolness, and Ryan Phillippe did a remarkable job as well with his role. There were scenes in which hardly any dialogue was spoken, yet whole paragraphs were spoken through facial expressions. Thats a testament to the abilities of the actors right there. The double meaning of the game of hearts explanation was fascinating and fun to decipher.Plots twists galore, not a single one of them predictable. The terminology was all new to me (i.e. bagman/dejudication I think it was...) and it made me feel like I was actually participating in the movie.This is a thinkers movie, and some people may not be in the mood for that. The entirely creative car chase scenes and shoot out sequences are enough to satisfy the most mindless action fan, however.This movie is just cool. "},{"Title":"Ode to Peckinpaugh -neo-noir pulp fiction","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE WAY OF THE GUN (2000) ***1/2 Ryan Phillippe, Benicio del Toro, Juliette Lewis, James Caan, Taye Diggs, Nicky Katt, Scott Wilson, Kristin Lehmann, Geoffrey Lewis, Sarah Silverman.Christopher McQuarrie makes his directing debut in a big way with an obvious nod to Sam Peckinpaugh with his screenplay about two ne'er do well criminals (Phillippe and del Toro, both exemplary) who decide to make a mark for themselves by kidnapping a very pregnant surrogate mother (Lewis) to a wealthy businessman (Wilson) that eventually pans out to be a big mistake in a tangled web involving the woman's bodyguards (Diggs and Katt) and the bagman friend of the rich man (Caan in one fine, low-key performance of nuanced dread). More than enough rich dialogue and pinpoint camera angle set ups to go around with some live wire moments of unexpected turnarounds, double crosses and shoot outs may be the film's only fault in being an excess of too much of a good thing. A roundelette of pulp fiction best served by its exciting cast (as a side note, del Toro reminded me for some reason as a young Robert Mitchum in some scenes; go figure) and a filmmaker to watch. "},{"Title":"Violence Galore!","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For any action movie fans out there that love shoot-outs that hinder on the brink of insanity then this movie is for you. The plot was hard to understand in some parts yet it was still good and sometimes the motives were beyond the viewer's grasp but it still flowed well regardless. There were some kick ass quotes as needed in this genre of film and James Caan was simply awesome in his role as an aging bag-man. While I'm not a huge fan of Ryan Phillippe he actually was passable as this character and utilized a suiting accent. Benicio Del Toro was probably the best as his expressions and just the way he says things is unbeatable. Even though it was two hours long it seemed like only half that, so overall it's a great watch. My only warning is that if you're included in the faint of heart then this probably is one to avoid as this was definitely a dab of the good OL' ultra-violence!Final SayMovies Would've been enjoyable to see it there.DVD Purchase Based on how low it's currently priced I probably won't be able to help myself.Rental Come on, you know you want to!!! "},{"Title":"Another future classic from Christopher McQuarrie!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Look I love 'The Usual Suspects' as much as the next guy, and think it's one of the few movies of the 1990s that can truly be considered a classic. But I think comparing that movie to 'The Way Of The Gun' (Christopher McQuarrie wrote both and directs this in an impressive debut) is unproductive and misguided. Both movies feature criminal anti-heroes and tricky plot twists, but in different ways, and are very different in approach and theme. McQuarrie isn't repeating himself here, this is something new. Something that has more in common with Sam Peckinpah than the plethora of shallow post-Tarantino rip-offs Hollywood has foisted on us in recent years.The basic premise is fairly straightforward - two losers Parker (A surprisingly effective Ryan Phillipe in easily his best role to date) and Longbaugh (the always excellent Benicio Del Toro), cook up a half baked scheme to kidnap a surrogate mother (Juliette Lewis - 'Cape Fear', 'Kalifornia') and hold her for ransom. Little do they realize that she is carrying a child for Chidduck,  a Mob money launderer (veteran character actor Scott Wilson - 'In Cold Blood', 'The Ninth Configuration') who has some nasty associates, and is reluctant to pay up.The guys soon find themselves embroiled in a chinese puzzle of relationships including ruthless bodyguards Jeffers (Taye Digs - 'Go') and Obecks (Nicky Katt - 'SubUrbia', 'The Limey'), and Chidduck's bagman and troubleshooter, the complex Sarno (the legendary James Caan - 'The Godfather', 'Thief'), and Sarno's colleague Abner (frequent Clint Eastwood sidekick, and Juliet's real life father, Geoffrey Lewis).   To reveal what happens would be to ruin this wonderful movie. 'The Way Of The Gun' isn't a stupid popcorn action flick. It requires thought and attention to fully appreciate, and that fact, along with the lack of heroes, and the matter of fact violence, seems to have turned many people off. But in my opinion it is just those factors that will make this, like 'The Usual Suspects', a movie that will stand the test of time. Along with 'Chopper', the movie that has impressed the most so far this decade. Don't miss either one! "},{"Title":"No Heroes","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The title itself is based on the samurai code Way of the Sword. You live by the gun/sword, you die by the gun/sword. Phillipe and Del Toro's characters are reminiscent of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, The Wild Bunch, and The Man with No Name. The two say so much without ever talking. Their facial expressions and personal ticks speak louder than words ever could. In a world with seemingly no law, these two men get in way over their heads when they kidnapp the wrong surrogate mother. She just happens to be the surrogate mother to one of the richest men with the most mob contacts. Violence and mystery ensue as we see there are no heroes. The grand finale is a shoot-out that ruvals that of The Wild Bunch. "},{"Title":"Yes.  Yes yes yes.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Does one usually go into an action film starring Ryan Phillipe expecting to think, expecting to be challenged.  I did not, in this case.  And so, as I found myself confronted by this extraordinarily cool contemporary crime/western, I was shocked. This has all the makings of a generic film.  The philosophical/amoral central team...  could've been Pulp Fiction redux.  The wise older criminal sharing his wisdom with those below him...  If I really went into all the elements of this movie that could've been handled as shameless rip offs of other films, that list alone would take me over 1,000 words.The brilliance of this film is that MacQuarrie, impressively directing for the first time from his own script, takes familiar elements, tired cliches, and breaths new, inventive life into them.  This is a neat hat trick, and not an easy one.  Godard did it with HIS first film, Breathless.  Tarantino did it with Pulp Fiction.  And MacQuarrie does it here.  Note that the aforementioned instance is the only place where you will hear a mention of Tarantino similarities in this review.  Those who would criticize Way of the Gun as being derivative of Taranton's film are missing the point and not really watching the film.This film reflects an utter familiarity with the conventions of CINEMA.  Of the things that go into a great film.  Knowing those thigns so well, as Godard did, allows MacQuarrie to become freed enough to work with them, change them,  and make them become something knew.  It is quite an achievement, and this is quite an awesome film. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Way of the Gun to some people may just be an action piece puddled up by drama and really REAL issues like Redemption, Consequences, Trust and the differences between Bad and evil. I think it may be the purest form of a perfect action drama. McQ makes the world its set even more realistic by making you quite unsure who the good guys are...in actuality there really aren't any...everyone here has done something unscrupulous at one time or another...the only ones who have embraced their bad are the two characters we follow Parker and Longbaugh(brilliantly remade characters based on Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid). McQ makes us see the story through their eyes(Mainly Parkers played by Ryan Phillippe) They are both Butch and Sundance in a more real underplayed way.But they don't fool themselves about who they are and trick you into believing they are someone else(Good or holsom). They are the perfect guides into this world of shadiness, lies on top of lies and secrets. Lucus used the same technique in Star Wars A New Hope by having a story take place through the eyes of two inconsequential characters(R2 D2 and C3PO). A trick he picked up from the great Akira Kirowsawa. SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILERThe story of a woman becoming a surrogate mother for money to help out her aging criminal father(THE BAGMAN) and in turn finding love from the son of the very same man paying her is like...whew! It could be easily told through the eyes of the daughter or the doctor(Who McQ has said is the real hero of the story). But we see it through Benicio and Ryan. And its great.Their chemistry is terrific. Their almost secret way of communication through glances, cryptic phrases and extreme situational teaching(Mainly Longbaugh teaching Parker never to trust anybody by setting Parker up to get killed a couple timesGUN IN DOCTOR PAINTER'S BAG & SHOTGUN IN THE HOTEL ROOM) They know each other so well they don't even have to say anything. That comes across on screen. Benicio Del Torro owns his role and plays it so low key. There are scenes where he says nothing at all and conveys any and every emotion. This is one of Phillipe's better films, a best personally seeing as I wasn't a fan before this. After which case I was on a soap box shouting that he would have been great as Anakin Skywalker in the Star Wars prequels. James Caan is....James Caan...in a role I think must have been written for him...cool aging badass. Taye Diggs...though I hate him...is great in the film because this is one of the only times he doesn't play Taye Diggs. He turns his warm sex symbol persona on its ear by playing a man of real menace in apathy. And for those who have read long enough about me droning on about this films hidden dramatic elements...the action scenes are great. Some of the most realistic gunfights I have ever scene. Actors were all Navy Seal trained and took it almost too seriously.(Listen to the DVD commentary when McQ talks about Taye Diggs persistent on how he run down an alley with a shotgun in the correct hand or how the actors never put their finger on the trigger unless they were shooting.) The final gun battle goes down for me as one the greatest of all time set eerily in similar surroundings as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid I dare you to find a better shoot out.McQ and a Mr Tarantino fella are how got into writing. And McQ has some of the funniest and cool-as-hell one liners in this flick. Almost better than his previous film Usual Suspects. Watch The Way of the Gun and you will truly be seeing a hidden masterpiece. "},{"Title":"it's about the gun","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" now some of you are wondering what this movie is about. i don't blame you.the title says it all. now usually the title is a cryptic clue, but in this case--it says it all.if you are wondering why devote a film exclusively to gun-play, then ask yourself why devote a summer movie solely to computer special effects.i know most of you are guilty of seeing one of the hot season flicks because your friends said it looked awesome. it's the same motivation for a different audience.i'm an old pro, and let me tell you the action direction in this film is awesome, and i don't use that word often.this film is a gunfight pasted with story, instead of the other way around. and i believe it shows a director who wanted to direct the ultimate action+editing rendition of a running gunfight.i can only say, that if the director and the technical adviser ever read this statement, you have my vote as one of the best, most thrilling and realistic film gunfights ever. thank-you. "}{"Title":"Slow-burn to an almighty finish. (Slight Spoilers).","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most action movies don't bother with such simple devices as plot, characters or an engaging storyline. Some would say that this is a genre strength, an excuse to turn away from highbrow thought to high-key, mindless mayhem. Whilst that is all well and good, most people eventually find themselves wanting...more. That little bit extra to garnish an already tasty dish. Here, Christopher McQuarrie presents a whole lotta extra treats, whilst never losing his grip upon tension or bloody spectacle. Rambo-lovers, however, should best stay clear, for this is undoubtedly a Thinking man's shoot 'em up. When,as an example, did the hero confess to feeling guilt over murdering a paedophile? Conduct torture purely for cash? Get royally shafted in what we assumed would be an all-out celebration of hip carnage? Bear in mind that this was 200, a whole year before Spider-Man told folk that it's ok to cry whilst kicking the sh*t out of somebody. Brave stuff. Were this all that Chris provided in the way of innovation, it'd still be mightily impressive, yet he also shows some serious balls within structural limits. As opposed to having bullet dance/chat/explosion/one-liner, he allows moments to build, ebbing, flowing, surely swelling into one large tidal wave of carnage. By the time blood begins to shed, an audience is engaged with two low-life antiheros, whilst sympathising with their-refreshingly scarred-nemesis. It's truly remarkable to see well-choreographed brutality mixing delicately with excellent performances, there's that constant Yes, i GET you! feeling beneath every frame. Sit back, tune your head and, and relish this sun-drenched delight. "},{"Title":"The Ronin's Road to Redemption","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Love this movie, a true homage to the samurai/western in the classic vein. Dying to know if this is based on an actual samurai story.This really is about the Way of the Gun and a strange path to redemption.*Possible spoilers*The two thugs are thoroughly unprincipled in their broad approach to life. They are willing to kidnap, extort, kill. But in two respects they live by a strict code. You see it both in their dealings with other men of arms, which are coolly respectful, formal and strangely honorable, and in their tactics and coordinated movements in battle, which are as precise as a dance.*Definite spoilers*The moment that gives away that this will be more than just an action movie is the kidnapping. Suddenly they are not just two petty criminals. They have been trained. Their opponents recognize it instantly. The two teams are matched. They all go through the initial confrontation/battle/escape with cool, ruthless professionalism. From that moment I was hooked.*Big spoiler* But there's more. The big moment of illumination in this movie comes at the end. These master-less samurai are touched by the most basic human appeal to decency the helplessness of the woman and child. There is a point where they make the move. You can see them deciding that they are switching sides -- no longer serving themselves but something more worthy protecting the innocent. At that moment they become true warriors again, which is probably what they first aspired to be before falling into crime.I love that all this is conveyed without so much direct talk. There's lots of conversation but it doesn't much touch on the interior thoughts of the Ronin. That's as it should be in a good western or samurai movie. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) The Way of the Gun (2000)","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Written by the same dude who wrote The Usual Suspects, The Way of the Gun is a much simpler tale compared to the award winning Suspects. It tells of two small time crooks, played by Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro, who get entangled in a game of crooks versus crooks when they try to pull of a kidnapping.Dreaming of bigger things in life, but regardless of the method used to achieve their dreams of riches, they overhear a conversation at a sperm bank clinic (one of the most happening dialogues in the movie happens there) about a surrogate mother bearing the child of some rich family. They decide to kidnap the lady, played by Juliette Lewis, and hold the mother and child hostage.However, they embroil themselves into a bigger web of intrigue, as every character, from the mother, the husband and wife who employed her, the doctor, the bodyguards, to the bagmen, all have their own agenda, and the relationships between one another must be one of the most complex written for the screen in recent times. Everything is more than meets the eye, and betrayals and double crossings are the agenda for the day.The pacing is well measured, and there are moments of suspense masterfully injected at points in the movie. I like the initial hostage taking scene, where the sudden shift of focus and introduction of complexity catches our two anti-heroes Longbaugh (Del Toro) and Parker (Phillippe) completely off guard. The car chase and pursuit is also one of the more innovative and quirky scenes in the movie, one which Del Toro actually suggested, and got it made on screen. You have to watch it to believe.The finale gives a kick to western shoot-em-up fans, as Longbaugh and Parker go head to head with everyone in a Mexican brothel, using modern day weapons of shotguns and handguns. Thrown into the mix is veteran James Caan, as a bag-man extraordinaire, having been so long in the business because of his experience in staying alive.Del Toro and Phillippe exude an excellent bond of camaraderie between their characters - they trust nobody except for themselves, while I thought Juliette Lewis was terrific in her role as the very pregnant mother caught between both sides, and yet bringing out strength as she fights for her child's and her own survival, taking her interests in her own hands.It's a good mix of action and workout for your brain as you figure out the relationships between the characters as the narrative moves along. Suited for those mundane afternoons in which you want to break out from.No special additions in this Code 1 DVD. "},{"Title":"Well... It's Not Bad","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Opening with intrusive, loud music and grabbing your attention straight away Way Of The Gun is definitely a movie that intends to hold your concentration and not let go of it no matter what you might do to try and wriggle free. Not that I did much wiggling, I rarely do these days, must be something to do with my hips.Starting with our two leads Parker (Ryan Phillippe) and Longbaugh (Benicio Del Toro) (if ever the term anti-hero was to apply to anyone it's them), we straight away realise that neither of these men really care about much in general. We're able to guess this by the way that one punches a woman in the face and head a couple of times, though really she did deserve it, and the other decided to kiss a perfect stranger, before stamping hard on her foot when she let him know just how much she didn't enjoy being kissed. This odd attitude is further re-enforced by the voice-over where we learn that while leads Parker and Longbaugh may believe in some kind of destiny, they have no intention of letting it rule their life. So we find ourselves, as so often we do in these situations, at a sperm bank. Here the pair overhear a doctor talking about a surrogate mother who is working for a very rich couple, and so a fiendish kidnapping plan is made.What follows is a shoot-out you don't see and a high-speed car chase involving very slow moving cars. The car chase itself is a particular highlight for me. Still, once they have the kidnapped girl, Parker and Longbaugh quickly realise that they are in way over their heads. It appears that when kidnapping it's sometimes a good idea to find out who you are kidnapping from. Our two anti-heroes are not going to give up, culminating in a particularly slick final shootout. For those of you who may have noticed, the names Parker and Longbaugh are actually the real names of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Hands up anyone who thinks their final stand is going to go well? Coming from the very complicated shaped pen of Christopher McQuarrie, writer of The Usual Suspects we can obviously expect plot twists and turns that will very quickly have us dazed and confused. In ancient Greece it was believed that the sun obviously goes around the earth. Assumptions can be wrong. Apart from one 'surprise' that wasn't all that surprising and a bombshell at the end that, while unexpected also wasn't all that explosive. Having now gained the enmity of McQuarrie for all eternity can I also say that the script itself is well written. The dialogue, while not realistic, is very well written and believable and each of the characters have something about them that we latch onto.But of course writing isn't anything without decent performances to bring it out. Toro and Phillippe are both very, very cool and slick, despite the fact that they are also portrayed as being inept criminals, (two aspects that I didn't find gelled so well). Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt as the bodyguards/general mooks Jeffers and Obecks get to look very good throughout the movie, Diggs especially impressing with his double-crossing villain. However the two stand out performances come from James Caan and Geoffrey Lewis. Both of these men give fantastically understated performances, with their final scene together in the car being at once very poignant and close to hysterical. They both have a world-weariness about them that is a fitting counter-point to the slick and stylish actions of the world around them. Caan is obviously reluctant to kill the two men he has been sent to deal with, indeed he clearly likes them far more than the people he is being forced to work with.I do need to make a special mention of the action sequences. The way that the actors move with and handle their guns just feels right. Apart from a couple of insane shots with a pistol the gunplay is very realistic and heightens the feeling of tension and danger throughout the movie.This is a movie that tries to balance comedy, action and thriller elements. For the most part I think it manages admirably and is generally worth watching. This is definitely one that I enjoyed more halfway through once a friend had arrived and started watching it with me. Now and then you want to be able to grin at a friend and just nod, acknowledging that something you just watched was very cool, gruesome or cool and gruesome. "},{"Title":"Noir Ain't Dead-- It Was Just Resting","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What I fail to understand is why if The Usual Suspects was so incredibly popular (because it was so freakin' good), The Way of the Gun gets stepped on, both at the box office upon its initial release, and in various, snarky IMDb user comments.This movie isn't just good. It's INTENSE. It's DARK. There's not a single character in the movie who's likable, and some viewers attack that like it's a bad thing. The story line is complex, the relationships between the numerous characters are subtle and nuanced; and still, some viewers attack that like that's a bad thing.Just because a viewer doesn't understand something, doesn't make the film bad. It's a difference of opinion, absolutely, but that doesn't make The Way of the Gun a bad film. Au contraire, this is a very smart film... and when a filmmaker is making a smart film about amoral, gun-toting outlaws, the people who come to see that sort of movie are going to feel confused and angry. Because they wanted it to be simple. They wanted easy answers, a clear-cut good guy and bad guy, and a happy ending. The way movies have gone since film noir faded away, decades ago.But this film is not so simple, and neither are the characters within it, nor is the plot. Chris McQuarrie refuses to write something so cut-and-dry, so black-and-white. It's taut, it's tight, it rides a bad vibe from the opening sequence all the way down to the last line. This film is so gritty it makes me feel dirty after watching it... McQuarrie may be a victim of his own success, because it was released in the aftermath of The Usual Suspects, but if it built up an underground following like The Killer, it would be on the shelf of must-haves next to John Woo, Guy Ritchie and any other art film your parents wouldn't approve of.Every character has his own motive, has his own backstory, and not all are necessarily spelled out for you. The dialogue is wound so tight, it snaps Fifteen million dollars is not money. It's a motive, with a universal adapter on it.I own this movie, and on a dark, rainy afternoon, I'll whip it out on the unsuspecting guest... It's from the writer of 'The Usual Suspects' I tell them. And from the opening scene, they're INTO IT.It's not for everyone. But don't you dare call it a bad film. This is where YOUR favorite filmmaker steals all of his ideas. "},{"Title":"You didn't get it","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rating this film in the 6's is a travesty.  I can see how most viewers may not have picked up on the reflexivity, the subtle way in which the 6 mercenary characters almost knew they were in a film... maybe a lot of people found it boring at times... I can imagine an American moviegoer who finds the plot a bit to convoluted... hell, it's not perfect, I mean Juliet Lewis has certainly had less obnoxious roles... But you couldn't have missed the elegantly photographed and painstakingly arranged gunfight sequence, or the top notch performances from most of the cast, or the intelligent writing.  There is a degree of craft in this film that reflects a great deal of care and artistic integrity, qualities that are all too seldom rewarded in our countries film industry.  6.7? BULLs***. Cmon, people. "},{"Title":"Very Good Action, Tough Guy but very cynical and amoral","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Part of me wanted to hate the flick. It was just so relentlessly bleak story, but full of great tough guy acting, action to the max and great Mexican scenery and camera work. It grew on me after I bought the used VHS New Years in a 4 for $20 deal.All the acting was good, and nothing felt forced or contrived. The characters were all interesting but no one was overwrought or overdone. Tha action was tough and vicious as the dialogue. It worked cause the plot was simple and real A standoff over the kidnapping of a surrogate mother between two ruthless hoods and some local mob guy, in Arizona and Mexico. The plot worked well cause the hoods were smart but had no plan and just played it by ear. Though it was a little mystifying how two broke drifters, who had their car die earlier, should suddenly unload a whole arsenal of guns and ammoGreat actors like B Del Torro and James Caan shown, but the two hoods and their body guard opposites were great, as well as the women and the doctor. Geoffrey Lewis acted as a washed up mob guy, alongside his daughter Juliette who played the young distraught surrogate mom, and they both did a good job. . There was a a lot of double crossing but in the end you get one of the longest, most stylized shoot outs at some Mexican roadhouse ever filmed. Of course, it was derivative with all the macho Mexican shoot-out stuff, but who cares? See it, but you might be disturbed if sensitive. "},{"Title":"Worth owning!","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the very beginning, I knew I was about to see something I hadn't seen before. This movie is nuts! This is one of those movies that has you sitting at attention because it is absolutely unpredictable. The action scenes are great because they're a stray from the normal heroes with impeccable aim shootouts that we're all so used to seeing. Check it out so you could see what I mean. The acting is pretty good and that goes even for Ryan Phillipe, who I wanted to strangle until I saw this flick. What is up with that accent of his in this movie? Where the hell is he supposed to be from? Benicio Del Toro does better here than he did in Usual Suspects. Sorry Fenster fans, but Longbaugh is the man now. The only complaint I had with this movie was that it was a little hard to follow. It's very easy to get lost here but pay attention, gang. This movie deserves it. A hidden gem. **** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"one of the most underrated movies in a long while","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can see why some people didn't like this one- it's brutal and nihilistic, and there are no real good guys.  But really, Way of the Gun is probably one of the most intelligent crime thrillers ever.  As a matter of fact, I enjoyed it more than The Usual Suspects- I'm not saying that TUS is a bad movie, it's just that I thought WOTG was a bit more interesting.  Del Toro is a great actor, and Phillipe was convincing in his role.  Caan was excellent, as was the rest of the cast.  The action sequences were expertly-coordinated and had a lot of punch, something that bloated blockbusters like XXX don't have.  The most interesting part of the movie was how Longabaugh and Parker ended up defending the mother from the people that were supposed to be protecting her.  Overall a great movie with fully-fleshed characters, multilayered plot, and some good recurring themes.  WOTG deserved (still deserves) much better reviews.   "},{"Title":"HELL YEAH!!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I normally don't like Ryan Philippe.  I hated I Know What You Did Last Summer, he struck me as totally pretentious in the otherwise entertaining Cruel Intentions, and I have yet to watch Little Boy Blue, but needless to say, my expectations are fairly low. I decided to take the time to watch The Way of the Gun mainly because I thought the preview looked good (thanks, in no small part, to Benecio Del Toro), and I loved every second of it. I've heard some slightly negative things about it, but on the other hand, I've also seen professional film critics give Fight Club the lowest rating possible, proving that some critics just can't be trusted. The Way of the Gun is just about as good as a crime thriller can get.There wasn't a whole lot of competition, but Benecio Del Toro stole the show, hands down. He delivered one of the most entertaining and quality performances that I've seen in years. Juliette Lewis also did a great job in this film. Who would have expected that the woman who was Mallory Knox could so effectively portray a scared pregnant woman? Luckily, she was able to let her wild side a little loose near the end during the birthing process, when she reminded us of the size of her mouth and the sheer strength of her voice! James Caan seemed to have been a bit exploited in his role as a `bag man,' but he still filled the role very effectively.The beginning of the film, where we are introduced to Mr. Longbaugh (Del Toro) and Parker (Philippe), is probably one of the best parts of the film. Not only the hilarious fight scene at the nightclub, but also the next few scenes, particularly the interviews for the semen donations (`No one's ever mentioned sex with dead people!' `Did you ever ask?' `No!' `You should&#133;').(spoilers) One of the main things that made The Way of the Gun such a great movie was that there was just so much going on. The plot is so complex and the presentation of the film is so entertaining that it invites and almost requires more than one viewing. Besides that, the movie also contains what is, in my opinion, one of the best car chases ever filmed. Sure it's slow at times, but there was actually TECHNIQUE. There was little to no destruction done in that particular scene (something that is generally mandatory for a car chase to be effective), but it was so well executed that none was needed. The vast majority of high-speed chases seen in movies are pretty much the same &#150; reckless, fast, destructive, and generally thoughtless. Look, for example, at the stereotypical car chases in The Rock, Gone In 60 Seconds, and, in an extreme case, Blues Brothers 2000.  In The Way of the Gun, one of the things that Mr. Longbaugh and Parker did was they stopped their truck and got out, letting it roll, so that their pursuers would get out of their car and follow. As the truck rolled along, they all followed, engaging in a very effective gun fight, and then when some distance had been covered, Longbaugh and Parker would jump back into the truck and take off, gaining a significant lead as their pursuers run back to their own car, which had been left behind during the gunfight. This may not have the destructive satisfaction of many other chases, but it was by far more realistic, which is another quality that this film possesses. Immediately following that chase, Longbaugh goes to steal another car so that they can ditch the truck, and he hits the window (painfully, from the looks of it) with his elbow three times before it breaks. There's no reason to do something like that in a movie other than to make it more realistic, and the more realistic a movie is, the better, particularly when it is unnecessary for it to be unrealistic.The kidnap plot that drives the film is also very unique and well presented. Juliette Lewis plays a woman who has been hired by a wealthy couple as a surrogate mother. Therefore, the child that she is carrying is extremely valuable, so Longbaugh and Parker kidnap her (and the child) in hopes of getting their hands on the money. This story is done very well, and it just gets better and more complicated from there. There are so many things about this movie that are totally original, too, right down to the sound of the gunshots. Also, there are interesting and unique scenes. For example, there is one scene where Longbaugh walks into a convenience store and proceeds to help himself to various items, making little effort to keep the female clerk from noticing. After a cut away to Parker in the van with Robin (Juliette Lewis), we go back inside, and Longbaugh and this girl behind the counter are smoking cigarettes and watching the ultrasound tape of the kidnapped baby. Did he just charm this girl into letting him smoke in the store while he used her VCR? Did she not care that he had been stealing from the store? As far as the rest of the film, this particular scene did not require any explanation, and therefore none was given. Normally, this would be a problem, but the rest of the movie works so well that these things don't really matter. The Way of the Gun is what you get when you take an overblown action crime thriller and add a bit of realism to it. The final gunfight sequence is extremely well done, and it ends the film very ambiguously but also in a very entertaining way. The Way of the Gun is a great film, with good acting and directing, as well as a brilliant script. See it.  "}{"Title":"Ponderous, yet thrilling spectacle.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the strangest films I have seen in a long time.  Bloated and pretentious, it is like an oversized car that grinds to a halt, spurting occasionally into movement.  Though humourless and cynical, it is an epic farce; epic because of the Western backdrop against which it is played; farce, because the whole project seems ready to collapse under its own earnestness, characters come and go unexpectedly, there's a lot of going in and out of doorways, the action shifts between distances thousands of miles apart, and yet the same characters seem to recongregate, as if some great big hand is moving the delf along a table.  I'm not able to tell whether 'Way of the Gun' is absurdly complex or foolishly simple.  The major problem is the screenplay, which seems desperate to remind us of the plot's metaphysical depth, when, as Keaton and Melville have taught us, action is eloquent enough on its own. Some have seen the film as a denunciation of violent cinema, cool macho gangster nihilism, as the sterile, masturbatory crooks (the chief of whom can't even have a baby with his wife) is contrasted with the simple values of maternity and fertility - when the enviably calm 'bagman' Joe Sarno walks in on Robin in labour, he seems momentarily struck with awe.  He is the only character at the end not tainted by blood - after all, he is the cleaner - and McQuarrie doesn't seem to be making much distinction between the blood of a bursting mother and the wounds of a bunch of gunmen.If the screenplay never transcends its own gaze, we can always concentrate of McQuarrie's directorial style.  Some have compared the film to 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid' (the narrator gives himself and his accomplice the real-life surnames of the outlaws), but 'The Wild Bunch' is as good a starting point as any - the alternation of thunderous gunfights with an unearthly calm; the dead-end masculinity; the ritual finale (when Parker jumps into the dry fountain full of broken beer bottles - ouch!); the rare feel for landscape and architecture.  The long central sequence in Mexico, where the plot overload seems to stand still, is a familiar Peckinpah device, as the men rejuvenate, take stock, reflect, although actual Mexicans are conspicuously sparse.  Peckinpah was very much influenced by 'The Treasure of Sierra Madre', and like most Huston films, 'Way' is a hymn to failure.  What's surprising, though, for such a self-regarding wordsmith, is what a great action director McQuarrie is.  The gunfights here are truly visceral, very 1970s, exciting and full of crackling guns, the best since 'Heat', and showing most Hollywood action thrillers up for the cartoons they are.  The opening fight outside the concert is like a diabolic inversion of 'Grease', while the 'Battleship Potemkin' parody getaway with the pregnant Robin is extraordinary.  As is the way the cold modernist sheen a la 'Claire Dolan' gives onto the old-fashioned dustiness of a Western.  The music is terrific too, alternating melodramatic squalls of 'Usual Suspects'-like dread, with thrilling castanetas, as if the whole film is just one big corrida. "},{"Title":"Off and on, a great film","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film had a lot of great stuff to look for, but unfortunately, it lulled in spots, which is a downer for a type of Tarantino Resovoir Dogs type of flick.  Writer and first time director Chris McQuarie has a lot of good things here, but he might want to consider a little editing though.  There are, believe it or not, some not needed scenes here (maybe so, maybe not).  But, lukcily, some of them are overshadowed by a better than average script and very credible actors Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Torro make a good duo, Juliette Lewis is slutty yet charming in a pregnant role and most notably in one of his best roles, James Caan as a aging hitman who will get villain fans cheering.  Exceptional action ending and it's actors almost make up for some boring points in this film and it is worth a look whether it is likeable or not.  B+ "},{"Title":"This is a really awful movie.","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can see why Ryan Phillippe's career has stalled, his acting is horrible in this movie. I feel bad for Benicio Del Toro because is a a really good actor in a really bad movie.The dialogue is terrible. It seems the writer is trying to emulate the verbal minutiae of movies like Pulp Fiction but it comes off as just babbling. There is no cleverness to the exchange between characters.The actions of the characters are odd in the sense that many of the things they do don't seem to further the plot or character development. Violence for violence sake so to speak.Just avoid this turd of a movie. "},{"Title":"Good start but fades away","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Parker (Ryan Phillippe) and Longbaugh (Benicio Del Toro) are two petty criminals with not much going for them. They come up with a scheme to kidnap surrogate Robin (Juliette Lewis) who is carrying a gangster's baby. She is under guard every moment by Jeffers (Taye Diggs) and Obecks (Nicky Katt).This starts with a pretty funny scene with a loudmouth Sarah Silverman pushing her boyfriend to fight Ryan Phillippe. She gets punched in the face and it's shockingly funny. I wish the rest of this is just as good. Writer/director Christopher McQuarrie has created something that is a little bit off. It's pulpy but it's way too much of a mess. It has a bit of action, but there are long stretches of boring inaction . It tries to be 'Pulp Fiction' but he ain't no Tarantino. But then who is? The dialog is stiff. Overall there is no likable character anywhere, not even Robin. There is no rooting interest. It is stretched out far too much after an interesting kidnapping start. McQuarrie is trying to do his own movie after the success of writing 'The Usual Suspects'. It shows some promise with some unusual touches. However this is a near miss overall. "},{"Title":"Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Philippe kidnap pregnant Juliette Lewis and get more than they bargained for","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The basic plot is straightforward. Two robbers and murderers kidnap a pregnant girl, not knowing that she's carrying a baby for gangster Scott Wilson. Wilson has two bodyguards in the act plus two button men/bagmen played by James Caan and Geoffrey Lewis, who is introduced playing Russian roulette on himself with about six pistols.The story is fleshed out with a variety of subplots and machinations. It's neo-noir in nature. One does not know whom to root for! I guess one can root for Juliette Lewis to have her baby intact, and she looks terribly uncomfortable throughout. And who wouldn't be in her condition? The film itself is attractively filmed and has some well-staged shootouts and action scenes. The acting is good. Del Toro need only look. Philippe can act although he does come across as stuck on himself and not really the person he's portraying. In this movie, he holds the guns well. He sounds as if he has a mouth full of marbles, however. Juliette outdoes herself. She sure can scream, or was that a voice double? Old pros Geoffrey Lewis and James Caan have no problem, apart from a script problem here and there that they cannot overcome. The movie has a small amount of cryptic lines that don't quite register. Maybe on second viewing they will, for this is a movie one can watch over again.The main downside of the movie is a certain amount of pretentiousness. I give them credit for trying to deepen the story with the talk about prayer, God and redemption. It didn't click, however. The burden fell mainly on Philippe for that, and it didn't sound natural. The effect of the baby on these hit men didn't quite ring true either, and that was a script/direction issue. It wasn't prepared for well enough, so that when these feelings were expressed we'd feel it natural. Instead it seemed grafted on. After all, they kidnapped a pregnant woman in the first place. The camaraderie between Del Toro and Caan also didn't seem natural; it was overdone.With no hero available, the writer had to go somewhere with this story to get a resolution. And the direction he tried was OK. He just didn't pull it off. To prepare for the eventual expression of feelings by all these guys, the script needed earlier scenes to lead the way. The Asphalt Jungle is a role model in how to do this. For example, Sterling Hayden is a gunman but in an early scene with Marc Lawrence, we see that Hayden has a sense of independence and won't be boned.So basically we have a high order of technical skill and filming here and decent enough acting, but a script that falls short of its potential. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ryan Philipe and Benecio del Toro do a magnificent job of portraying two insane outlaws.The opening of this movie is amazing and will set you in the mood for the rest of this insane movie.When you are a gun buff like myself you know what a good shoot em up movie is. This one will not disappoint at all.The overall plot and progression in the movie is quite fast paced but it is justified.Watch this movie it is a must seeI loved this move so much I named my gaming team after it http//www.wayofthegun.net/ "},{"Title":"Dark Masterpiece","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the long run The Way of the Gun will be rated a masterpiece. The story is compelling and the acting enhances the well written script. Both Phillipe and Del Toro are convincing and believable as two not very likable bad guys. The rating of this film is well deserved and it is questionable whether women can be very comfortable viewing this film, and that is said not in context of violence committed against women - although that does occur - rather, in the unsettling scenes in the last part of the film. Without giving anything away, it is sufficient to simply say the story concerns a surrogate mother and a kidnapping. Whether man or woman, it is not for the squeamish. Not having a main role, James Caan does what he does best - he plays a criminal as if born to do it. This is a dark film with an evil contemplation on the sanctity of life. "},{"Title":"A great film for what it's worth!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When i saw this film i had never seen a Sam Pekinpah film. Since that was the case, i loved it. The writer/director, i don't know his name, but he; weaved a modern day Pekinpah film that reminded me of Pat and Billy and Straw Dogs at the same time..... After seeing this film, i saw and realized how important Sam Pekinpah was to filmaking. Everything I had studied was a beginner class to his westerns.This film is a western. And it should be treated like it is a classic.The story is a classic dope story about some cowboy's (Benicio del Torro and Ryan Phillipe) that need a big score. When the finally find it; everything goes wrong.This might be vauge but this is what happens. The film goes crazy in the end and bad stuff happens.In my opinion, this film transcends what a film should be, Let's get it on! "},{"Title":"riveting","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" James Caan and the cast did a great job! Superb cast and story line all the way! Being in EP I would have done things a little differently, depending on which role I was in, but that would have shortened the film dramatically. My favorite part was when he visited the two EP's in jail and told the one One thing you gotta know if you gonna stay in this business. This beat up old man is a survivor. I paused the movie so my grandson would get it since he always pushes the limit. James Caan is one of the few people I would hate to meet in a dark alley! In my opinion this is the best work McQuarrie has ever done; much better than The Usual Suspects even if it is in the same vein-CRIME. "},{"Title":"totally awesome thriller even if a touch overblown","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Deliciously satisfying. Like I said, a bit overblown, but never sinks deeply into the schmaltz and cheese of cheap giveaways to a least common denominator. Stops just shy of breaking the membrane of completely incredible, always leaves you an avenue of belief that it could happen. So watch it. This comment requires me to write ten lines of text. Okay, fine. Some of the characters were cutouts, but they were pulled out of the mold a bit, enough so that you buy it. James Caan is great as the world-wise old scumbag, so glad it wasn't Morgan Freeman being the wise old black guy giving advice to white people, which it could have been. Only the evil whore zillionaire harpy of a wife Francesca was a bit flat. But out of almost nine or ten major characters, that's not a bad ratio. I blame the script for that shortcoming, not the acting/directing. Oh- and the doctor, Dylan Kussman, could have been better. But his part was so impassioned, I'm sure it was a tough part to play. Anyway. It's really good. Go watch it. "}{"Title":"A movie that stands up to repeated viewing","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Others have already laid out the story line.  What defines this film  for me is the the dialogue and the intensity of the characters. These are highly unusual and very compelling characters that you become totally intrigued by from the first time you see them.  You get absorbed by them, yet you never know them.  This film couldn't have been any better if Christopher Walken and Samuel L. Jackson were in it. The dialogue takes the strange yet familiar twists and turns of Tarantino at his best.  Consequently, you can watch this film over and over.  The perfect double feature would be The Way of the Gun and Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way of the Gun is a unique film to begin from scene 1 but that's what makes it such a good movie. The film depicts on two criminal drifters(Ryan Phillipe,Benecio Del Toro) who don't care about sympathy and compunction. They find out that a surrogate mother(Juliette Lewis) who holds the child for a rich mob boss is being payed to carry their child. They overhear the conversation and plot to make a kidnapping. Two determined bodyguards(Taye Diggs, Nicky Katt)who are with Juliette Lewis 24 hours a day create problems for the two criminals. James Caan's role is the mob boss's right man who makes the right decisions for him. The movie has a unique directing sense of how shots are made, it has unpredictable twists and turns to keep you interested into what happens, the action is top notch, clever, and well edited. OVERALL THIS MOVIE ROCKS 10/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome visuals","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the yellow filters used to the fact that the greedy wife was always wearing green. Plus Sarnos old school crew in members only jackets. It was all thought through so carefully to project age and mentality of each character. It also has one of my favorite quotes of all time the only thing you can tell about a broken down old man is that he's a survivor. One of the few movies that fleshes out characters without ever truly showing you who the were. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this film is excellent. What a cast! I'm a sucker for any film that includes Juliette Lewis and Benicio del Toro in the cast - neither disappointed in the least. Juliette Lewis plays her part as the pathetic and exploited pregnant girl beautifully whilst Benicio del Toro is just so cool!I loved the opening scene and the closing one, which left wondering why they had ever bothered. Loads of plot twists, loads of violence and, although much of the ground was pretty well documented already, they always seemed to come with a little variation, ie walking the cars in the chase sequence.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Good actors but not much","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the actors are superb in te movie, all of them, but the rest (especially plot and  direction) is really disappointing. The story is like the one from a cheap soap opera  (Who's the father of the baby? Are you my employee or my son?) and many facts are  deliberately hidden so that the movie have SOME thrill for the audience. Many  ingredients in the story are really underdeveloped or hard to believe the love story  between the boss' wife and the black guy, the killer who fins the kidnappers everywhere  and so on. The introduction for the movie hints some kind of humor content that could  have been very beneficial for the movie but then you don't see any trait of it. I don't  know... What about that scene where the two gorillas try to make head and tail of the  problem in a similar way Batman and Robin usually do? I was missing the riddle there. I  don't know, a bit disappointing.  "},{"Title":"An intelligent action film. No, seriously.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *May contain spoilers, depending on what you define as a spoiler*The main reason I'm writing this is because the review currently on the movie's page is painfully stupid, asking you to aviod the movie because it makes no scence.But it's also a very good film. Basically an action film, although it seems wrong to lump an intelligent movie like this in with yer Van Dammes and Bruce Willis cheesefests. But it is. This is what an action movie looks like when the emphasis is taken off making you love the main characters, making you cheer for them, or making you hope they come out ok. But you probably will. Maybe not that first one though.It's also surprisingly short, but doesn't feel like it. If you know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie kicks ass I reccommend it! Ryan and Benicio talk volumes to eachother and add to the scenes with their silence and facial expressions. Their are funny parts as well as good action and shooting sequences. "},{"Title":"First scene sets the stage for this great movie","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  mcquarrie shows how talented he is with this great film. the first scene is excellent and has the best line of recent years (i'm sure everyone knows the one i'm talking about involving ryan phillipe and sarah silverman). people say that it parallels pulp fiction and other tarantino movies, but i believe that is what makes it good. have a plot with lots of story, good dialogue, and you don't need bloody scenes quite so much.  this movie has the bloody scenes at the end, but thats beside the point.  also, the characters are all believable and likeable at the same time.  james caan as the broken down but wise old man, taye diggs' bodyguard, ryan philippe as kidnapper one. but the whole story is held together by two actors, benicio del toro and juliette lewis.  they seem to be the two characters who aspire for something else. they don't have it all together, but maybe wish for another life.  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This might take a second or third viewing to catch all of the neat little details that this movie has.  Awesome performances, along with a clever story and an superb ending.  This is an underrated gem that people seem to skip over because they can't understand it or haven't really heard of all the people in it.  If you judge a movie by the people in it, or don't want to even try to think and keep up with the movie along the way, avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Quite good Blood-blood-blood-Movie","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie is quite good, but of course you have to like this type of movies to like The way of the gun. You can not expect from these movies such a good quality like in other good acted movies. If you like watching a really weird movie in which every minute somebody is blown up by a pumpgun or so and in which is more blood sparklin around than in any mankind-known massacre in history, this is the right stuff for you! "}{"Title":"The great cast!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I got this movie last year from a friend because I have a 'thing' about Ryan Phillippe. I was getting bored of all the teen movies he did, and was beginning to give up on him! Then of course I watched 'The Way of the Gun' I looooooved it. Incredible cast and plot. Can't forget Juliette Lewis. I first saw her in 'The Other Sister' and I thinks she's a really good actress. I could go on forever because this is such a good cast. I'll finish up now.. grrrreat movie! I would recommend it highly. ) "},{"Title":"LOVE IT!!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of my favorite movies of all time.I just saw it a few days ago for the first time and absolutely loved it. When hearing that Ryan Phillippe was one of the stars I was a little reluctant to watch at first.  I didn't think that he could pull off the action star, but I guess I was wrong, cause he did great.  The accent was pretty cool too.Benicio Del Toro.  Enough said.  Another great acting job to put on the mantle.  It's not the words that are said from his character, it's the gestures and facial expressions that he shows that bring his character to life.  And at the end, the change he goes through is awesome.  He just sits in a chair and looks around and all you can do is wonder what he's thinking.James Caan did an execelent job as well as Joe Sarno.  The only thing you can assume from a broken down old man is that he is a survivor.Nicky Katt and Tye Diggs do awesome as well.  Nicky Katt is one of my favorite actors and loved seeing him in this movie.This movie has one of the best shoot-outs that I've seen.  It reminds me a lot of Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid.  Christopher McQuarrie looks like he did his homework when making this film.  To be a first time director, it doesn't really show, although he did miss some stuff.  But other than that great job.The Usual Suspects was a good movie as well and I'm glad to see that McQuarrie is keeping up the good work.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fell Good Movie of The Year","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time, I caught this film about halfway though and usually if I'm interested I'll stop watching so I can rent it and catch it from start to finish. But I just couldn't stop watching! It was mesmerizing! A pregnant girl kidnapped by 2 losers who'll do anything to get their money. No sympathy for anybody. I bought it and it wa just as goos from start to finish. Caan is great as is Del Toro, who underacts in this film. Why would he TRY to play a loser?  His character IS a loser so no need to hype it.  Lewis, as the prenant girl, is exactly what she needed to be....vulnerable and strong at the same time.  No John Wayne's or goody two shoe's in this film...none welcome either. "},{"Title":" Intelligent gun-totting yarn that almost - but not quite - succeeds in being a `must see'","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was quite `different' to the traditional Hollywood gun-totting movie. This is nice. This is a good thing. But is the movie a good thing? Yeah, I guess it is.Plot wise - I liked the plot here. It's initially a simple premise. Two rogue-wanders are travelling around - they're Benico del Tero (as Longbaugh) and Ryan Phillipe (as Parker). They overhear the arrival of a rich business-man's doctor, while at a clinic, and decide to kidnap her, which they do. The trouble is they picked the wrong man to mess with and everyone - from the business man's bodyguards to the daughter herself to her lover - has an idea about how to handle the situation. There's crossing, and double crossing, and a nice big shoot out to satisfy one and all.I like Del Toro. Some reviewers here accuse him of `sleeping' through his role here - I see this as him assuming the laid back, nonchalant posture of the rogue that he is. He has no cares in the world, he drifts from moment to moment, so why should he be playing a moody intense freak? Ryan Phillipe's character has a little more edge, playing the younger and less experienced companion of Del Toro. His good looks don't actually go against him and he's got enough talent  to play the rogue here with a touch of humanity ( a touch - not much more) underneath. Juliette Lewis, as the kidnap victim Robin, is her usual self - she's good if you like her in any other movie she played (somewhat shy, lacking self confidence, etc.). All the rest are good and have the right level of the indefinable `cool' that the film requires.What I liked here was how Director/Writer Christopher McQuarrie doesn't insult his audience by having everything explained in big bright neon lights. A motivation is explained in a line of dialogue. A family link is implied in a word and a glance. In reality people do not address the air in monologues to tell us their thoughts and McQuarrie lets us infer in the same manner that his characters must, as to what's going on and who is plotting what. He's also quite capable with his camera, considering this is his first directing role. The action scenes are quite tight and intense. There's also some remarkable originality in them - check out the first scene when Del Toro and Phillipe cover one another while making their escape, or the ingenious car chase moment just shortly afterwards. There's a feeling that McQuarrie put a good bit of time into researching how such events might really occur rather than just have the `John Woo' effect of back flipping in slow-motion with two guns in each hand. It works very well and adds to the `realism' of the movie.The movie is smart, it's clever, and well acted. And yet there's something not quite there. Is it the lack of an ultimate twist (the ending was quite clear to me)? Is it that, as subliminally as the plot develops, there's not quite enough of it? Is it that the characters, all well done, aren't quite interesting enough to make their fates worthy? Or does it deed some more wit or panache? Whatever it is, I can't quite grasp the flaw that would elevate this movie from a `should definitely give a look' to a `must see'. Still well above the normal mindless garbage we get inflicted with. 7.3/10. "},{"Title":"Corruption, kidnapping, deception, and gunplay! gunplay! gunplay!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't let the first scene of the movie deceive you  It's practically the only part of the movie I dislike.  The acting within this gem blossoms as the film progresses.  Although at first concept, Ryan Philippe and Benicio del Toro seem to be the oddest couple they do hold some kind of chemistry. If you enjoy Quentin Tarantino movies, this one follows the genre (except for the lack of a disjointed timeline).  I recommend it to almost anyone. "},{"Title":"Simply a great gun movie...","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christopher McQuarrie knows firearms, and has wrote and directed one of the greatest films I have ever seen.  99.9% of the movies put out are fake, cheesy, and an insult to the intelligence of the public.  What this film does is clearly go outside the margin of modern film.There is nothing in this film that is not thought clearly out.  From the writing, to the direction to the acting, this film is near flawless.  It is a shame McQuarrie is not doing more films. "},{"Title":"Stylised thinkers film, with cool shootouts.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was average when i first saw it, but then again i did go and see it with a bunch of girls.  No offense to girls but everyone of you i have shown this too disliked it and it offends me. I think that after watching it over and over again i can appreciate the story and action a lot more.  It is certainly not an easy film to grasp or sit through if you are not in the mood to concentrate.  But if you are then you will be rewarded.The film offers so much diversity.  It is unique, yet has intertextual visual comparisons with other films like 'Butch cassidy and the sundance kid's' final scene.  It is funny and yet very intense.  It full of exciting and innovative action scenes but also strange, puzzling character development scenes.I can't recommend this film enough it is a cool and stylish bit of filmmaking.  For once the critics know what they are talking about.  Buy it and watch it over and over again.  If not just for the heart pumping adrenaline racing original score.  9/10 "},{"Title":"A tough movie.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tough in a lot of ways. To watch, its presentation, material, etc. This will be a much underrated film. Reasons Firstly the fact that no time is wasted, you need to concentrate for the whole thing. Much of the story is told in looks glances and connecting dots. So immediately you have lost 50% of your audience who will only concentrate for 10-15 mins, miss something and be lost for the rest of the film declaring it as pointless or confusing.If you can concentrate then the supposed plot twists are no more than just an intricate weaving of characters. You can work out from the start that everyone has their own agenda. The intelligent ones will play other people to get what they want and test each other. This also requires some nous from the viewer to see.Finally it is nice to have a movie with no good guys. Ooops, just lost another 20% of the public who can't handle a movie without a hero. It's also a movie with gunfights that are not set to a thumping soundtrack, reflecting the loud and very violent realism that are guns. And some great comedy touches striking that balance.On the acting side parts were played well, del Toro plays his intense twisted man beautifully, and Phillipe the slightly more innocent but really couldn't care less character also very well.The only thing I would criticize is the voice over at the end, it would have been nice to just drift away. It is worth noting that McQuarrie writes not to please the audience or make a successful film, but to challenge convention and show people a different side...This film will be fine craftsmanship to a narrow wedge of the audience, and a pleasure to watch. A large slice will find it acceptable and enjoy the acting, the gunfights or the intriguing plot. Leaving the final slice of audience to reel at the dead innocent public and be aggravated by the story they have to fill in, or the reason for such odd behaviour. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WAY OF THE GUN is an excellent & suspenseful thriller with more gore and gunfire than a Sam Peckinpah film.   Ryan Phillippe & the always excellent Benicio Del Toro are dynamite as two low-life career criminals who kidnap pregnant surrogate Juliette Lewis and hold her hostage expecting the baby's wealthy (and decidedly unpleasant)parents to pony up a $15 million dollar ransom.  There are more twists and turns here than in any film since THE USUAL SUSPECTS.   James Caan is first rate as a philosophical bagman and Lewis' father Geoffrey has a truly bizarre cameo as a suicidal hitman.While it didn't fare very well at the box office, WAY OF THE GUN is well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"most underrated movie of the year","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I did not rent this movie until july because i heard it was not that good but i loved it. Ryan phillippe really did a great job and del toro is just a great actor. The movie gets a little slow in the middle but the action scenes in the beginning and the end are great. This was a great written story with lots of turns. go buy it or rent it. "}{"Title":"The coolest movie since Usual Suspects and Suicide Kings!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a masterpiece from the writer of The Usual Suspects.  It has everything from action to a great opening one liner to intense scenes.  A movie that just speaks of genius and Ryan Phillipe's best movie to date. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, original and rewarding","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WAY OF THE GUN is one of the most original films I have seen in some time. Gloriously free from self-referentiality, it is a rarity among films today in that it relies entirely on its ability to captivate the audience with the characters it creates and in telling a good story well.WOTG features the kind of intelligent, motive driven characters- who most importantly are never innately good or inherently evil- that haven't been seen since Tarantino nearly a decade earlier. Benicio Del Toro is once more a revelation, cementing his position as one of the hottest rising actors around, with a performance in which he manages to say everything, very often without saying anything. Even Phillipe is engaging in a role that subverts his typical 'pretty boy' roles. Kudos must go to him attempting to inject some variety and more unconventional work into his career. A note must also be made about the sublime veteran Caan. He simply oozes class and presence, reducing the likes of Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt to mere amateurs.The strength of this film lies in its writing and its criticisms of the conventions of 'buddy-action movies' and crime flicks. This is clear from the very opening of the film in which we see the two protagonists, clearly about to lose a fight, steal the glory of their opponents by attacking the women they are with the tone is set in which those you would normally root for will do things that both appal and intrigue. The plot is filled with these inventive subversions; including one of the greatest car chases I've seen, despite the fact that it occurs at a pace nothing shorter than walking speed.It is my belief that it is because of this sort of intelligence (it is never spelt out for the audience with a series of close-up shots and pointless dialogue what is going on)and the level of patience that is required to actually follow a story for 2-hours, that prevented WOTG from being a hit.I am not one of those sort of people who will write a review that says 'The Greatest Movie I've Ever Seen (Until The Next One Of Course)' and I shan't pretend that the film doesn't have holes in it characters such as the 'Bag man' played by Juliet Lewis' real life father are somewhat underdeveloped and the editing is occasionally erratic. But for those who are looking for a breath of fresh air and who do stick with what is ultimately a remarkable directorial debut from McQuarrie (he's even drawn comparisons with the likes of Peckinpah and Hawks) they will be rewarded. Those who don't can go and watch GONE IN 60 SECONDS. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the gunplay, or watch it for the story - just watch it though!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This even betters McQuarrie's Oscar-winning Usual Suspects script. Forgetting everything else that's brilliant about the film for a minute, the final shootout in the Mexican brothel is either the best or the second best shootout ever seen on screen (I can't decide between this and the one in Heat). It is everything a movie shootout should be - exciting AND realistic.Benicio Del Toro is incredible, just incredible. He speaks volumes without opening his mouth. Ryan Phillipe and Juliette Lewis are great as well.The musical score is staggering - absolutely appropriate, not wall to wall, but coming in for full effect at the right times. One example - when Juliette Lewis comes out of the motel room and gets her first breath of real freedom for a year, that is a very special moment, made even more special by the wonderful musical cue.The blurring of the line between 'Good and Bad guys' (Hollywood 1920-present day) is something there should be more of in modern cinema. As people's behaviour is not black and white, neither should it be in films. As a result, you side with who you side with. Personally I think it adds a great depth to the film, as I side with everyone in the movie at some point. The film-makers do not try and force emotion in your face, they let you decide who you sympathise with (if anyone).The only criticism (and it should probably be aimed at my attention span rather than the film) is that the middle does drag on slightly during repeat viewings. I think this could be due to the fact that it happens mostly in long, lingering shots that go on for ever (a testament to the skill of the actors). Had it been cut a little quicker, I don't think it would be an issue. On the other hand, a snappier cutting style there might well ruin the flow of the movie - a difficult decision.Essential viewing - a fresh, original crime film that contains sincere character drama and superb action in (just about) the perfect amounts. "},{"Title":"The nihilistic joy of violence","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is highly enjoyable, right from the hilarious kick-off scene to the climactic shoot-out.  Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe are both great, and James Caan proves he is still as hard as nails.  Plenty of violence and action to get the adrenaline going, but there is more here than that - there is also much humour and emotion, and the plot's twists are driven by the characters, not the need for another car chase.Not a Usual Suspects, but a damn fine film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"super dynamic stylist crime action story of 2000","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  late 60s and early 70s crime story style.  not much unnecessary slow motion as in recent action movies.action and gun fight are necessary and not just for the sake for being action movie. throughout the movie, there are many crime wit. even though only briefly touched (maybe intentionally), relationship among characters are deep. right choice of actors / actress. plot is good, unlikely to predict the ending final confrontation sequence is very classic and incredibly thrilling, but ending is upbeat. hopefully the budget is low which proves good entertaining movie does not need to be expensive, sop they should make more ?  similar crime story in years is city of industry. "},{"Title":"Film noir at its best","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This amazing neo-noir is so well written, acted and directed that never stops surprising. Christopher McQuarrie created a very strange, supenseful and action packed film. The  shooting scenes are different than your average John Woo style action scenes from the nineties. Don't get me wrong, I love those kind of movies, but this one is somehow as good as that, only different. The photography and the music are also superb. Benicio Del Toro is great as usual, but the real surprise here is the incredibly good performance by Ryan Philippe. Juliette Lewis and James Caan are great too. Check this one out, it's not what you think it is. It's better. An unexpected instant classic. 9/10 "},{"Title":"WHAT A GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, this movie is a thinkers movie and it is a mix of comedy, drama and violence, but it is one of the best movies I have seen this year.  I usually wait until the movies I want to see come out on video, (I watch all of SCOTT WILSON'S movies and was so glad he was in this movie or else I might have missed this one), but the best thing I did yesterday was to take myself off to the cinema and enjoy a very clever, funny and different film.  I don't know how much this film was promoted in America, but in Australia you wouldn't even know it was showing.  It is only showing at 1 of our cinemas, there was no advertising in the cinema (posters, etc) and only 8 people (including me) were watching the movie yesterday.  To make a movie with such brilliant characters as (SCOTT WILSON & JAMES CAAN) and not to promote the movie as it should be, is a shameful waste!    "},{"Title":"A superbly smart and gritty neo-Western","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is the best American movie I've seen since Traffic. Certainly they're different types of films, but the similarities lie in their intelligence and their respective directors' evident love for movies. But I'd have to give the nod to WotG, simply because Christopher McQuarrie wrote and directed his own movie, whereas Soderbergh simply directed someone else's script (itself adapted from someone else's).If you didn't like this movie, I dare say it's because you were expecting another mindless American shoot-em-up. WotG is an atmosphere movie, a modern western, with unsympathetic and unrepentant characters who don't apologize for who they are or what they do. McQuarrie admirably does not tell us everything about his characters and their motivations, and that makes them all the more interesting. Parker and Longbaugh seem to know a lot about weapons and tactics, but we never get the typical Hollywood discussion about back when we were in the army, or on the force, etc. that a lesser writer would have included, or a less intelligent producer would have insisted on.Speaking of tactics, they were superb. A couple of minor technical glitches that most viewers won't notice, but all in all some very convincing (and realistic) action--and the antithesis of Charlie's Angels-type fantasy action. Characters load weapons, and reload, and reload. None of these Hong Kong action-style bottomless guns. Very realistic, and very refreshing. The DVD includes a hilarious script excerpt which was not filmed, and vividly illustrates McQuarrie's understanding of the Hollywood cliches he eschews.Not a perfect movie, but very nearly. The re-watchability quotient is very high. I recommend it highly. And if you don't like it, then you'll just have to wait patiently for Pearl Harbor.   "},{"Title":"Mcquarrie is brilliant","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I dug this movie. The gun fights weren't clones right out of a Hong Kong action movie. A great well paced car chase. Lots of innovation in this movie.Even though i myself totally loved this movie. I understand how some people can hate it. The opening is definitly one of the most vulgar scenes i've ever seen in a movie. Yet it really sets the pace for the rest of the picture. Probally the best Anit-hero movie i've ever seen.Another funny thing. Many reviewers/critics panned Phillippe for his accent (said it sounded fake). Yet the really funny thing is, that's his real accent! That makes me laugh.I am sure Mcquarrie is gonna be a huge writer/director in the future. and if this is his early work... i wonder how he can top it! "},{"Title":"The most violent, gun-crazy action flik of the year","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved it!!!I now have to say that I'm a huge fan of Christopher McQuarrie. Usual Suspects was brilliant, so was this for completely different reasons.There were a few elements in The Way of The Gun that stood out to me. Firstly, there are no good guys. I loved the way that early in the film they actually elude to how the good guys always win, yet as it goes along you start to realize that there aren't any. Good guys are so boring.The filming was excellent. Kind of reminiscent of Three Kings, and the way that movie used a lot of light, pastal colors to really enhance the story. There was just something about the filming in this movie that made it seem just that bit more realistic and gritty.The twists and ironies. I have a feeling that the strong violence in the way may have caused some people to over look the intelligence of this film. Despite what some say, it was very well written.The acting was great. Especially from the main two. Del Toro was suave as always, and I didn't know Phillippe could play such a nasty thug.But the best bit about the way is the attention to detail. The kidnap and slow car chase scenes were incredibly well done. Perhaps the most authentic pieces of gun play you will see in a Hollywood movie this year.9/10  "}{"Title":"An Intelligent, Clever, Shoot-em-Up","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a pleasure to watch. Smart, action-filled and humorous at times, this movie flew by while watching it. Benicio del Toro and Ryan Phillippe are excellent as two, nothing to lose small time hoods, who decide to go for the big time with one big score.  The writing was smart, the acting excellent, and you could not see the plot twists coming...for the most part.  If you want two hours to fly by, watch The Way of the Gun. "},{"Title":"Excellent Gun Handling","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So many movies involve gunplay, and so few get it right. Glaring errors like infinite capacity magazines, sideways gangsta-style shooting, and leaping-through-the-air-while-firing moves abound in action movies--you'd think this would irritate people who know better. And it does. It's just that most viewers don't know better.Which is why I appreciated the firearms handling and tactics shown in this movie, which are excellent. The shooters change magazines, and use the correct technique to do it. The car chase and kidnap scenes show good and realistic tactics and movement. In the shootout at the motel the bodyguards are using the appropriate technique for shooting at long range with pistols. After tens of millions of rounds fired on screen in dozens of forgettable action movies, somebody finally took the effort to get it right.The movie was good, too. The plot requires attention to catch what's going on, and the dialog is intelligent. "},{"Title":"unappreciated","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best action noir movie i have seen in a long time. Way of the gun and other action noir movies are automaticly compared to tarantino's movies.Witch i dislike because tarantino only made one truely good movie (reservoir dogs).McQuarrie did a great job on the gunfights but the dialogue wasn't all that besides the dialogue the cast was underused by McQuarrie. This being McQuarrie's first movie he directed himself i find it to be a great movie. "},{"Title":"A cinematic peak-experience.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of good things have already been said about this movie. They're all true. This one is pretty convincing in every way there is. Multiple viewings definitely needed.The movie that ultimately comes to mind, my mind anyway, when trying to find anything to compare this with is not Pulp Fiction (The style is completely different, I never read a review by Ebert, but I know I'll never be able to take him seriously again if he said that!) or any of the other movies that have already been mentioned, but 'Ronin'.This movie, like Ronin, portrays criminals and bodyguards in such a professionalistic way as never done before. Completely bereft of any Hollywood-ingredients. That's why the movie convinces. When seeing Ronin, as opposed to many other spy-movies, I was stunned by the level of professionality of the characters. Their devotedness to their profession and the way in which they take it completely serious.This movie does the same with criminals and especially with bodyguards.Utterly fascinating to watch.Of the at least 500 shots that are fired in this movie, not one of them is fired without purpose or goal.These guys are G-O-O-D!10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"my kingdom for an isolated dialogue track","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well, it seems that on the second viewing of this movie, i am more inclined to believe that were it not for the over-the-top, wildly distracting score, that this film is pitch-perfect. all the performances are hypnotically on the mark. with more of a mind toward serving the story, no one seems like they're acting, particuarly the two leads. with each passing movie in which he's featured, including excess baggage, the notion that benicio del toro is perhaps one of the finest actors working today becomes more & more crystalised, and this film only adds to his legend. also acting the book-ending narrator of the piece, ryan philippe willfully debunks his movie star career trajectory by choosing to play his character and, in the process, delivers what could be some awkward dialogue & material flawlessly.it's too bad so many people overlooked this film because i got the sense of it being carefully crafted, yet not forced. The dialogue is what got me the first time, but the nuanced atmosphere is what got me the second time. what a confident dbut by writer/director christopher mcquarrie!it cannot be stressed enough, however, what a pity it is that such a piece of work is weighed down by something like the score. in a movie where so much is said by the actors' glances or expressions, the score acted like exclamation points when what was really needed were commas. "},{"Title":"Way of the Fan","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's no doubting the amazing inventiveness of McQuarrie. He is willing to put himself on the line with this movie, which will be glossed over by countless reviewers and even movie buffs as something derivative or even a played out crime movie. There will be the mindless comparisons to Tarantino, Peckinpah, maybe even a Tony Scott here and there, but I'd like to think that if you really watched the movie, you can evaluate it in it's own right, as it's own creative statement and work of art. Now I'm a fan, my take on the film is that it's brilliant. MY pick for the best movie of 2000. It's expressly because it's a basic crime movie that I feel this way. There are over a hundred movies in this genre released every year. Most debut on video or late night cable and are never heard from again. Some manage to get A-list stars and Joel Silver or Jerry Bruckheimer to produce them and wind up with $20 million dollar openings. And some, like this one, feature movie actors, acting out brilliant scenes and dialogue, in front of a great director (as I'm sure he will prove to be).  And the fact that he made this type of movie, but in a fresh, creative, even intelligent way, is what makes him so good. In a few years people are gonna go see Alexander the Great or whatever else McQuarrie does and then hear about this and go back to their video store and rent this puppy and it will probably have the same resurgence Reservoir Dogs did after Pulp Fiction came out. It's a shame just because a movie isn't as slick and Hollywood as Con-Air or Lethal Weapon it's either a straight to cable offering, or, if it's good, a Tarantino rip-off. I think we need a few more categories. Sorry about the manifesto, but I'm a bit riled at how poorly this movie was received. Either I'm seeing something in it that isn't there, or a whole lot of people are really missing something. The writer-director phenomenon is just getting bigger and bigger all the time, which I think is a good thing. Especially if it breeds more like Christopher McQuarrie. All I can say is, watch this movie like you'd watch something important, pay attention and soak in all that it has to offer. I doubt you'd be disappointed. "},{"Title":"They did it my way.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I sat watching this movie at my parents place I was sooo glad I went to see it in the theatre alone.  Nobody was paying attention, and this is one movie you have to pay attention to.  And believe me, it's worth it. Benicio Del Toro continues to enthrall me in every movie he's been in and in Way of the Gun I couldn't take my eyes off him.  He doesn't have to say anything, everything you need to know is there on his face, a look, a glace, a twist of the mouth.  Beautiful.  As I was watching I looked around at my family, walking around, reading magazines, they would look up during a gun fight, ask what was happening then go back to doing whatever they were doing. It's the kind of movie where you don't have to understand whose child is whose you just have to watch the characters interact with each other and it's enough to hold you through the movie.  James Caan with his hardened bagman, Juliet Lewis with her devious suragate mother, Taye Diggs with his ambitious bodyguard, and Ryan Phillipe with his naive criminal all thrust together with Del Toro make for an ambitious film caring more for the people then for the situation they are in, but hey, with so many films loaded with high concept and devoid of endearing characters, this is what I needed.  "},{"Title":"keeper","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Crisp, innovative, fantastic.  Rare that an action flick comes along that is anything more than a stylistic regurgitation of things we've already seen. The Way of the Gun offers things you haven't seen before, to the tune of a smarter script and enthralling performances by Benicio del Toro and Taye Diggs.  Everything del Toro says comes in a tone of quiet deliberacy, drawing a viewer to the edge of his seat time and time again.  His performance is balanced out well by Phillipe, just as Diggs is set off nicely by Nicky Katt.  Excellently drawn characters who are played out excellently.  James Caan's role and performance is also noteworthy.  "},{"Title":"A Great crime movie","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would venture to say that this movie was definatley as good as The Usual Suspects, and maybe even better at parts.  There are no sympathetic characters in this movie, or to quote the film makers, No hookers with a heart of goldThat just makes it feel a lot more like we are seeing real criminals. these are guys who have chosen the life of crime for themselves, not innocent men who are stuck in it against their will.If you like crime movies, you will like this movie.~Rye "},{"Title":"You like Urban Legends? Don't Bother With this one","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not for the moronic MTV generation who needs their entertainment stupid, fast, and spoken in baby-talk. This is a movie for adults. It's an entertainment-as-heck movie. The action is superbly shot and the scenes where there's only dialogue is just as well-shot and paced. For a first picture, it's amazing what McQuarrie has done.There is absolutely nothing in this movie that you could have predicted. Yes, yes, the plot is similar to a hundred movies. Robbery/kidnapping goes awry, criminals attack/shootout at end. Yes, yes, we get all that. But besides all those points, and you go see this movie and you can come out and tell me you KNEW what was going to happen in the scene coming up, you're a liar.I've seen thousands of movies and this one made me sit up and take notice. it's bloody as heck. There's ton of gunplay, and the c section in the Mexican hotel will make you squirm in your seat. The gunfire is loud (as gunfire should be) and will make you jump whenever someone fires a gun.If you like well-made action, this movie's for you. The Third Act shootout alone was worth the price of admission. I'm waiting for a Part Two myself. "}{"Title":"2 hours of absolute brilliance!!!!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my new favorite film!!!!  Ryan Phillippe does a great job in his role, and unlike what the post below me says, a tree stump could not out act him.  That guy must not have watched the movie.  The first 2 minutes had me worried for a second that this movie was going to suck.  It looked as though it were a rip-off of other crime spree movies that have become popular. however, once we get to the part where Juilette Lewis' character is kidnapped, the whole movie shifts over and becomes a contemporary western! James Canns' character is a hitman for the Chidduk family, and is the middle man that the audience can see both sides of the conflict in the movie from. he doesn't want any more death, and is tired of killing.  His character knows how this is going to end because he has seen it a million times before.  The guy below me complained the characters don't change.  Well, you've got to keep in mind that there really isn't any room for change. But to say they don't change at all is a lie, because they do.  When they find out that JL's character is having her own baby, they decide not to hold her hostage, and to let her go.  If that's not a change I don't know what is. Then at the end when Parker is (Ryan's character) puts his hand on her head, another side of the character.  Final word  this movie rocks!  If you wanted to see a movie that is like the first 3 minutes, then you are idiot, because they have made it like 4 or 5 times.  They are called Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs, From Dusk Till Dawn, etc.  This is a thinking man's movie.  "},{"Title":"Underapreciated and misunderstood","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way of the Gun is a movie with a few problems,  uneven pacing, no overly likable characters, muddled subplots, and beautiful violence.Starting with the last first, nowadays, any violence gets some kind of backlash today.  I remember people telling me the murder in American Beauty was graphic and disgusting.  What people dont seem to get is the violence is these characters, they have nothing to lose, and therefore they have no reason to pull any punches.  The gun battles are wonderfully done and look very origional.  In all reality, for all the shooting in the movie, its not really that graphic.  Save for a few instances with the C-section and the fountain, there is nothing out of the ordinary about the carnage in Way of the Gun.I thought that Del Toro's performance in this flick is one that will be looked back on as a truly star making performance.  Benicio oozes cool in every scene, and carries immense gravitas in every scene, even holding his own with Sonny Corleone himself.  However, average people dont take to un charismatic bad guys, and these guys are cool, but no Jules.  As for Philippe,  I managed to forget it was him for most of the last 3/4 of the movie, so thats kudos to him.As for muddled subplots and bad pacing, they go hand in hand. Building gravity for all the characters, McQuarrie went a lil overboard with the slow shots and dramatic music.  On a side note, great music, perfectly appropriate for the movie.For these problems, I still gave the movie 9 out of 10.  A marvelous story for people who can see humor in dreary situations, and can appreciate great detail put into scenes.  See the car chase towards the beginning.  A great movie, will hopefully see new life on DVD like Resevoir Dogs. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but well worth your time","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the writer of the Usual Suspects comes this oddly paced, yet occasionally exhilerating film. The directing,along with the soundtrack, play like a classic western. There aren't really any good guys here. It is just bad guys fighting other bad guys. Some people didn't like the slow pace in the middle of the film. Admittedly, over an hour of nothing but plot dialogue can get tedious, but at least by the time we reach the climax, we understand every character's motivation for what they are doing. Benicio del Toro and Ryan Phillippe don't give oscar performances, but they deliver their dialogue with confidence and at least they look believable waving guns around. This is the only time I could stand Phillippe. James Caan is a standout as the veteran killer. I recommend this to anyone who doesn't mind sitting through a whole lot of plot development. I give it an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Overall I was very pleased with the film","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"          I saw the movie awhile ago, so I can't remember every little detail about the movie. But what I do remember is that I enjoyed it very much. I had been reading about the film for awhile. Myself being a huge Usual Suspects fan I found myself intriqued. Then I saw the trailer for the film and I said to myself two things. 1) That is gonna be one hell of a movie, and 2) It's a shame it's gonna be a total flop.                     I couldn't have been righter on both of those. the movie did rule, I loved it. And it was a total box-office dissapointment. I think that's a shame, because I think a lot of people could've enjoyed it. Plus I have a new found respect for Ryan Phillipe.                     My biggest gripe with the film was the middle, and I'm not even griping that much. Whe he was writing the film he must have been watching Wild Things or something. There are so many plot twist and double crosses I got cross-eyed. He shouldn't have even bothered with trying to develop the bodyguards. They were pointless characters, who cares about them, they are bad characters any ways.                   The biggest plus of the movie is watching all the gun tricks and camera angles during the action scenes. They are probably the most fun to watch since Desperado. I think he (the director) could be a good director if he keeps at it.           So overall I'll buy it when it comes to DVD on Jan. 2, it was a good film.   9.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Usual Suspects with more firepower.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The directorial debut of Christopher McQuarrie (the writer of The Usual Suspects) is not quite up to the brilliance of The Usual Suspects but it is still a must see for anyone who enjoys cinema. Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Toro are flawless as Parker and Longbaugh, the nobody anti-heroes of the story. They kidnap a surrogate mother who is carrying a millionaires child in return for $1000000. They don't realise how well connected the father is and soon are being persued by a lot of angry people including James Caan (why isn't he in more movies? He rules). So mant bullets fly in the finale you'll be checking for exit wounds while leaving the cinema. Everyone should experience modern cinema at its best and see The Way of the Gun. "},{"Title":"One word Great!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Since The Way of The Gun is about a crime, and was written by Christopher McQuarrie, it was bound to draw comparisons to The Usual Suspects. I for one, thought it lived up to those expectations without being a blatant rip-off of Usual Suspects. The film also marks McQuarrie's directing debut.To put it simply, The Way of The Gun is a great movie. The plot has as many twists as we would expect from McQuarrie, and it's a very good plot in general. Unlike most action movies, it has a plot. It's a very intelligent movie, yet still has plenty of action. It also has a very sleek modern western look to it. McQuarrie seems to be as good a director as he is a writer.The acting is also very good. I was surprised at how good Ryan Phillipe's performance was. I wasn't really expecting too much from him, but I honestly think his performance is Oscar-worthy (of course action movies never get nominated, but I still think he deserves it). Benico Del Toro was great as well. Taye Diggs was also very good in his role as a cold, emotionless bodyguard for Juliette Lewis, who was also good. The rest of the cast was good as well. The great thing about the characters, is that there are no clear good or bad guys. Lewis' character is the only really good one. You feel sorry for Parker and Longbaugh (Phillipe and del Toro), but they are just as bad as the people chasing after them. It's so much better than having stereotypical characters that are either all good or all bad.Overall, this is a great, great film. I can't think of anything else to say. See it!Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Live By The Gun, Die By The Gun","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ryan Phillippe and Benecio Del Toro are two lone gunmen paired together in a story of greed and ultraviolence.   The Way of the Gun is the directorial debut of `The Usual Suspects' writer Christopher MacQuarrie.  So this time around we hear and see both his verbiage and vision executed.  The picture starts off by grabbing you in one of the funniest tirade of testosterone ever heard by a woman on screen.  This is just an appetizer until the main course is completely served.The two continue their chase for money by stopping at a sperm bank.  An attempted deposit fails then profits when they overhear a loose conversation of a surrogate mother and the wealthy beneficiary couple.The two cleverly kidnap the surrogate mother played innocently by Juliet Lewis under the fierce protection of two equally dangerous bodyguards (Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt).  After skillfully losing the bodyguards, the pawn is placed to serve its bargaining purpose.The wealthy couple has no regard for the mother but rather the child she carries.  So with this notion in mind the orders to the henchmen are to simply retrieve the unborn child by any means.  The film's many textured sidebars of individual purpose gives sure personality to the conflicting character of the players.  As quick as compassion mysteriously appears, bloodthirsty criminal instincts overcome. MacQuarrie's direction and dialogue are excellent cadavers for this gifted cast ensemble to breathe amazing life into.You don't go into a film as precisely crafted as this to try to guess the outcome.  You observe the talent, absorb the twisted story and appreciate the adventure.  "},{"Title":"What IS the right thing to do?","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you can get past all of the excessive gunfire, you'll discover (at least I did, anyway) that this movie goes MUCH deeper than your average shoot 'em up film.There is a very fine line between morality and selfishness that seems to be a very strong theme throughout this film. It's also a very ambiguous theme that leaves us constantly questioning the motives of each of these characters.Do they really care about the life and safety of an innocent baby or do they do the stuff they do strictly for themselves (either out of greed or the promise of soul redemption)?  It seems to me that most of the principle characters in this film are in a constant inner tug-of-war within themselves over what exactly the right thing to do is. Each character is constantly asking themselves if they really are doing what's right. There is definitely a lot of soul-searching being done in this film. "},{"Title":"Film Noir for the 21st Century","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll start off by saying that I thoroughly enjoyed The Way Of The Gun. It was everything I was expecting it to be from one of the most creative writers in the business. This is precisely the kind of movie I like to watch after a summer full of crappy megabudgeted, special effects laden movies that are written by commitee. The direction and writing by McQuarrie were superb. The shootouts were outstandingly kinetic and had great panache but did not ape John Woo's or anyone else's style. Many seem to complain that this film is too long and it drags between the major setpieces. I can understand how impatient viewers would feel this way but I think if you are a fan of well written films(specially if it's a genre flick)like myself you will be riveted to your seat and enjoy the ride greatly. If however, you don't have the stomach for violence and powerful language then stay away. It's a shame that such a good film has not found an audience outside of the hard core film fan set of movie goers. The entire cast from Juliette Lewis to her dad Geoffrey Lewis was excellent but I think the standout performances were delivered by Benicio Del Toro, James Caan and Taye Diggs. I don't know why the hell Mr. Del Toro isn't more well known. He is without a doubt one of the most natural and original actors working today. He's able to convey more information about his character without uttering a word than most of the members of the $20 million actor's club. What it would take a lesser performer two minutes of dialogue to express Mr. Del Toro does with one look or movement. I hope he finds the success he deserves. James Caan is his usual brilliant self and brings a lot of depth to his role as the bagman between the protagonists and their goals. Taye Diggs continues to make great acting choices. I've only seen him in a few films but it's obvious this actor has taste in choosing scripts. He makes a character who is not likable in the least seem human and capable of reflection. Even though this movie has no good guys but only varying degrees of bad you root for the Del Toro and Ryan Phillipe. One of the great things about living in a democracy is that everyone is entitled to their opinion. However, I would like to correct the reviewer who stated that this film was an unprofessional mess. In regards to the four times you saw boomikes during the film. THIS IS NOT THE FILMAKER'S FAULT BUT THE MOVIE THEATER PROJECTIONIST'S. I saw this film on two ocassions in two different theaters and DID NOT encounter such a problem. Obviously the projectionist did not frame the screen properly to display the correctly. The film was shot in full negative but intended to be displayed in theaters matted at an 1.851 aspect ratio. I'm sure that in today's dvd culture even the most backwards WalMart shopperr is aware of different widescreen proportions but I don't think most know the difference between a film shot in The American Flat Standard with an open (soft) matte and one shot with a hard matte. If you want to know a little more just do a little research on the net. Disliking or liking a film is everyone's perogative but acusing professionals of incomptence is quite another. Know what you are talking about before critisizing someone's hard work. "},{"Title":"nice shot with this one","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well, i saw this movie and had to see it again!  the way of the gun was a wonderfully put together piece of artwork.  the chemistry between every character that set foot onto the screen was unbelievable, and benicio del torro and ryan phillippe were the best matched bad guys i've ever seen. the intro credits are a little slow and leave you in a state of anxiousness, but once the movie starts, it has you interested until the end.  all around a truly excellent film. "}{"Title":"A pleasant, unexpected surprise.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have read all the reviews up to date and agree with all of them in what they had to say they all had a ring of truth to them (once you see the film you'll know what I mean). And I myself was slightly ambivalent after I saw the movie but when it comes down to making a judgement call I give this movie a 9/10, although what I saw was unexpected it worked for me. I won't give any key parts of the film away but I'd like to say this (and this won't come as a surprise to any avid movie fan or for people in their late teens and up) but this movie like tragically many was misadvertised.And because of this, I believe this is the reason the movie hasn't done as successful as it deserves to do, after all I personally found it to be an engrossing story with all sorts of plot twists, strategizing, backstabbing, doublecrossing, set-ups, presenting knowledge and wisdom of the life of a bagman on top of the well choreographed shoot-outs. This movie is a hell of a lot more cerebral than it is a mindless simple action movie, with two comedic (at least their backgrounds) antiheros. And that's where the trailer for this movie fails to do it justice or deliver or represent accurately what the movie is about to potential viewers. Its like the old sales trick called bait and switch, they front what they think is going to sell the movie (generically sex and violence and some comedy) and what you get is totally different. I'm 26 years old and even I know the sales and marketing people's predictability when it comes to advertising. They should quit insulting the intelligence of the general population and be more honest with the way they present there product so a masterpiece of film like this doesn't paradoxically leave people disappointed because that wasn't what they were expecting. Anyways, I digress a little (but I had to get that out of my system!). Getting to the point the trailer, makes it looks like these two yahoos rip off a pregnant surrogate mother and hold her for ransom to the rich potential foster parents. This is true, but what the preview doesn't show you is the significance of the other players involved (don't get me wrong, the preveiw should by no means give away the movie but provide a more accurate view of what's in store). The so called principals (lead characters) of this movie are only in it for about 35-40 minutes. I found this movie to represent I believe the sum total of 8 characters involved or effected by this situation in an almost uniformally, even-handed, balanced representation of screen time and dialogue. After the first 15-20 minutes through the film the principals fade into the background (now if you were like most people you'd expect them to be in the majority of the movie, let's say 3/4?). But what they end up becoming are players to the situation, the situation  becomes the center of attention and not the principals. I guess a better preview for this movie would be to show all 8 charaters involved, briefly show how they are involved and show a little conversation (because the film is 85-90% dialogue and not mostly shooting) and change the title (I knew some marketing genius came up with that one to sell the movie!). I humbly confess I can't think of a better one, but once you see the film you'll know what I mean.  "},{"Title":"It doesn't matter what you say, it's how you say it.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ROCKED!  This is so far the best action movie of the year 2000. In fact this is the best action movie I have seen in a long time. I went to see this movie not expecting much.  McQuarie has not done a lot to impress me in the past.  Unlike the majority of people, I did not like The Usual Suspects.  But The Way of the Gun might well be titled The Way to make a GREAT Movie.A quick point of interest the city line shot at the beginning of the film is Albuquerque,NM my home town.  This movie is about two guys that kidnap a girl for ransom from some wealthy but very dangerous people. The cliche's end there. Instead of trying to convince the audience that the players in action are seriously bad-ass by having the actors posture for the camera, we learn how seriously dangerous they are from the no-holds-barred script and the extremely clever and inventive action sequences.  This movie is full of neat little tricks that as I watched I kept thinking, thats a cool idea, I gotta remember that if I am ever in a gunfight.  This movie keeps you interested every step of the way, the gun battles are numerous but always new, and the action flows smoothly from one scene to the next at fast pace. There are NO slow spots in this movie.  Remember how intense the gun battle was in HEAT during the fight with the cops after robbing the bank?  That is what this film is like from beginning to end.McQuarrie has entered the ranks of directors Paul Verhoven and James Cameron.  In light of both the aforementioned director's latest films, I thought Hollywood no longer had a director with real balls.  I liked movies like the Terminator, and Robocop because they didn't pull any punches. Those movies showed violence and brutality for what they are.  What is really scary when you watch a movie like that is the realization that brutality can equal power. The ruthlessness depicted in Way of the Gun would impress the TERMINATOR himself.Go see this movie.  But be prepared to squirm during a few scenes.  Besides extreme violence there is also some torture and plenty of blood.  But every shot of the movie is like a work of art.  I was very impressed with the photography of every scene.  This movie was executed with expert skill and it shows.  This is one smart job of directing.  I will be first in line to see the next McQuarrie movie. "},{"Title":"McQuarrie shrugs off USUAL SUSPECTS","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Christopher McQuarrie has been living with his Oscar-winning screenplay for USUAL SUSPECTS for years, trying to get achance to direct his own film. Hollywood sees brand names in every human under contract. McQuarrie being no exception, he had to make another crime film instead of moving on to other kinds of stories, as he'd prefer.WAY OF THE GUN is McQuarrie's writer-director debut, and it is brilliant. He is a natural set-shot kind of guy, with great instincts, as seen in every scene of this very taut, very layered piece. The characters in the film, all of them, are twisted from previous brutality, or violence of one form or another. The two hoods Parker and Longbaugh (Phillppe and the unbelievable del Toro) commit themselves to the kidnapping of a nine-months pregnant surrogate mother for a very wealthy magnate played by the great Scott Wilson. The surrogate is protected by the machine-like bodyguards Diggs and Katt, who are professional thugs in impeccable business suits, alternate mirror images of Parker and Longbaugh. Simultaneously, another couple of criminals, another mirror image of these other men, but much older and scarred from a lifetime of violence, the brilliant James Caan and Jeffrey Lewis, begin the hunt to bring the kidnappers down and retrieve the mother. The very pregnant surrogate (a fine Juliette Lewis, Jeffrey's real-life daughter) and the child she carries is the center of the escalating conflict, in which all these men, these differing versions of violent lives, detonates at once in the showdown in a sleazy Mexican town. This is one of the best crime films ever made, and it is because of the synergy between McQuarrie and his stunning cast. This is a movie that is broken up into three acts, three gut-wrenching shoot-outs. Along the way, every faction tells their story, and why they are as they are, and how little a damn they give if you understand them or not. Caan should be nominated for best Supporting. And McQuarrie deserves a chance now to do whatever the hell it is he wants to do, in the Hollywood system, out from under his Oscar shadow. "},{"Title":"Until that day...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing the trailer for this movie a year or so ago and then forgot about it all together. Now that I've seen The Way of the Gun, I will never forget again. Benicio del Toro(The Usual Suspects) and Ryan Philippe(Playing by Heart, Cruel Intentions) star in this dark movie about money and consequences and repercussions that come along with the plan to acquire it. What seems like a simple and well thought-out plan turns to crap as the rather handsome duo travel to Mexico with the very pregnant Juliette Lewis. There is no rooting for the good guy in this film. Just when you start to believe that maybe one of the characters is beginning to see that light, all is shattered and shot to hell. As a fan of Tarantino, I believe this is an exceptionally good movie. The twists and contortions of the plot slowly draw you into the story and then there's no getting out. And unlike Tarantino films, this movie's violence isn't outrageous and comic, it's dark and almost appropriate. After all, they are living under the way of the gun.  "},{"Title":"Something about this movie is genius","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is some kind of  classic.  I think I should first mention that Christopher McQuarrie is one hell of a director as he is a writer.  As most of you know, McQuarrie won an Oscar for his writing talents on The Usual Suspects, and no one knew if he could direct.  Well, he can. He really, really can.  The man was born to direct as well as write.The plot can be a bit confusing in some parts, but what do you expect from the man who made the most confusing, and not to mention most intelligent movie of all time?  This is the first movie I have seen Ryan Phillippe in that I though he did a good job.  I hadn't cared for him up to this movie, but he has shown that he can act.  My favorite person of the movie is Bendicio Del Toro.  He pulls off the strong silent type thing perfectly. As for the chemistry between the two, you just can't beat these guys.My only problem with the movie is the source for its confusing nature, its poor editing.  If only Chris could find someone who can edit as well as he can direct.  Some scenes are too long and disrupt the pace of the movie. Many scenes are cut too quickly and put together in awkward ways.  Many scenes that are put together don't belong right next to each other.However, the lack of decent editing is most defiantly made up for with the terrific writing, outstanding directing, and the acting... My God the acting...  If you like westerns, if you like the Usual Suspects, and if you like character driven movies.... SEE THIS DAMN MOVIE OR YOU WILL KICK YOURSELF IN THE ASS LATER! "},{"Title":"Tarantino meets Butch and Sundance","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way of the Gun Longbaugh and Parker are career criminals whose only talent appears to be their unerring ability to screw up everything they touch.  While trying to trade bodily fluids for cash, they hear about the very pregnant surrogate for a wealthy couple and decide that she is their ticket to a life of leisure. All they have to do is a little planning, a kidnapping, a killing or two, an exchange and they'll be rich.  But they forgot to allow for the usual unknowns - double-crosses, nasty nemeses, and surprises in general&#133; The trailers promised lots of action and little plot and the movie doesn't disappoint - the opening scene, punctuated with a steady stream of profanities and unbridled violence, sets the overall tone. Reminiscent of the spaghetti westerns of the late 60's and exploitation films of the early 70's,  Way is an unabashed violent movie - bullets fly, people get hit and blood literally flows.  The overall feel of the movie is also similar.Everything, from the locations to the cinematography, gives Way a western feel the lighting in the exterior shots is very harsh, the landscape is nondescript and the hideout looks especially rustic (I expected Clint Eastwood to walk out of the saloon at any moment).  Add gritty sound quality (I'm assuming it was intended) and anti-heroes on a possible path to redemption and the image is complete. The characters continue this theme.Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Torro, although more foul-mouthed, and murderous are obviously patterned on Butch and Sundance with a touch of Tarantino thrown in (gallows humor and philosophizing - thankfully they don't dwell on these qualities) to give them a more modern feel.  While they come across as mediocre caricatures, they do what is required of them- pull triggers, grunt out the odd line and bleed.  Taye Diggs' however, takes the cold-tough-guy schtick too far and ends up sounding like Mario Van Peebles in Solo.  The only noteworthy performance comes from James Caan -as Joe, the trusted bagman he is calm, always in control, and does what needs to be done (Sonny on Valium). While it will not be feted for a great plot, or Oscar caliber acting, if you're in need of an escape from the rain and slip in for a matinee,  Way will jack up your adrenaline a few notches.  "},{"Title":"The Way of the Gun packs enough heat to take over a small country.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The one thing that I knew had to happen to make The Way of the Gun a great movie was to have as many fire arms as possible. They succeeded in this part. Even though the two criminals (Phillipe, Del Toro)comment at the beginning on how poor they are, they still keep pulling out gun after gun out of their van. Some people may think that this idea is corny, but this movie keeps it going that you never think about the details.The first  idea that we get from the two criminals is that they are pathetic. It seems that after all that has happened to them they they just don't care what happens to them. So, when they hear about a fleet of bodyguards protecting a pregnant woman and a couple million dollars, they have to say what the hell?. So they partake on kidnapping this woman and holding her for ransom. Once the bodyguards, a talented mobster, and a Mexican pimp get involved, the only possible way to succeed in the plan is to fire off as many rounds as possible. Aside from the incredible action sequences, the way of the gun also packs a lot of laughs. From Phillipe and Del Toro hassling the guy at the sperm bank, to their homemade security system consisting of a shot gun duct taped to a drawer. No matter what factor you look at, The Way of the Gun is a fun ride (just try not to trip over all the dead bodies at the end of the last scene).  "},{"Title":"One of the most realistic actioners around","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is getting to the point in Hollywood where films are becoming less and less credible.  This is particularly seen in the genre of the action/adventure flick.  In the past few years only a few action films have reached a level of realism that they must be taken seriously.  Films like To Live and Die in L.A. and Reservoir Dogs definitely fall under this category.  The Way of the Gun is the latest action film that must be taken seriously.There are two main elements that make all of the movies above seem so real.  One of these elements is the fact that there are no good guys, nobody clean-cut to root for.  Sure, Parker and Longbaugh are the protagonists, the ones whose side we should be on.  But they are clearly not good men and could easily be oppossed by the audience.Another aspect of these films that make them real is that anyone can die at any point during the film.  I will not go into detail for those who have not seen any of these films, but, if you have, you know that each of them has a character or two who die against typical Hollywood fashion. Now, I realize that I have been saying a lot about realistic action films and not about The Way of the Gun in particular.  So, I'll simply say this.It is a great film that should (probably won't but should) go down as one of the best action films in recent history.  Many critics are saying it is quite unoriginal, but, hey, there are no brand spanking new ideas around.  Why not take an old one and make something that works out of it.  The Way of the Gun definitely does that. Grade A- (Rated R for language, violence, adult situations)  "},{"Title":"Splendid!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I managed to whine my self and my friends to see this one, being pretty sure it was exactly the kind of movie I'd like.And it was, in many ways.It bursts with likeable characters with motivation, who are developed through the movie. It's got a lot of subtle humor, a lot of violence and quite a bit of action.Some of my friends thought it was slow and they didn't really get all the nuances in the story. A lot of people also mentioned weird and screwed on the way out of the theater. They're right, of course; parts are slow, although well paced. And parts are really both weird and screwed.The acting is also well worth a mention, all leading roles are well acted.All in all, one of the best movies I've seen so far this year. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After a truly bleak 8 months, it is about time someone in Hollywood showed us he knows what he's doing. This is the first movie this year at which I didn't leave the theatre and immediately come up with a list of ways it could have been improved. I will buy it when it is released on DVD. However, this movie is not for everyone. The graphic intensity of the violence and the subject matter will turn off a great many people. Way of the Gun is a great action / crime movie; the acting and writing were first rate, and the shootouts are among the best I've seen, up there with Heat and the Matrix. The rather dark humor makes the violence more palatable. I thoroughly enjoyed this film. "}{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the previews... and the movie looked only semi-interesting. Against the other titles opening this weekend, Way of the Gun was the obvious choice. Anyway... without taking up a lot of words... Way of the Gun exceeded all my expectations. The acting was absolutely superb. The direction was on point. I found the dialogue to fit each character and each scene with precision. Even the actions scenes were fantastic! From start to finish, Way of the Gun entertained and satisfied!trag "},{"Title":"I'd never ask you to trust me. It's the cry of a guilty soul.","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's like watching The Usual Suspects all over again. Of course, writer/director Christopher McQuarrie wrote that one also. Now, he is doing the whole thing. Yes, you can expect multiple twists and turns, and you will need a scorecard to follow the action.Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro are just a couple of small timers that snatch the wrong baby. Why wrong? Because they now have to deal with Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt one one side, and James Caan and Geoffrey Lewis on the other. Either way, they are not likely to survive.Scott Wilson (Sam Braun on CSI Crime Scene Investigation) is the expectant father and boss of all these thugs. His wife, Francesca (Kristin Lehman) can't be bothered having a baby, so they hire Robin (Juliette Lewis) to have it. There is a lot more things going on, but that would be spoiling it. Suffice it to say that this will not end up as anyone expects.Bullets fly throughout this film that features a great car chase and some outstanding dialog.An under-appreciated jewel. "},{"Title":"This was really good!!","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This cast was picked very well, with a good exception of Juliette Lewis! I thought the whole kidnapping thing was clever and the scene in which they play cards and Benicio gets Juliette to crack while teaching her how to play a card game was a very well acted scene i thought anyway!!! I liked the part that followed when Benicio threw Ryans hand off Juliettes stomach And says something like you don't want him touching you then she grabs his hand and puts it on her tummy and the he says  That's creepy. I love that part!! It's funny when Benicio watches the tape in the gas station too!!! Good acting from everyone!!!) and in case those of you didn't notice the picture of Benicio Del Toro on that picture it shows on the movie poster type thing,that picture of him is on the wall at AMC Theater surrounded by other actors by him!! So many good ones up there too, like Paul Newman, Marlon Brando. Out of all those other Actors out there it's Benicio that's up there. That way next time you visit an AMC look at his picture he's such a great actor, isn't he?!!!) "},{"Title":"Way of the gun","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie ranks as one of my favorites. In my collection in fits somewhere between Heat, the usual suspects and Lock stock & 2 smoking barrels.The plot is simple enough yet twisted enough to ensure you pay attention. And one-liners make you reach for the remote just to hear them again.What I love about this film is straight up simplicity, black humor, one liners, action scenes and 95% realistic gunfights. If you're the kind of guy who has worn out the bank scene in Heat on your VHS, then you should rate Way of the Gun pretty high as well.I love anti-hero's and underdogs. I like seeing someone occasionally run of bullets and change mags. I like seeing that not all bad guys are 'all bad', and that not all good guys are 'all good'.Great film. I want a sequel!! "},{"Title":"Some people ..","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" .. say this movie is trying to follow in Tarantino's footsteps. You must be on drugs. After the huge success of the movie The Usual Suspects, which our director wrote, I'd say that he is following in his own footsteps with another great film.Who else cringed at the scene where Phillipe jumped into the empty fountain full of broken beer bottles? Ew. Even today I cringe. Yet this movie is not given a spine based on its brutally violent scenes (like Boondock Saints), instead giving birth in its engrossing plot, and well written characters (Maybe with the exception of the always stupid Juliette Lewis). This movie entertained me, and kept me watching through out. Never once did I feel bored enough to get up and grab a pop, or make some pop corn. I actually waited until the very end to use the bathroom. Benicio Del Toro comes across in his usual spaced out method, and Phillipe surprised me greatly with his performance. As always, James Caan is a delight to watch on screen, as are most of the other supporting roles. Personally, I think someone like Natalie Portman, or Christina Ricci could have better pulled off the innocence of a newly expecting mother in replacement of Lewis, but we can't have all merits without a single flaw now, can we?A good movie. I enjoyed it from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Tough on the the outside, fleshy in the middle, and bloody all over","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An extrodinary film as it is Christopher McQuarrie's Directorial Debut. Filled with great long shots and an excellent eye, Christopher proves that he's not just a great wirter. Performances in this movie are fleshed out %100 by each actor, despite the script being a bit dry and quite shallow, it works with the overall mood. The first gun play at the beginning was amazing, well drawn out and executed. Tough guys, easy money, lots of guns and twists along the way. Topped with a Retro-Western musical score which brands this movie like a cow hide. Don't expect a morally happy movie that make's you feel like helping that old lady across the street with this one. But in its defense, the morals are polished just right, like a slow barbaqued steak. Tough on the the outside, fleshy in the middle, and bloody all over. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You know what I'm gonna tell God when I see him? I'm gonna tell him I was framed.In the wake of Tarantino's runaway success in the early 90s, many imitators followed, making a lot of bad indie flicks. Christopher McQuarrie is responsible for two of the few good movies in this sub-genre; the first is The Usual Suspects, which he wrote, and the second is The Way of the Gun, which he wrote and directed. Of those two films, this is the weaker (mostly because of McQuarrie's inexperience at directing), but it's still a treat.The viewer is introduced to our heroes (not really the appropriate term since there aren't any good guys in this film), Benecio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe, in a very funny fight scenes set to the classic Stones song Rip This Joint. This a good warm up for a movie full of great dialogue, funny situations, and well used music. Hard up for money, the two become sperm donors. In the waiting room they overhear a phone conversation which ends up leading them to their next attempt at big money. Juliette Lewis is a woman being paid to have a baby for a wealthy couple who are connected to the mafia. Del Toro and Phillippe kidnap Lewis (in a brilliant scene) and are pursued by body guards and mafia hit men. McQarrie is careful to establish every character and make them all somewhat loathsome in a likeable sort of way. The dialogue is terrific, laced with catchy lines like We're not talking about how long you're gonna live, we're talking about how slow you're gonna die. And I can honestly say this is the only movie I've seen where the McGuffin (plot-moving object of desire) is an unborn baby.I won't blow the ending, but anyone who's seen a lot of Del Toro's or Phillippe's movies will know what to expect. Caan is great as usual as the aged mafia bag man who's seen it all. Keep in mind that this isn't strictly an action movie or a comedy. The Way of the Gun is a 90s crime-drama. This is a film to be appreciated mostly on the strengths of its dialogue, its cast, and the complete strangeness of its situations. It can't measure up to Reservoir Dogs or The Usual Suspects, but holds its own against Suicide Kings and Poolhall Junkies. I highly recommend this to fans of the cast and of the I-wish-I-was-Tarantino genre. Until that day. "},{"Title":"Unconventional and violent. But a great piece of alternative mainstream film-making","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After The Usual Suspect's he was hot. He decided to make Way of the Gun. It was not a success. Is it a bad film? NO, it's not. Will it catapult him into mainstream Hollywood? Probably not, but a movie like this can only be made if your hot. Cause after it's made, you won't be for a long time. I love filmmakers with guts.Way of the Gun isn't your typical Hollywood action-flick. The main character's are sleaze balls, but very hard not to identify with. Everyone in the film has his own agenda and is willing to do what it takes to get the job done. For me Del Toro en Caan (in one of his best roles in years) are two reasons why to see this movie. But the script has more to offer like some very funny moments with the two main characters in the beginning of the film and at a spermbank. The direction is steady and uncompromising. Overall this is a dark movie and I love these kind off films in a period when we are bombarded with happy, feel good movies for the whole family. Renegades take notice!! "},{"Title":"A well staged gritty kidnap flick with limited appeal.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is a gritty, messy, bloody, dark kidnap B-flick in which the entire cast of characters is somewhere between wanton and downright evil. The film's plot is a twisty-turny convoluted kind of mess which asks more questions than it answers and may interest or even seduce viewers with an appetite for blood and guts crime films. The shootout scenes are fairly well staged, the script waxes philosophical in an ambiguous sort of way, and the movie does sort itself out in the end. Certainly not for everyone, this peculiar flick will find an audience among those with an appetite for the bizarre. "},{"Title":"Better than Kill Bill","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Better than Kill Bill. Nothing more, nothing less. Note the scene of dying Abner in the cop's car. The plot isn't so important, it's all in the details. Great music, too. One funny thing - at the final scene, when the ambulance wagon leaves the old Spanish castle, the name Toro appears like graffiti on a wall.Well, I hate the word must but this film is really a must for Benicio's fans. As for Julliete Lewis, her appearance here seems more normal than you would expect (excluding the birth blood bath). Though no extra special effects have been used you won't miss them; as I said, it is the detail, and the words between the lines that count. "}{"Title":"We Don't Need No Steenkin Badges","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some films hang on the writing alone. Of those, very few impress. That's because when you commit to the word, everything else must be sublimated. No cinematic flash, no extraneous acting effects, no character for character sake. Just riveting relentless movement.I can only imagine how difficult it is for the director to toe the line on this.Great storytelling. See it. So many clichs are avoided a bunch of coincidences and unlikely connections add up to a huge artifice that is taken in unlikely directions from the very first crackling moment. 'Usual Suspects' was more clever, this is more practiced.But not particularly great movie-making. That's because while the storytelling is fresh and unexpected, the eye is not. It is hard to be novel with guns in Mexico -- these images are pretty well-worn. (The Butch and Kid stuff is a mite heavy, and to make them gay!) So we have here the compliment of 'Snatch,' all story, no image.Caan looks pretty uncomfortable, which is apt. "},{"Title":"should be titled Yes, I've read Cormac McCarthy","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Seems like 1999-2000 was an interesting period for movies with adult themes, but 'Gun' was the one that had to take on the Peckinpah Western (and fail)here are some highlights -All innocent die quick, while the main chars are either criminals or selfish manipulators. -All the lead characters spout incoherent philoso-babble and hint at convoluted backstory elements in attempt to define their character -gratuitous violence that tries to convince you that it's realistic action -Bad acting - Ryan Phillipe is horrible throughout, while del Toro so pathetically tries to act like a subdued psychopath as his sidekick. James Caan and Tye Diggs do a good job at playing... James Caan and Tye Diggs -really poor plot progression - 'reads' like McQuarrie was too lazy to revise the script after the first draft "},{"Title":"Way of the Gun","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Violence ensues when two criminal lowlifes (Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro) decide to kidnap a pregnant surrogate (Juliette Lewis), carrying the baby to be adopted by a wealthy man (Scott Wilson) and his less-than-pleased trophy wife (Kristin Lehman). Soon they encounter some of his hired henchman, led by James Caan. With Taye Diggs, vet Geoffrey Lewis, and Nicky Katt as those either getting caught in the crossfire or offering fire towards Phillippe and Del Toro. Caan's being the father to Lewis adds a bit of gravitas to the gunfight, while Phillippe and Del Toro always attempting to make that big score against him proves to be the great question of will they or won't they? Way of the Gun is a guns-a-blazing shoot 'em up with credible car chases and a really bonafide western standoff at the end with the film's anti-heroes unloading ammunition at Caan and company with a brunt of the damage inflicted on the brothel itself. Not to be outdone, there is plentiful bloodshed and bodies are most certainly torn apart by some of the bullets that don't destroy the walls and shutters. Phillippe and Del Toro most definitely don't escape the film unscathed, and Caan's not even receiving one bullet during the whole affair, considering all the bullets that fire in all directions I found rather clever. There are really few characters in the movie to side with or care about, so Way of the Gun rests almost exclusively on its gunplay which is in abundance and full display. Del Toro is his usual quirky self while Phillippe is so intense he could crack walnuts between his ass cheeks. Caan is&#x85;well&#x85;Caan, so if you like him then here he is. Lewis plays her part relatively straight as the unfortunate barter item as bullets go off all around her. Dyllan Kussman as the surgeon burdened with trying to monitor Lewis' health and deliver the child if needed is like a fawn trapped in a dangerous forest surrounded by bears. I like the way the gunfights are staged and how these men shoot aimlessly mostly, rarely hitting their targets until a mistake of revealing themselves at the wrong time results in their demise. Diggs' fate in particular is rather startling. Phillippe's dive into a dried-up water fountain filled with broken bottles verifies the unpredictable nature of getting in a gunfight in the middle of nowhere when circumstances can rise against you. The draw is given a bit of irony as the film's typical anti-hero doesn't have any bullets left and, as a result, is put down due to his wasted ammo while the opposition has a seat comfortably. "},{"Title":"Now A Lay Me Down to Sleep !","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Had no idea just what type of film this was going to turn out to be, in the opening scenes there is a gal who used a complete dictionary of real foul language and I mean real bad, the guys tried to match her, but failed. This is a very interesting story about a gal who is supposedly having a child and is very pregnant (9 mos.) throughout the entire picture, this poor gal is Juliette Lewis,(Robin) who does fantastic acting. Robin has body guards protecting her during this pregnancy to make sure the concerned party receives the baby when delivered. There are also some bad dudes who try to interfere with the safety of Robin and one of the guys tells a story about how he prays the pray Now A Lay Me Down to Sleep I pray the Lord my Soul to take, if I should Die Before I Sleep, I Pray the Lord my Soul to Take, indicating this was the only pray he could pray. I found this quite strange, because this film is rather full of blood and gory, murder and plenty of killing. If you like a way out film with James Caan,(Joe Sarno) playing a real cool Cat, this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly intelligent and gritty thriller","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me say first of all This is not an action movie. It really isn't even though at most video stores you find it in the Action section. Yes, it has some thoroughly stunning and thrilling action sequences, but it really isn't an action MOVIE. No, this movie is a thriller, pure and simple, about two criminal partners who decide to get rich by kidnapping a pregnant woman carrying the baby of a powerful man. Sounds simple, right? Well, there are so many plot twists and turns that by the end of the movie, you'll have a headache from trying to figure it all out. That's probably the only bad thing I can say about this movie. This movie is great, one of the better ones I've seen lately. Benicio del Toro and Ryan Philippe are awesome as the two main characters (heroes probably wouldn't apply to men like them) and James Caan is awesome as their unassuming, yet formidable nemesis. This movie is so gritty that you'll feel guilty for watching it. Brutal, bloody and very, very realistic gunplay feature prominently, and you can almost feel the terror and pain of the characters as they get perforated with bullets. The language is foul, and there are other very violent scenes, including a torture scene. It all builds up to the climax deep in the Mexican desert, which is incredible. Highly recommended, if you can stomach the violence and blood. An action-packed thriller that really makes you think. "},{"Title":"a gunslingers dream","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie has some of the best gunplay i've ever seen on film. the closing battle is nothing short of spectacular. smart, exciting, intriguing, and with an underlying message of redemption.there are many opportunities in this movie to read between the lines. an excellent explanation of the game of hearts as a parable for life and death. plus one of the most well thought out and unpredictable car chase scenes ever. what's amazing about this movie is it's ability to convey action without grand explosions and machine guns. some of the most intense moments are either quiet, or happen off camera.i'm not a fan of juliet lewis, but despite that, this is one of my favorite movies.and an excellent quote by benicio del toro, towards the end of the movie there's always free cheese in a mouse-trap.  "},{"Title":"Overlooked & underrated","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Action movies over the past few years have not gotten any better than this one from the year 2000.  This movie thoroughly kicks your ass, down and dirty, no flinching, etc...  No cheesy villains--no dumbed down narrative--no retarded one-liners, this is an action movie that actually provokes some thought and sticks with you after the credits have rolled. Even Juliette Lewis can't ruin this one.A problem that some might have is it's fuzzy line of distinguishing the good guys from the bad guys.  A good way to go into the movie is to think of it as a modern re-telling of the Butch and Sundance story.  The two main characters even share the last names of those two.Not for the squeamish--But if you've been let down by the past few years of constant cookie-cutter over-blown action flicks check this out and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Ra to the!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In total agreement with that one reviewer who pointed out, so rightfully that all the haters of this movie are rather bad at spelling and grammar, failing that, typing whilst looking at the screen hence noticing mistakes.Moving on, this is a good movie. The oh-so dramatically ironic, and stupefyingly far-fetched circumstantial plot worked extremely well in the context of 'style' and 'character', I thought. Also, with subtle references to icons of the past, slipping in, seamlessly, and gracefully, and enjoyably.The acting, was outstanding, and breathtaking, by all. A beautiful script, so pleasurable I had to step back to the beginning of scenes and watch them again, every other scene in this movie. Perhaps the critics have a problem because nothing is ever outright explained, no 1, 2, 3 hollywood plot hint steps here (the smart, the average, the dummies)you do actually have to keep your ears peeled in order to understand thoroughly whats happening, through the simultaneous plots, subplots and undertones....perhaps it takes all these to be acknowledged at once, to sense the artistic, yet simplistic profoundness of this piece of work.Well done for not being well recognized too, its a gem that is stumbled upon mostly by accident, to make for a wonderful surprise. I found there was plenty of humour on the symbolistic, imagery level, which I also liked. It reeks of finely placed subtly poignant and profound words and moments, pulling together a fully thrilling piece of cinema.Here, here to those who did enjoy it. For those who didn't, try Dude Wheres My Car?  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The following contains spoilers.  I rented this film more or less by accident shortly after it was released on video, and was very pleasantly surprised. I am not a huge Ryan Phillipe fan and probably never will be, I felt that his work on Cruel Intentions was hackened, and films I seen subsequently have done little to change that initial critique, save this one.  This is an exceptional piece of work that builds slowly, gives you lots of characters to get to know, without making it melodramatic.  About the cast, I loved James Caan as the pragmatic thug, who is far more personally involved with the central plot than we are lead to believe, Benitio Del Toro, is surprisingly convincing as a serious thug, and Taye Diggs, well I just love that guy.  The plot moves at just the right pace, interjected with great riffing between characters, gunplay, car chase, this is the film Tarantino would have made if he could stop watching B-movies exclusively.  I never rate the films I review, but if you haven't seen this yet, don't walk, run and get a copy.  As to the confusing nature of the plot have you noticed that all the reviewers dissing this film seem to make one too many spelling errors, not that I am drawing any conclusions from that. "},{"Title":"A Contemporary Western","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have never been a fan of James Caan.  I thought he was gawd-awful in Eraser (1996), wooden in Honeymoon in Vegas (1992) and was at has absolute worst in a good movie with his role as trapped author Paul Sheldon in Misery (1990).  So when I cruised the video store and came across the DVD of Christopher McQuarrie's 2000 release, Way of the Gun, James Caan's name beside the title gave me second thoughts.  However, I knew that Christopher McQuarrie wrote the wonderfully intertaining and Oscar winning The Usual Suspects, so I picked up the release and hoped for the best.  And the best is exactly what I got.The movie consists of a number of where-do-I-know-him froms.  Academy Award winner Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe play Longbaugh and Parker, Juliette Lewis plays the pregnant Robin, Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt are the bodyguards, Jeffers and Obecks, and Geoffery Lewis and James Caan portray the bagmen, Abner and Joe.The story, also written by McQuarrie is complex and demands your utmost attention.  In a nutshell, Robin is a surrogate mother carrying the baby for a gangster and his wife.  The wife is having an affair with the bodyguard Jeffers and Joe is the father of Robin who is hired by the gangster to rescue Robin when she is kidnapped by Longbaugh and Parker.  Follow? Well, it gets more complicated.  We find out Robin's doctor is also the son of the gangster and the actual father of the baby.  Whew!  All this and no party had an idea how the others were involved.Although his directorial debut, McQuarrie has a way of keeping our interests through complex stories and a knack for introducing us to new characters - a quiet introduction to Abner trying to commit suicide is an example of how he develops characters upon first meeting.What is most remarkable is how rookie McQuarrie is able to give this violent, contemporary film the feel of a 1960's Sergio Leone western.  The main characters are criminals that are severely flawed, the dialogue is crisp and to the point and each individual is playing an angle with no real 'good guy' present.So it is fitting that the movie ends in a Mexican hotel shoot-out.    The bagmen come to collect their revenge on Parker and Longbaugh, and the violence is back dropped by the messy c-section delivery of Robin's child in one of the rented rooms.  A gun fight ensues that is more than enjoyable (and this says a lot since we have been treated to such gunfest operas as The Matrix and The Terminator films in recent years) than it should be and the ending is typical Sergio Leone in that it comes down to the last man standing.So, I was wrong about James Caan.  Sort of.  He is still a terribly one dimensional actor that can barely move his neck and therefore reminds me of a human Robocop, however, his presence in this film is fitting and he is utilized in appropriate moderation by direction McQuarrie.Way of the Gun is a good film and is what Saturday afternoon in front of the TV was made for.  "}{"Title":"An overlooked flick","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was not a very big success, a fact that eludes me. I found it highly entertaining. The movie's strength lies in its ability to constantly change to the way you view the characters. It is in no way clear who is good and who is bad. Ryan Phillippe gives a surprisingly solid performance as Parker; Benicio del Toro is great as always in portraying Longbaugh. Another great aspect of the film is that we do not have long monologs in which the characters justify their motivation; it is revealed though their acts. For some reason I have always harvested a deep personal animosity towards Juliette Lewis and her being pregnant certainly does not change that, so that is something I resent about this film. But generally the movie is nicely done and provides for some solid waste of time. 7/10 "},{"Title":"There are two movies in the world I can watch indefinitely!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The other one is the Boondock Saints (sequel in the works!).  The opening scene for this movie is my favorite scene of all time.  Cynical and subtly sardonic...  Buy the DVD.  Sadly, though, there aren't a great too many special features. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and amusing","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw the movie I deemed it Philosophy w/ Guns. Then I bought the DVD, and felt the movie had even more merit. Despite the insane usage of the f-uch in the begining of the movie and extreme about of violence i would recommend it in a heart beat. The movie focuses on two men who realize they are either looking at a life of minimum wage or petty crime. They realize that thought one of those two choices is their future they decide to change their destiny. That's a revolutionary concept, that you acknowledge that your life is predetermined, but you decide to act on free will.Anyways, they set off and the anti-heros. you feel a need to hope they succeed because they deserve it, and at the same time you want them to pay for what they have done.. because they deserve it. You relate to them, specifically Parker. His revelations about absolution, G-d and life were philosophical to say the least.I'm not going to ruin the plot, but the movie is based on twists and turns and character connections. It's compelling and in the end your brain will be reeling and you'll be better for seeing it.This has to be one of my all time Favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Bring Me The Head Of...","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is basically a western. It seems such a familiar story, with many many influences, but done in an extraordinary way.  You can easily see elements of The Wild Bunch, and countless other films of that genre being represented.  And fortunately, the script is tightly written and the acting is on the money too.  Of course there are a few flaws here and there, but hey, just let the whole thing wash over you and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Benicio Del Toro is gooood!","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps it is a simplistic assumption that a civilization without the corrupting influence of men would be utopic, but after seeing this movie, I'd like to take a crack at it. Okay, not really. WOTG is an oddly beautiful movie. Del Toro and Phillippe are two young, dumb and full of cum criminals who carry out impulsive and assorted corporeal transgressions. Maybe the two are not that dumb, because we see a glimmer of street wise intelligence in their few conversations, much like alligators who function on instinct and pure necessity. It's a dvd worth seeing twice, or three times if you wake up at three am and worry about the TPS reports. The first time you are shocked, the second time you catch the subtle cynicism, and the third time you appreciate the script, Benicio Del Toro, James Caan, the music, choreography, costumes, and all the extras. Good work Mr. McQuarrie, it tickles me pink to think of what John Gray, Ph.D. would say about this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant for those stark types","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie so much that I bought it and the soundtrack.  I really dug the post-modern western even though I was off on its theme (listen to the director's comments on the DVD).A very moody, austere piece, and Del Toro is wicked.  Phillipe was actually good in it too.  Caan was great as the Adjudicator. Great gun scenes (the guns are actually considered DANGEROUS in this movie).I recommend this movie if you are in a very lone wolf sorta mood, but don't wanna watch a western.CK "},{"Title":"A really great movie.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know what kind of movie I was going to see when I rented this. I knew Benicio was in it, so that was enough to rent it. Could I have been more right? No! When I put this one in my DVD-player pressed play, and got to the first scene. I had the feeling this was going to be a bad movie, but three minutes later I enjoyed it to the fullest. Not because of the Action but because of the characters. When the girl starts screaming and cursing, and the guy with the red afro is afraid but is trying not to look as a fool. I had to laugh already, then all the stuff that happened in that scene were just too funny. Don't get me wrong I hate those actionpacked movies like xXx or MI2, even Bond has got the hang of it these days. But this is just so cleverly written. And beautifull directing for that matter. I just thought the characters were so real and the movie flowed from them, the action moments (wich I didn't think were that much by the way) contained some fun aspects (Tarentino like). The music score by Joe Kramer was very good too, although i needed sometime to adjust myself to them! Well I am not going to make more words filthy on this one, just go on rent it and have a great time. But, you need to make sure you like hard action. Cause there is some in it! But the DVD too it's right beside my Tarentino movies and Boondock Saints. Where it should be! "},{"Title":"tough but fair","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some people dismiss this movie as a pure shooter. They are way off. Chris McQuarrie's distinctive plot-twisting style returns in a good way. It's like The Usual Suspects, but with better action. I admit the twists were better in usual suspects, but you shouldn't compare this to it, it's still a great film. The opening scene with Sarah Silverman is hilarious, and there is great action and some sick comedy throughout. You might not find the parts that I found funny to be funny, but I'm from the GTA3 generation. Plus there's the great part with Ryan Phillipe in the last scene that makes anyone cringe. I admit there are some slow parts, but on the whole, it's a winner. "},{"Title":"One of the most under-rated movies ever","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is quite possibly the most under-rated movie i have ever seen. I thought that it was fabulous. The movie is based around 6 main characters although it mainly focuses on Ryan Pillippe and Benicio Del toro's characters. Taye Diggs character is fantastic he does a wonderful job at playing his character. Personally i did not enjoy JAmes Caan's performance but he still added to the movie a lot. Juilette Lewis does a wonderful job at playing a surrogate mother, espacillay with all of her facial expressions through out the movie. In the movie everyone is bad, there is not a single good person. Even the good guy's have dark secerts that you figure out as the movie goes on. The Ryan Phillippe is just FABULOUS through the whole movie. Just how he looks at people and how he moves and uss his gun. He does a great job showing his emotions. Benicio also is good even though he does not have near as many lines. He's diner seen between him and James Caan is the best part of the movie. I recommend this movie a lot!!!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Story and Action","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. It is even good enough to make me not mind Juliette Lewis. The story unfolds at the perfect pace, revealing just enough about the character relationships to keep it from being a chick flick. The action has a way cool, Tarantino-esque we do this everyday feel. This movie deserves a place with P. Fiction, R. Dogs, and The Usual Suspects. "}{"Title":"Good one","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, so I liked this one. Saw it at the theater and had to buy the DVD. It holds up well after the first time, too. Yes, it's violent, but with a great cast doing a great job and an interesting plot if you pay attention.  Give it a try!We need more interesting movies like this one. "},{"Title":"good cast, bland script","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Phillippe and Del Toro are two reckless criminals looking to make a big score. Out of options or good ideas, they instigate a scheme in which they'll kidnap a pregnant woman (being paid to act as a surrogate mother) and hold her for a lucrative ransom, but things don't go according to plan and they end up getting much more than they bargained for. The film has an unusually warped since of humor, along with colorful lines, relentless profanity, and extremely bloody action scenes that are sure to please the right audience, but it really doesn't add up to much of anything and feels like an exercise in violent film noir. Cast is good though. ** "},{"Title":"Well cast and well directed, but well paced? Fuhgeddaboudit!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that I like and I loathe, and I'll try to explain it why.  Get ready...First off, what I love about this movie.I love all of the actors especially Phillippe and Del Toro who turn in excellent performances as our two anti-hero protagonists, and of course, James Caan is the usual cool as ice character he normally plays.  Nicky Katt and Taye Diggs were simply awesome as the homicidal bodyguards who mostly let their actions speak louder than their words.  I love the directing, Christopher McQuarrie, the writer of The Usual Suspects, one of the best movies of all time, takes the helm as a first time director and does a remarkable job.  The gunfight at the end has some of the most impressive editing I have ever seen, and the whole movie is shot very well, especially for a first time director.  Speaking of the gunfights, I have to admit this, though I absolutely loved the psychological mind tricks of The Usual Suspects, and though this one has a few, somewhat sophomorish in comparison plot twists as well, what suckered me into buying this one after seeing it in the theaters were the intense and realistic gunfights.  Realistic as in there aren't any superhero a la Ahnold scenes where our heroes simply mow down the 'bad' guys, our heroes get pretty shot up during the course of the film, and especially in the end where Ryan Phillippe finds a nasty surprise after he vaults into an empty fountain.  Also, I was amazed at how accurate the filmmakers were with the authenicity of the guns themselves.  First off, there was no editing for the noises, those loud bangs you hear are the actual gunshots fired in real time by the actors.  I remember seeing this in the crappy college theater a few years ago...the gunshots literally shook the theater...I'm not kidding, they would make you jump out of your seat, which to me is incredible.  That kind of authentic detail is what really sold me into buying this movie, and plus, these guys carry Colt 1911 .45's, which each can hold a clip of 7 rounds...during the gunfights, they reload constantly, and you can count shot for shot, the 7 bullets almost everytime (except for one scene where Benicio is laying on the ground after being shot...minor gripe if anything), call me fastidious or obsessed with detail, but this was one of the few actioners that had gunfights that didn't have me groaning at some huge Hollywood inaccuracy.  You can tell the actors had fun 'shooting' (no pun intended!) these scenes, and the sound is incredible.Okay, those were the good points of the film, now onto the reasons why I can't give this one an 8 or a 9 rating.I can sum up my biggest complaint with this movie in one word.  Pacing. Pacing, or lack there of.  The beginning and end are very exciting, it's just that the middle 45 minutes or so can simply drag on and on.  There are times where the actors are speaking, and there is too much 'think' time and idle pauses to truly get involved with the scene.  I know some people don't mind this, but it drove me insane, I mean the film is around 2 hours, but it really feels like a 3 hour movie.  They could have trimmed this one to 90 minutes, and it still could have been a good movie.  You'll know exactly what I'm talking about if you watch this one...you'll go from one exciting gunfight to a scene where two characters are overanalyzing the plot and talking at their leisure about their view on the situation.  Also, there are scenes that make their point within the first 10 seconds, but drag on, with the same camera frame focused on the same character, usually just sitting there staring into the distance (like that freaky scene with the trophy wife staring at the ultra sound for like 5 minutes).  It is well directed, just poorly edited, which really kills the momentum of this flick.  The Usual Suspects had a wonderfully brilliant storyline that threw the viewer into a million twists and turns, yet, at a very exciting pace.  The Way of the Gun is similar, in this respect, yet, it will drag on and on and on until you feel like screaming at the TV, enough already!Like The Usual Suspects, McQuarrie provides many plot twists and turns, however he kind of goes overkill.  I mean, after a couple of viewings, I understand the whole plot, but to me, it is not really 'brilliant'.  We find out these plot twists not through intuition or a keen eye, but through the character's discussions, which last at least half of the movie, and often have a bunch of pointless filler.  I could tell some scenes (such as when they are playing hearts and Del Toro is explaining the rules of the game...which is supposed to be symbolic of the situation) were trying too hard to be inteligent or have a hidden meaning.  Also, in the beginning, we are treated to a series of scenes which sure as heck reminded me, and others as I've read the reviews, as another Pulp Fiction type movie.  I'm sorry, but the beginning screams of Pulp Fiction...the witty dialogue, the over the top violence in the beginning, the absolutely funny one-liners given at the sperm bank...hey, don't get me wrong, I loved this part of the movie, yet it is so out of place and is misleading to the viewer.  I'd say the movie is wonderful up until the kidnappers leave the gas station after seeing the doctor (who by the way is a really bad actor).  From there, you have about a 45 minute lull that is interesting at times, but will bore you to death at others, especially considering the great action in the beginning...you have to endure these 45 minutes in order to be rewarded with the other great action scenes at the end.  It's these 45 minutes or so that makes this one a hard choice for repeated viewings, and makes great use of the 'skip chapter' button on the dvd remote, at least once you understand the plot of the movie, which may take a few viewings to get.  Oh and btw, if you can't stand pregnancy scenes, just like I can't stand them, this is not the movie for you.  The scenes with Juliette Lewis are very graphic and a little too realistic.  Once again, bad editing is to blame...watching a pregnant woman scream in pain for 5 minutes at a time is simply unpleasant to watch...we get the point after the first 5 seconds!Okay, so I've listed the good and the bad (the ugly is probably in there too somewhere...) of this movie...for me I usually love or hate a film, this one is truly a black sheep to me, which is why I wrote an equally balanced review.  But, I must say, the good qualities do outweigh the bad ones, or why would I have bought the dvd?  This is a movie that not everyone will like, but is good to watch alone or with another movie buff.  It does make you think on some level, but don't expect another outing of The Usual Suspects...this one really tries too hard to be 'smart' and at times, 'hip'. But, it has some really impressive acting, great characters and action scenes that rival The Wild Bunch.  Speaking of that movie, you can tell that this one is a tribute or a copy to Sam Peckinpah's anti-hero western shoot-em-up.  Our 'heroes', Parker and Longbaugh simply have no desire to live and go for an all or nothing heist which goes terribly wrong (I love the line where Del Toro tells James Caan as they are having coffee that 'I don't think this is a brains sort of operation'), but they end up being, ironically, the most 'good' of all of the other characters (everyone is some sort of criminal or an up-to-no-gooder).  All in all, not a bad film, just like others have said, this could have been a great film which is why this review is so hard to write and is so torn between sides.  Like it or loathe it, this one will entertain you pretty well, just make sure that you keep the fast forward button primed and ready during the slow scenes, unless you haven't seen it before and want to understand the complex plot, which by the way, had me scratching my head the entire time during my first viewing. Now that I understand it though, it isn't exactly a life altering experience, though.  Anyways, watch this one for the acting and the action...I'd love to give this one a high rating, but I just can't...the editing is absolutely horrible.  That is my story, and I'm sticking to it.  6/10 stars  "},{"Title":"I'll bet you've never seen the heist of a pregnant woman in another movie!!!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     WAY OF THE GUN is a very exciting, violent, and at times funny movie.(Shut the ---- up before I come over there and ---- start her head)However, I own the movie and have seen it a number of times and the plot still managaes to lose me at times. Taye Diggs did what and for who and why? I have to think too hard for all of that. I guess I'm more like Longbaugh and Parker in the film.I don't think this is a brains kind of operation. This is surprising too coming from the writer of THE USUAL SUSPECTS. However this time he did direct for the first time and I think he's better at writing. Maybe he was confused by both tasks. I'll give him teh benefit of the doubt. (I wish he'd be able to get his ALEXANDER THE GREAT project off the ground before the others)Great cast though (Ryan Phillipe, Benicio Del Torro, James Caan, Juliette Lewis, Taye Diggs, and Nicky Catt) and overall an enjoyable heist(in a way) picture. I'll bet you've never seen the heist of a preagnant woman in another film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Too Funny!!!!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Listen, I love all the actors in this film, just not this film. OMG, I laughed through the whole thing. The opening scene alone tells you these two are born to lose. Juliet was amazing in her role. Benicio just tried too hard to be the cool, silent type. Sorry kid, I could SEE right through your acting. You just didn't pull it off this time. Ryan got it down better.The funniest parts were  1) A C-section in a dirty hotel room, 2)Ryan diving into the fountain and getting sliced up by broken beer bottles ( I had to pause the video, I laughed so hard) and,  3) with all that they had been through in a week, Beni's white pants remained SPOTLESS. Oh, except for a few blood spots when he was killed in the end. LOL! I do love you Beni, but REALLY... At least Ryan and Juliet got dirty and dusty.This film is hilarious. If you love old Clint spagetti westerns, you'll love this.  "},{"Title":"OK, But Forgettable","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of action, though nothing you haven't seen before. A lot of good actors, doing good work. The main problem I had with this film was its pretentiousness. There's a lot of silly contrivances, like many action films, but the filmmakers seem to think they're saying something profound. This film could have benefitted from taking itself a little less seriously and having a little more fun. An OK video rental, but quite forgettable. "},{"Title":"The way forward","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one in the Reservoir Dogs theme, it relies on style and coolness rather than story content. The tale itself isn't bad, a couple of happy go lucky criminals stumble into a kidnapping of a surrogate mother but they are unaware of the consequences of who they are dealing with. Del Toro and Phillipe are brilliant as men who don't really care about anything and by considering that you can try and get inside their heads. The world must be a different place when you have no remorse about your actions and the swagger in which they conduct themselves is beyond reproach. Speaking of cool James Caan as the bagman in pursuit of the duo is unbelievable. He's almost James Bond like in the way he feels he's going to get his job done one way or the other. The rest of the cast all carry out their respective duties well and it all just blends together to make a film that really is enjoyable to watch. The main points i would like to raise aside from this it has a brilliant final scene featuring all the action you could wish for. But then comes out with a closing sentence that's just confusing. Also don't watch this film if particularly squeamish as some of the scenes are quite graphic and the imagery suggested by some dialogues is even worse. But if you can survive that, then this is a good film. "},{"Title":"modern western, incredible story, beautifully performed","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christopher McQuarrie is a God.  This movie is without a doubt, the best movie in it's genre.  Benicio is the coolest character in cinema.  Chris McQuarrie is a born director.  Let's analyze  incredible story (a little bloody but exceptional), great cast, superb storytelling, best 'shootout scene' in a long time.  Benicio is the best and coolest character in a long run of movies.  He kicks ass.  James Caan is incredible.  I have met him personally.  He is a 'jeans and t-shirt' kind of guy.  He plays the 'old man' character to a tee.  Violent, aggresive, and bloody, this movie plays out to be the most incredible movie of the early 2000's.  Watch it, multiple times, like me. "},{"Title":"An editor is sorely needed","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm rather bemused by the kind of benevolence this movie has received from the critics. In one review I read, the critic rather sheepishly says that the movie is flawed but there is some great movie somewhere in it. Hum. This is like saying that any blue-eyed blonde with an hourglassy figure can be a potential Marilyn.The story starts out with a couple of losers who overhear a conversation about millionaires and surrogate mothers in a sperm bank and on that basis they hatch a harebrained plot for a kidnapping. If you've read enough hardboiled literature you'll know that things will go to hell soon enough, and they do, but in rather unexpected, and not very credible, ways. The increasingly confusing action involves a flight to Mexico, a mafia henchman with a rather supernatural skill to show up all over the place, the losers' loser friend who mysteriously turns out to be a friend also of the other bad guys, a stressed mafia boss, his deranged wife and his son, a doctor with a serious ethics problem and who on top of that, can't act. And, for a Spanish-speaker like myself the movie has yet another reason to be grating whenever the characters speak in Spanish, whatever they say is unintelligible. Starting with the name of the Mexican hotel, Naci Madre. In really hackneyed Spanish (I mean, no real Spanish-speaking person would use such a phrase, and much less name a hotel with it), this means something like a mother was born. The meaning of that, as with most things about this movie, is for me as clear as the foot in my face. "},{"Title":"An intelligent movie masquerading as violent escapism.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just because this movie has the word gun in the title, don't think it's a mindless shoot 'em up fest.  Oh, you'll get your gun play if that's what you came for.  But you'll also get what is arguably one of the smartest and best written films of the past decade.  This movie doesn't dumb anything down for the audience.  There are no overdrawn soliloquies explaining what's going on, what just happened, or what is about to happen.  Like the characters in the film, it's your job to pay attention to all the subtle clues and figure out for yourself exactly what's going on, who knows what, and why each character does what he does.  You can watch this movie again and again and learn something new each time.  Which, in my opinion, is one of the major hallmarks of a great film.  What makes the movie even more amazing is that it is the directorial debut of Christopher McQuarrie, who also wrote the script and helped pen another great suspense movie, The Usual Suspects. With Way of the Gun under his belt, I only see great things in McQuarrie's future and you can bet your last dollar that I'll be keeping my eye on him for years to come. "}{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I've only watched the film once, so I know i missed a few things. But i must say that The Way of the Gun is by far the most interesting movie i've seen in a long time.  The gunplay was fantastic, and both Phillipe and Del Toro have a very cool aura emanating from them, along with Taye Diggs. However, after about the first 20 minutes, things start to slow down, and don't truly pick back up until the last 30 minutes.  I'm not saying that the middle is totally worthless and uninteresting, but i think they needed some kind of action sequence in the middle.  Now i know that makes me sound like some kind of mindless idiot who drools at big explosions and loud guns, but i honestly think that they needed SOMETHING in the middle.  You ARE shown what most everybody's motivation is in the middle portion, and there's a few witty discussions that stretched my brain ( the game of hearts ).  However it seems jumbled and confused.  I guess i'll just have to watch it again.One other comment the Deleted scenes presented in script/storyboard form on the DVD were very intriguing, although they would have little to do with the main plot.  McQuarrie should use them in another film. "},{"Title":"Love this movie.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a fan of Ryan Phillippe and Benecio Del Toro I felt i had tosee this movie.  So, I bought it and I was so pleased and excitedwith it that it is one of my favorite DVD'S.  The action scenes, thesuspense,  the dialogue,  the mature and sophisticated actingability makes this one of the best crime/action/dramas/ that I'veever seen.  And I like the way the color of the film was made to giveit that 60's western vibe, that was very original and fitting.  Also, added great supporting performances by James Caan and JulietteLewis really round this film out and make it even more stable. Furthermore, the ending action sequence was so interesting andintense that it's easily my most favorite part of the movie.  For thereason that I watch this movie time and time again,  I must give it a10. "},{"Title":"But *Where'd* They Learn That?","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As at least a couple of previous reviewers have correctly noted, director MvQuarrie knows his firearms, the gunfights here are (mostly) far more realistic than most of what Hollywood shows us -- certainly more so than the the now-obligatory cartoonish shooting-while-somersaulting-trampolining John Woo nonsense -- and, yes indeedy, the tactical (firearms) training classes Benecio Del Toro and Ryan Phillipe took do show.But in a perverse way the advanced level of gunfighting skill the two leads display hurts the film's credibility for me. When would two ne'er-do-well petty criminal drifters have the money -- or the *discipline* -- to enroll in and complete advanced tactical firearms training courses? This sort of training is not cheap, and the few private academies that offer it that I know of are pretty darn exclusive. I mean they screen their applicants pretty carefully. Just to be accepted as a student in most of them you need pretty sterling credentials -- often a letter of introduction from your local police chief or sheriff or chief magistrate; though sometimes a state-issued permit to carry concealed weapons will do, as the presumption there is that legit permit holders are a pretty select group, having already been screened by their state authorities.I suppose it could all be explained away by suggesting that the two gunmen have some sort of military background (though I sure never got that impression), since the Army is less choosy than the private gunfighting schools. But even then they'd have had to have been some sort of Spec-Ops types, because most of the techniques and moves they were using aren't taught in Basic Training or even in Infantry School.There was at least one tactic Del Toro employed that seemed foolish and amateurish to me (BIG-TIME SPOILER ALERT!)(SPOILER SPACE)When he emptied the high-capacity magazine of his .308-caliber Galil battle rifle *blindly* stitching a row of bullet holes through a wall, in the vain hope of taking out a single opponent he couldn't see on the other side. He thus pointlessly expended all the ammunition for his best and most powerful weapon, which would otherwise have stood him and his partner in good stead when the small army of Mob triggermen showed up.Still, it's an interesting movie, one that I'd like to see again sometime.  "},{"Title":"There are the bad guys and then there are the badder guys...","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A pretty twisted story about a kidnapping. The action is somewhat muted and although there's (sufficient) firepower and a couple of very bloody/nasty scenes the movie also has (more than sufficient) passages of irrelevant dialogue which, strangely enough, fails to develop the characters (who remain quite pale after all).All in all I was a bit disappointed of the movie since the cast and the director looked quite promising. Unfortunately the whole story lacked stringency and dynamics and I sometimes had the impression as if the writer/director (Christopher McQuarrie) wasn't exactly sure about the way of the gun (plot).A rather crude story/movie. "},{"Title":"Night of the Hunter 2000","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a strange movie, even for the 21st Century. Why? Is one of the many questions audiences asked after they watched this film. Why did they make such a movie and why did we just watch it. You got yourself a kick butt cast of characters and some interesting dialogue that puts rational minds to shame. Still, the story line did nothing for the thousands of other bad stories that Hollywood has created in the past. I think many Pulp Fiction fans entered the cinema to see this one with big hopes and received nothing. If this went a little more independent, I think the audience with low expectations would have left the cinema more inspired and happy. Then again, it was a cool flick to watch when the cable box breaks down on a tuesday night! "},{"Title":"Derivative, not much of a movie","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Guys with lots o' guns, shooting and that's about it. At first, I was intrigued by it's interesting premise -- the kidnapping of a mobster's hired surrogate birth mother.  But alas this film doesn't take it anywhere.  The impressive talents of Del Toro, Caan, Lewis wasted.  Ultimately suffers from poor, flat direction.   "},{"Title":"Action classic for a first time director","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chrisopther McQuarrie achieved a goal most directors only dream abot he made an action classic for his first film. The Way Of The Gun has good cast and amazing action sequnces the viewer will love. The last gun battle is edited very well and the film also ahs many one-liners. I lvoe this movie. "},{"Title":"A Fine Movie!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Benicio and Phillippe do a fine job in this movie.  The tactical training classes they took really do show. Aside from the hauntingly realistic gun fights, alot of good lines and a fantastic plot keep you watching this flick from beginning to end in one sitting.  I heard they went out to the desert and made their own gunshot sounds.  Just as well, you really can tell. This is by far Del Toro's best film. You might also want to check out Snatch. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Unique for the Times","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The thing I love about this movie is that it's basically an updated version of a Western.  The whole cast is awesome, and I love a movie where everyone is a bad guy.  There really isn't a single morally righteous person in the film, and the protagonists are the closest ones, even though they are kidnappers, murderers, and career criminals.Did anyone else happen to catch the fact that the protagonist's names are Parker and Longbaugh?  Those are Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid's real names in that film.  And, like Butch and Sundance, Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro's characters are likeable criminals.  You want them to get away with the money, particularly because their adversaries are nastier, despite their surface-level appearances.  The plot was twisty and intricate, and I thought Ryan, Benicio, and James Caan were particularly amazing in their roles.  For someone so known as a pretty boy, Ryan Phillippe really convinced me that he was as hostile and ruthless a thug as he was meant to be in this film.  Benicio complemented him perfectly with his sly, mysterious, and wisecracking aloofness.  James Caan is James Caan.  If you've seen the Godfather, I don't have to tell you what he is capable of.  I like this movie because it is very much a guy movie, with all the violence and gunplay, but the plot is so much more detailed than anything Jerry Bruckheimer would ever dream of producing.  You don't know what lurks around the corner, and there is no love story aspect.  It's gritty, realistic, and at parts (the Caeserian section comes to mind) downright gruesome.  But if you like to think and watch guys shoot at each other, I can't recommend a movie more highly than this one. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, better than every Tarantino movie.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning - Don't watch this film expecting an action film with John Woo gunfights aplenty and a simple plot.  I did this and at first I thought the movie was a disappointing.  I found the story to be complicated and I didn't understand the actions of the characters.   I decided to watch it againIt took me 3 viewings to get a total grasp of the plot and character motivations, which is what I think a good movie should do.So, you MUST PAY ATTENTION to the story.  If you leave the film for even a minute, and you may be confused throughout the rest of the film.So what if there isn't one good guy in the whole cast.  Isn't everyone sick of that formula hollywood c**p?  If you want good guys vs bad guys go watch a Michael Bay film.  Each character is played perfectly and the script is top-notch, better than the pop-culture conversations you find in Tarantino's overrated movies (all of them).  The action sequences take place as part of the plot and I thought they were very clever and innovative.  The gun usage and the sounds of the guns were very accurate.  The soundtrack is way cool and the direction is first class, especially for a first-time director.  I loved some of the camera placements that were used, with effective uses of zooming out to change the nature of the scene.I hope to see more from McQuarrie and hear more from Joe Kraemer (music) in the future. "}{"Title":"Realistic, Lacked Hollywood Contamination","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have fired guns and have been shot at.  I love the job they did. They showed that sound is slower than light and the bullets in most cases are faster than sound. My adrenaline got going when I heard the bullets come in first and then the gun shots as it is in the real world.  Seeing a muzzle flash first, bullets coming in to impact and then sound was worth watching over and over. This movie is a very good lesson on how shot out scenes should be given to the viewer.PS. Now if they could just stop showing that there is sound in outer space. 2001 did a very good job "},{"Title":"Very, very good.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All right, I'm going to first say that I've never seen a Peckinpah film and so cannot compare the two directors.  That said, I thought this was extremely well made, very intricate plot, and deep enough to make you glad the characters were not all great people.  Sometimes you need a good-guy movie, sometimes you don't, and this one would have suffered if anyone was painted as good.  James Caan is the biggest bada** in Hollywood today; there's no denying it.  He can make any line sound like a philosophy Karma is justice without satisfaction.  I don't believe in justice.  I believe it! Del Toro and Phillipe were wonderful as partners, and I liked how they always looked out for each other.  The hearts conversation was _brilliant_.  Del Toro is AWESOME.  If Caan is the #1 bada**, then Del Toro takes the #2 spot.Also look for the running gag with cell phones.  Funny and so, so true.A very, very good movie. "},{"Title":"highly recommended","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll never understand why this one didn't get more noise made about it, it's a damned good movie. Benicio Del Toro gives a spectacular performance as usual, as do Ryan Phillipe, Nicky Katt, and Taye Diggs. (You might recognize those last two from TV's 'Boston Public' and 'Ally McBeal', respectively). This movie is a must-see, really. "},{"Title":"A thinking-person's action film!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (warning you will get tired watching this film.  Some of the scenes are emotionally-intense, and the violence can be disturbing in an intellectually-remote kind of way. )==============================> First off, let it be said that there is categorical difference between a movie and a film.Movies, as a rule, are three-act formulas cranked out by Hollywood to appeal to the masses.  Movies have clear-cut protagonist and antagonist roles, classic Greek all-good and all-bad character psyches, and narration that is prepared for passive audiences who don't usually want to think too hard or listen too precisely. Movies cater to a passive mindset.Films, on the other hand, follow fewer rules, have anywhere from one to five acts, more convoluted protagonist and antagonist roles, and characters that are neither wholly good nor wholly bad.  Most of all, films use a much more challenging narration technique where tighter dialog, subtext, visual style, facial expressions, and long silences are used to move the plot along. Films *require* that the viewer pays attention to every word, and every facial expression, and every moment of silence.  Films are designed for the active mindset. This is painful for anyone who has been spoiled by Hollywood movies, because it requires them to *think*!The Way of the Gun is definitely a film. I'd even go so far as to say it is a film noir.Accordingly, I absolutely LOVED Way of the Gun.  It was like a yoga workout for my brain...with 15 minutes of raunchy violence thrown in for flavor. Wonderful sub-text, a remote and almost-voyeuristic feel to the POV, and visceral action scenes all made this film a worthwhile 90 minutes for me.Mind you, I also loved Miller's Crossing, Fargo, O Brother Where Art Thou, Reservoir Dogs, Heat, and Snatch.If you want a mentally-active flick with some deadly gunfights, then I highly recommend this rental. If you're looking for a mindless shoot-em-up, then look elsewhere... this film is for thinking people only. "},{"Title":"Beni fans must see this film!!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, I admit it, I only rented this film because of Benicio Del Toro and I only really liked it all because of Benicio Del Toro.  But what struck me most is how little I got to see of him.  Bearing in mind he is the second lead in this film, his brilliant acting skills are not given nearly enough chance to shine.  That being said, the interaction between Beni and Philippe is worth a watch for sure - it's just a shame too much time is handed to the likes of Juliette Lewis, who in my opinion completely ruins this movie.  'The Usual Suspects' was great because it didn't try to do what it surely couldn't - mix macho fight scenes with sentimental rubbish.  'The Way of the Gun', I feel, falls short in this area.  I, for one, wasn't interested in any kind of sub-plot involving a stuck-up middle-class couple.  What I did like were the pure, excellent action sequences, particularly during the first half of the movie, and a bloody end sequence reminiscent of the spaghetti westerns. Of course, every minute that Del Toro is on screen, he simply is the epitome of coolness, and showing nice touches of humour as well.Overall I'd give it about 6.5 out of 10 - but it could well have been 8 were it not for some unnecessary scenes involving unnecessary characters. "},{"Title":"My brain has no wrinkles now","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thought The Usual Suspects was hard to follow? Then you'll be a drooling idiot at the end of The Way of the Gun. It's a good movie. Not a great movie by any stretch of the imagination, but it's got an interesting plot, lots of twists, and a good helping of violence. I like the bloody parts. Ah, I'm a simple man. The part that I was less excited about was the double cross followed by the double cross followed by the double cross. If I think really hard, I can probably come up with a character or two that didn't have an ulterior motive. It just drains you after a while. I'll definitely need to see it a second time (probably even a third or fourth to get all the connections), and too me, that's just frustrating. It's not about making you think. The Usual Suspects did that without confusing the hell out of you, so what gives, Chris? Good performances all around, Ryan and Benicio and James Caan stand out. Also, I don't think I've ever seen a pregnant woman used in a stand-off before, so that's kinda cool. I'd have to give it a 7/10 stars. Maybe his next project will be a little more, I don't know... coherent. G'night!  "},{"Title":"tribute to Peckinpah and Hill","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way of the Gun reminded me of 2 great western, Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch and Hills Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Ryan Phillippe's and Benicio Del Toro's characters are named after Newmans and Redfords characters in the latter, and the shoot out at the end contains elements of both movies. This doesn't mean that there are no original scenes in Way of the Gun. Especially the go-stop-go car chase was a very nice touch. Christopher Mcquarrie proves that he is a competent director to say the least, next to a great writer, something he already showed with The Usual Suspects. Thanks to him Way of the Gun is an enjoyable movie. Benicio Del Toro is outstanding as always, Ryan Phillippe and Juliette Lewis are better than expected and James Caan plays the same role he always plays, so no surprises there. I gave Way of the Gun a generous 7/10 and would recommend to anyone who enjoys the mor intelligent action thriller. "},{"Title":"Boring, strange, plots not connecting...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I was expecting a real masterpiece. I mean you got Del Toro, James Caan, Juliette Lewis, you have some really talented actors in this, and as their acting was superbe, the movie wasn't.Overall, I found this movie boring. The plots didn't connect, things were left unfinished, the ended was horrible, it didn't impress me.  "},{"Title":"Way off","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Del Torro pulls off his usual trick of standing around nonchalantly doing nothing in particular and still getting proclaimed the next Brando.There's no shame in doing a genre piece, so why not concentrate on doing it efficiently rather than de-constructing it which just frustrates the viewer? Such is the struggle to become a film maker, you know that once achieved, they don't really have the heart to bite the hand that feeds them. The frequent attempts to shock seem otiose as the familiarity of the set pieces merely wrap us up in a warm blanket of security. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite measure up to potential...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun has a lot going for it. A great director, great actors (especially Benicio del Toro), great potential for the plot.  Somehow, halfway through the movie though, it seems like the plot unravels and one starts to contemplate the holes in the plot---stemming from the intertwined relationships of the characters and the motives of everyone in the movie's interest in the baby to be born.  However, it's a fun movie and the first half is very interesting and full of plot twists which make it worth watching.  It just doesn't quite measure up to McQuarrie's best, The Usual Suspects. "}{"Title":"soap opera with guns","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie is terrible.  80% of the movie's content could be completely removed without harming the (lame) story at all; the middle portion was just a bad soap opera with pointless plot twists and dull conversations between undeveloped characters nobody cares about at all.  i've heard this movie was intended as a satire of crime/thrillers, but even on that level it sucks.  you will get nothing out of watching this film, i assure you. "},{"Title":"a modern day western","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From what I gather this was originally supposed to be a western. And it perfectly would have fit that mold. The score even makes it seem like a western at times. The action/gun scenes are very cool, and very exciting. It is very refreshing to see someone like Chris in this business. He is smart, and very gifted. He has an ear for dialogue that is lacking in most films today. The scene in the sperm bank is a prime example of that. But thats not to say that dialogue is it's strong point, because there many times that not one word is spoken, especially between 'Parker' and his associate 'Mr. Longbaugh'. And that really adds to the characters. I really liked the characterization. Benicio, once again proves that he is one of the stars of the future. While I'm not the biggest Ryan Phillippe fan, he did pretty good job in this flick. I really enjoyed this movie, and I can watch it over and over. Each time I do, I pick up little character actions that i missed before. An excellant movie, that doesn't seem like the same washed up crap that we see over and over at the movie theater. I cant wait to see what McQuarrie comes up with next. To sum it up, this movie is just plain old FUN. I would recommend this to anyone, and I do. Watch it and enter a world, where good guys are non-existent, and the bad guys are cool. Very much like the old Clint and Sergio Leone Westerns. Watch and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Okay, I must admit...","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I must admit, the story is cheap, so is the acting (except for Benicio) and the directing is very weak.  Overall this is a bad movie, but I could watch it over and over again and never get tired of it.  The reason I love this movie is the dialogue.  The conversations are genius!  I love the prayer at the end, even though it doesn't really even relate to the story.  The sperm bank scenes at the beginning are also full of wondrous dialogue.  This movie is awful, it's really bad but the words, the flowing, intelligent and realistic dialogue make it one worth sitting through. "},{"Title":"Pretty good and stylish gun film...","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alright, calling a movie a gun flick sounds like cheap straight to video films...but this is different...The Way of The Gun is a (surprisingly) well-acted film.  Ryan Philippe is pretty good (does that match together???)....in this film, it does...and Benicio Del Toro...well...it's evident...he's excellent too.  Some situations are so good, even though none are innovative, they happen in a very innovative way.  The story is about two young criminals (Philippe and Del Toro) who kidnap a girl that is pregnant with a rich man's baby...but their path is full of obstacles....and gun shots!  Pretty violent film, with one of the best gun fights you can see at the end...the complicity between the two criminals is well delivered too...they don,t always have to talk to each other to understand what the other means...the first part of the film isn't violent...but then it becomes different...the title is very well chosen for that film, and everything is pretty good in this...the scenario sounds natural, which is great...the actors do a very good job, that's important too, and the thing is very enjoyable, lots of fun...Very good film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"ambitious but falls a little short","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well... my one line summary kinda says it all... mcquarrie had a great idea but failed to deliver it. as well this is another film that pumps up it's quirky-ness) in it's trailer but ends up sorta dudding-out. the performances were great and there were some great laughs. (i certainly can't hack this film like i did gladiator) this is the kind of film you have to know who you're gonna recommend it to before you can. it's a little smarter than the average action-flick but falls short of the truly great films in it's genre (mcquarrie's first foray the usual suspects being a perfect example of a great film)like goodfellas or perhaps out of sight.i can't recommend this film but i can say no benicio fan could do without it. thanks for takin the time... "},{"Title":"Unexpected great film","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way of the Gun was one of the most entertaining films I have seen on video in a long time, and since I had no expectations for it, it seemed even better while I was watching it.  The viewer really has to pay attention to all the details of every scene to really appreciate how great it is.  If you get up to do something else for a few minutes, you'll find yourself lost 30 minutes or an hour later.  It has so many sub plots and it gives you the opportunity to figure out things yourself, and most of the time you find that not only you were wrong, but that what is really going on is so much better than what you thought.  This movie also has a very original car chase scene and totally awesome shoot out scenes.  If you're looking for a movie to see at your home while having your buds over, then this is the perfect flick, and even some women I know liked it as much as us guys, so it's fun for all, although I don't think your grandma would really dig it too much.  "},{"Title":"Utter coolness . . . and lots of gunplay","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was conditioned by the screenplay, and perfectly assembled by the director.  del Toro and Philippe make excellent modern-day cowboys, out for the score on whatever rolls their way.A crime-boss, his wife, their bodyguards and a surrogate mother make an excellent target, especially with the promise of seven-figures.  After an all-to-clever kidnapping, the kidnappers themselves meet their match in a weathered, tried nemesis James Caan.This film has everything somebody looking for a functional and new action-flick has to be.  This is the new standard.  Like The Usual Suspects, this film oozes with criminals who we hate to love, criminals who we love to hate, and an ending that is everything if inevitable. "},{"Title":"Oh please","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe the raves this film is getting here.The dialogue was, almost without exception, laughable in its attempt at cryptic profundity.  The only scene I found genuinely funny was Abner's little talk with Sarno in the police car.   Now THAT was funny, and well done, and moving, thanks entirely to Geoffrey Lewis (Abner).Having admired USUAL SUSPECTS I had big expectations for this film, but thought it was about 80% crap, with another 5% made up of moments of truly exceptional pretentiousness.  The remaining 15%?   ...Give credit to the sublime Benicio del Toro--whose ravishing cool presence rises far above this stupidly macho, numb-nuts twaddle.Benicio is the only thing that made WAY OF THE GUN worth watching.  "},{"Title":" If Sam Fuller, Eric Rohmer,  and Jim Jarmusch had a menage a trois?......","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film for the first time recently and I am still at a loss to describe it. Mcquarrie slowly builds the suspense until an action scene, then we have a quiet, meditative reflection, then a slow build up, another action scene etc etc etc.....I found the movie strangely hypnotic though, and Benicio Del Toro has a commanding presence. The ending though reminded me of a serio-comic version of the Wild Bunch climax with some Sunset Blvrd thrown into the mix.  Go Figure....... "},{"Title":"Action Mania","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Forget the narrative or aesthetical aspects of the movie.  How about those action sequences?  I would venture to guess that about 99.99% of movies have the most contrived and childishly choreographed gun sequences.  If not that, it's just to CGI.  The Way of the Gun delivers with it's originality.  The sniper clip with Benicio helming the high powered rifle was excellent with the actual filming reminding me of certain parts of Saving Private Ryan but this was in a civilian context. But the last shoot out was amazing.  I've never seen anything so fluidly considered, meticulously shot, and violent in it's intentions. I guarantee that viewers don't come out of the movie saying they've seen those typical fight scenes somewhere else.  If anything, watch The Way of the Gun for the last shootout, its worth it. "}{"Title":"Just a good, bloody movie","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's always free cheese in a mousetrap. Damn, I love that line! Lots of other quotable lines are mixed in this movie. I'm glad they chose Phillipe for the part. At least he's better than Freddie Prinze, Jr. He has more of an edge anyway. Anyways, I love seeing people bleed to death and I enjoy watching C-sections performed with bullets wizzing by the doctor's head, so I really liked this one. I think I'd take this delivery over the more conventional one I saw in DR. T & THE WOMEN. I think my heading says it best here. I'd recommend it, but I think a few weeks from now, I'll hardly remember it. "},{"Title":"excellent first effort","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I admit I had high expectations before i saw this. I had expected nothing but the best from the writer of the usual suspects. This film was a pleasant suprise. A story involving criminals in which the criminals aren't complete idiots, egomaniacs, or invincible. These guys were smart and exercised confidence and caution in what they were doing. These small things made this film that much smarter. Before this I didn't really like Ryan Phillipe but he didn't do to bad in this, his accent (if thats what it was) left a little bit to be desired. But as always Benecio Del Toro was amazing. I love watching this man act, He knows what he's doing and does it in such a calm natural way, I have only noticed this quality in a few other actors. He is definately the most underrated actor in the film industry today. I had previous ly heard comments about this film referring to it as confusing, and wierd. I find that very dishartening to think that a film written intelligently with intelligent chatacters can be misconstrued in such a negative way. I also enjoyed Juliette Lewis, again one of my favorite actors. The fact that all the plot pieces were not revealed in the first act was nice, you as an audience came to understand more about what was going on and more about the characters and their motives. Having such wonderful character development can only come from having a wonderful script. Which seemed to be put togeather wonderfully here. I couldn't help but think of Snatch, and Lock ,Stock and two smoking barrels when I saw this. all these different parties all after one goal, crossing paths. Althought this didn't contain the trademark Ritchie look, and style, this was a little more intelligent, but also not as clever as Ritchie. This is deffinately a must see for anyone who doesn't like to be insulted by movies. "},{"Title":"Witty dialogue + wicked action = Good Movie","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The biggest knock on this movie is that the viewer cannot become attached to any of the characters including the main characters.  Whoever finds Mr. Parker and Mr. Longbaugh unlikeable (or better off dead) may want to examine why.  Both characters are unscrupulous - relying more upon their basic greed and lack of conscience than their idea of fair play or morality.  Some have complained that not only are these gentleman bad guys, but they have no redeeming qualities due to there dedication to criminal life.  Yeah, and? If these guys would have been named Henry Hill and Tommy De Vito - the world would have loved them.  For whatever reason, gangsters with no (or few) redeeming qualities score big at the box office, but not Mr. Parker and Mr. Longbaugh.  Instead, we see two men - and here's the scary part - two regular guys who have decided that the rules of the world are not set up for the average man.  They can become just another slave to the grind or go The Way of the Gun.  Unlike mobster films, we do not see the flashy cars, clothes, or women because these two men are simply desperados who are looking to make money - not a name for themselves.  They are driven by 100% self-preservation as are all criminals - the only difference is that Writer\Director Christopher McQuarrie didn't wrap a pretty package around the two men, but instead gave us a hard, cold look at their lives.With that said, I thought the dialogue in this movie was outstanding.  Too many movies today get by with terrible dialogue and big action scenes (or sex scenes).  Not that this movie did not provide action, but it was moved along by quality dialogue - a definite rarity in today's moronic, MTV, hip-hop influenced, idiot-box entertainment.  Don't get me wrong, this movie lived up to it's name with several gun battles and plenty of action, but it offered much to the viewer looking for something more than spoon-fed entertainment.  Even if you did not enjoy this film, I still would find it hard to not enjoy the opening, which was possibly one of the funniest scenes I have seen as of late.  No, I don't advocate violence against women, but in Mr. Parker and Mr. Longbaugh's world you better be prepared to Walk the Walk if you Talk the Talk.  It was perfect for setting the tone of the kind of men (and movie) the viewer would be dealing with. ******** = 8 out of 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Densely packed","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think multiple viewings of this movie will definitely increase your appreciation of it.  Although the running time is a tad excessive (could've been a tight 1h45m movie, I'm sure), there are enough moments where you just go Wow, that was pretty amazing/cool to more than adequately keep you interested.  Also, multiple viewings will allow you to see what's really going on between the lines.  Scenes that seemed forced and awkward on the first viewing make more sense and are totally fitting with the characters once you get to know them.  In other words, it's a strange request but don't judge the movie until you've seen it at least twice.  Unfortunately this means that people who weren't interested in this movie to begin with will most certainly dismiss it as a little too this or a little too that.  I was like that after my first viewing too, but I sat through it one more time as my friend was watching it and was really impressed.  I think I screwed myself up the first time by having expectations or, more accurately, assumptions about the movie and my brain just couldn't switch gears to adapt to what was being presented to me onscreen.  Maybe you won't have that problem and you'll be able to enjoy it right from the start.  Whatver.The best thing about the movie is the characters.  Every single character is fully developed and, most importantly, interesting.  Mr. Longbaugh and Mr. Parker are not hip, ironic icons of cool, like a lot of Pulp Fiction knock-offs.  And aren't we all tired of those already?  Instead they are what I'd expect would happen to these Pulp Fiction knock-off characters if they were put into the real world.  They would not be cool.  They would not have everything under control.  They would not be likable criminals that swagger around getting involved in illegal hijinks.  They would be like these guys, hard and tough, desperate and lost.  Maybe I just got caught up in the movie too much, but *** MINOR SPOILER ALERT ***even the grizzled group of bagmen that James Caan brings along to the climactic showdown was interesting to me.  I could just imagine the things they had to do to survive and succeed in the movie's world, and that's not an easy thing for a movie to do.  I would cheer if McQuarrie decided to make a movie JUST about Joe Sarno and Abner.  You just know that these two guys have seen and experienced a lot as they survived in the underworld.  I'm sure a lot of the credit for how effective these characters were should go to the actors, but I'm also sure that McQuarrie had his own mythology about the characters and communicated that to the actors.  But I digress.....*** End of MINOR SPOILER ALERT ***A few people disliked the abundance of twists and revelations in the movie (Roger Ebert pointed this out in his review), but I thought all of them were plausible, logical, and subtly foreshadowed.  In other words, I never thought the movie cheated just to include an interesting plot twist. I read somewhere that this was McQuarrie's f**k you to people who pigeonholed him as a crime film maker and forced him into making another crime-drama.  I have no idea whether it's remotely true or not, but it sort of makes sense because this is the logical end-of-the-road for those kinds of movies.  Y'know, the one's with the type of characters I described above.  Snatch was an excellent fun movie, but compare the Dick Tracy characters in that to the realistic fully-realized characters in this movie (I know, apples and oranges.  I know, Snatch is supposed to be like that.  I'm not knocking it, I'm just trying to make a point).  Even the characters in Usual Suspects seem a little flat compared to the ones in WOTG.  I certainly hope McQuarrie makes some more crime dramas in the future, after he's had the chance to make other kinds of movies to give himself a break from the same ol' same ol'.   "},{"Title":"Way Excellent!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun was one of the best movies that came out in 2000.  Sure, it was a little confusing at points, but overall this was a very engaging and interesting movie.  All of the actors were superb -- even Juliette Lewis didn't annoy me, whereas, usually she does.  Benecio Del Toro was excellent.  I've liked his cool demeanor ever since I first saw him in The Fan(as Juan Primo).  Good shootouts, facial expressions between Del Toro and Ryan Phillipe that spoke a thousand words, and wonderful plot twists along the way; makes this a movie that is a must see.  My only nitpick with the film was casting Ryan Phillipe.  I also thought that he seemed out of place as Del Toro's criminal sidekick. This is not to knock the acting that Phillipe performed in the movie--its just that he seemed too young for the part.  The film reminded me more of The Wild Bunch(excellent!!) - a Peckinpah film, rather than a Quentin Tarantino movie.  10/10  "},{"Title":"Fascinating but flawed","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"      McQuarrie has made a really interesting movie here, but not a particularly good one. Great characters, good dialogue, nice scenery but too many subplots and contrivances ruin the joy. Recommendable, rentable.  I assume you're up on the details of the plot; if not, here's all you need to know some people think they're entitled to have. Some people think they're entitled to take.  There are lots of hidden motives and behind-the-scenes plays in this movie, so many that they pile up on top of each other and eventually overshadow any other feature of the movie. Ryan Philippe, Benecio del Toro, James Caan, Scott Wilson and Taye Diggs turn in great performances and the usually irritating Juliette Lewis puts away her retarded-mountain-child phone-in performance and puts some good acting in. There's a wonderful scene with a supporting actor who's been mortally wounded that seems lifted straight out of outlaw Westerns.  There's a lot of bang-bang-bang, but you miss a lot if you just watch this for the action. I didn't care for Ebert's review of this film comparing it to Tarantino flicks, either; I think Roger is using a lot of search-and-replace to turn out movie reviews.       This movie's true ancestry lies not in kitsch but with late-60s to mid-70s outlaw flicks like The Wild Bunch,  The Getaway, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry, etc. It's about anti-heros, the people who are bad, know they're bad and don't intend to reform.   Tarantino's characters are more like rats caught in a glass cage - they see the straight life outside but don't know how to get there. Parker and Longbaugh, Sarno, even Juliette Lewis' character see the outside, know how to get there and think it's for suckers. They're predators, neither offering nor expecting mercy.   At least rent it for Sarah Silverman's charming soliloquy at the beginning when we first meet Messrs. Parker and Longbaugh.  "},{"Title":"Violent.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a violent movie.  Solutions to situations are effected by blasting away with numerous weapons.  Understanding what type of movie this is a viewer can make the choice of watching it.  Don't look for redeeming social values or uplifting message.  The characters are pretty much liars, cheaters and scum, typical Hollywood fare.  It does have a unique story and it is told well.  The movie has some creative solutions, usually accompanied with gun fights, to the typical violent movie situations.  I gave the movie a higher score based on the creative writing but make no mistake this is a gun happy movie.   "},{"Title":"Unpredictable Modern Day Western Kidnap","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way of The Gun is a modern day western about two guys Parker (Phillipe) and Longbaugh (Del Toro) who kidnap a pregnant woman (Lewis) a surrogate mother to a rich couple in hopes to land a big payday.This is an excellent and well paced film.  The aforementioned premise is simple yet the complications encountered by the two kidnappers makes for a fun film.  The action sequences (gun shootouts and an interesting car chase) were excellent and I enjoyed the fact that for the most part the characters were credible.Here are the positives and negatives of the filmFirst the positives -  Benicio Del Toro was the best and most credible actor of the film.  His handling of weaponry, his cool cold demeanor and his ability to express a thousand words by a mere look or gesture is acting at its best.  James Caan excellent as usual.  Good simple storyline that gets complicated in a hurry and it's unpredictable!  Good use of cameras, overall good attention to detail particularly in the most important scenes the gunfights and overall good acting.Now to the negatives -  Some of the actors seemed too young to properly portray their roles.  Ryan Phillipe is too young to convince me that he can be an able sidekick to Benicio Del Toro.  The same goes for Taye Diggs.  A pregnant woman needs to look like she's pregnant, Lewis's portrayal is not too blame but how many leaned faced, skinny legged about to give birth pregnant woman do you see out there?  Mini-Spoiler The car crash scene was weak, the director should have taken that shot again.  I enjoyed the whole Fred Flintstone walk your car chase scene but the crash didn't have enough umph.In summary, I enjoyed this film.  Benicio Del Toro is a rising star and Director McQuarrie has a winner here. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Del Toro seems to get better with every movie.  Phillipe is simply cool.  I can watch this one over and over to see the car/foot chase in the alley ways - that was original and shot very well.  I think Phillipe could show a little more emotion though.  Overall what makes this a great film is that it's a collection of very different characters that all get their time on the screen - and that goes for the 2 bodyguards of Juliette Lewis.This film reminded me a bit of Heat.  Lots of action punctuated by excellent dialogue.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"2 hours of absolute terribleness","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Never have I truly and honestly wished that I could take back an experience and make it so that it never happened.  No matter how awful the experience, it helps one to grow.  Well, after wasting 2 perfectly good hours of my life on this movie, I wished that I could take it back.  In all my years and with all the films I've seen, never have I such an atrocity as The Way of the Gun.  How this ever made it to filming is beyond me... and why respected actors and actresses such as James Caan and Juliette Lewis bought into the miserable script is even further beyond me.The opening 3-minute sequence in no way foreshadows even a slight possibility of anything that might occur in the following 117 minutes.  It's almost like it was filmed for an entirely different film... a film that I'd actually like to see, I might add.  I don't understand what the purpose of the opening is other than to show you the faces of the two guys you'll be following around for the next two hours.  Their characters are not developed in any way that's consistent with the rest of the film, and if you ask me, I think the writer was just trying to get the viewers' attention.  Maybe it's to distract them from the fact that the rest of the film is one giant, steaming turd.For starters, the characters are severely underdeveloped.  There's a ton of potential, but the film never takes you beneath the first layer.  I thought the two most interesting characters were Jeffers and Obecks, and all we get on them is that they're detached and well-trained bodyguards that might be trying to pull a fast one.  Also, the plot was lame.  I don't know about anyone else, but I never got a straight answer as to why the Chidduck's wanted a surrogate mother and why they chose Robin.  What happened to Dr. Painter in Baltimore?  Why were there so many unneccessary twists?  What was the point of Abner?  His character served absolutely no purpose what so ever.  He had no effect on the other characters or the plot.  Also, someone send Ryan Phillippe back to acting school.  His range consists of one tone of voice, one facial expression, and one way of carrying himself.  A tree stump could out-act him.  And someone needs to slap Benicio Del Torro's agent because he either advised him to take this script or gave him the go ahead on it.  Del Torro is such a good actor, you really wonder what went through his head when he went along with this one.  Watch him in The Usual Suspects and then in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.  He makes Phillippe look like the supporting pilgrim in the 4th grade Thanksgiving play.And lastly, the whole Parker and Longbaugh thing is lame.  For those of you that don't know, those are the last names of Butch Cassidy (Robert Leroy Parker) and the Sundance Kid (Harry Longbaugh).  Lame, lame, lame.  If you waste your time on this film, you're just as stupid as the company that originally agreed to release it under their name. "}{"Title":"This rocked!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected a good guy movie when I went to see this.  It delivered.  I thought the performances were great (especially James Caan), and the movie had enough twists and turns to keep me going.  I also enjoyed the twistedf sense of humor on display here, ande Mcquarry is a director to watch. Can't wait to see what he does next.  I was satisfied throughout the whole movie, and this is one of those classics that flew under the radar.  I think it'll find its audience on video (comes out tomorrow!!)  Can't wait for the DVD!! "},{"Title":"Must NOT try harder","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is quite a mix. The plot is definitely overlong and bloated, with far too many frankly stupid and pointless twists that dissipates any dramatic tension generated by the mostly promising beginning, especially the excellent comic scenes in the sperm bank. This didn't make the thriller complex as all the protagonists are basically after the same thing and so are never at the kind of cross-purposes that generate true drama, rather it induced a couldn't-care-less attitude in me. Everyone has a stake in the outcome of the kidnapping. So what? We already knew that. It's inefficient storytelling. Another beef I have is with the way Geoffrey Lewis' character is developed and then totally wasted in a pointless cameo role.However, the standard of acting was generally good- I especially liked Benecio del Toro and James Caan, and I worked out the doctor was a good guy by the way everyone else slapped him around. The ending too was good, with the money on the fountain- there's echos of the Wild Bunch and The Good The Bad and The Ugly (the ending with the cross, the rope and the money) and a few others in it. Also when James Caan appeared with his wrinkly cronies it reminded me of my uncle (who looks like Caan) and his muckers appearing for a cash-in-hand job, which amused me greatly. I certainly wouldn't criticise a film like this for being stylised as that's the whole point in it. However to claim that this is some kind of tour de force is a gross exaggeration.The central problem with this film was that it was trying too hard to be whatever it was trying to be. I think the director has a lot of potential but the writer needs to learn some discipline in his storytelling. And that's a lesson in economy of style killing one bird with two stones. "},{"Title":"different ways to f**kstart your head","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everybody in this movie is a cold, manipulative lowlife, and that is why I loved every minute of this movie. People....real people don't change. And this movies characters longbaugh and parker (named after the real names of butch cassady and the sundance kid) don't go through some mind altering transformation. They are true to the gritty end. "},{"Title":"stylish cast and dialogue equals success","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  why did no one see this film?  when me and four others went in confident to find a room full of equally shocked people (the whole ryan phillipe action star thing) we instead only saw two others.  nonetheless, we were not let down.  this film delivers the goods!  strong perfromances come from james caan, benicio del toro, and phillipe.  the ending leaves something to be desired but it's sometimes better not knowing how things turn out.  rent this when it comes out and give it some justice, will you?  "},{"Title":"Some Stylish Directing, but Overly Flawed","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun has some good moments.  It is at times directed very creatively and stylishly.  Some gun battles, early on, are photographed in a gutsy new way.  The camera movement can be very creative, and the cinematography is almost unjustly good for the type of movie it is(in my opinion, Oscar-worthy, or at least the director of photography is.)But the movie is a mess.  It starts off intriguingly, and I was interested in what would happen.  It lost me about half way through.  The casting in this movie is bad; I am not a fan of Ryan Phillippe, but to be fair I'll say that he did a decent job.  However, I couldn't buy him in this role--he is too young and boy-like for it, and I didn't understand his motivation.  This is also true of the doctor character, Benecio Del Toro, and particularly Nicky Katt and Taye Diggs.  They do fine with their roles, however, they are both too young for me to believe that they are hardened bodyguards who don't care about dyeing, just losing.  This casting gave the movie an almost student film like feel, as if we were watching a movie directed by someone in their twenties, who cast young actors and his friends in the leads.  Don't get me wrong, it's alright to cast these actors, but it would have been more believable to see them as novices.I have often disliked a movie because I found that there were no likeable characters.  TWOTG has this big problem, but it actually manages to take this flaw a step further--I had no idea who I was supposed to be rooting for!  One might say that the two leads would be the best bet, but it is not that simple.  Eventually, I wanted this movie, growing darker and more bloody by the minute, to just wrap things up.  Instead, it just kept throwing more and more plot-twists at us.  Once I was lost I didn't even want to bother getting caught-up.From what I've heard, people who did like this film often claim that they really liked the final shoot-out at the Spanish mission.  But it really didn't work for me.  The earlier gun fights were gutsy and unpredictable.  This climactic scene is also gutsy, and shot unconventionally.  However, the director's risks failed this time.  It is often shot from afar, without cutting or moving in, for example the wide shot of Ryan Phillippe blasting his shotgun from behind the fountain.  It was intended to give us a fresh, being there sort of feeling.  But looking at it from afar, (again, with young actors) and the architecture of the movie-set-like church gave me the impression that I was watching a stunt show at a theme park.I acknowledge that this is mostly a matter of taste, and know that fans of The Way of the Gun like it as a dark action film.  However, the movie's promise in my eyes wasn't enough to overcome its flaws.  Grade C-  "},{"Title":"Creative articulation","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is a good shoot'em up and pack'em dead film without the pretense of any buddy-buddy relationships a-la Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid nor the slick, stylized mind games of Pulp Fiction.   The star of show is, surprise, surprise, the gun. Or rather the violence of it.   The Way of the Gun teases us with a plodding buildup before taking us into two violent confrontations.  The film is forever sly  in its haphazard, whimsical displays mixed into a conventional story about amateurish criminals trying to buck the system.   Take the character, Dr. Painter, with a wound over his eye bandaged with oozing blood alternating with no blood in successive scenes or the bloodied and dying man sitting in his car who tells his friend that he would rather be alone or the suave killer, Mr. Jeffers (Taye Diggs) who prefers words of obfuscation like 'creative articulation'.  Take the bureaucratic interviewer of a sperm donation office who has his questions thrown back at him, the foiled kidnapped confrontation in which guns are drawn back instead of fired, the two chase scenes in the alleyway that resemble Oliver pursuing Hardy, and a rather crude Cesarean section taking place during a deadly firefight in a Mexican bordello.  The film deliberately withholds much empathy for any of the characters.   Parker (Ryan Phillippe) and Longbaugh (Benicio Del Toro) are the hapless amateurs, more catatonic than they are ferocious, with much of their dialogue mumbled like a bad James Dean imitation.  Of the two, Parker holds out some sense of humanity when he talks about assassinating a child molester and the insomnia which followed.  Longbaugh is the cold, steely misfit resigned to his fate and his brief negotiation with the bagman Joe Sarno (played deftly by James Caan) shows the irreversible paths both men are destined to follow.   There are overlapping conflicts between the troubled Dr. Painter and the pregnant Robin (Juliette Lewis),  the controlling Mr. Chidduck and his weak son, Joe the older henchman and the up-and-coming Jeffers, Francesca the mistress and her other lover, and even between Robin and Joe which are not entirely explained, adding to the intrigue of the film.  It is this intrigue which transforms this good action picture to one that makes you think - about the relationship of the characters and their inherent violence.   "},{"Title":"Best pure crime movie since Reservoir Dogs","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Set in a breathtakingly bleak moral sewer, and powered by right-wing jet-packs of homophobic and anti-abortion sentiment, THE WAY OF THE GUN has all the reactionary rue of prime John Milius mated to one of Peckinpah's slaughterhouse=Hollywood allegories. It's also the finest pure crime movie by far since RESERVOIR DOGS. (Recent noble entries such as THE LIMEY and JACKIE BROWN aren't as pure; they flirt with other sub-genres.)Like Bloody Sam, the writer-director Christopher McQuarrie (who won an Oscar for his USUAL SUSPECTS script and then spend the nineties in development hell) converts his bitterness at the Industry into genre terms. (To understand the movie fully, read Pauline Kael's review of THE KILLER ELITE and substitute THE WAY OF THE GUN at every opportunity.) Two outlaws, their aliases taken from the real names of Butch and Sundance (Ryan Philippe and Benicio Del Toro) kidnap a pregnant woman (Juliette Lewis) who seems to be worth a lot of money. When they find out that she's a surrogate mom for a rich, self-destructive, in-too-deep money launderer (Scott Wilson) the plot doesn't just thicken--it metastasizes.McQuarrie might just be the best sheer storyteller working in Hollywood right now. He tested his craft in the (for my money) too cute and self-conscious USUAL SUSPECTS, where the hyperdensity of plot seemed a sublimation of Tarantino's hyper-rococo language. Here, he creates a world so vicious, so labyrinthine, so through-the-looking-glass it's as if Borges took up dime fiction. The movie is about the venality that comes with a sum of money that is, in the words of an old button man played by James Caan, a motive with a universal adapter. The complications that ensue from the dummy duo's stab at big-time crime are as laden with regret as they are with menace; McQuarrie's novelistic world envelops you totally even as his plotting steamrollers forward with an almost fascistic relentlessness.There are beautiful characterizations everywhere. McQuarrie's scripts never seem to have been cast as well as they should have been, but here even Del Toro and Philippe, not two of my favorite actors, do more than admirable work, and the bit parts are revelations. Taye Diggs, as a severe-acting bodyguard who seems to want to be in the Secret Service, has a lean smartness unlike his other pose-y acting. Kristin Lehman, as the wife of Mr. Big, has a scene of Jacobean viciousness in which she deploys the strategic eating of jumbo shrimp with an almost pornographic violence that is stunning. Juliette Lewis shows the power you always suspected she would have when she became a real adult woman, and James Caan has not been this good in--what? Decades? Even Juliette Lewis' dad Geoffrey has a fantastic bit as a Joe Middle Class-looking hitter who spends his off hours rehearsing his own suicide.McQuarrie's sentiment here seems to be, You want me to do a crime movie? All right--here's what you get. And what you get both tops off the genre and sticks it down the audience's throat like a broken bottle. The ending--a perfect sealant on the toxic universe McQuarrie concocted--gives us the best two lines to close a movie in memory.This guy is a great filmmaker. One of those great last lines is about answered prayers; I pray somebody lets this guy make a movie again. "},{"Title":"Bad men doing bad things.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Way of the Gun, Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Toro play a couple of hapless guys who decide to  kidnap a pregnant girl who is the surrogate mother for a very wealthy guy.  The plan is to ransom  the girl and the unborn child and make off with a considerable amount of money.  That's the  basic plot.   Christopher McQuarrie must've felt pressured to come up with a equally great  follow up to his Oscar winning screenplay for The Usual Suspects.  Unfortunately, this film  doesn't live up to the previous effort.  The script does have the twists and turns and surprises,  but McQuarrie as director seems unsure of himself.  There are some nice touches here and  there, but what was really needed was a director that would be able to look at the script from a  different perspective.  The acting in the film is fine and as stated before, there are some nice  touches.  Particularly with James Caan.  The shootout at the end does get your blood flowing but  one can't help but see similarities to The Wild Bunch.  Christopher McQuarrie is a fine writer,  but I think he needs a little more time to grow as a director. "},{"Title":"Fast paced, fun film.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The tone of THE WAY OF THE GUN is set in the very first scene. Bad guys Bencio Del Toro and Ryan Phillipe get into an argument with a guy and his big mouthed boyfriend. When the argument turns violent, Phillipe does hit the guy, but full punches the woman in the nose. The film is another in a long line of Tarantino inspired films, but this one works better then almost any of its predessors. This is probably because writer-director Christopher McQuarrie knows how to write good dialouge, create fully developed characters and direct gun fights. The performances here are great. Fresh faced Phillipe pulls off the bad guy act with style, as does his partner Del Toro. James Caan shows up as a vetern hitman and has some great scenery chewing scenes. Juliette Lewis finally gets another good role, as a pregnant woman at the heart of the plot. The film is fast paced, fun and has more violence then any other film this year. "},{"Title":"The Gun That Lost its Way","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is Christopher McQuarrie's uneven attempt to return to the days of noir, and its gun-toting goons with the souls of poets.Though it has brilliant moments, it doesn't quite work.  The dialogue, rather than sounding poetic and philosophical, mostly comes off as stilted monotone.  You will not, at any time, mistake any of the characters for real people.The cast is top-flight talent, but most of them give wooden, uninteresting performances (memo to Ryan Phillippe a goatee and a scowl does not qualify you as a hard-bitten antihero.  Work on it.)  Nicky Katt and Taye Diggs seem like malevolent robots, and James Caan and his gang of codgery hit men appear to have wandered in from another movie, and not a better one.This movie undisputedly belongs to Benicio Del Toro, who gives his thug character the sort of sad, world-weary calm that makes McQuarrie's script work.McQuarrie's direction is the film's major asset.  While he hasn't got the sound of noir down, he has the look, and that goes a long way.For those for whom such things are important (like me!), the gun work in this movie is admirable, for the most part.  Del Toro and Phillippe handle guns and clear rooms as if they actually know what they're doing (which begs the question of where these two lowlife losers learned that stuff, but never mind).  Caan, on the other hand, seems to be another graduate of the Imperial Stormtrooper Marksmanship Academy.  Some of the early gunfights and chases are over-choreographed, but I can't quite hate a movie that shows a wounded man reloading his .45 by tucking it between his knees.  Give it three shell casings out of five. "}{"Title":"More human than Tarantino","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lots of reviewers so far are comparing this film to Tarantino.  I believe that this film has something that no Tarantino film has ever had EMPATHY. True, maybe The Way of The GUN got too bogged down in the middle, trying to give depth to every character.  However, in all of the action, we were given some genuine emotion.  My case in point; Ryan Philippe's concern over his conscience, Juliette Lewis saying how she realised for the first time that she wanted to keep her baby.  Tarantino films simply give the viewer cartoon characters doing unbelievable things.  Something about The Way of the GUN is very REAL, despite that fact that this is one wild ride.  I still remember the suicidal henchman, asking James Caan in the sheriff car to leave in peace, he is going to die alone.The opening was terrible far too much crude dialogue, and punching the woman was tasteless.  From there, the film improves by leaps and strides, and if your blood wasn't pumping full force during the final shoot-out, you need to see a doctor! "},{"Title":"Different kind of movie","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Right off that bat The Way of the Gun is a different kind of movie. As you watch both of the main characters get pummeled into oblivion the first 5 minutes, you wonder where this movie is going to go.Gun is about two down and out losers, played by Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro, who, after overhearing a conversation about a rich couple making a woman carry there baby, decide to kidnap her and ask for a hefty ransom. The plot is much more complicated then that, but I think I would run out of room if I tried to explain it all. Gun's script is so deep, and at sometimes extremely confusing, you wonder how long it took Christopher MacQuarrie (writer of another ground-breaking film, The Usual Suspects) to write. In no way does the complicated and involved script take away from this movie.  MacQuarrie does such a good job at directing his own script that he has developed a new kind of filmmaking style. Gun is so original in every way that I couldn't begin to describe all of them.  If you are the kind of person who is bored by clich gunfights, prepare to be pleasantly surprised.  MacQuarrie does an amazing job of making you feel like you are a witness to these amazing gun battles.  The sound effects are outstanding, and in one scene where a sniper rifle is used, you actually here the whizzing of the bullet past your ears. The bottom line of The Way of the Gun is that it breaks all of the rules.  Don't listen to the critics, don't be persuaded by anything you read, go out and see this movie. Even if you don't like it, you will still have respect for the originality of this film.  As I was walking out of the theatre, I thought If this is Christopher MacQuarrie's first attempt at directing, then he's just going to get better and better.  "},{"Title":"Bad Guys Do Bad Things","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tell that c**t to shut up or I'll come over there and f***-start her head!These are opening words introducing the prime players of Christopher McQuarrie's kick to your f***ing balls, THE WAY OF THE GUN. And, here me now and pay attention two weeks from Sunday, puny mans, this movie does nothing to slow down from there.Ryan Phillippe and Benicio del Toro star respectively as Mr. Parker and Mr. Longbaugh, quotation marks in place; hey, whatever works. Little bit of trivia Parker and Longbaugh are the real names of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.  Tired of nickel-and-diming their way past the world of nine-to-five and cellular f***ing phones, our two hatchet men catch onto a sweet situation, a line on a girl carrying a baby worth untold fortunes.All they gotta do is snatch the surrogate mom (Juliette Lewis) from two dispassionate bodyguards (played by Taye Diggs of HOW STELLA GOT HER GROOVE BACK, and Nicky Katt, THE LIMEY), and ransom her to some rich guy. Turns out, this rich guy is one mean motorscooter, connected to s**t our Messrs Parker and Longbaugh could only dream of. And that's just the beginning.This is the second shot of adrenaline I got from McQuarrie, the first being the tres cool USUAL SUSPECTS. This time, writer McQuarrie throws his directing hat in to create a good yarn about bad dudes, and he doesn't come close to disappointing. This movie is what they give steroids when it feels like it ain't man enough. Thing I like best about this film is there are no dopes--everyone is good at what they do; they just get themselves into situations that sometime prove to be too much. And we all can relate to that, now can't we?Ryan Phillippe (whose name makes me think I'm saying, Feel a penis, but my doctor has advised me not to talk too much about that) does well as the dobermannish Parker. And fan favorite Benicio del Toro eats up the material as the lizardlike Longbaugh. You think these guys are two f***-ups in the beginning. They hit women and laugh about it; they know the going rate of donated blood and sperm; and every car they drive they never seem to own a key for. Charming, as Mother Theresa would say, for a couple of c*** rags. Me? I love these guys. They're badder than even Mel Gibson from PAYBACK, and y'all remember him, now don't you? Yessss.None of the characters are flat--they all got a layer of scum attached to them and you realize that crime may pay but it's going to leave a pretty nasty taste in your mouth by the end of the day. They all got their own agendas. Like Parker and Longbaugh you know they're in it for cash. Get in, get out. And they're, like, the most honest of the bunch. "},{"Title":"Bloody Marvelous!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is one of the bloodiest gun filed films I've ever seen. It may not have the total unpredictability of The Usual Suspects but it makes up for it with blood filed gun battles and lots of plot twists. Ryan Phillippe stars as Mr. Parker and Benicio Del Toro plays Mr. Longbaugh, two criminals who have nothing left to lose so they go for the big score by kidnapping a surrogate mother (Juliette Lewis) of a very well to do family. They are trailed all the way to Mexico by the mother's bodyguards (Taye Diggs,Nicky Katt) and a bagman (James Caan). This leads to much chaos, lots of guns and truck loads of blood. Phillippe and Del Toro shine in this film as they have less screen time than I expected but they take every scenes their in and run with them. James Cann, Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt all have supporting roles and they add more depth to the film. Each has their own back story and history and this makes for a much more interesting film. This film has elements of The Usual Suspects, Heat, and The Good, The Bad And The Ugly. It contains crazy plot twists, wild and loud gun fights and the western back drop and style. This is a must see film for everyone. Christopher McQuarrie has out done himself with this one. He may not want to do another crime action film but after this I bet he'll be asked to do another. The Way Of The Gun is a twist and turning bloody, gun filed action movies that really rocks.           "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie more than lives up to it's character's namesake! I loved every second of it wincing for only a moment a some of the more violent scenes. The beginning of the film may throw you off a tad(the use of the 'F' word is absurd) its still a great start. This movie was possibly my best big screen experience ever. I highly recommend it to anyone who likes westerns, violence, badasses, plot twists, and Benicio Del Toro. Ryan Phillipe(spelling?) is surprisingly perfect in this movie. "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was genuinely suprised when I went to see this great piece of cinema. I guess you could call it a western but it doesn't really fit, it was much deeper than any other western. There were  many, many charecters each who had hidden motives and relationships and each acheived depth that the director wanted. The cinematography heightened the contrast between the action and dialouge scenes and often brought out the slight but not obtrusive symbolism. It was also funny, attacking mindless profanity (like to skullf**k babies ya' faget homo?) and delving into the morals of criminals (I never killed anybody I did'nt ask you if you did). But overall it was a movie of two outcasts whose only options in this modern world are petty crime and minimum wage. They are vagrants who live akin to a simple cowboy-esque lifestyle that has long since died. Benicio Deltoro is great as the cold elder brother figure to the younger and more passionate Ryan Phillepe. Juliette Lewis sheds here drugged out naivete persona whe have come to know from her parts in Strange Days, Natural Born Killers, Kalifornia and such, and becomes a more independent yet scared and conflicted mother-to-be. Overall it is a great movie I would compare the overall theme to Ghost Dog and the action to Desperado. 10/10 stars, A+, watch it! "},{"Title":"Perhaps not quite The Usual Suspects, but definitely very good","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A solid movie from the director of The Usual Suspects, with more than a few similarities.  Both movies feature quite a few plot twists and interesting, if flawed, characters.  The primary difference is Way of the Gun focuses more on straight action than The Usual Suspects.  In The Usual Suspects, any action in the film happened quickly, and there was only one extended action sequence.  The kidnapping sequence in Way of the Gun probably lasts longer than all the action sequences in The Usual Suspects combined.That's not to say that Way of the Gun is not an intelligent flick with its own merits.  There is more humor than The Usual Suspects, even if much of the humor focuses on the ridiculous actions of the characters under stress. I thought the relationship between Ryan Philippe and Benicio del Toro was fascinating.  For almost half of the movie, they never spoke to each other, communicating with each other via facial expressions and body movements. There is also a scene where the situation the main characters find themselves in is paralleled to the rules of Hearts, and while it isn't subtle, it is very effective.Overall, the acting in the movie is first-rate, the dialogue on the mark, and the action sequences are fine, if fairly standard.  My main complaint is the major twist in the plot is revealed far before the end.  After that twist is revealed, the movie pretty much becomes a straight action flick. Still, a very entertaining movie, and well worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"This movie kicked total ass!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"         My brother was going to see The Cell and I decided I would go and see this. I knew i wanted to see it from the trailers. And I knew it had to be decent because of who wrote it. So my friend and I went to see it.         I was totally hooked from the first scene, which is so hilarious. Then they kiddnap juliette lewis and i was still hooked. But then when they get to the motel it kind of slowed down and certain scenes went on a lot longer then they should've. And certain scenes were totally use less(The bodyguards talking scenes were just stupid.) So if they would cut out like 15 minutes of the bodyguard scenes i wouldn't of minded the middle. But then later at the hotel it kicks up again. Then i was totally hooked. All the action scenes were freaking awesome and well shot.          So even though it was 15 minutes too long. It was still a awesome movie. And the other scenes made up for those scenes. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I sat down in the theatre to view The Way of the Gun, I was a bit skeptical. But when the first scene rolled, where Ryan Phillipe beat the sh*t out of the foul-mouthed woman, I was up on my feet cheering. From then on, a barrage of dry wit and great directing came at me. I'll have to also point out that the movie probably would lose some of it's spunk if you don't view it in Surround Sound. There is only one flaw I noticed with The Way of the Gun....the ending. I was expecting so much more from the writer of the Usual Suspects. But, there is no such thing as a perfect movie. Anyways, I strongly recommend seeing this movie, and if anyone tries to tell you it is too violent...ignore them. You need to experience this one yourself. "},{"Title":"very good, but lacking unity","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even though this is a great movie, I think it was doomed from day one. First, it's the directorial debut (and written by) Christopher McQuarrie, Oscar-winning writer of The Usual Suspects. Usual Suspects is one of the greatest movies ever (I think) and it was incredibly successful considering the director and writer had basically no experience. So where could McQuarrie go from there? He'll probably always be labeled as The Usual Suspects Guy. If you've seen the Usual Suspects, its almost impossible to fully appreciate Way of the Gun, because you're always thinking, It wasn't as good as the Usual Suspects.The truth is though, that Christopher McQuarrie made a really good movie. He refuses to conform to the status quo and make his criminals sympathetic characters; no noble-criminal bull, Parker and Longbaugh are totally worthless human beings without a single redeeming characteristic. The acting is good (Juliette Lewis is especially great as the pregnant woman). While this is not the first-ever kidnapping-gone-wrong movie ever made, it does treat the material in a new way. McQuarrie also shot the movie very well, and much of it has the visual qualities of a Western (harsh lighting, bright sunlight, gritty desert landscape, etc). The plot is a little hard to follow at a couple points, and the ending is a little unclear. For the most part, the writing is great, but there just wasn't enough of it. (A good part of the movie is a huge action-packed finale that doesn't really use dialogue.)And even though the individual aspects of it were done well, they were sort of floating around, disjointed. The movie was lacking something to bring it all together a defining characteristic that leaves a distinct impression with you as you exit the theater. The best movies have this. For Pulp Fiction it was the absurdity of everything, for The Usual Suspects it was the Keyser Soze revelation. I don't think McQuarrie's heart was really in this.17/20P.S. If you liked Way of the Gun, I highly recommend Reservoir Dogs. "}{"Title":"A disappointing debut from the writer of THE USUAL SUSPECTS..","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the directorial debut of the writer of the brilliant film The Usual Suspects, I have to say he really missed the mark here.  The film is well shot, but aside from that I can't find anything remotely entertaining about it.  The characters are so one-dimensional it will drive you insane, and they are constantly dropping little tidbits from their past that never pay off in the end.  This film has way too many characters (none of which are good guys) and the plot is way to thin.  At the end of this very disappointing film, you will be asking yourself a lot of questions, such as who was that guy?, and what was the deal with that scene?.  These answers never come and I would highly recommend skipping this one and going and renting The Usual Suspects again.  You'll thank me in the long run.  "},{"Title":"Every review here has missed the point","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not about clever dialogue, Usual Suspects, or even action.It's about criminals. Way of the Gun is one of the first movies I've seen where we're boldy asked to sympathize with criminals. Real criminals. Not cool-looking criminals who perform not-so-heinous acts. Del Toro and Phillippe are murderers, straight up, no chaser.It's the best film of 2000 not because its an expertly acted and directed movie (McQuarrie was born for this) but because it forces the audience to examine flaws in their own social workings. Am I a bad person because I want them to get away with their crimes, an audience member may ask him/herself.Flaws? Sure, it needs editing. Pacing needs a shot of nitro glycerin. Opening scene is painfully short. I would have liked to seen more background on our killers.If you want to see crime sprees, go rent Heat or Natural Born Killers. If you want to see a revolutionary crime film (is this possible in the year 2000? You bet), go see Way of the Gun. "},{"Title":"Thumbs up, big time!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lean, mean, smartly written crime film.  I love it when the film maker lets his film breathe.  Not every frame has to be filled with something... be it action... needless dialogue etc. McQuarrie gets it right here.This one is a keeper. "},{"Title":"Uneven but strangely likeable...","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie screams for an editor.  While it began with a great hook and had my full attention, it loses too much momentum through the middle. Unlike most reviewers here, I did NOT go into this movie expecting  something as classic as Usual Suspect, so I was less disappointed than others.The film's strong points are Benicio Del Toro, and Juliette Lewis, who has finally, to me, resurfaced in something at least partially worthy of her talent.  Del Toro is an unusual presence, brooding and silent, somehow pulling your attention to him through the movie with his James Dean-like indifference. This guy has star written all over him. Lewis is similarly magnetic, although perhaps not given as much to do as she could have been.The weak points of the movie are its unnecessary length and some drawn-out scenes involving the doctor and his father and the two bodyguards. In one or two of these, I was struck that the dialogue was somewhat unrealistic, and was made too well aware that the only reason the characters were yammering on as they were was so that the audience would understand the movie's plot. Some well-placed trimming by an editor would have been  helpful here (do we really care what the young doctor did back in Baltimore? Yet we have to hear about it three or four times).Put together, this movie came across as uneven, but I liked some elements of it and would recommend it. Largely for the performances or Benicio de Toro and Juliette Lewis, but also for some clever writing, and a few good laughs. "},{"Title":"Benicio Rocks!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Benicio Del Toro is perhaps his generations most under-rated actor. See this film if only to view his excellent performance. Ryan Phillipe also gives us a surprisingly good turn. This film may be too much for some viewers to handle but give me this over the current pablum we're being served any day. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I walked into this movie expecting to see a good movie.  I loved The Usual Suspects, the trailers for this one made it look like it was going to be outstanding, and all of the Tarantino comparisons had me really excited since he seems to have fallen off the face of the earth.Then, the movie began.  The first ten or fifteen minutes were phenomenal, and I really thought that I was in for an exciting two hours.  Once Juliette Lewis was introduced, however, things went downhill.  Two hours of Juliette Lewis whining, crying, screaming, and holding her belly and attempting to walk are too much for anyone to handle.  I couldn't get a grip on what this movie was trying to be -- action/adventure?  sympathetic tear jerker? violent?  deep?  introspective?  It was a flat out mess.There is lots of action, but none of it held my interest.  This movie seemed to be a rip off of every other movie of this genre that I've ever seen. Many sight gags and funny moments, but that can't save this movie.  There was nothing new or exciting going on here, just the same thing we've seen over and over and over again.  It tries to be deep, which is a major mistake because no one can pull it off.  The final shootout was reminiscient of the Wild West Show at Universal Studios.  Honestly, it was that terrible.To compare this movie to a Tarantino flick is a complete insult to Tarantino.  The dialogue is forgettable, the action embarrassing, and the plot seriously lacking.  And did I mention boring?  I looked at my watch many times hoping that this movie was reaching the end, which it did eventually.  And it didn't get any better.  This is NOT The Usual Suspects, so don't walk in expecting to be captivated for two hours.  The characters weren't built up enough to invoke any type of sympathy or likability.  The plot was just stupid and predictable.My views don't seem to be the majority here--I'm actually surprised how many people seem to like this movie.  The crowd that I saw it with was loudly venting their disgust on the way out of the theatre.  I'm seriously disappointed, because I normally really like this type of movie.  I think that it was trying to be too many different things, and in the end couldn't pull off any of them.I give this movie 2 of 5 stars.  Don't waste $9 like I did to see it in the theatre--wait until it comes out on video.       "},{"Title":"Wicked-cool thriller..........","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Amazing movie with all the right touchs. Performances were excellent, even Ryan Phillipe, who played the hard-nosed crook superbly. Benicio Del Toro stole the show, though, and Juliette Lewis and James Caan were good as well. The storyline was great. The Way Of The Gun will get at least one Oscar nomination fo acting.  "},{"Title":"root for the bad guys? YOU BETCHA","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a tough call... technically there is no one too root for in this picture! You wanna be cheering on parker and longbaugh but there are horrible people. That will probbally make people hate this movie all alone.But i am sure most film buffs will see it for McQuarries direction debut, and for his newest fancy screenplay. He did good...real good.Although the characters were anti-heroes, they were very smart... Some good lines from this movie. Nothing fancy or poetic...but they did stick with me!I also have NO gripes with the cast, all were in thier characters perfectly. And Lastly...there are LOTS of shots that won't work in Pan and Scan So if you don't have a DVD player to watch it on MUUUCH later...make it a BIG SCREEN MOVIE!is it worth seeing? Heck ya! is it worth seeing again? in the future...YA "},{"Title":"ferocity, embittered and witty","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film is something of a twisted, winding railroad of humorous and believable performances.  tense, vulgar, and at times undeniably humorous, its atmosphere, well scripted and played out, leaves a thin sense that you just saw a gangster film with no true gangster themes; a crime film where all involved seem no more or less guilty than the next; a suspenseful thriller not concerned with embroiling the viewer, but furthering the story. akin in texture to the usual suspects, mcquarrie has generated what will probably be an overlooked classic--a film in some ways that can only be described as a neo-western. perhaps the way of the gun, tries too hard to pour on the crosses and double crosses, but all things considered, character depth was much greater for del toro's, phillipe's, and caan's characters than i would have presumed would be apparent in such a film. "},{"Title":"tons of guns...good dialogue, and the best acting in years","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  By far the best movie of the summer, its truly a shame it was pushed back to September as it can stand up to any of the other Blockbusters Hollywood shoved down our throats this year.  Ryan Phillipe and Benico del Toro did an amazing job of saying far more with their expressions and body language than was said with words...a stunning performance from the both of them.  James Cann scared the hell out of me.  The man is just imposing as hell.With those 3 actors and the coolest car chase ever(not really a car chase per se, but I won't spoil it here)makes for the most unique shoot 'em up film since the Dogs hit the screen. "}{"Title":"a movie for almost everybody","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The gun traveled many ways and many times in this shoddy movie. Thanks to the surround sound, the frequent gunshots resounded off the walls too many times, making it even harder for me to enjoy a movie with an already weak plot. Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe star as two kidnappers of a surrogate mother, Juliette Lewis, carrying the son of a filthy rich couple. Oh yes- it is implied that Del Toro's and Phillippe's characters are gay. This is just one detail of many that are completely unnecessary, but are thrown in to spice up the bland storyline. Other tidbits include an extramarital interracial affair and the beginning and concluding pseudo-religious-cum-moral-cum-intelligent monologues by (who else?) Hollywood's favorite pretty boy, Ryan Phillippe.The storyline seems basic, but becomes increasingly complex as more characters enter the scene. And unfortunately, the new characters are all old men, so I could not tell one apart from the other. Therefore, I was left only more confused. Do not be misled by the words complex storyline. That does not mean more interesting. It simply means a more muddled plot, which stays boring for the entire duration. Perhaps if the acting were better, 'The Way of the Gun' would have held more of my interest. Del Toro delivers a decent performance with a brooding depravity, but his partner fails to convincingly play the role of a criminal. His bad boy goatee was thus grown in vain, although those diehard Phillippe fans who will constitute the majority of the audience will undoubtedly find him attractive enough to continue watching the movie.I concede that there are a few good points, but only a few. The photography is better than it is in most action films, with certain scenes tinted with an almost artistic quality. The eclectic songs on the soundtrack- classical one minute, Mexican banjos the next- provide a welcome relief during those rare moments in between gunshots. But aside from these minor points, I advise you not to see this movie. That is, unless you are one of those aforementioned Phillippe fans, or an octogenarian, or someone who delights in bloodshed, car chases, and, of course, guns.     "},{"Title":"Oh man, a story with so much potential gone to waste...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have enjoyed Bryan Singer's Usual Suspects which was written by the director of The Way of the Gun, Christopher McQuarrie(this is his directional debut). First let me start with the premise. Two out of their luck hitmen(?) named Longbaugh and Parker, search for that one chance at fortune. In the beginning of the film, we learn that they earn their money by means of donating uh, well, their fluids and blood. While in a sperm bank, the pair find out that a surrogate mother, Robin, of a rich couple is conducting her usual check up with her doctor. With that Longbaugh and Parker kidnap Robin and place a ransom on her.Anyways, the movie contains some of the most exciting gun-fight sequences. Sadly, that's the only positive thing I have to say about the movie. The scenes in between the flying bullets were long and boring. I felt that some of the conversations between the characters were superfluous and would be better if some of it were edited out. With a title like The Way of The Gun, one would expect the movie to be high on the action meter and less on the banter. A lot of the characters were two dimensional. The average performances from the actors (except for Lewis doing her usual psycho role) made it a lot worse. I can only recommend this movie when it comes out on video. The Way Of the Gun would be bearable if there is a forward button handy.the movie *1/2 out of ****  action scenes ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Oh my Lord!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I was expecting it to be good. It's from the writer of The Usual Suspects, how bad could it be.  What I saw on that screen blew my mind, my jaw was on the floor and all sorts of other cliches you can think of for me being amazed.  The acting was perfect, music perfect, dialogue perfect.  I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. This movie's got it all.  So for the love of God go see this film.  My favorite movie of all time is se7en, I have some thinking to do now that I've seen The Way of the Gun. "},{"Title":"Fun, exciting, and thoughtful","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not surprisingly, a bit of a bullet festival, this directoral debut of Christopher McQuarrie, writer of The Usual Suspects, will not leave you wanting for action.  Starring Bencio del Toro (Suspects) and Ryan Phillippe (54,) the script would have to be downright horrible to tank this film.  Luckily, McQuarrie, who also penned this one, gives the audience a suitably complex film, interconnecting the characters and their motivations, and though not giving any Keyser Soze-type revelations, the time spent on characterization is played up to its fullest potential. Action fans need not worry as there are still plenty of car chases and gun battles to thrill you, and while not Fight Club bloody, it will cause you to cringe, at least a few times.  Solid performances in lesser roles, by Juliette Lewis and James Caan round out a film I totally enjoyed. I will admit, if scrutinized, this film was not perfect, but the truth is it's still better than most of the films making their way to theaters this year.  "},{"Title":"This movie was...very interesting...","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this film. And just the very nature of it, and the way it was shot struck me as odd. They do not usually release movies of this nature, and style to theaters. They are the unique breed of straight to video action and off dialogue flicks that most times catch the public in such a way that it becomes one they own, talk about, and base other movies on or around. It seemed to me like an independent film. I guess. Very unique though. Artison seems to be a great company that has produced some very good things as far as I can see. I would suggest, and recommend this movie to most people. Ryan Phillippe, and Juliette Lewis give an outstanding performance. It was comical, well written and, and very nicely executed by almost every in this flick. Two very enthusiastic thumbs up, fine holiday fun..... "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed It","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i enjoyed the movie.. - christopher mcquarrie did a great job directing, and writing this movie.. much like the usual suspects, which he wrote and it was put out in 1995.. - i thought a lot of the actors stepped it up a notch, too.. especially ryan phillippe, who impressed me.. - the opening sequence, without giving any thing away.. is great.. - cinematographer dick pope did an amazing job, as the film had a very nice visual context to it.. - i think people whom are interested in giving this movie a shot should follow through.. as if you enjoyed the trailer or similar movies, than you'll like it.. "},{"Title":"No Badge of Honor Here.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Way of the Gun (2000) Dir Christopher McQuarrie / Cast Benicio Del Toro, Ryan Phillippe, James Caan, Juliette Lewis, Taye Diggs Nobody cares what happens in this film because there is not a character in it that we care about. It regards violence and the senseless actions that resort to such extremes. This is proved within a climax where bullets fly, people die and viewers are unmoved. The film stars Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro who kidnap a pregnant woman played by Juliette Lewis. James Caan demands that the child be delivered safely but he is hiding a secret. His son is Lewis's doctor who apparently got into trouble in Baltimore and owes Caan more than a few favors. Intriguing setup derails into gory violence. Director Christopher McQuarrie delivers on the action but never finds an emotional core. Phillippe and Del Toro are constantly in the midst of violence but they display no sense of human worth. Lewis is doing little more than be a waiting pregnant woman. Caan is given his umpteenth gangster role that has plagued his career since The Godfather, and rarely can these roles match what that film played out. There is no reason to see this film unless one has some sadistic desire to watch human destruction and carnage at its exploited worst. Pointless mayhem demonstrates that the way of the gun is no way at all. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"What are you going to tell God in your defense? I'm gonna say I was framed.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard-Boiled Neo-Noir that was mostly Panned and a big Flop. Oscar Winner Mcquarrie (Writer/The Usual Suspects) now Pens and Directs this gritty, unpleasant, edgy, Violent, and absolutely underrated Movie. This is uneasy stuff, peppered with realistic Gun-Play filled with bloody mayhem. It is all done with wit and without clichs such as Slow-Motion or Shaky-Cam.It is Dialog Driven fueled by Ultra-Violence along a road filled with unappealing Characters, Backstabbers, and Slimy/Greedy Money Men. The most sympathetic is a Bag Man/Cleaner, played with impassioned intensity by James Caan (You can assume one thing about a broken down Old Man...He's a survivor.).Also the Audience may feel compassion for Juliette Lewis who pulls out the stops here as an about to give Birth pregnant Woman that is central to the Plot. The two Leads pull together and are despicable but if you pay close attention there is a spark of Humanism way down in their Souls. This is not meant to be a good time Movie, but there is some Fun in watching this Stylish display of Gangsters and Street Criminals. A Film that is an energetic, Craftwork that was unfairly dumped on by Critics who must have missed the Originality and Knee-Jerked this into Rip-Off-Land. Not so. This is a somewhat new take and a fresh Story on some very rotten People. A must see for Fans of sharply Written Dialog and spiked up shoot-outs, all done quite well in this blackest of Black Comedies with a Heart of Darkness. "},{"Title":"Two petty crooks unwittingly hold to ransom the pregnant surrogate mother of a powerful crime kingpin","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is very rare that a contemporary film can be called an all-time classic when it rises above its immediate competitors or succeeds the older generation of classics from which its inspiration was drawn. 'The Way of the Gun,' writer and director Christopher (The Usual Suspects) McQuarrie's crime-heist thriller unfortunately may never be accepted as a true classic for a number of reasons.It was such a superior film that it didn't have any worthy competitors, it was way too intellectual for mainstream audiences and the classics it was reminiscent of were the low-key off-mainstream B-movies no one without an outstanding knowledge of film would know of. Simply, this film is here to be appreciated by whoever will take a chance on it and those lucky few will strike gold.Two mismatched petty crooks - Mr Parker and Mr Longbaugh - live life on the road doing what they have to do to survive on the bare necessities but as Mr Parker states at the beginning of the film' need is the ultimate monkey. Tired of finding ways to make easy money to provide for their needs, they happen upon a pregnant woman in a small town who seems to be the surrogate mother for a very wealthy man and his wife and decide it's about time they pulled off one most daring plan which would set them up for a long time.Staging a kidnapping and coming face to face with the surrogate mother's bodyguards, the plot explodes forth like a river through a bursting dam and suddenly the two petty crooks find themselves in over their heads as the expectant father turns out to be one of America's most powerful and dangerous crime kingpins.Enter Joe Sarno (Caan), a veteran Bag Man who has served the kingpin all his life, helping to protect his business and his finances. An old survivor who is as wise as he is guilty and who is intent on doing everything within his power to get the mother and her baby back with no collateral damage, with not a dollar less.As Sarno sets his sights on the two crooks and assesses the increasingly taut situation, the realisation that it could either be the making or complete destruction of everyone involved dawns over each single player involved and so begins a race against time as numerous secret agendas begin to rear their ugly heads.McQuarrie's film has everything audiences between the ages of 18 to 60 would appreciate; I say that because 'Way of the Gun' is not only reminiscent of violent '70's modern-day western crime thrillers, it features the kind of characters associated with those old classics and even features two of the era's most familiar faces, James Caan and Jeffrey Lewis to jog the memory.It is abusively funny and its general sense of humour is sly, if not just grim. The film's subtext skims across issues such as age and discontent, suicidal tendencies and what people will do for personal gain or merely to survive and the many reasons why. Its dramatic scenes are slowly unveiled, perfectly performed and so well timed.The cast is a powerful and heavy-set ensemble with Benicio Del Toro slinging his heavy acting weight around at will as a quiet but cunning criminal. The scenes between Longbaugh and Sarno are ingeniously fraught with charismatic cool and tangible tension and intimidation.And Ryan Phillipe admirably man-handling an assumed case of severe miscasting as his sensitive and misunderstood partner in crime; all his teenage dramas and tacky horror film roles are gladly thrown aside as he becomes a boy grown up too fast and clearly damaged by the things Parker has seen and done in his short and miserable life.Some very tense action scenes are executed finely and purvey a realistic sense of danger. To see the film go from edgy urban gunfights and car chases to all-out western-style stand-offs in the desert completes the picture and simplifies the general motive, allowing the plot to thicken of its own accord but rather than be all about gunfights and motives, the film delves deep into the desperate lives of its characters as time quickly runs out.By the end of the film, you've been through a roller coaster of human emotion, danger, abuse, intimidation and desperation and every single character has gone his or her own way, manipulating the issue for the sake of their own secret agendas. After all, the prize - fifteen million dollars - is not just fifteen million dollars. It's a motive with a universal adaptor! Because of 'Way of the Gun's almost impenetrable plot, its originality, wisdom and fast paced, hard hitting action, you will appreciate this film more and more every time you watch it. It belongs in every self-respecting film lover's favourites collection! "},{"Title":"Greater is in this picture than many will ever know!","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some films simply slip under the radar when it comes to accolades and praise, they remain almost cult or legendary in their status to a few. In a lot of cases these films are not that good, just simply have a special appeal to generate a cult following. But in the case of a special few like 'Millers Crossing' or 'Glengarry Glen Ross', these movies are truly amongst the leaders and very best in their field, to the point that as soon as the credits roll, you wonder how the hell you've never watched this before or why it didn't make greater box office or claim any major awards.The Way of the Gun is like the bastard child of a Western and a Gangster flick, holding many of the attributes of both genres and belonging to neither in whole. It centres around two wayfaring career-criminals who stumble into a kidnapping that leads to a great deal more than they bargained for. Every character in this film has game, everyone brings something motivated to the table with a twisted angle or a revelation. This movie oozes cool in almost every scene with Benicio Del Toro leading that emphasis with inspired panache! Ryan Phillippe has never performed this well again and both James Caan and Taye Diggs excel in their roles. If writer-director Christopher McQuarrie ever blesses us with another specimen presented as brilliantly as this then we should consider ourselves truly fortunate.If ever a movie was worthy of 10 stars, it's this one. Everything from the well paced, unfolding plot and the riveting chess-like gun-play to the awesome musical score that hits the nail on the head like Elmer Burnstein's Magnificent Seven or John Williams's Superman theme. A hidden gem that's well worth discovering for the first time as much as it is revisiting, superb! "}{"Title":"A minor classic","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'The Way of the Gun' is a film that people either love or hate. There doesn't seem to be any middle ground. It could have benefited from some minor editing to help with the pacing, but I love the dialogue and characters so I can forgive this flaw.Parker and Longbaugh are drifters and petty crooks, although they appear to have served in the military as judged from their training. While donating sperm for money, they overhear a doctor gossiping about a woman who is being paid $1 million to carry a wealthy couple's child to term. They quickly hatch a very poorly thought out plan to kidnap her and hold her for ransom.The attempted kidnapping is ultimately successful only because the woman is trying to get away from the icy bodyguards who escort her everywhere she goes. After taking her, Parker and Longbaugh encounter one unforeseen complication after another. The wealthy patron who is the father of the unborn child brings in a bag man to adjudicate the entire situation, and Parker and Longbaugh are hamstrung by their own incompetence.This is a talking heads movie punctuated by a few brief action scenes, and luckily it is populated by a great cast. Benicio del Toro and Ryan Phillipe are very good in this film, which is half of a surprise. Who knew that Phillipe had the range to pull this off? Juliette Lewis is, well, Juliette Lewis, as she sympathetically portray's Robin. James Caan nearly steals the movie as Joe Sarno, the bag man. There are a lot of great character actors at work, in fact there are too many to name. The dialogue is occasionally over written and writer / director Chris McQuarrie over indulges himself in the way these scenes play out. That said, there are a lot of beautifully crafted scenes in the film. The plot is really about the various family relationships that are slowly being revealed, and culminates with a surprising revelation about Joe Sarno's connection to Robin.I love the metaphor used during the game of hearts speech, as well as the compassion that the two kidnappers show for their hostage. I love that the bodyguards are plotting against their boss in his own kitchen, while his scheming wife eavesdrops. Joe Kraemer delivers a beautiful orchestral score, and I particularly enjoyed the music which accompanied the ultrasound viewing. The piece of music which accompanied Sarno's receipt of the money was the other highlight in the film. One reviewer asked why the score was so prominent here I will opine that it's because the scene sets up the final act wherein the characters' fates will be decided.I'd be remiss if I didn't mention Sarah Silverman's hilarious and profane diatribe during the opening scene, which leads to a fight where Parker and Longbaugh are left bleeding on the ground. It's an image that bookends the film. I will also compliment McQuarrie on the fantastic weapons handling from all of the actors. Apparently his brother is a Navy SEAL, and he trained all of the actors. That man should become a full time technical adviser. We see Parker and Longbaugh use a perfectly executed bounding overwatch to break contact and escape the first failed kidnapping attempt, as well as outstanding room clearing skills and even a 'rolling T' when they sweep through the brothel. They also perform tactical reloads, weak hand magazine exchanges, and immediate action drills like complete pros. Very, VERY few films display this degree of technical accuracy, so for me it's noteworthy.If you enjoy hard boiled dialogue and gritty realism, and you can enjoy a relationship based drama, then you probably already love 'The Way of the Gun.' It's a shame that it wasn't more commercially successful, because I'd love to see McQuarrie make another film like this. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Interesting Pairs of Screen Outlaws of Any Film Canon","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Phillippe and Del Toro may be the most interesting pair of screen outlaws of any canon. They are not simply stoic action figures, nor are they a wisecracking Mamet- or Tarantino-ized set of partners in crime. They are a distillation of greed and its adoption of senseless violence. They are completely self-driven, greedy, senseless and content to be so, yet we invest ourselves in following them as protagonists because we identify with their feelings of basic need Survival, thus money, thus violence. Writer-director Christopher McQuarrie doesn't even bother to make any effort whatsoever to ingratiate them to us, but in fact the very opposite. We don't want your forgiveness. We don't want your absolution. We will not accept your natural order.There is an obvious but charming symbolic counterpoint to the two main characters in the implicit bond of the bodyguards played by Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt. We are given just as omniscient a probing of these two as of Phillippe and Del Toro, only they seem to come from more affluent society. They may have a more affected look and vernacular (spare though it may be) than the two thugs they mean to dispatch, but they suggest that the troublemaking self-preservation gene is innate. Which pair overpowers the other is a matter of who has less to lose. The result of their actions, and their crossing paths, is an Old West lifestyle wreaking havoc on the modern day. Joe Kraemer's mostly percussive score evokes such a setting. There's even a climactic shootout at a brothel in Mexico.Scott Wilson plays a wealthy man who has made a complacent agreement with his dark side and an underworld economy to afford a comfortable home with a family, no matter how artificial that family may be. Really, it seems no one truly cares about whether or not his unborn adoptive daughter's surrogate mother, played with a persuasive necessity by Juliette Lewis, lives or dies, as long as the baby she carries lives, at least for as long as any one of them feels they need it. Only do Diggs and Katt persist in salvaging Lewis and the baby directly, because it is their job, and the kidnappers Phillippe and Del Toro shot at them. Christopher McQuarrie's exceedingly interesting buried gem, freely sprinkled with the blackest of humor, is permeated with an existential lack of cognitive dissonance on the part of any of his characters. How are the two lead characters morally superior to any other character, or perhaps even equivalent? Why do we concentrate on their intentions? Because they're the ones the movie happens to follow, because they are an unadorned version of what the rest of them are who have put on or been endowed with airs.What does all this mean? Why should we care about the baby due Scott Wilson and his wife named Francesca, who isn't even faithful? She sits comfortably in a high-tech room in her lavish digs as everyone else puts themselves on the line for the baby she's not even having herself. Well, they don't see it that way. Things may work out for her, but not because they care about her or her child by proxy. They have their own needs in line with hers, almost like karma is holding the door for her. Karma's only justice without the satisfaction, muses an older, craggier James Caan, whose character seems to have fully mastered the lifestyle intended by the story's said opposing duos, but only ever seen to anyone else as the bag man. This princess in the castle may not even be touched by the incidents that take place in her favor, but Isn't it how it is, Phillippe laments for more inscrutable reasons. Your prayers are always answered...in the order they're received. "},{"Title":"Violent, gritty cinema. You gotta love it.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Way of the Gun is Christopher McQuarrie's modern version of two late 60s western classics, George Roy Hill's Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid and Sam Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch. A complex morally ambiguous movie about two drifters and their suicidal desire for easy money.Ryan Philippe and Benicio Del Toro play the characters nicknamed by Philippe's opening narration as Mr. Parker and Mr. Longbaugh (reference noted). Homeless and unemployed both live on the edge, traveling from town to town and surviving by means of petty jobs. Until a chance, an overheard conversation and they have now set their course on doing something far more serious. Kidnap for ransom. But as they begin to execute their plan, what looked like a simple job soon becomes far more difficult and complex as they have first thought of. The storyline is a web of motives all of which intersect at one position, the kidnap victim (played by Juliette Lewis). As the movie progress both Parker and Longbaugh change. They cannot be defined as good people no one in The Way of the Gun can be except maybe the kidnap victim herself. Yet that which happens to the two leads them to one first and final act of redemption.Keeping with the true spirit of The Wild Bunch McQuarrie explores various themes. Honor, loyalty, redemption, the gruesome realistic portrayal of violence. And as a final cue to Peckinpah's classic, the last shootout in the hotel on the middle of the Mexican desert. McQuarrie throws in his own familiar brand of witty yet vulgar dialogue and plot twists, creating an elaborate film, that gets a bit too confusing for it's own good. Specifically the motivations for the leading characters. As I mentioned earlier they change as the movie traveled towards it's conclusion. In the final act they do the right thing from a moral point of view, what bugs me is the lack of reason for such transition. Yes there were scenes in which Parker showed signs of kindness, but Longbaugh remained pretty much the same until that moment and it looked strange how he suddenly had a change of heart.From a technical point of view The Way of the Gun looks good. McQuarrie directs the film in an utmost realistic fashion, he doesn't use slow-motion for shootouts, nor excessive violence. Shootout scenes themselves were choreographed by a former Navy Seal and look stunningly believable. The acting is tolerable, doesn't ruin the mood.As it stands The Way of the Gun is a very good movie with a somewhat overly complex flawed storyline. It leaves a certain feeling. Like maybe, something vital was cut during post production. Something that could have turned this movie from very good to great. "},{"Title":"a little disappointed by Christopher McQuarrie's job","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Way of the Gun. Kinda sounds like a martial arts movie set in the Old West. Actually, it was a rather strange movie directed and written by the guy who wrote the screenplay for The Usual Suspects. But unlike The Usual Suspects, this lackluster film failed to deliver.The cast was even more diverse than Suspects, if that is even possible. Ryan Philippe, Benicio del Toro, and Juliette Lewis were the headliners, with a cast rounded out by Taye Diggs, Nicky Katt, and James Caan. Caan's performance was the one diamond in this coal mine of acting drivel. He rarely fails to deliver stellar, well-nuanced characters. Taye Diggs is not believable as a bodyguard. He is a model, not an actor. Del Toro gives us his typical one-dimensional character that we've seen a thousand times, and Philippe's accent was absolutely dreadful (watch Matt Damon if you want real Boston). Lewis, typically strong (i.e. Natural Born Killers), was a little disappointing in her role as a surrogate mother for doting multi-millionaire parents.The storyline is basically two cons (del Toro and Philippe) who abandon their typical money-making schemes (sperm donation, etc) to pursue a more lucrative idea by kidnapping the surrogate of a millionaire. After watching the first gunfight (guns galore, thus the title), one really begins to wonder where these two get their skills from. Two cons that have to jack-off to make ends meet typically don't have the elite skills of the top Army Rangers in tactical weaponry. But these two are obviously gifted in S.W.A.T. Remarkably, it becomes even more surreal as these two lead the skilled bodyguards of the surrogate down alleyways in intricate cat and mouse play that even Jerry and the Road Runner would be envious of.A potentially intricate plot is heavily diluted by a poorly written script and even worse directing. I don't think this film is worthy of being in the same review as The Usual Suspects, much less being on its cover. This film was a good idea, but poorly executed. "},{"Title":"One of my two favourite films of all time","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems strange that Chris McQuarrie hasn't done more since the usual suspect, and this his directorial debut, seeing as the latter was a fantastic film, and way of the gun was even better.The film follows the quick fire lives of Parker and Longbaugh who are looking for a big break, and by chance one presents themselves to it. The break of course, is the kidnapping of a surrogate mother for a very wealthy couple. The success of this film is in its understatement. A lot of the intricacies of the plot and the character relationships are not spelled out let alone mentioned at all by the characters. So much relies on the subtle hints by the body language of the actors. Benicio del toro in particular, McQuarrie has managed to capture a great deal of facial expressions that prove very evocative and effective. This is the outstanding thing about the film; while most films love to be blunt, self righteous, over elaborate, over long etc etc etc, way of the gun is very much an antidote to all of this. The film has a real soul, and is keen to explore the darker side of humanity, equally flippant between savoury and detestable characterisations. No character remains constant in their course on the film, or at least, they are presented as devious and calculating each with their own agendas that slowly drip through to the audience. This adds a lot of tension to the proceedings and creates a wonderful atmosphere. Of course, the performances are brilliant, and again, not overdone.The film is, in this sense, very realistic. The characters are very believable and all of them revolve around the murky grey area characters Hollywood is so keen to ignore. The backdrop is very dramatic; the bleached, faded western scenery and the isolated surrounding lend further effect to the film. The film is constantly referred to as similar to Peckinpah, but really, this is very far removed from the likes of the wild bunch. Yes, there is a western premise but this is a far more subtle film, containing a lot of scenes with no, or very little, dialogue. Also, Peckinpah's films while iconic and fantastic where not all that realistic it is fair to say. Way of the gun's closing gun fights bear a level of ferocity but are intensely realistic. The film also contains a level of poetic contemplation, similar to Peckinpah perhaps or John Woo, but again, its is more subtle.Ultimately, this is a film in its own right; and bears little resemblance to anything else because it is so fantastically original. This is perhaps not a well known film, certainly where i live, but it deserves to be, as this is a real cinematic gem and one of my all time favourite films. I think the perfect way to describe it is  A boiling pot of pulp flavour with a western premise. "},{"Title":"Butch and Sundance","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a modern parody of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance kid. The character names reflect the real names of the two outlaws. Butch Robert Leroy Parker, Sundance Harry Longabaugh. There are certain scenes that are also similar, i.e. the shootout at the end. Quite enjoyable but lacking in dialogue. Beware! The first 5 minutes of the film includes a torrent of seriously foul language choose carefully who you watch it with..... Benicio is superb as usual and Ryan Phillippe works well with him. James Caan adds weight to the script also. Not the sort of film you can watch over and over but definitely worth watching once. All in all, a half decent action film. "},{"Title":"Not a brilliant or perfect film but a solid and entertaining old-school genre film with good dialogue and direction","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Longbaugh and Parker are two criminal drifters who have maimed and murdered their way through existence. Earning money however they can, they learn of a young woman who is being a surrogate mother for a rich businessman. In a violent shootout, they snatch the woman (Robin) from her two bodyguards and escape. When they make their demands though they learn that the father of the baby is a man who handles money and such on behalf of the mobsters and other undesirables. With the pressure on, Longbaugh and Parker find themselves pursued by a variety of men all with different interests and priorities. However it ends, it will not end well.Having already gotten his Oscar, McQuarrie sets out to make his directing debut with a film that, lets be honest, was never going to stand up to the fame of what had gone before. However what he does deliver is a satisfying story in a world where morals and good people don't really exists and the acceptance of violence is as common as the acceptance of the world being round. In doing this the film doesn't make itself out as a classic or a brilliant film that will win over all audiences but it does produce a good crime story with interesting twists, strong dialogue, a good helping of cool and so on. So far so Tarantino I assumed from the start but, where countless others have rifted on this theme, McQuarrie steps back to something a bit more fundamental and a bit more in (as others have said) Peckinpah territory. I found the lack of pop culture to be quite refreshing &#150; particularly after so many ripoffs. This is not to say that the film is akin to the second coming, because it isn't, but it is a very enjoyable genre film in a genre that is easily stuck on repeat.McQuarrie's direction is good. Like the overall approach of the film he is professional and steady and touches of style (eg the momentary freeze-frames) are selectively and well used. The cast are roundly good with everyone singing from the same tough song sheet. Del Toro fits the film like a glove and he works well with Ryan &#150; helping to cover up for the fact that the latter doesn't totally work as a violent, criminal drifter. Caan is typically a class act who does well even if his character isn't as filled out as I would have liked. I found Lewis a bit grating but that is generally because I'm not a massive fan of her anyway. The support cast has solid enough turns from Diggs, Geoffrey Lewis and a typically foul-mouthed turn from Silverman in the opening scene that perhaps doesn't fit the film but certainly gets your attention.Overall then a solid genre film that is delivered in a serious and refreshingly old-school manner. Not a brilliant or perfect film, but moaning that it isn't Usual Suspects is unfair and those that meet it on its genre terms will find it steady and entertaining. "},{"Title":"The most realistic and chilling movie experience ever","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thing which impressed me most(but i guess it depends of each man whether you like it or not) was the realistic feel and impression of the real world mobsters and hit men this movie has.It's like the director lived that whole experience and then made this beautiful and realistic movie after it!And the thing i liked mostly about this movie is the absence of useless romance and i'm not against romance but i think in some movies it doesn't fit at all.The part which impressed me the most is when the mobster's right hand man watched his friend die next to him in the car and didn't display any emotion about it.That's your ordinary hit-man.If you like good movies you better watch this one.I,for one,adore it! "},{"Title":"Two Petty Crooks In For More Than They Bargained For...","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you're looking for a gritty, suspenseful, well thought, realistic, and a movie with an excellent storyline then you're in the right place. The Way Of The Gun has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen. Why? Well to start off is the characters. Each Actor/Actress plays their roles perfectly. Their actions all portray their personalities very well. Especially Benicio Del Toro's Ghostly yet humorous character. Each person is played to be kind of A Main Character. Everyone has a reason to be in the movie. Each character also has an important role in the movie. The story is also great how it slowly unfolds through the movie.The action scenes. I would have to say that the shootouts are the best parts of the movie. My first time watching it I could tell it distinguishes itself from others. There are no flaws in them, and when they are happening they actually bring out the horror the weapons can bring. To sum it all up this movie will have you sitting on the edge of your seat the whole way through, and is also a good movie to watch over again. Very good, 9 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"The Way Of The Gun","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I promise you a day of reckoning that you won't live long enough to never forget.With a film like this, it's hard to not draw comparisons. As a modified, modernized western, as a Tarantino-esquire noir, as a follow up to The Usual Suspects, or as a biting reflection on culture, anyway that you choose to look at it, a film like this so easy to allude the viewer yet still put in perspective gunplay before plot is deceivingly becoming a mainstay in screen writing. But before you are too quick to draw comparisons, remember that Christopher MacQuarrie did indeed brainstorm Kaiser Soze, and that his compadre Brian Singer only went on to direct a slew of run-of-the-mill comic book hero series. So MacQuarrie deserves a chance, the Hollywood producers thought to themselves. Little did they know, that MacQuarrie would so soon eclipse every major filmmaker to emerge in the 1990's with one film. Then, what would he do? Disappear, reminiscent of his aforementioned supervillain.My belief is that if you can't find an interesting way to say it, don't say it. -Christopher MacQuarrieIt has become common practice in the past to create an abundance of witty dialog and action scenes high on explosives. It has become so clich, in fact, that it begs one to wonder whether the trailer for a film is the major reasoning behind the high blood pressure attempts in modern thrillers. I recently saw the preview for The Way Of The Gun, and was pretty startled that despite the awkward moments of revealing scenes, none of the true taste of the movie had been easily transitioned to the montage. Proud, I am, that there exists movies like this that defy audiences, critics, and studios alike.Maybe it's that the true moments of excitement during this cinematic experience were opposite of film-goer instinct. Rather than high-speed chases, overdone explosions, fake guns, and uncaring lines of dialog, we basically get all of the antonyms to these definitions. So, it's no surprise that critics have panned the film so bad. Nobody was ready for what MacQuarrie was to serve with his directorial debut, except the intellectual elite who were so starved that the release will forever be a true cult-classic and Top Ten list ingredient for those wishing to convey a deep understanding of screenplay. It must have been no coincidence that the sites of filming range from desert, hospital, mansion, to Mexican hotels. The first of the latter is rumored to be shot in a town whose Spanish translation is get out if you can. More interesting than the obvious hidden message of the translation, is the comedic element that despite the amount of overexposure of most major studio productions, rumors with so much depth and weight still exist in America.Take a stab at the plans of our two anti-heroes, played with precision by Benecio Del Toro and Ryan Phillppe, and you'll come up gasping for air without ever even stepping foot in the deep waters of the consequential turmoil that develops during the film. The idea is, kidnap a surrogate mother and hold her for ransom. But don't expect the operation to run smoothly. James Caan plays to perfection the bagman that is put on the case, and his more is less approach is reflected directly by Mr. Longbaugh, Benecio Del Toro. Nicky Katt and Taye Diggs are the pratfall-prone bodyguards who make it sort of their personal vendettas to retrieve back the woman they were supposed to be protecting in the first place. Juliet Lewis is probably the least touched by the situation, which runs counter to our instincts that she'd by nature be the most scared. So that's the setup, but to straight-forwardly approach this film would be the biggest mistake made by the viewer. Absolutely nothing is going to work in your advantage if you keep any expectations whatsoever.The dialog is the most refreshing I've heard in an action film, as it breaks the norms of the average Bonnie and Clyde stereotypes, and builds itself in a world of it's own. The main comparison I personally would make between this film and any other would be the classic western Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid, from which the main characters take their (fake) names; Mr. Parker, and Mr. Longbaugh. As in that classic, we are confronted by personalities unafraid to degrade themselves, while still keeping perspective the gold, partially because they have left the path of the good and right a long time ago.Watch it as many times as it demands, before judging the complexities that the plot offers. We have seen enough of the bland and uninspired, that this reversal overcharged with wit and power, should be worth the time and effort of repeat contemplation.It's not what you say anymore. It's how you say it.The Way Of The Gun (2000) 10/10 "}{"Title":"On my top 10 all-time list","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The previous poster stole my thunder in a lot of areas, but I just had to post anyways, since this is one of my all-time favorites. I would add that this movie really reminds one of a modern day Clint Eastwood - Man with no name western. The way they convey so much through mere looks, the dialog, a few hysterical interactions, the great score/soundtrack, top notch acting, the original and mind blowing action and gun play is just marvelous. This absolutely has to be the most underrated movie of all time. I saw the DVD for sale the other day for only 7.99. What a steal. So if you like old Clint Eastwood flicks, or any kind of action movie for that matter, you have to at least give this one try. It should not disappoint. "},{"Title":"An interesting exercise in attitude and atmosphere, flawed but compelling","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Way Of The Gun is an interesting example of a buddy film that people instantly love or hate. I fall on the Love side of that snap decision because I have a fondness for quirky characters, well done machismo, visceral action choreography and well delivered, memorable noir lines (such as I think a plan is just a list of things that don't happen.) I will readily admit the WOTG is not for everyone, and I can see why. The movie doesn't really have a single admirable or likable character, even though there seem to be at least a dozen struggling with each other in the film. (The best you can say of any of them is that everyone has their reasons for what they do, and that no one is completely rotten). There are pacing problems - the film is probably about 15 minutes too long. The movie revels in its violence, in fact often it seems to be just another exercise in staging interesting gun battles. And the downbeat, defiant ending will irritate and exasperate many fans of more 'traditional' Westerns and crime thrillers.But if you liked the old Sam Peckinpah movies, and want to see seedy characters who positively ooze machismo and nihilism, this is the movie for you. And there is a quirky streak of gallows humor here which leavens the grimness and bloodiness of the proceedings - little bits of physical humor (especially from Del Toro and a wonderful Sad Sack played by Geoffrey Lewis) here and there, along with moments of unexpected humanity and sympathy (the mother who wants to keep her baby serves as the excuse for most of there) that keep this from just being an R-rated version of Rough Night In Jericho. And every character is given interesting, revealing lines which explicate their reasons and rationales for their (seemingly indefensible) actions, and these lines are written and delivered with real acting chops.Believe it or not, one of the interesting subtexts of Gun is that it does NOT glorify violence. Gun battles are loud, messy and scary; meat explodes as bullets penetrate bodies; people go down and stay down and blood in the dust is enough to make the gorge rise. What Gun does glorify, though, is the matter-of-fact, deadpan professionalism and intent with which the main characters engage in these battles. It isn't bravado; the characters have left bravado behind long ago...it's simply a wholesale acceptance of the consequences of the path they have chosen, I.E., The Way Of The Gun.Especially interesting here is Ryan Philippe, who normally specializes in Tiger Beat Boy Crush roles - with very little change in his delivery or acting mannerisms, he is completely believable as a hard-bitten street samurai, able and willing to kidnap, torture and kill in pursuit of a big cash score...yet able to feel regret and doubt at odd times. His performance was so effective that what I saw him later in Cruel Intentions, I kept expecting him to pistol whip his girlfriend instead of kissing her. And Benecio Del Toro and James Caan don't give a false note in the entire film.So will you like or hate Way Of The Gun? Hopefully I've given the reader enough information to decide for his or her self. Count me as a fan of the movie, and one who admits to having watched the DVD with the commentary track on, twice. (BTW, McQ is refreshingly honest in the commentary, and readily admits and discusses the film's flaws and problems.) "},{"Title":"Funny little interludes","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Way of the Gun was one of those movies that was either a hit or miss,i.e Boon Dock Saints, where violence and scenes of the crime world filled the screen from start to finish. To say this movie was violent is an understatement but to its defense there have been more violent movies since its release,Sin City & History of Violence to name a few. Ironically i enjoyed this movie a lot, though i walked out of History of Violence and didn't care for Sin City so much. It boiled down to the numerous characters this movie threw out at you, sorta of a confetti of personalities. The movie ends in a way where it makes you think, yeah this is how it should end. There is no happy ending or good guy to come save the day, the hero's are actually quite bad. Perhaps thats why most viewers don't care this movie so much or perhaps it was too violent for there taste. Either way it was a must see for college dorms back in 2001. "},{"Title":"beautifully executed","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From the first scene of the film we know this is not going to be your average Hollywood action flick. The story is being told through the eyes of two criminals who's accepted their fate as outcasts. by chance they come about the possibility to earn a lot of money. There's several twists and turns in the plot, its not hard to follow but the storytelling is a bit different, ala, Quintin Tarantino. The camera work is excellent with its yellow filter and gritty look. The acting is first rate, especially between del Toro and Ryan Rhilippe, the other actors give a good performance too. James Caan is cool in his role, but i feel that someone like Harvey Keitel would have suited the film better. The end of the movie has some frenetic, and highly realistic gun play and is an absolute joy to watch. In closing this film is a must have, but if your gonna see it for the first time be aware if you are faint of heart and get easily confused. "},{"Title":"How it should be done.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Far, far better than the contrived 'Usual Suspects'. Great music, believable characters, good scenery, lots of understated acting...and violence, lots of it...lots and lots of wonderful violence.Del Toro makes his best film yet, Caan gets a decent movie to add to the Godfather, Juliet Lewis overeggs it as usual but her dad (Geoffrey) is good, very good...and the rat pack of olden hired guns at the end don't make a bad move.I hope Way of the Gun didn't win any stupid Oscars since that would be an insult to one of the few complete movies out there.This movie should be compulsory for those attending Film School....nuff said! "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are so few action movies out today that I would even consider decent. Too many of them that spent too much money on visuals and too little time on the script.The Way Of The Gun, however, is a very solid action flick. It's not great and it's not quite as good as The Usual Suspects (which would be very difficult to top even for the most talented writers). I was drawn in from the very first scene, which I might add did not involve explosions, gunplay or sex. Just hilarious dialogue and good acting.The story moves very smoothly, telling us what we need to know and leading us to what want to find out. Juliette Lewis does well as the surrogate mother, no foreigner to the ultra violent scene having stared in From Dusk Till Dawn. Benicio Del Toro puts on another interesting display as the sly Mr. Longbaugh, Ryan Philippe's performance wasn't half bad either.All in all, The Way Of The Gun is entertaining on many different levels, and one that will be on my shelf for a very long time. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  McQuarrie is an excellent filmmaker.  Ryan Phillipe and Benicio del Toro provide perfect performances that leave the viewer waiting for more. McQuarrie did an excellent job of building sympathy and love for the two criminals that it is hard to accept the ending of the film, even though you have been told how it is going to end.  His camera work and lighting are impeccable throughout and the plot sizzles.  The twist ending is absolutely fantastic and really a perfect touch. If you do not like guns and blood, then this is not the film for you.  But try to keep the violence in proper context.  Those who choose the violent path in this film are doomed to suffer and most likely die from it.  This is the warning that James Cann's character gives, and he should be heeded. This film, like many Scorsesse flicks, has a less than flattering portrayal of the violent lifestyle.  "},{"Title":"A Violent and addictive film","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Violent, self absorbed, and at  times cynical, this films seems to  mock the idea to masculinity without  even realizing it. Ryan Phillippe  and Benecio Del Toro create two  characters who don't have an idea  about being productive members of  society, refusing to accept social  norms in order to live a more carefree  lifestyle. While the two characters are  supposed to be macho and self actualized,  they prove to be co-dependent on each  other clinging onto each other like they  are each other's mother. It seems rather  ridiculous, but then again, how can  one really deny the obvious. Why didn't  they do their own thing from the start?  Why didn't they screw each other over  when the movie was brought into the  equation? Why did they feel pity for the  pregnant mother? In a sense, they kind  of needed each other. An interesting film  to watch, especially since we learn very  little about the two lead characters. One  of the few movies that can say it is a Pulp  Fiction wannabe without being called otherwise. "},{"Title":"Pure Nothingness","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alright, this is a movie about two guys who..., well, they do some things. Like getting beaten up by some people or talking to people about sexuality while applying for a job. They do this because, hm, I'm not sure. Well, after all, they want to kidnap a pregnant woman, because..., um, wait a second. Nevertheless, they can shoot pretty good and are equipped with state-of-the-art weapons, which they got from..., okay, let's skip that. They are the main characters and after two very long hours we know as much about them, as we knew before the movie started. Nothing.There are other people. The pregnant woman, for example. She's... pregnant most of the time and although she seems concerned about her baby, she doesn't really mind she's being kidnapped, since she never really attempts to run away. There is some couple who wants her baby for money. The man is kind of a gangster I think, who sends two bodyguards to protect her, but one of them is engaged with his wife, who, by the way, is obviously insane. There is some other guy who helps the man that wants to buy the baby, because of loyality or something. He has a companion who wants to kill himself. And there's a doctor who's related to half of the other characters in one way or another.Let's get that straight. I'm not dumb, I guess. I figured out other movies, but then I wanted to, because they were doing so. You know, like 'Memento' or 'Vanilla Sky'. I even like Lynch-movies because even if they don't seem to make sense, they're interesting enough to think about them. Not this movie.'Way of the Gun' starts with scenes which seem to be stolen from unmade Tarantino-movies, then changes into something like a soap opera on drugs, with lots of pointless dialogue and ends with a neverending shootout, which is pointless as well, since we don't care at all for anyone who shoots and is shot.Ryan Phillippe, Benicio del Toro, James Caan, Juliette Lewis, Taye Diggs, and many more star in this vehicle without a destination or without a driver. None of the characters seem to be really bad or good, just shapeless figures who talk and shoot. There are scenes which simply hang in the air, without any connection to the rest of the movie, especially the first 10 minutes. There is a car chase, which is done very unsually, but also very unlikely and very ridiculous. The music is very, very frustrating building up to non-existing climaxes, consisting of about 2 melodies.Maybe I missed something, but I sat through this movie for 2 hours and tried to figure out just what the hell this all should be. It seems like a DVD-compilation of deleted scenes, edited together without explanation. Did the director of this movie really write 'The Usual Suspects'? Well, either that was an accident or this movie here was. But they can't come out of the same inspiration or mind or whatever. This movie is the definition of a mess, a ship without course, 120 minutes of empty ambition. "},{"Title":"Watchable but far from being a masterpiece","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Basically there's absolutely nothing really wrong with The Way of the gun. It's a nice, funny, clever, entertaining and stylish small thriller with quite a good script and fine acting. But is this in some way a special film? Hell no. Is there's something unusual in it? I'm afraid not. Does The Way of the gun contain even something we haven't seen before? Sadly the answer is no. Nowadays they've made a motion picture out of practically every good topic there is. So I guess if they really are gonna surprise with a new thriller, they have to put something new in it but it's getting harder and harder. The Way of the gun is a basic action movie, bit more intelligent than some of them but that's just about it. Still, if you're a fan of Benicio Del Toro this is definitely a movie for you. Juliette Lewis and good old James Caan are having pretty great performances too. I'll give The Way of the gun 7 out of 7. "}{"Title":"NO!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Twenty minutes into the film I thought it would be great. But it lost steam (and credibility) very quickly. There were some very clever moments (namely the gun fight in the alleyway) but the rest was pretty much crap.  One question I repeatedly asked myself What kind of people, criminal or not, would literally toss around a pregnant woman? They were obviously the protagonists, but I had a very difficult time taking anyone's side. Phillippe was a lame excuse for a tough guy (and the accent--AAGH!), and Benicio was... well, truthfully, he was pretty cool. But even Benicio's suave yet stoic presence was not enough to save this movie.The wrong vehicle for an otherwise interesting concept. "},{"Title":"Chaotic.  Just like the Mexican desert its film in.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some things that I really liked about The Way of the Gun are off camera shoot outs, unexpected reactions from characters specifically involving a pregant woman and the overall way the film presented the story with a kind of 'whatever' flair.  Unfortunately, The Way of the Gun was NOT directed by Quintin Tarantino and does NOT star Bruce Willis, John Travolta, Uma Thurman, and Samuel L. Jackson.  Instead we get prettyboy turned bad Ryan Phillipe (uh.. lesse.. 54 and Cruel Intentions) and a Antonio Banderes look-a-like act-a-like in Benicio Del Toro.  It's no wonder that Taye Diggs playing a cop he's too young to play and Juliette Lewis playing a very pregant woman are my favorite preformers.   In the end, and as expected a rather violent end, the movie does escape so many of the problems associated with the rebellious action genre and proves to be more entertaining than memorable.  But that's okay.  The Way of the Gun Grade B-  "},{"Title":"Convoluted story and characters you don't care about","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" On the surface The Way of the Gun (2000) looks like a good, offbeat flick. It was written & directed by a proved writer and features a quality cast. In addition, the film is touted as a modern Western with two protagonists (term used loosely) patterned after Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (their names in the film were the last names of Butch & Sundance).THE PLOT Two low-life criminals kidnap a pregnant surrogate of a rich couple who, unknowingly, has ties to the mob.The film starts out as a comedy with cussing every other word and then morphs into a serious crime thriller-drama. The score is likably offbeat.Two problems hold the film back (1.) A plot that becomes ridiculously convoluted and therefore increasingly unbelievable, and (2.) unlikable characters, except for maybe the surrogate. Concerning the second fault, I understand the concept of antiheroes, but even antiheroes have to have some redeemable or universally human qualities to make the audience root for them or care about them. Wolverine and Clint Eastwood's Western characters, like Josey Wales, are good examples, as are the antiheroes in films like Runaway Train and Apocalypse Now, two cinematic masterpieces. These two problems naturally create disinterest. By the 90 minute mark, with only a half hour to go, I couldn't care less about the characters, their story or how it turned out, even though I really tried.To the film's credit, it has style and surprising glimpses of depth, but the absurdly convoluted screenplay and unlikable characters sink The Way of the Gun. The film was shot in Utah.GRADE C- "},{"Title":"Many die so scumbag can have a son","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tense action drama with plenty of lead slinging, torture, blood; a plain out and out violent film. When 2 thugs go after a pregnant woman in order to ransom her out for big bucks things immediately go awry. The old boy they planned on cheating has some pretty tough boys on his side which leads to lots of gunsmoke and dead bodies. The final shootout was a doozy which should cause the saliva to flow from the lips of all action lovers. Woulda been easier to plug the bitch and start over.... but the baby was gonna be a boy.  "},{"Title":"A hard pill, but it grabs you","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite the cold-hearted nihilism of The Way of the Gun (a bleak movie to be sure), there's a scene that's always stood out to me. Ryan Phillippe and Benicio del Toro, guns loaded for an epic shootout, stroll into a brother full of lolling prostitutes. Phillippe clears his throat and the ladies take the hint and head for the door. It's such a subtle scene, but is also representative of the movie's overall sense of humor (excepting the punch to the face of Sarah Silverman in the opening scene, which is not at all subtle but still one for the ages).And there does exist an actual sense of humor, but you have to grit your teeth through the downbeat story to appreciate it. Phillippe and del Toro are like a woeful Butch and Sundance (in a Peckinpah world), and I love that the movie's nodding in those directions. There are plot twists and a good helping of pulpy dialog to keep things interesting, but this is one dark movie. Worth a watch? Absolutely.7/10 "},{"Title":"What line from this movie sums it up, more or less? Almost Every Line from the Movie","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Usual Suspects brilliant, innovative, Oscar-winning screenplay by Christopher McQuarrie, creative low-budget directing from Bryan Singer, giving the film a visual flair and some overall superbly directed action scenes.The Way of the Gun screenplay by and directed by McQuarrie himself. I thought this should at least be interesting? Del Toro is in it? Yeah, let's watch that.The opening scene is, in my mind, a classic. It shouldn't be spoiled by trailers of people, so I'm not going to.Then the opening credits follow. They introduce us to the awe- inspiring score by Joe Kraemer, who's been composing for movies that are insulting to his dramatic abilities as a composer. The score, at that's no-one but the director's fault, practically saves a big chuck of the movie.The movie starts dragging before you realize it. But it's okay, at first, because of some truly brilliant, it's-like-Mamet-had-sex-with-Tarantino-pieces of dialog writing.There's always free cheese in a mousetrap.Karma's justice without the satisfaction. I don't believe in justice.And, my personal favoriteThe only thing you can guess about a broken down old man... is that he is a survivor. Wonderful performance by James Caan.Then you have two secondary characters (of which there are way too many in this film) Taye Diggs & White-Mexican guy. White-Mecixan Guy is the serious one. (always bad if you remember the name of the actor and not the character - no one says Brad Pitt in Fight Club, they say Tyler Durden says...) Ryan Philippe plays Parker. That name you'll remember after seeing his performance. Philippe surprised me. I only knew him from IKnow What You Did Last Summer, which was more fun-then-freight, and Cruel Intentions, a good and somewhat underrated attempt at modernizing Les liaisons dangereuses. Sarah Michelle Gellar outplays him in that one, though.But in this he squares off with Benicio Del Toro's Longbough. Del Toro I first saw in The Usual Suspects. A whole string of great work followed Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas, a short part in Snatch. that stole the entire movie, a wonderful comedic performance in the underrated Excess Baggage and of course, Traffic. An Oscar well deserved. Del Toro is the kind of actor who always stretches himself in his performances, always doing something new. In this one, he made the wise choice (suggestion to McQuarrie says IMDBtrivia) of keeping silent most of the time. Some of his facial expressions alone makes some scenes in this worth watching.So how come this movie started dragging after a good hour? It was a long wait for a shoot-out-ending which is, admittingly, fantastically choreographed and leaves the viewer with a climax to remember. But was it worth the long wait?The problem to me is that, visually, the film is quite boring most of the time. In terms of lighting, creating the mood, feel, style, what have you that a movie with this kind of script deserved. Now it's just people talking like they're living chess pieces, just there for the plot to take place.There is an occasional inspired shot, especially in the last half-hour when things start to get rolling again. All of a sudden you're paying attention again. Thanks to Dick Pope, D.o.p.Aaron Sorkin, whom McQuarrie could be if he went political, realizes his writing is basically people talking brilliantly and that he needs a competent director to make it visually interesting, fit for a film. That's why he lets others direct.McQuarrie hasn't directed a film since The Way of the Gun, but he is writing again. I enjoyed his occasional fingerprint in The Tourist, a movie I otherwise didn't enjoy at all. Let's hope him and Bryan Singer get together and do a crime movie together again. Until that day then? Until that day. "},{"Title":"Not bad, just a pointless movie.","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's obvious that this movie got heavily inspired by many other genre movies. It tries to be just like them but it perhaps tries a bit too hard. It tries to combine basically every element that makes these type of old fashioned crime movies so great. It's just too much and it doesn't make the movie a very consistent one either. It therefore all also doesn't work out too original, which makes this movie feel a pretty redundant and pointless one, that you can easily do without.No, it by no means is an horrible movie but it's also not one I'm eager on ever seeing again. It's not really a fun or entertaining movie to watch and it takes itself very serious.A problem of this movie is also really its story. The movie doesn't begin off too bad but the more characters gets introduced in it, the worse it gets. I started too loose interest real fast in this movie. It's incredibly annoying how basically every character has his or her own agenda in this movie. The movie should had sticked more to its two main leads, played by Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro. That way the movie would had been better to watch and possibly also more fun. Now instead the movie starts giving you an headache with all of its characters and its long dialog. In the end you also just really don't know who is fighting who anymore and why. I can really see and appreciate what director Christopher McQuarrie was trying to do with this movie but I think he should just stick to his writing career. He can write great and also complicated stories, he just can't tell them very well, as this movie proofs.For this movie he still got a whole bunch of well known names to appear in his movie. Besides Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro, also Juliette Lewis, Taye Diggs and James Caan make their appearances. In a way it's also really an actors movie, since it's often filed with some long dialog. Nevertheless there also is plenty or room for some action, which still helps to spice things up a little for the movie. The action is simply great for most part.The movie never really gets horrible to watch but it also never really becomes an intriguing or entertaining one. It's a movie you can easily do without.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Well-made, but not very entertaining","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From time to time, film critics say this about some movies (the film) is easy enough to admire, but harder to actually like. That's the way that I feel about The Way of the Gun. It's a good film, and it's well made, but I didn't really ENJOY it.Two low-rent criminals, Parker (Ryan Phillippe) and Lombaugh (Benicio del Toro), decide to strike it rich by kidnapping the very pregnant surrogate mother for a very wealthy man. Problems arise when they realize who this guy really is. What ensues is a lot of plot twists, double crosses, and plenty of bullets.The acting is solid. Ryan Phillippe continues to impress with his acting abilities, going from a sexual manipulator in the previous year's wickedly clever Cruel Intentions to a thoughtful, if inept, criminal. I didn't like the accent he chose to use, but that's a minor distraction. Benicio del Toro is his usual reliable self. James Caan, however, gives a good performance, but it's too low-key. I hate it how every character in the past ten years has to be low-key and understated. What happened to the energetic, fun movies like Speed and Twister?Christopher McQuarrie won an Oscar for The Usual Suspects, a movie that I also admired, but didn't care for (although for different reasons). This film works better because it moves at a pace where it's slow enough to actually digest all the twists and turns. However, there's no energy here. Call me out of touch, but I think there's a huge difference between an understated film (something that should never be done in a film like this) and a dull, lifeless one. This, for all its laudable qualities, is one of the latter. "},{"Title":"Satire on Tarantino - and doesn't he deserve it!","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tarantinoesque, Peckinpahesque, Wooesque - these phrases come to mind very quickly as the violence and cod philosophising come thick and fast. So why does Tarantino get plaudits, when his films are extremely empty and poor, and this crackling, bloody but far more realistic portrayal of violence get the thumbs down? Well, it is a bit over the top, but so was the climax of 'The Wild Bunch' and it does not seem to have too much new to say (mostly sad, cynical, fatalistic, non-pc musings of a very male leaning), but then Tarantino's so-called hip scripts are vacuous claptrap that critics found cool, meaningful, and of now! McQuarrie really takes up the themes of violent movies and replays them with skill, a bit of bite, but most of all presents us with a far more realistic bout of gunfire where not everybody goes down at the first bullet. So it goes on for the audience, and you just wish it would end, and you want some sort of redemption, but this film gives you neither. It is a satire on the Hollywood manipulation of violence that is basically sanitised, eg the latest Batman. For a clue to this, Ryan Phillippe falls into a dry fountain and lands his arm on a piece of broken glass, which bleeds profusely and he agonises for a long time in real pain, way beyond the usual portrayal of the results of violence. So get it, violence really hurts, way beyond the balletic slomo of Woo, the fifty or so bullets William Holden takes, and the bit of crying that Michael Madsen inflicts when he takes off an ear!!! Love it or hate it - a worthy attempt, if not totally successful, at portraying blood, bleeding and swearing of characters who are not very nice. As Ryan Phillippe voice overs at the end - 'no redemption' so you can leave the theatre comfortable that you have been watching only mocked up violence! "},{"Title":"Bloody women, bloody men","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie deals with- women, make-up, prostitution, in-vitro and regular fertilization, pregnancy, miscarriage, surrogate motherhood, fetus ultra-sound video, labor, birth- men, sperm, money, cars, power, guns, shooting, death Just kidding. Of course the second complex takes up about 80% of the runtime, and most comments here concentrated on that. But like in no other action movie I've seen, the feminine aspect is woven in like a thin red line. Red - blood this is displayed multiple times, of both men (Abner, Jeffers) and women.I see a three-part structure in this film1. Prologue (opening credits) Parker and Longbaugh at the disco. Brawl brews out of nothing, obnoxious woman gets bloody face, at the end P&L lie beaten on the ground.2. The movie itself much blood shed, much going on (check the hundreds of other comments), at the end P&L lie beaten on the ground.3. Epilogue (blended from P&L's last prayer (?), very short) Francesca says I'm pregnant.I found this movie very fascinating. Seeing it twice on the same day enhances the feeling - the second time it feels like home (though not exactly sweet). I can't count the ways it thrilled me, here's just two bits of exciting non-shooting at the end of the car chase, when the security folks' car is crashed; when Abner is interrupted in his six-gun roulette by Joe's phone call.Very highly recommended. (If you can take rude language and violence). "}{"Title":"Does this movie live up to The Usual Suspects? No, but than again what does?","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Does this movie live up to The Usual Suspects? No, but than again what does? Don't expect anything as ingenious as that classic and you'll find yourself enjoying The Way of the Gun. Its not a masterpiece, but its one of the most clever and well-made action films. Its main strength is that it doesn't patronize the audience or treat them as being incapable to handle a more meditative story along the lines of Sam Peckinpah. The film deserves mention for being a more mature action film, one that sympathizes the characters without asking for apologies.Christopher McQuarrie once again shows a skill at writing dialog and proves to be a serviceable director. The main strength of the film however is the ensemble acting. Ryan Phillippe, an actor I had never taken particularly seriously, is surprising as the one of the dumb crooks. Even better is Benicio Del Toro as the other member of the pair. Del Toro is always most entertaining when playing over-the-top and manic characters, such as this, Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas, and Sin City. The crooks are dumb enough to suit the plot but not too unbelievable to hinder its credibility. The film is easily stolen by James Caan as the cop working on the case and Scott Wilson once again proves to be one of the most underrated character actors ever. Juliette Lewis has had an uneven career, but when shes good shes really good. Overall, this isn't a classic but is one of the more refreshing crime thrillers of the decade. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Only the Best Crime- Action Film Ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Academy Award-winning screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie makes his directorial debut with The Way of the Gun, a twisted balls-out crime thriller about two cold-blooded criminals who proceed to get themselves in a situation WAY over their heads, where nothing is as it seems.Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillipe team up as the criminal associates and cross paths with a cesspool of other characters play by James Caan, Juliette Lewis, Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt.The action scenes are amazing and incredibly realistic. Stylish gun play and shoot-outs along with an unconventional car chase make it unlike any crime- action film you've ever seen. McQuarrie hired a navy seal to train the actors and it shows. They way they move when in combat is exciting and realistic.McQuarrie obviously spent a lot of time choreographing the gun battles because the final shoot-out is jaw dropping.The look of the film is also great. Cinematographer Dick Pope used suede filters to shoot through, giving the film a russet, western quality. It takes place out west and in Mexico, and McQuarrie captures this with the colors he uses in everything from the background buildings to the actors wardrobes.As a writer McQuarrie shines by creating dialogue that is smart, cool, and inventive without sounding contrived and clichd. James Caan for instance doesn't have to show you that he is dangerous, you can tell by his phrases and the way he speaks. The voice-over that was written for Phillipe is icing on the cake.Beneath the amazing dialogue, realistic shootouts and intense action scenes Way of the Gun goes in areas that most films in the genre don't even touch upon. By exploring the themes of loyalty, redemption, and justice in an imperfect world, it sets itself far ahead of similar movies.Phillipe goes against type after being seen primarily as a pretty boy, by playing a bearded thug and pulling it off incredibly. Del Toro is wonderful as usual, and James Caan is at his best.From start to finish this movie is as the DVD cover describes it, One hell of a sick twisted thrill ride. It's also the best crime movie ever made. "},{"Title":"lots of potential, no delivery","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  good opening scene, benicio del toro, james caan, christopher mcquarrie's script for the usual suspects making me anticipate that this would be equally stunningmediocre concept, ryan phillipewaste of time juliette lewis, film as a wholefor me, this movie was little more than a disappointment that could have been so much more. for all its plot twists that were never completed or important in the first place are an equal number of characters who remain undeveloped. not wanting to spend the time to write a review for such an underwhelming movie, nor ruin the, shall we say, experience for those who still cling to hope that this will live up to their expectations, i will leave it at thiscome for keizer soze, stay for the, oh wait, no, don't.  "},{"Title":"Gun fires cinematic blank","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hired this movie hoping that I'd picked something new, something different to most of the other movies produced at the time.  I was wrong.The opening scene (with stars Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro starting a fight with a girl and her boyfriend) hints at a funny, anti-social movie in the vein of Fight Club, but unfortunately each subsequent scene fails to deliver.  As the story continues the movie gets more and more boring, yet something compels the viewer to keep watching.  Actors like James Caan and Juliet Lewis seem oddly cast in their roles, and their performances are such that we the viewer don't feel any sympathy or compassion, nay, connection with ANY of them.It's a shame this was director Christopher McQuarrie's feature debut, he'll have to choose a better weapon if he intends to truly do some damage in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film, resonating with great energy and performances...","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christopher Mcquarrie molds a film that is poignant and amazingin its own particular way.  Its a crime caper, its also a characterpiece possessing its own twisted version of humour.  Mcquarrie is a man with a vision and he makes his presenceknown by the fantastic acting and direction that is shown by thisfresh and hip movie.  Ryan Phillipe shows some true acting chopsin this film and Benicio is wonderful again.  Its a tour de force inmany aspects.The film follows to petty thiefs who set out to make some easydough by kidnapping a surrogate woman.  They get more thenthey bargained for when the oil tycoon father sends hisgoons afterthe boys.  It just gets more and more interesting.  Its a movie worthseeing even if your not a huge crime caper fan.  Loads of violencethough.  10/10.  absolutely nothing I didnt like in the movie. "},{"Title":"trite","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this suspense thriller, two small-time crooks make a bid for the big time with disastrous results. Robin (Juliette Lewis) is carrying a child as a surrogate mother for a wealthy couple, Hale and Francesca Chidduck (Scott Wilson and Kristin Lehman). Parker (Ryan Phillippe) and Longbaugh (Benicio Del Toro), who believe that the adoptive parents will pay a large ransom to ensure the safety of both mother and baby, kidnap her. The kidnappers soon discover that they're out of their league when they're confronted by Mafia bagman Joe Sarno (James Caan) and a pair of hired bodyguards, Jeffers (Taye Diggs) and Obecks (Nicky Katt). At the same time, Parker finds himself increasingly attached to Robin.  The Way of the Gun marked the directorial debut of screenwriter Mcquarrie, whose script credits include The Usual Suspects and Public Access. This shoot-'em-up crime drama is a mixed bag that alternates flashes of character insights, witty dialogue, and absorbing plot twists with an intangible been there, done that quality.  The Way of the Gun bears all the hallmarks of the Generation-X indie-film scene,  la the Quentin Tarantino school of filmmaking. These aspects include intelligent casting that pits hot up-and-comers like Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe against industry vets like James Caan, a smattering of unexpectedly graphic violence, taut action sequences, an unhappy ending straight out of the anti-hero films of the 1970s, and hip references to cinematic touchstones like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969). Unfortunately, it all feels overly programmed and calculated, perhaps because these projects have become too familiar. Tarantino's ironic, retro aesthetic was a breath of fresh air in the early '90s, but much to this film's detriment, the parameters and style of the genre have become trite, particularly if a film is - like The Way of the Gun - all style and no substance.   "},{"Title":"Surprise not just meaningless banging","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really thought that I have to look a film with lot of and even more just meaningless shooting. But no no no well of course there was also banging but not too much. The movie really surprised me by having a good storyline. Not waste of time at all! Great acting by Benicio Del Toro and Juliette Lewis and also James Caan is good but somehow he just seems to be himself... "},{"Title":"Not for the faint of heart","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A decent, but not great, kidnapping movie. The script is a bit too unbelievable and they try to keep you guessing. It's held together by some decent star power...James Caan, Benicio Del Toro, Juliette Lewis. I did have a bit of a problem believing Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt as two hardcore professional bodyguards. Ryan Phillippe played his part well, but it was still a little hard to picture him as a badass. There's an extreme amount of violence and not for the faint of heart. If you can take it, it's not a bad diversion on for a Sunday evening. **1/2 (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"Has it's moments","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has it's ups and downs. I would say it is just above average, not much more. Has some good shootout scenes and I liked some of the ideas the movie brought to the table but when it ended it didn't really leave me with anything, as it tries to do. I gave it a 6/10.   "},{"Title":"Great,a pulp fiction kind of movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was great!! I rent the movie because Ryan Phillippe is playing in it,but I never heard of it before.                                Smart dialogues,smart action and great actors gives the movie specific atmosphere. Don`t miss it!!! "}{"Title":"A bang! bang! and blah! blah! movie","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is a lot of bang! bang! and a lot of blah! blah!It goes like this1. bang! bang!2. blah! blah!3. bang! bang!4. blah! blah!5. bang! bang! bang!6. blah.Therefore it has more bang than blah. "},{"Title":"Great flick, mostly because it's not your average Hollywood film.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of most interesting films I will ever own on DVD, Benicio Del Toro's performance alone lights the screen up, he's cool, his portrayal of Longbaugh is picture-perfect in how he carries the part off and is probably one of the best actors in Hollywood.The plot again, is odd and intruiging especially how it unfolds, you have your bad guys and your bad guys who'd make an SS trooper squeamish, it's all about the dregs of society, something most people don't appreciate, because in Hollywood, you always have to have a good guy in the crew, fat F^#$ing chance of that here.The gunfights are excellent and the guns rock, Colt M1911s are a favourite of mine that I find are not used enough in movies, Desert Eagles and Berettas are seen much too often I find.This film is not for everyone, but for those of you who enjoy the more off-kilt and 'thinking' films, go rent it, buy it and recommend it to all your screwball friends) "},{"Title":"Let's talk about bad","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a migrane inducing mess from start to finish. It's way to long, all the actors are wasted and it doesn't make one bit of sense the whole way through. The best way to sum up this movie comes from a line right out of the movie  I don't think this is a brains kinda operation. The only part worth watching is the 15 minute shoot out that closes the movie. The rest is mind numbing stupidity. Nothing that happenes in this movie is ever explained and a child birth scene hits an all new low. It's violent, it's gory, it's to long, it's boring, it's confusing and it's an all together huge waste of time. Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"The gun's the only way, more like.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With a title like The Way of the Gun, I was expecting something a little mystical, about the spiritual side of shooting people, since the structure of the title reminds me of Kung Fu classics like Enter the Dragon.  This movie ended up less spiritual, and more gunny, as far as I was concerned.A couple of drifters, pretty-boy Ryan Phillipe, and sleepy-eyed Benicio del Toro, decide to kidnap the surrogate mother of a wealthy gangster's unborn baby, after overhearing a conversation at a sperm bank.  Now as soon as you start messing with nasty types, you can guarantee to end up in a spot of bother.  But as the kidnap develops, it's the gangsters who discover a bit more about themselves.  Suffice to say it does end in tears.The opening sequence of this movie, in which the kidnap takes place, is absolutely fantastic, edge of the seat stuff, well shot, with some novel touches.  However, from then on the movie sinks into a mush of psuedo-philosophical mutterings from the protagonists, which writer/director Christopher McQuarrie clearly intended as a dissertation on the human/criminal condition.  However, it ends up as men with guns saying long words which don't really take the story anywhere.  To his credit, he has added a number of individually gruesome scenes and touches, for example a man sewing his own cut eyebrow back together, and a ceasarian section in the middle of a gunfight.  The finale is quite spectacular, but how do people in the movies manage to hide so much ammo in their clothing, and avoid so many bullets?All in all, an average thriller, that benefits from a fine opening, and a generally stylish execution. "},{"Title":"A contemporary, noir, spaghetti western","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Too clever for it's own good, 'The Way of the Gun' plumps up its thin plot with constant twists that often don't make sense and more frequently are illogical.  It is a modern day spaghetti western except that it lacks a 'good guy'.  None in its large cast is in the least sympathetic.  One frequently wonders whether it is intended as a Tarantino-style thriller or an over-the-top, very black and violent comedy, but if it's the former, it is humorless.  It is very stylish and atmospheric which is where it's most successful, and for its many inspired moments, it is worthwhile viewing. "},{"Title":"This was NOT The Usual Suspects","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was average. Benicio Del Toro was good, which I expected, the script was good, which I expected, and the visuals were good, which I didn't expect from first time director Christopher McQuarrie. But it's impossible to write two films the caliber of The Usual Suspects.I didn't like Ryan Phillipe, or his narrating, I didn't like Taye Diggs or his partner, and I especially didn't like James Caan. Worst of all though was the shootout scenes. I've never wanted to see someone get stabbed or thrown off a cliff more. The shootout scenes made my head want to explode. It seemed like throughout the whole movie, the volume of the dialogue was turned down, and the volume of the gunshots were turned up. That was the worst part.The film was decent overall though. Christopher McQuarrie managed to make a fairly original script which is a major accomplishment for anyone, but once again, this film is not The Usual Suspects. It doesn't come close. I'd give it a six out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Stay away from this one!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This if the film that marks the debut of screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie as director. Although he has showed some competence as writer with The Usual Suspects, his job as filmmaker is disastrous. What could be an efficient and original suspense turned out to be a mediocre and disgusting picture filled with gratuitous and brutal scenes that pops up at the screen without any apparent reason. Simply put the performances as the worst ones you'll ever see in your life, with the exception of James Caan. The confused storyline tries to blend drama, comedy, violence and action following the Quentin Tarantino formula by the book but fails miserably. Stay away from this stinker. "},{"Title":"Way too complicated","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had high expectations for Way of the Gun, but I was really let down.  After a very promising opening where the viewer encounters a borage of the F word.  I applaud Christopher McQuarrie (The Usual Suspects) for his brilliant combinations of the F word.  After the promising first 20 minutes the movie trailed off, Way off.  The Way of the Gun is Christopher McQuarrie's first directing job, he gained fame after penning The Usual Suspects.  Now while Way of the Gun is witty and intelligent it is far to complicated for its own good.  A much more simple plot would have worked wonders.  It doesn't have the same twists as Usual Suspects, but tries and fails at the end to have some sort of twist I saw coming a mile away.There are pretty cool shoot outs, especially the one at the end with the old guys in the Member's Only jackets, watch for the shotgun blast to the crotch! OUCH!  Far too many characters and too much plot for the viewer to keep up with or even care what's going on after a while.  There was a faint glare of a good movie in The Way of the Gun, but it soon fades into a plotty, wordy, and boring flick.  Over all I gave Way of the Gun a 7/10, but thats cause I thought the beginning and the shoot out at the end were hilarious.  Don't set your expectations too high and don't expect to see The Usual Suspects, but if you bore easy....I'd advise you to stay away.  "},{"Title":"Best shoot out 2000","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If anyone didn't like this film and liked the Matrix then you've probably never noticed things such as plot in a film. This film is class, not perfect, but the shoot outs were fast, damn fast. The matrix should learn that shoot outs aren't slow and action films should be fast. This is real action. "},{"Title":"LONG LIVE THE WESTERN ??","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, well this turned out to be a pleasant surprise. One of the best contemporary Westerns in years. Complicated characters that blur the edges between good/bad, gives the audience the respect it deserves. Del Torro is an underrated talent, perfect for darker roles. And whilst McQuarrie doesn't quite repeat The Usual Suspects, that would be asking a lot of debutant director.  "}{"Title":"Wow! This movie is....zzzzzzzzzzzzzz.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christopher McQuarrie returns to the screen from his Oscar win for THE USUAL SUSPECTS.  His new film WAY OF THE GUN is a hip and stylish thriller that has a mix of a Taratino/Rodregiuz film, and a flavor of a spaghetti western.  There is a great opening and closing for the film that is fun and exciting!  That's about 20 minutes of this almost two hour film, so the viewer has to sit through nintey minutes of a film that is as exciting as a drive through the desert. Parker (Ryan Phillippe) and Longbaugh (Benicio Del Toro) are two thugs who are looking to make some quick cash.  They are even willing to go to a sperm bank.  While at the bank, they overhear a deal that a young woman who doesn't want her baby, and is going to sell the infant to a rich couple who cannot have a child.  Parker and Longbaugh decide to kidnap the pregnant woman, Robin (Juliette Lewis) and hold her and the unborn infant for ransom. The wealthy couple could care less about Robin, but they do care about the child, so they send two of their bodyguards (Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt) to get the young woman back.  However, Parker and Longbaugh are much smarter than everyone thought, so the millionare oil tycoon hires a bagman/cleaner Joe Sarno (James Caan) and Joe hires a associate (Gefforey Lewis) to get the woman and child back.  So the two thugs decide to drive south to Mexico in order to avoid bodyguards, hitmen, and the police to get their money. The opening of this film has so much energy.  I was highly entertained and was beginning to enjoy this film.  Then when the characters were traveling south, it began to drag.  It draged so much that I almost feel asleep.  I was then beginning to hate the movie, until the climax which did pick up the film a bit, and made it exciting again. The flaw is that McQuarrie isn't trying something original like his USUAL SUSPECTS, but he's trying to be like Quentin Taratino and Robert Rodreguiz.  By having hip men carrying guns in the southwest and with lots and lots and lots and lots of dialogue, it's obvious who McQuarrie was trying to be like.  However, Taratino and Rodreguiz at least make the character's dialogue and discussions intresting.  Weither it's about royale with cheese or a barroom massacre at least it does grab the viewers attention and it has something that the viewer can relate to.  But how many viewers can relate to the life of a hitman?  Not many, so it's like hearing two mechanics or two doctors discuss thier job.  They might find it fascinating and intrigued, the viewer is wondering what time it is, how many people are in the theater, or where's that cute girl he saw when he was getting popcorn. The acting, well....if I said it once, I'll say it again, Ryan Phillippe can NOT act.  I was willing to give this film a chance....nope! He failed again!  I was hoping to see that rubber chicken that is suppose to replace the Phillippe character, the chicken would have been more emotional and convincing (sorry Reese).  And Juliette Lewis, can not act that well, unless she's 1.)a psycho (NATURAL BORN KILLERS)  2.)a dingbell (CAPE FEAR) or 3.)both (KALFORNIA).  So McQuarrie tries to have these two carry the film.  Instead they drop the film less than five minutes into their scenes. So who's good? Everyone else, Del Toro, Caan, Diggs, Katt, and Lewis. Benicio Del Toro deserves more credit than he is getting. I liked him in USUAL SUSPECTS, THE FAN, MONEY FOR NOTHING, and FEARLESS and I've heard excellent word that his acting in the upcoming TRAFFIC is phenomenal.  But I loved his role the most in FEAR & LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS, he was both funny and scary as the drugged-up attorney.  In GUN he is fun to watch, his character is calm, cool, and a bad ass like Mel Gibson in PAYBACK.  Both Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt are also enjoyable as the tough, but not too bright bodyguards.  They do manage to do a couple of humorous scenes.  Caan is good, but it's nothing special.  I did enjoy seeing Clint Eastwood films regular Gefforey Lewis again.  He manages to pull off some funny scenes himself as the sucidal associate of Caan's character. But it's the film's pacing and two of the three leads that ruin the film.  It's like eating a well cooked dinner, with spoiled or rotten sauce poured on it.  It just didn't make the film good or reccomendable.  I really wanted to like this film, but by the ending credits I couldn't.  One more note  along with THE CELL , WAY OF THE GUN does have some pretty graphic and disturbing scenes that would make one's stomach twist and turn in sickness.  Why are these director's making graphic ways for people to die? Why don't they show a character's head get blown off, (i.e. DAWN OF THE DEAD) if they are trying to shock people do something like that.  But then again, that doesn't make a pretty sight either.  **1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Movie draws few conclusions but entertaining","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had great moments but the plot was all over the place. Certainly some hidden genius, sometimes hidden to deep.  May have been better if they had concentrated more on character development instead of leaving the viewer to constantly try to fill in the holes.  Usual Suspects let the viewer take some license with their interpretation, but in some parts this film asks the viewer to drive this movie wherever they want it to go.  Overall entertaining and comedic, like a choose your own adventure story. "},{"Title":"This Gun Shoots Blanks","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ryan Phillippe isn't a very good actor, especially in this movie. He's completely and totally miscast in his role...now maybe that's not his fault, after all, they do have casting directors who are supposed to determine who is right for what roles, but you still can't let Phillippe off the hook for thinking he could play a part like this...He spends most of the movie using some sort of weird voice, it almost sounds like he's trying to channel vintage Pacino or something. Whatever it is, it doesn't work and he sounds like a moron.Now, I can buy Benecio Del Toro as a badass. He's greasy. He's tired-looking. He doesn't say much. But, he's also not very interesting. Just because you're a badass doesn't mean you're very much fun to watch and he certainly isn't.Also, someone needs to tell James Caan it's not 1972 anymore. He just shouldn't play a badass these days. It just looks ridiculous...I know he says something in the movie about how even though he's an old man, that just proves he's a survivor...or some crap like that, but, to me, it just seems like he's making excuses for looking like a nonthreatening old fart and hopes that by saying something like that he might con (or is it Caan?) a few people into still thinking he's tough.The only part of this movie worth watching is at the very beginning where Sarah Silverman gets punched in the face for being a mouthy rag. It's all downhill after that. "},{"Title":"Violent, exhilarating, and maybe too smart for it's own good. An underrated masterpiece.","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Way of the Gun is one of the most underrated films I've ever seen, and is one of my personal favorites. It was ignored in theaters, and the reviews were divided between those who thought it was a masterpiece, and those who found it to be a slow, pretentious bore. I'm proudly in the former group. This film is written by the same man who wrote The Usual Suspects (who makes his directorial debut here), and though the straight-forward narrative is a big departure from that film, it is just as good. Fantastic dialogue, strong characters who are developed by the actors expressions rather than pointless exposition, and a storyline that doesn't in any way insult the viewer's intelligence. It also happens to be one hell of a good action flick.The film follows two drifters known only as Parker (Ryan Phillipe) and Longbaugh (Benicio Del Toro) who live life on the road, supporting themselves through petty crime. One day, they stumble upon an opportunity to score big money fast. A woman, Robin (Juliette Lewis) is being paid one million dollars to act as a surrogate mother for a wealthy businessman and his wife and is nearly due. Acting too quickly and without the necessary information about who exactly they're crossing, Parker and Longbaugh kidnap Robin in a hail of gunfire, evading her two shady bodyguards (Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt). They realize too late that the intended father of the unborn baby is a money launderer for some very bad people and can't pay the unreasonably high ransom without putting his own life at serious risk at the hands of his employers. The man dispatches his designated problem solver (James Caan) to clear up the situation as neatly as possible. However, the secret loyalties, and the hidden, often sinister motivations of everyone involved quickly sends things spinning violently out of control.Way of the Gun opens with a bang and continues for an action-packed twenty minutes before slowing down and taking time to focus on the characters and the plot. The middle hour of the film is what lost many viewers. This section of the movie is very quiet and subtle, revealing many deep character traits in the least-contrived manner you'll see in an action film. The dialogue is incredibly realistic, and in no way dumbed down to explain things clearly. The characters know what they're talking about, and they actually communicate with other characters as opposed to the audience, which gives the film an often voyeuristic feel. The viewer absolutely must pay attention to everything said in the film or they will be completely lost as to what is happening and why. Many plot twists occur. Aside from Parker and Longbaugh, nobody is who they appear to be, and everything is far more complex than it appears on the surface. The final, and possibly strongest act of the film is where things really speed up, and the film becomes in exercise in pure mayhem. Bullets fly in all directions, loudly and frequently and the blood flows freely. The gun battles in this section are among the biggest highlights of the film. They are loud enough that you could put the film on mute and still probably hear the shots clearly, and the choreography is fantastic. Unlike most action films, this movie doesn't over-stylize it's action sequences. There is no slow motion or MTV-style editing. The action is as realistic as any film I've seen in recent memory. Also, if you can't stand the sight of blood, DO NOT see this film. The third act is about as violent and bloody as a film can be without being slapped with an NC-17 rating. Standout scenes include a gory, wince-inducing moment involving broken glass, and a horrific field surgery sequence that takes place in the middle of the seemingly endless hails of gunfire. This isn't cool, Tarantino-style violence. The violence here is gritty, brutal, and in-your-face.The cast does a wonderful job at bringing the script to life. Since most of the dialogue is plot-related, the characters true personalities are brought out by their subtle actions. Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Toro give their characters, who have little background info, flawless chemistry. They communicate with their looks more often than their words. Taye Diggs gives his character the perfect amount of coldness, and James Caan stands out as a man who emotionally speaking, secretly has more at stake than anyone else in the story and his character is probably the most interesting out of all of them.Way of the Gun will divide viewers, and one has to pay close attention to catch everything. When people aren't getting killed left and right, the film becomes slow-paced on a level that many will find maddening. However, those looking for something that won't insult their intelligence will find everything they could possibly want in a crime picture. I found this to be a truly exhilarating experience, and one that any fan of film should check out. 10/10.Way of the Gun is rated R for strong violence/gore, language, and some sexuality. Sex - 4/10 Violence - 10/10 Swearing - 10/10 Drugs - 3/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are many different ways to tell a story. Some movies you could hit the mute button and completely follow the story like City of God. On the other end of that spectrum is The way of the Gun which is dialog driven, other directors would probably use visual cues to explain many of the subtle plot points of this movie whereas McQuarrie uses the spoken word. This is a great example of how you use language to move a story along. The characters in this movie are all very developed even though you probably won't realize the depths of each character on the initial viewing. Its one of those movies that you enjoy the first time and fully understand on subsequent viewings. Its in my top 20 because of purposeful dialog, interesting characters, suspense and one of the most original opening scenes ever seen on film. "},{"Title":"At least they tried","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The reason why this has been no commercial success is easy to tell there are absolutely no likable characters in this film.The two main anti-heroes are basically the real life versions of Beavis and Butthead, the way they cringe in the dirt after being beaten up at the beginning is just too obvious a reference. Even the hairstyles match. Kids, being losers with no future can really propel you on a career path as portrayed in this little film. However, thats offset by the even more repellent ways of their opponents.For a Hollywood action film, this is not too bad. The rating falls off when compared to the standards of the action genre which are almost completely non-Hollywood however.The plot is nothing too fanciful. Viewers paying attention can get the essential clues easily early on, leaving them with no plot twist at all to look forward to. However, for the normally totally predictable and plot less US-American fare even a tiny bit of story as in this film is a very welcome change. Humour or a even a lighthearted moment to allow the audience an emotional break are sorely missing. Or maybe the characters are really supposed to be that uncool? The gun action is done in quite a realistic manner, but filmed somewhat deficiently. The film looks like it could have used at least an extra camera on the set to have some different angles and closeups.At least they tried to make an interesting actioner, and in todays creative dearth thats quite something. Still the result could easily have been much better with more attention to the technical aspects and script. "},{"Title":"Great gunfight - anemic plot","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chris McQuarrie serves up yet another contorted plot wrapped up in some fast paced dialog. Two aimless men get involved in a plot involving a pregnant woman, a gangster, and a whole lot of money.Unfortunately, as both writer and director (and no doubt riding high on the success of The Usual Suspects) Chris McQuarrie had no one to tell him this whole thing was a bad idea. The dialog in this movie sounds clever, but only if you're not paying too much attention.Fifteen million dollars is not money. It's a motive with a universal adapter on it. That is but one example of the B-movie, tough guy dialog you are likely to encounter in this.One of the DVD extras shows Mr. McQuarrie insisting that Juliette Lewis fire a gun so that they could capture the sound of a woman firing a shotgun. And therein lies the problem, I think. He was so conscious of playing every trick in the book, both director's and writer's, that he forgot to actually direct and write this thing.Here's a hint for you Mr. McQuarrie A real director gets good performances out of his actors and a real writer gives them something to work with. Quit playing with your toys and get back to work, because we all know you are capable of some phenomenal stuff.P.S. The good news is that the gunfight at the end is one of the best committed to film. There is no Rambo-esquire bravado or cinematic, but unrealistic, tossing of empty magazines into the dirt. For this gunfight alone it is worth plodding through the rest of the movie. Or better yet, just take advantage of the DVD's chapter selection option. "},{"Title":"Violent, Nonsensical, Moronic...etc.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS This is one of the most disappointing movies I have ever seen.  It is very similar to Freeway in many respects  piss-poor acting, awful writing, and attempts to distract from this with brutal violence and constant profanity. The Usual Suspects was a masterpiece, but it is apparent that this was the doing of director Bryan Singer and the actors in that movie rather than writer Christopher McQuarrie.  The opening of this picture (involving the foul-mouthed parking lot lady) was one of the worst excuses for character development/introduction in cinema.  Our two heroes just get beat up.  Wow. McQuarrie has to know that developing deep, interesting characters goes beyond silly fight scenes and talking dirty to a sperm bank guy.  The acting is atrocious.  Ryan Phillipe tries to act like a tough guy, even using some kind of accent, but is still just a pretty boy bad actor.  Benicio Del Toro is pathetic.  Watching him walk around with that bored, sleeping look on his face (even during gunplay scenes) makes you wonder how the hell he won an Oscar.  Juliette Lewis is loud and annoying.  To top it all off, McQuarrie resorts to absurd levels of blood and violence in some vain attempt to channel Tarantino (note to Chris  get good characters and a plot, THEN add guns/violence.)  Watching Lewis bleed all over the place while having a C-section performed on her in a disgusting Mexican hotel does not qualify as entertainment.  Seeing liters of blood pour out of Taye Diggs' neck after being shot for some reason by some poorly developed character (and AWFUL actor) is not what I consider good film.  The plot is just poppycock.  It makes no sense, and by the time all the twists started happening, I barely payed enough attention to know what was going on.  The characters are all so dumb and unlikeable,  I just gave up on trying to understand the utter crap that I was witnessing.  The insane wife character was kind of funny, but that is little solace for the two+ hours I spent watching this turkey. Just Awful.  2/10 "},{"Title":"Oh________My________God","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What exactly was the point of the first scene? I thought I was watching Fight Club again. I like an adventure movie. And I like a compelling story. However, about every two years a movie comes along that has the great story (and good storytelling) but goes WAY over the top in what I consider sensible use of graphic detail Fight Club, Kalifornia and Natural Born Killers just to name a few. I got enough violence and blood and gore to make Scarface look like a day at Disneyland. The point? Not sure. Anywho, I liked the premise of bad guys v. bad guys, but it was all just too bad. What was the deal at the hotel? They had agreed to leave, she shot at them and they decided to stay? WTF??!!8 of 10 for the screenplay and direction. 3 of 10 for watchability.  "},{"Title":"guns & cars and more guns & cars","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Guns and cars and guns and cars and cars and guns and guns and guns and cars and cars and guns.  An internally logical plot?  Forget it.  Dialogue spoken by characters who might be real humans?  Forget it.  Anything to lead a viewer to want to suspend disbelief?  Forget it.  As for characters... we get foolish, sadistic, personality-free sociopaths. Anyone sympathetic? Forget it.  The only person who comes out of this mess alive (aesthetically speaking) is James Caan, but that alone is not reason enough to spend your valuable time or money.  This is the sort of movie where the viewer wishes that the main characters would all get killed off quickly so the movie can end and the viewer can get back to cleaning the bathroom.  Alas, the characters take a long long time to die.  "}{"Title":"'Way of the Gun' Gets Bad Directions","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though Christopher McQuarrie can boast that he wrote one of the best crime films of the 90's with The Usual Suspects, he might want to refrain from mentioning he both directed and wrote this film.  The Way of the Gun is a thoroughly plodding, bumpy, uneven ride into the crime film genre that effectively confuses and makes little use of it's cast formidable acting talent.It's funny how an obviously detail-oriented writer like McQuarrie could offer up such a convoluted plot two petty criminals (Del Toro and Phillipe) kidnap a very pregnant surrogate mother (Juliette Lewis) to a criminal couple whose two hired guns (Diggs and Nicky Katt) care about their job so much they'd rather die than lose.  Also in the foray are  James Caan as the couple's other, older, wiser hired gun, and the father's brow-beaten son (Dylan Kussman), both of who have ulterior motives for their involvement with Lewis.  Or something.  Suffice to say, the plot's reminiscent of the Coen brothers without the dark humor or clarity.Though the movie starts with a crackling scene of humor, tension, and violence between Del Toro and Phillipe and a loud-mouthed girl, that's about as amusing as the whole film gets.  What it promises in the first scene never really resurfaces in the entire film.  There's little wit to this tale that offers up some splashy shootouts, but little else. As the pair of inept criminals, Del Toro and Phillipe lack the chemistry necessary to be a threatening presence.  When they're alone on screen, they shine, but once they try to seem as a potent pair, their intensity dwindles.  James Caan also seems misused here, attempting to offer originality in a role recycled from so many other crime films a veteran of the game who knows its tricks inside out and attempts to be philosophical.  Doesn't McQuarrie know this has been done much better in other movies and to death overall?  Lewis is believable as the pregnant girl stuck in the middle of the debacle, and as the determined bodyguard, Diggs probably turns in the best performance, yet it, too, is bogged down by a meaningless scene of intimacy with the wife of the aforementioned couple.With Way of The Gun, McQuarrie has served up an array of forgettable, unlikeable, and unredeemable characters in a bloated, unfocused script.  In the final moments of the flick, Phillipe's character sighs in a bored tone, We don't ask for forgiveness. I hope McQuarrie, however, does. 5 out of 10            "},{"Title":"Sloppy, unprofessional mess","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps I should state, as a disclaimer, that I wasn't a huge fan of The Usual Suspects, which Christopher McQuarrie wrote and received an Academy Award for. Now, McQuarrie steps up to the plate, not only writing, but also directing this film, The Way of the Gun. The previews for this movie make it look like fairly fluffy entertainment. The combination of pop songs with the funniest-looking bits from the film make it appear to be a buddy pic/action-comedy. The Way of the Gun, however, is actually one of the darkest, most joyless crime films I've seen in a long time. (The misleading nature of the preview is clear from the one scene that usually caps it off. Ryan Phillipe, running across a courtyard somewhere in Mexico, fires his shotgun and then runs for a fountain - on top of which is a huge bag of money. The preview then blacks out, and he is heard screaming. The assumption is that he simply hurt himself because he's an uncoordinated fool. Typical action slapstick. In fact, the only reason he's screaming is because the bagmen he and his partner are shooting it out with have filled the inside of the empty fountain with piles of broken glass. Not really very funny.) I won't go into the plot in much detail, since anyone who's seen the preview has a pretty good idea of what goes down in the film. The biggest problem with this film is that there's a comedy inside it that seems to want to get out. The situations are ludicrous enough, so why can't writer/director McQuarrie let us laugh at them occasionally? The actors all do their best with the material - James Caan and Benicio Del Toro are both very good, and even Ryan Phillipe, who hasn't proved himself as an actor yet, isn't too bad - but for most of the film they are given no credible dialogue, and their characters are all woefully underdeveloped. There are a lot of movies running around in McQuarrie's head - Del Toro and Phillipe's characters, Longbaugh and Parker, have the same last names as the real Cassidy and Sundance, for example - but he can't seem to synthesize them, or even make anything interesting of them. Here's an example of what a mess this film is BOOM MIKES ARE VISIBLE IN FOUR DIFFERENT SCENES! I saw The Way of the Gun on opening weekend, so these shots will probably be edited out by the time it makes its way to video, but still, nothing destroys a film's credibility faster than visible boom mikes. It's not even that the mikes are barely visible. At some points they hang down so far past the frame line that the entire boom is visible. Their movement from character to character can even be seen sometimes! Once, the boom appears from the left and seems to be an additional character, since it sticks around long enough for us to learn what it looks like and how it works. What were the editors thinking? All in all, a very weak film. "},{"Title":"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid in the Red and without Charm","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Foul-mouthed metrosexuals (at the very least) Ryan Phillippe and Benicio Del Toro can't find work in Los Angeles. Despite their sharp haircuts, they are street thugs. So, they kidnap a very pregnant Juliette Lewis for ransom money. As luck would have it, Ms. Lewis turns out to be the surrogate mother for a very wealthy gangster. Mr. Phillippe and Mr. Del Toro ask for 15 million dollars in unmarked bills (they're new at this). Things get complicated when Lewis reveals a shocking secret about the baby. Doctor Dylan Kussman provides some plot intrigue and stiff-necked James Caan takes care of unpleasantries. Writer turning director Christopher McQuarrie mixes shoot-out and child labor blood with vociferous ads for the Coca-Cola company.*** The Way of the Gun (9/8/00) Christopher McQuarrie ~ Ryan Phillippe, Benicio Del Toro, Juliette Lewis, James Caan "},{"Title":"I couldn't even watch the whole film","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have got to be honest here, I wasn't even able to watch the first half of the movie. I can tell you that what I did see was awful enough to make me turn it off however. What kind of a movie was this supposed to be anyway? Is it a thriller, a mystery, or what?? The opening scene, complete with Sara Silverman and some white guy with a huge red afro, is comical (not in a good way I might add) to the point where you think a comedy is going to unfold. The dialog in the upcoming scenes, is a confused mess of pointless exchanges between characters that you has no bearing on the actual plot of the movie. I heartily congratulate anyone with thick enough skin to get past the first 30 minutes of this film. "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at home.  And your body at home.  And this movie at the shop.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I began writing this missive with a notion that I would try hard to be objective and constructively critical. However, I spotted the score the movie has received so far and realised that people need to be warned. I will try to be as concise as possible but there is so much to vent. This is the single most empty, plot-starved and tedious movie I have ever had the misfortune to sit through. Sporting what appears to be an excellent cast and some incredible (horrifically undeserved) reviews, Way of the Gun promised to be a unique, anti-Hollywood offering that would provide a bit of originality, flair and, dare I say it, entertainment.No, I daren't say it because it offered none of these. Centring vaguely on the misadventures of two would-be kidnappers (Phillippe and Del Toro &#150; what were they thinking? Excess Baggage looks like a masterpiece in comparison) the film deteriorates into a messy attempt at an ensemble piece. One-dimensional characters turn up constantly to water down the already meagre plot whilst simultaneously yanking the viewer's attention from any palpable thread of interest that the main kidnapping theme offers.We are shown from the word go via a punch-up between some vociferous girls and our vicious antiheroes that these two guys are rough and ready and not to be messed with. We're also reliably informed via a sparse narration from Ryan Phillippe that they mysteriously opted out of life. This is as deep as any semblance of characterisation in the film dares to go.A stale bilge of clichs ensues crowned by a tepid portrayal of a dangerous oddball hit-man played grudgingly by James Caan with a stiff neck, presumably an injury incurred by splinters from the prolific abundance of wooden acting.Shamefully referencing Heat's first confrontation between Pacino and DeNiro, Way of the Gun offers us a tired meeting between Del Toro and Caan over a drink where they bond because they both did time once and looked down on their fellow inmates. A bit. They then go their separate ways leaving little doubt as to how their next meeting will conclude.Christopher McQuarrie parades a host of noxious and exhausting seen-a-million-times dialogues that a first year film student would be marginally pleased about having scribbled on the back of a cigarette packet during a particularly dull lecture.Taye Diggs (an otherwise very talented actor) obviously learnt much from his portrayal of a man deprived of the ability to display emotion in Equilibrium, since he reproduces the same qualities here with even less gusto.Benicio Del Toro (an actor who has repeatedly proved his excellence in character study) struggles to depict a personality so steeped in stereotype that a chalked out corpse-frame would provide more intrigue and depth.Ryan Phillippe's speech/confession about praying every night before he sleeps is so chronically bogus as to be dizzyingly vomit inducing. Juliette Lewis does her best as the pregnant kidnapped woman and adds the required level of discomfort to the birth-goes-bad scene.There is no pace to any of the scenes, no characters fleshed out enough to be empathised with, no stakes on which events rest, and no interest to be gained from the results of any of the characters' actions.The gunfight is bland, the reviews promise many, and explosions too. There aren't. Try Open Range if you want to see a brilliantly filmed and choreographed gunfight, with an awesome build of tension and electricity. And I hate Kevin Costner . . .You are guaranteed the dullest, lamest and frankly worst car chase in the history of cinema. Whether this is reactionary, budgetary or simply due to callousness on behalf of the filmmakers in denying the audience every single possibility of hope for a second of worthy entertainment is irrelevant. It makes you actually want to go and watch a Michael Bay movie. Which is not a good thing.The music is seemingly random in intensity. One particular treat involves a rather mundane discussion between a few characters sat around desperately grinding the plot, such as it is, along, and the soundtrack is building to a level of tension that is stopped dead in its tracks as we cut to a new completely sequence, related only to the previous by its equivalent level of tedium.I think the main flaw, if one can be chosen out of so many, is that the film tries to do too much whilst actually achieving so little. Perhaps if we were allowed to meet and get along with the main characters without every single walk-on part having to have an angle, even down to the middle to old age hit men in the final shoot-out, we could enjoy the movie for the simple kidnapping caper that it is. But with the tawdry wrap-around of pretentious self-indulgent dialogue and need to ascribe painfully transparent individuality to each scene, event and character we are denied any spirit or heart to connect with.Kudos and therefore the extra star go to a film that causes me to rant and vent so vehemently.Plus, I've shot myself in the foot now because you'll probably want to see how awful a film can be anyway. "},{"Title":"It must be a faulty one.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is a motion picture far too heavy on style and less so on substance. Obviously inspired by the post-modern rampage of Quentin Tarantino, the director and screenwriter, Christopher McQuarrie, is much more interested in blood and guts than relying on his own story to carry the picture. I like action movies and The Way of the Gun bored me from beginning to end. I also like when action films happen to pick up the characteristics of generally smarter movies. I saw, heard, and felt no wit while watching The Way of the Gun. What a mess.The movie is raw and brutal and contains a fair emount of fierce energy, but to what good measure? Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe play the typically inept criminals who manage to kidnap a surrogate mother (Juliette Lewis) and more or less hold her for ransom. They travel past the border into Mexico where all hell breaks loose. The pregnant woman's child belongs to a powerful crime lord who is eager to have his child returned to him. Enter James Caan in a suitably uncomfortable role as the laundry man who tries to return the woman. The problem is that she doesn't want to be rescued. Many gritty Mexican shoot-outs follow. The movie obviously takes some inspiration from John Ford's The Searchers and Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver with its reluctant heroine subplot. In The Searchers the point that the girl didn't want to be saved from the ruthless Indians was less subtle than in Taxi Driver, which delivered the message more powerfully but yet equaled the other film's greatness (if not surpassed it). Jodie Foster, as Iris, didn't really want Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro) to free her. Lewis does not want to be liberated in The Way of the Gun because she realizes what shall become of her child if she were to return home. This is an amusing moral dilemma but is not very convincing. Lewis once again overplays the screwball nature of her character, inadvertantly creating a strange hybrid of greed and unsatisfying ambiguity.That's probably one of the biggest faults of the movie. We don't give much of a hoot for any of the characters in The Way of the Gun. Benicio Del Toro literally stumbles his way through the scenes with a spaced-out look on his face, as usual, but at least in The Usual Suspects his character had some dialogue and came off, at the bare minimum, as an interesting individual. He's a very good actor but he needs to start expanding his reaches a bit more -- I have yet to see him play a character who looks like he is NOT on drugs.Phillippe did not impress me with Cruel Intentions and he unfortunately did not impress me in The Way of the Gun. The poor casting on his part is another one of the film's major miscalculations. Who in the world thought this kid could act?Prior to crafting The Way of the Gun McQuarrie penned the script for The Usual Suspects, which was clever because it knew how to juggle an engaging and mysterious story with overly-competent direction by Bryan Singer (X-Men). Had Singer directed The Way of the Gun, the result might have been a much better movie. Had some serious casting changes been made and some revisions to the screenplay, I am convinced that this could have been a great motion picture. It just needed a few vital ingredients, most notably more likable and believable characters and less tired situations involving the same-old. What a waste of space. "},{"Title":"Cult movie style, well acted and with pithy one-liners","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's nothing like a good gangster movie, enlivened by a few genuinely funny and pithy one-liners. Add to that an original storyline twist (surrogate mother kidnapped to get parents, who turn out to be gangsters too, to pay up) and you have Way of the Gun. At least I thought so. My friend fell asleep and declared it nothing special, which somehow took some of the wind out of my sails. As with similar cult movies (Blood Simple, True Romance, come to mind), part of the enjoyment can be the hype and sharing the joke. Having said that, Way of the Gun contained plenty of fine performances and seemed very well cast. When it crosses into Mexico it is almost a modern-day western. "},{"Title":"A Very Derivative Film","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you've seen Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn, Playing God, Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead, or any of the multitude of Tarantino rip-off films that glutted the market after Pulp Fiction in 1994, then you've seen The Way of the Gun.  The climax even occurs in that most clich of violent hipster heist film settings - a brothel in Mexico.  Christopher McQuarrie, who wrote and directed the film, was responsible for writing The Usual Suspects, one of the more successful Tarantino wannabes, and he tries to cram The Way of the Gun with serpentine relationships that really don't pay off with any surprises.  The film is entertaining enough in its own slight way, but it's about five years too late to seem original or unique in any way.  Two other notes  Ryan Phillippe's inner city Muppet speaking voice is the worst film accent since Keanu Reeves in Bram Stoker's Dracula, and the gun shots in this film are excruciatingly loud. "},{"Title":"Tarantino Lite","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery and Christopher McQuarrie is obviously attempting to be Quentin Tarantino; he isn't close. A great cast is wasted by a convoluted story. Benicio del Toro is Longbaugh and Ryan Phillippe is Parker, and the pair travel together, scheming to separate people from their money. They hear about a surrogate mother carrying the future offspring of a rich guy and so they kidnap her in a shootout with her bodyguards. They demand $15 million to safely return the mother. It shifts to Mexico where the kidnappers are offered $1 million by Joe Sarno(James Caan), a go between, to walk away from the situation unharmed. The Mexican police become part of the program and we get more shootouts, some torture and a finale that looks like Peckinpah. The result is an o.k. crime drama; but don't expect Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction. "},{"Title":"Almost a total sleeping pill","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Choppy start and an even choppier middle and a very choppy ending make this a film that almost put me to sleep at the half way mark. Lots of standard pseudo cool verbal exchanges that are almost memorable and an almost action filled ending that is really just like a standard western gunfighting scene by another name is kind of a bore to me. Luckily I had eaten some mystery pizza that caused me to have to take off to the bathroom so I avoided some of it. Not really terrible but it seemed to stay stuck at about 70 mph, not really fast, not really slow, and not really exciting either. James Caan saves the day and kicks the bad guys asses, bad guys that the film has identified with the entire time as really the good guys in a land of jungle thick corruption. Could have been much better. "}{"Title":"Desperado meets Bill and Ted","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to like this film, but it is hard to defend something you are ambivalent about.Nothing really original, the plot twists were probably pulled out of a hat before the days filming, there are lots of guns, lots of people lying to each other, lots of other films in there. Two slightly dumb, (it's easy in films to make someone tough, edgy, with complex feelings and bad-guy with a good heart qualities, just write them as you'd imagine someone slightly retarded would act) thugs kidnap a pregnant woman, and all hell breaks loose. Probably. Didn't really care. All I knew was I wanted everyone in the film to die.Oh, and before I forget, it has a contender for THE worst film accent of all time. Step forward Ryan Phillipe (spelling?). Single handedly ruined the film for me with his glass-chewing mongoloid speak. Really, I think it would have been half bearable, but every time he opened his mouth, this inhuman cacophony wail came out instead of actual words. You could write a thesis on how bad it is, and I'm really surprised only a few people have mentioned it. He must have done it for a bet. "},{"Title":"He had saidyou'll give birth in pain.","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Way of the gun begins with a prologue that makes you think you can fear the worst.Did the writers want to break all the records as far as swearwords are concerned? and however there is a strong competition in this field.Then ,after the cast and credits,the screenplay becomes absorbing,introducing a lot of characters who are not what they seem at first sight.The film often leaves the central threesome (Lewis,Del Toro,Philippe)and tells us a lot about the others.Each of theses characters seem to have his own story,and the story even verges on melodrama.An examplewe do think that the doctor is only a fleeting part whereas he plays a very important part in the plot.But in the last third ,the movie loses steam it resembles a Peckinpah movie and it's only guns and blood ,fusillade and violence (and tortures).The writers seem to have jettisoned all that made their screenplay worthwhile.The last (very short) sequence was not neither surprising nor convincingI felt there was something missing.The cast is excellent,with Juliette Lewis the stand-outpainless childbirth nohow. "},{"Title":"Tarantino imitation","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the way of the gun has a great cast, and thats the reason I got the movie. I think both Phillips and del Toro are talented actors and Juliette Lewis is one of my favorites.Action starts with one of the most unusual scenes and catches your attention immediately. I guess it reminded many people of Tarantino. Then the interview dialogs in Quentin style at the unemployment office sets the expectations higher. But it stops there and the rest is quite a disappointment for me.Two bad guys and the atmosphere of the movie reminded me of from dusk till dawn. And you can see as much blood in this one too. But the way of the gun lacks the humor and musical support you found in Tarantino movies.Inventive car chase and gun fight scenes are mostly illogical, and I could not keep myself from wondering how the boys (Phillips and del Toro) got those expensive guns, sniper rifles etc. while they couldn't afford 50 $ to repair their car.You can guess most of the surprises and twists in the movie. In the end though acting was quite good, I did not like the film, but I would not call it a waste of time either, so watch it if you like bloody action films with some inventive scenes and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Excruciating","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is quite possibly the worst I have ever seen!  Frankly, I would rather have oral surgery than be forced to watch it again.  To each his own - I'm not a movie critic - but I really needed to TELL someone how ripped off I felt after wasting two hours on it.  Thanks for listening! "},{"Title":"Great at first but gets a little boring at the end","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I used to hate Del Toro's acting since I only saw Excess Baggage before this movie and Traffic. Naturally my point of view has changed, drastically. The on screen chemistry between him and Ryan Phillippe is great and the supporting actors do a great job as well. But the best part of the movie has to be the unconventional way these two deal with problems. The car chase in the beginning is superb and you realize you're watching a smart movie, intended to provoke and stir emotions. In the first part of the movie it does just that, admirably, but after a while it fades away and gets very dark, leaving you with the feeling there should be something more in between.  But as much as the whole movie screams out immorality it's the ending that puts things into perspective with the moral note that bad guys have to die. Interesting, yet somewhat disappointing.      6/10 "},{"Title":"Go watch something else.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a dud. This is one of the most boring, dry and uninteresting movie in this genre. The whole point of the movie is to waste your time.***Warning might contain spoiler and increase you boredom*** I can't connect with any of the characters and don't want to. None seems interesting and all deserve to die. The ONLY interesting parts are during the gunfights at the motel and in the end. The only part where I laughed was when Ryan jumped into the fountain and got cut and pierced by glass instead. Overall, a waste of my time. 2 out of 10. *********end spoiler**********  "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had high expectations about this one, but it left me very dissapointed. The characters are uninteresting.. the camerawork was like..as the world turns or something. The shootingscenes weren't that special either.. Very boring.. Benicio what are you doing in this film man?!? If you want to waste money and two hours of your time.. go rent The Way Of The Gun! "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really thought I was going to enjoy this film, but somehow it falls flat. It starts off brightly, with our two desperados (Del Toro and Philippe) kidnapping a pregnant woman (Lewis) and making off with bodyguards in pursuit. The whole sequence has a deadpan, understated quality, with inventive action sequences and plenty of dry humour in the interaction between the characters. But what follows is simply a mess, in which various unsavoury villains attempt to swindle and murder each other. The climax recalls westerns, particularly Peckinpah, in the sheer intensity of the violence, as the doomed antiheroes attempt to shoot their way past endless armed men (as Juliette Lewis undergoes a caesarean birth - don't ask) but by this stage I'd had enough. The trouble with dispensing with real characters - not a single one is presented with psychology, personality or history - in favour of simple motives - greed, mainly - is that you run the risk of boring your audience. I didn't care who lived or died, or whether anyone actually got the money. Beyond the din of the gunfire and brooding looks and stares, this is a shallow, self-indulgent film with no heart. "},{"Title":"Flawed and mildly enjoyable blood-fest","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Way of the Gun' comes to us with what should be a winning pedigree; Director and Writer Christopher McQuarrie collaborated with Bryan Singer on the writing of 'Usual Suspects'; Dick Pope, cinematographer, who worked on such gems as 'Debt Collector', 'Secrets and Lies' and 'Naked'; and Stephen Semel, film editor on such great past works as '187'.It is perplexing then as to why this movie ended up being such a jumbled mess.The basic story concerns to career criminals (Del Toro and Philippe), who while donating sperm at the local bank, stumble across an opportunity to kidnap a gal acting as a surrogate mother (Juliette Lewis) to local bad dude Chidduck (Scott Wilson).Once the kidnap takes place, Chidduck calls in local 'fix-it' man Joe Sarno (James Caan) to get the as yet unborn baby back safe and sound.Keeping this man a secret from his son Dr Allen Painter (Dylan Kussman), the good medic is also sent into the fray to deliver the baby and return it safely.And so begins the muddled mess that forms the film.  The film has an unfortunate tendency to lurch from one scene and location to another; there is no overall fluidity to it; despite the fact it is trying to emulate other films such as 'Desperado' and 'Reservoir Dogs'.  'Way of the Gun' just doesn't pull it off.Phillippe and DelToro are good enough leads mostly; Philippe particularly as he plays against type as a hardened criminal.  The two characters and actors have an obvious chemistry; it only takes one look or nod and they are in perfect synch.  Which is probably a good thing, as they are often involved in scenes of protracted gun play - usually with the two mother-to-be's bodyguards (Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt).  The almost balletic dance the two criminals perform on numerous occasions enable them to cover each others backs in the face of overwhelming odds.As can often happen with Writer/Director combinations, screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie has allowed the script to become littered with an over abundance of snappy phrases and soundbites.  All the characters seem to come up with numerous lines that would not look out of place on the movie's poster.Overall I personally became a bit jaded by the constant gun play that seemed to serve no purpose other than to use lots of blood packs and show various gruesome injuries inflicted.  The films score by Joe Kraemer is all-pervasive and is often very intruding on what should be relatively quiet scenes.  Del Toro does the same sort of stuff he has done for his past 10 films and offers nothing new here.See it for the gun play, just don't try and make too much sense of its supposed twists and turns.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad...","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rarely stop to comment on a movie unless I really like it or really hated it.  I really hated this movie.  Its unfortunate that the relatively good performances here are wasted on this pointless plot.  The dialogue in this movie was so boring I had to sit up to make sure I didn't fall asleep. With 30 less minutes and 20 less plot twists, this could have actually been a decent movie.For everyone who raves about the final shootout - what a bore!  If anybody thinks that old guys with six shooters and shotguns makes  for a great shootout, I guess they haven't seen Heat w/ Pacino and DeNiro yet. 3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Uninteresting, confusing plot.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way Of The Gun seemed to have all the right elements for a quality film; a great writer/director and a great cast.  Unfortunately it felt like the plot and the characters were worked into so much that only the writer knew what was going on. Maybe there was a good plot underlying the confusion but it just didn't come across.  Instead what we got was lots of guns and a pregnant woman and some money somewhere.  Nothing particularly special or memorable in either the writing or directing.Disappointing and boring. "},{"Title":"Well, it was loud...","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After I left the theatre I wondered did the NRA possibly sponsor this movie? As the title would lead you to believe it was a story of guns, bullets, and then after the shooting began more guns. I found the story line weak at best, with very little concern to detail of a plot. I had many questions that remained unanswered after the film ended. In my most honest opinion of this movie, the best critique I can make is that I found it sadly incomplete. On a positive note I liked James Caan's performance as well as Juliette Lewis'.  The one dubious distinction this movie will garner is that it has to be one of the loudest movies, and most violent I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"The Way of the WANNABE","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" About a third of the way through this interminable 2 hour exercise, I began wondering just what does this movie wannabe?  Is it Touch of Evil meets The Wild Bunch?-----  Orson Welles meets Sam Peckinpah?------The screenplay doesn't give you many clues either.  Whereas Christopher McQuarrie produced a subtle plot with intriguing twists along the way in The Usual Suspects, his action in The Way of the Gun proceeds around in a maze that is confusing at best in a wannabe sort of film noir that keeps one wondering if the complexity is really worth it.  As I sat through the endless shootouts, I felt much like Juliette Lewis painfully struggling to get out alive with her baby intact.  Unfortunately her extraordinary talent is wasted in this film where her character is drawn instead as a composite caricature of roles she has so ably portrayed in the past.  And then there is the ongoing Shootout at the OK Corral which here is in a deserted bordello south of the border.  The action is all cartoon, orchestrated much as a carnival shooting gallery, where targets pop out frequently from behind doors or pillars or shuttered windows.  It all seems suspiciously similar to the practice target shooting gallery in the CD-Rom game Blade Runner. But there is one fleeting, intense moment when Ryan Phillipe jumps into an abandoned water fountain to escape the multitude of bullets only to land painfully on shards of broken beer bottles which excruciatingly bury themselves in his arm.  Where the rest of the movie fails by virture of a pretentious and artificial plot , that one instant of vivid action succeeds in telling the whole story.............and in part redeems the movie. "},{"Title":"Tenuous plot, extremely confusing","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I've seen 'The Usual Suspects' and I really liked it.  I'm also a big fan of underground/cult/indy movies, so it's not as if I was expecting or even wanted 'Way of the Gun' to be a testosterone-driven action film.What I got, though, was an extremely confusing movie.  Ever seen 'Total Recall'?  Well 'Way of the Gun' is more confusing.  The movie almost expects us to be able to read the main characters thoughts at times, leaving some things totally unexplained (and unexplainable).  Also, the plot is extremely tenuous...maybe ludicrous would be a better word.  Most of the movie consists of people chasing each other around and lots of cloak and dagger shenanigans.  When it comes down to it, there's really not much substance to speak of.  To add insult to injury, there's also almost no character development either.On the positivce side, the acting, though, is pretty good...from the main characters, at least.  Benicio del Toro and Ryan Phillippe both do their characters justice.  I don't eveb want to think how bad this movie would have been had less talented actors been cast.  The opening scene with those two is absolutely hilarious, I might add.  Julitte Lewis, however, plays her usual dirty disturbed girl role.  I found her performance boring and typecasted.  More importantly, I found it hard to believe any couple, let alone a wealthy one, would have picked her character as a surrogate mother.In conclusion, I encourage anyone reading this to wait until it hits video to see 'Way of the Gun.'  I honestly can't understand why IMDB users have given it as high of a rating as it has.   "},{"Title":"Lotsa script, not much else","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Can't fault a movie that attempts to keep you interested - lots of novel shots (a slow walk between 2 semis, a slow speed car chase down an alley, etc.), a script that makes you think twice (karma is justice without satisfaction - and I don't believe in justice), and James Caan, Nicky Katt, Benicio.  But still, the movie can't right itself after it falls over in the first 15 minutes too many characters, too many unexplained alliances, too much style.  There certainly should have been more than 4 people in the theater to see it (and one guy was snoring), but it's not a Soze... "},{"Title":"give me a break SPOILERS","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie sucked.  the first 20 mins were fun... why? because the characters actually spoke and were likable.. and the first action sequence was unique and different... after that it all goes downhill... the biggest letdown is after the sperm bank scenes the two main characters don't really say anything... they don't have any chemistry together or show any real emotion.. most of the plot deals with this pregnant women's odyssey with a mob boss and being kidnapped... they save most of the dialogue for her... it is so damn boring.  the climatic fight consists of the main characters fighting a bunch of mafia guys that are ALL OVER 50! and unlike the clever first gunfight, this one was basically how many guns can we use up and how many bullet holes can we make! and to have the main characters would have been a nice touch if they gave us something to like em or hate em... but we don't really know these two guys so it has no effect other than to annoy us more!  in short it was an action movie set to a pregnant women drama... not executed well at all i might add!  don't waste your money on this one  "},{"Title":"Guns and One Liners","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It can always be argued that the director intended The Way of the Gun as a cautionary tale that shows the consequences of living by the six-shooter. Yes, there are dead bodies - something not shown in typical action movies - and plenty of bloody wounds.Unfortunately, The Way of the Gun exists in the same cop-free world first introduced to me by Quentin Tarantino where the only authority bad guys need to fear are the badder guys.Of course this is a movie, and, despite the director's remarks to the contrary, not reality.As a pure movie and as pure entertainment, The Way of the Gun gives the audience what it wants  plot twists, charismatic bad guys, and gun fights.But it fails to deliver the real world situations and characters it aspired to provide.The director has the characters speak street poetry that is at the same time eloquent(it's done well) and tiresome (we've heard it all before).The story unfolds naturally, with each side (there are more than 2) plotting to gain advantage of a situation where millions of dollars are at stake.The plot, on the other hand, consists of a re-hash of old westerns and crime dramas  shoot outs in whore houses and waiting it out in hotel rooms.The Way of the Gun does show potential of being a great crime drama but lacks the elements of reality that would place it in the same category as Heat.The characters are far too old and scum-ridden to have the cooler-than-thou effect on the audience that made films like Pulp Fiction and The Usual Suspects such hits.And finally, It also can't claim the incredible level of comeraderie that would make it a great modern day version of The Wild Bunch.In the end, there are no heroes. Not even any moralistic bad guys.Just a bunch of guns (real guns - no glocks here) and some really good one liners. "},{"Title":"Badly thought out and often confusing","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not one to get confused too often by a film, and it's not that this is the type of film that usually requires much thinking, it's just that the shallow plot was rather poorly filled with twists which in fact did not add to the story and merely served to complicate what in reality was a fairly simple tale!I gave it a 6 because despite all of this, there is some good action and it does hold your attention, if not in an original way. Probably would have been a 4 without the fantastic Benicio Del Toro who just saved it for me!Worth a watch but don't expect too much!  "},{"Title":"Terrible disappointment","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I consider the Usual Suspects to be the best movie of the nineties.  That is why I was especially disappointed with this film.  McQuarrie is a terrible director and his writing in this case was almost as bad.  Avoid this film.  Even Benecio Del Toro seems to be going through the motions. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Dellusions of Walter Hill, Peckinpah, and Michael Mann","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a big giant mess of who cares. The characters have nothing likeable about them. Nothing is new. Nothing original. Nothing Surprising.  Conversations went on forever about nothing. You wished everyone would get shot. You know a movie is bad when you squirm in your seat waiting for it to end and finding yourself groaning every time another conversation seems to be lumbering on screen.It was a completely worthless movie.I kept waiting for the TNT station identification or something.Not even a good video rental.Just shows that Usual Suspects was mostly Bryan Singer's talent and not Mcquarrie's.I read somewhere that He wanted to do something different and all the exec's bugged him to do another crime/drama.He should of stuck with his convictions because this sucks.Or maybe this is a joke on them. He made a bad movie to shut them up.Avoid this movie. Nothing worthwhile. Nothing. The Butch Cassidy references are the nails on this movie's coffin. To allude to such a superior film just shows how bad this one is. "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, this is another pointless movie with pointless scenes and pointless dialogues. 'It is about life!' you will say. Wake up and smell the coffee!I don't understand why people rate this movie that high and say that this one is 'the best movie of 2000'. As far as I can see, it's only about violence with a plot that is going nowhere.It's not recommended at all, unless you are so violent that you can kill people and laugh about it.The cinematography, on the other hand, is good. Partly because of the settings. The acting is OK, nothing spectacular, except for Juliette Lewis.My advice, don't bother seeing it, not to mention owning it... "},{"Title":"Lots and lots and lots and lots of shooting of guns","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Way of the Gun has auteurist interest as the first written and directed by Christopher McQuarrie, writer of the classic screenplay to The Usual Suspects.Hollywood would evidently only let him make a crime movie so he did a stick-it-in-your-face and up-your-ass crime movie. The language and violence make it a cross between Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs and Stone's noir satire U-Turn, with an extra frisson of generational conflict including, among other issues, James Caan vs. Ryan Phillippe etc. (with his scruffy beard growth intentionally ill-covering a baby-faced look).It's also a lot about boys-getting-off-on-shooting-guns. Lots of guns. Lots and lots and lots of very loud guns.I give McQuarrie credit for not doing the expected romance between Philippe and Juliette Lewis, just a do the right thing sort of connection amidst her very pregnant plight. The cinematography is luscious and saturated, by the British Dick Pope, who has mostly done gritty movies with the exception of the equally gorgeous-looking Topsy Turvy. There's a whole lot more blood here than in Gilbert and Sullivan; at one point I had turned away so much I missed who shot whom.The music is nothing special, only occasionally noticeable for mood-build-up. (originally written 9/23/2000) "},{"Title":"it had to be stopped","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All you need to do is watch the opening of this film to know that youshould stop it.  The dialogue is so self-conscious you feel likesomeone is smothering you with a cold blanket.  Not to mentionthat Ryan Phillipe hangs there like a beat up old chevy parked inthe street.   "},{"Title":"Disappointed by the cool video box once again.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And it's too bad; Benicio del Toro's talent & beauty is wasted in this movie.  It started out stupid (gee, another film about a couple of  cruel young criminals - how original!).  But it became promising in the first hour.  For instance - the slow, silent (but for gunshots) car chase down the alley; the weird, cold bodyguards.  But then it degenerated to a slow, gunshot-ridden muddle.  No, it's not YOU, it's the movie - everyone's motivation is all screwed up, it's not your fault you don't understand it.The final scene summed up the inanity of the last half of the movie for me - 20 minutes (felt like more) of nothing but people poking their heads out from behind things and shooting one another.  **mild spoilers** Although I admit I appreciated the surprise of the glass shard-filled fountain.  I did not, however, appreciate Lewis' vivisection.  Gross.3 out of 10, and only because del Toro had lots of screen time. "},{"Title":"The emperor has no clothes","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved The Usual Suspects, but it appears that director/screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie simply got lucky with that masterpiece of intrigue. (That, plus the luck of casting Kevin Spacey in the lead role.) I was quite excited about The Way of the Gun...until I actually saw it. The film is patently absurd and is suspenseless, even telegraphing its 'surprise' ending far too early. James Caan looks sheepish and embarrassed throughout and Benicio Del Toro gets through the film by raising his eyebrows and tossing his hair from side to side. Juliette Lewis plays yet another white trash loser who we are supposed to care about but can't, and Ryan Phillippe simply doesn't have the gravitas to carry off a bad guy role. By the time the film winds down to its faux spaghetti climax you'll be rooting for everyone to die so that the film can come to a conclusion. "},{"Title":"From great expectations to what a rip-off","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  **SPOLIER**From its' nonsensical opening scene (don't watch it with your mother) to the final twist (ho-hum), this film has hardly any redeeming qualities. The dialogue meant to be so hip and different just becomes dull posing. The middle section meandered so much, and Caan needs to find a T-shirt to fit him...If this didn't have McQuarrie's name on it, it would have gone straight to video.  "},{"Title":"A inane, convoluted mess","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun starts off promising enough, with an intriguing storyline concerning the abduction of a pregnant woman by two outlaws. As the film progresses, however, the plot becomes increasingly ridiculous as it becomes more complex. I held out hope for the film until the last 30 minutes. Writer/director Christopher McQuarrie was evidently going for lots of plot twists, but the complications of the plot are in excess, and ultimately sink the film. Undoubtedly one of the worst films I have ever seen. Rating 2 "},{"Title":"You gotta be kidding","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A pure waste of film.  All those bullets and so few hit their target.  It wasn't meant to be a comedy but I laughed all through the second half of this farce. James Caan made a big mistake when he agreed to play in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Lonnnng and Monotonous","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worse films of the year! It was long, poorly written and a waste of time. Just when you thought Hollywood couldn't get any worse, then they come out with this. I dont't mind mindless entertainment when it is done well but this isn't even mindless, it's just stupid. The main characters you dont't like, the shootouts are horribly corregraphed and I just couldnt wait for the film to run out. I was stirring in my seat just waiting for everyone to be killed and Juliette Lewis to stop bleeding and shut up. Ryan Phillipes agent needs to be fired. His movies get worse each selection he makes. Wife Reese is going tohave to support the family is he keeps this up. I cant reccomend this.Stay home, read, rerent a Dirty Harry movie or buy T2 but don't go in the theatre.Stay away. "},{"Title":"Second worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking to hear profanity that you have never before heard in a movie, this might be the movie for you. Other than that, this movie has no entertainment value at all. The script is poor, the plot is stupid and the acting is pitiful. I can see why some of the actors and actress in this movie haven't been seen for a while. This movie sure wouldn't have been my career choice. The blood even looked fake. It is scary to think what audience this movie was created for considering both the audiences mentality and morals. If you feel you just *have* to see this movie, wait until it comes out on HBO, if they will even allow it on TV. Bad, bad, bad. That's my rating.  "}{"Title":"A thoroughly repellent film","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way of the Gun is a thoroughly repellent and unpleasant movie.  The plot simply depicts how relatively more organized gangsters defeat a pair of small-time outlaws, without the slightest hint of irony, or the smallest of plot twists.  The film is, of course, extremely violent, but that is not the problem; it is the way in which the script systematically denies its viewers any possible sympathy or pleasure in the outcome.  The good cast and an intriguing situation involving surrogate motherhood are utterly wasted. This is a film to be avoided even by fans of violent films.  "},{"Title":"I just don't get it","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off let me say I'm a strong believer in a persons right to have an opinion, so let me have mine too.  Before going to see this movie i checked many many reviews all saying it's a terrific movie...so i decided I'm going to see this despite what the preview looked like to me.  The only thing i can say is more of a question.  Why did this movie get such great reviews? with the exception of one very cool shoot out scene towards the end, i just don't see what's so good about this movie "},{"Title":"Certain things should just not be mixed...","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And this came from the writer of The Usual Suspects?  Just because it has never been done does not mean you should mix extreme violence, gore, language, shallow characters, kidnapping, and bad lines, all while dragging around a pregnant woman.  All this happens around her  while she moans, groans and is about to give birth.  Giving a C-section while a gunfight ensues around her, and having the doctor kill people too, and then go back to operating (delivering his own kid no less) is just disturbing, tacky and downright tasteless.  I expected so much more from this writer because The Usual Suspects was such a brilliant movie.  It seems he tried to be too hip by forcing plot twists, weak voice overs, characters that are just done wrong and a horribly beginning scene laden with very tacky vulgar dialog, all which adds up to make a horrible movie. "},{"Title":"How did this get a 6.6?!!!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Geez, after seeing this movie, I expected it to be one of those movies that gets like a 4.4, but I was amazed to see the 6.6!!!  This is lousy B-movie, with all style over substance, not to mention that it runs way too long for a movie of this type.  Two losers kindnapp a serogade mother, and end up in over there heads.  I hate to say it folks, but this is a bad movie, with few redeeming factors.  I wouldnt recommend this to my worst enemy. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Confusing ending.  And what the heck is the point?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  spoilers!!It's a pretty good watch.  That is, until the ending happened.  The two guys lose the freaking money.  So the point of the movie is two idiots that didn't learn the point the first time round.  Rather useless if I played this movie again.  Still, Ms. Lewis was as fun as ever.4/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 2/10 "},{"Title":"Aviod this one","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I gave this movie a 3, and the shoot out at the end is the only reason it did not get a 2.  The story line is hard to follow, choppy, and make little scence.  James Caan did not look to healthy in this film, and finding him playing a heavy in a shoot out is quite unbelievable.  The characters were very unlikly bad guys, and why would some women who is about ready to give birth have security like the president.  Not to ruin the story, would a mobster really use a security firm to watch over someone instead of his own people.  Well if you can follow this story it reminds me of one of thoes low budget 70's films that did not make alot of sence.  This is a b movie. "},{"Title":"Shooting and more shooting.....Yawn.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Way Of The Gun has most of the aspects that in my opinion make a bad film. It's plot is too complicated , some of the acting is appalling (Especially from the funny faced black body guard) there is too much action and not enough substance and it is too long. I dont know if if i was half asleep during this mish mash of a film but 15 minutes into it i was so confused that i lost interest in what was happening. The first scene sees the two stars get into a fight outside a night club with the most abusive woman i have ever heard! What was the point ? I dont advocate hitting women but she deserved it!I fail to see why this scene was included and i can only presume it was for the shock  factor. Anybody who is easily offended would turn the film of there and then but if you take my advise dont even bother with one minute because this film stank. Its a shame because the main actors do have a good track record and usually appear in better films than this . 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tedious","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Boy was I disappointed at this movie. This is the pits. Nothing happens in this film. Watching grass grow is more interesting. There was a little bit of gunplay at the start but for about 100 minutes all we get is a scene of dialogue, followed by a scene of dialogue, followed by a scene of dialogue, followed by a scene of dialogue, followed by a scene of dialogue, followed by a scene of dialogue and by this point I'm dying of sheer boredom.Writer and Director McQuarrie tries to make up for this by having the last scene filled with noise and gunfire. It doesn't work. He also tries to make the (superficial) dialogue sound cool by having it said very, very quiet and muttered. The photography is quite cool and some shots of the desert at night are great. But that's no reason to watch this awful mess. The only thing about this film that stopped me from walking out was the presence of Geoffrey Lewis. The scenes where he couldn't get his cell phone working were pretty funny to me. "},{"Title":"The Way of the Gun is Not Much Fun","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  spoilersThis movie starts out like it might be passable entertainment. Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Toro's characters are introduced in a sperm bank scene that should be funnier but isn't, following which they hear about a rich couple who is paying another woman to carry their baby. The two ne'er-do-wells decide to kidnap the surrogate mother and hold her for fifteen million dollars. The movie has a good set-up and introduces many interesting double crosses and hidden connections among the many characters as they all wonder how to work the situation to their advantage. The kidnapping sequence is pretty amusing, complete with an entertaining car chase, but once the two thugs get the mother to their filthy hotel room the movie grinds to a stop and doesn't start up again until almost the very end. All the various plot lines just sit there and never come together.It's like the director was letting all the actors improvise but they couldn't think of anything. Gritty dialog, pointless monologues, and dull set pieces drag on and on, until you are so bored all you can focus on is James Caan's nipples, which are forcing their way through his tight shirt. The set must have been really, really cold.The movie eventually limps into the final climactic gunfight, and things pick up a bit. It's too bad that by this time the audience is completely bored with the movie. Most of the audience I saw this with had walked out, and the ones left laughed openly at ridiculous lines like a mousetrap always has free cheese!The Way of the Gun would be a good movie if it was paced quicker, maybe cutting out thirty minutes or so of boring padding. Then they should make the characters interesting and have them say funny or thought-provoking things. They should also invest in a new supporting cast, as everyone but Phillipe (who, despite his terrible performance in 54, is fine here), Del Toro (who should have had more lines or none at all) and the great Geoffrey Lewis are pretty bad. Juliette Lewis is particularly unbearable, as she puts in another one of her trademark repulsive performances. They should keep Taye Diggs, too, but give him a character that takes advantage of the actor's charm and talent, and give the wonderful Sarah Silverman a bigger part than the Raving Bitch (their name, not mine).Then it might be watchable. As it is now, though, don't bother. Unless you are a really big fan of James Caan's nipples.  "},{"Title":"This is what happens when everybody's lost the way...","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an incredibly, outrageously stupid story &#150; and two hours of mindlessly violent entertainment.Coming from the writer of The Usual Suspects (1995), it is also a great disappointment to see such a waste of talent.Story two small-time thieves stage a kidnapping of a woman associated with a Very Important (Shady) Businessman who is owned by The Mob. The thieves (Ryan Phillipe and Benicio Del Toro) demand fifteen million ransom. After a number of ridiculous twists and unnecessary plot turns, all the major players wind up at a Mexican hotel for the final shoot-out.Shades of...lots of other movies with the same idea!And the big surprise is that there are no surprises.Is there a moral to this story? Yes, forget about it, save your money, go get The Usual Suspects and watch that again. "}{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was insanely disappointed with this film.  I thought it was ridiculously bad.   The Usual Suspect ranks as one of my favorite movies of all time, and I was expecting something to that caliber from screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie.  However, this movie did not even come close to the brilliance of The Usual Suspects.  It was a gruesome shoot-em-up lacking any real substance or underlying theme.  The plot was a poor attempt at being complex and instead just resulted in being confusing and poorly structured.  Hiding behind a facade of terminology, lifestyle, and criminal protocol that posed as a smart setup, The Way of the Gun lacked anything beyond an unrealistic action movie.  I did not like any aspect of this movie.  I wouldn't recommend  it at all.  Not only is it not worth the money to rent, its not worth the time spent to watch. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 2000","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful film, very well written and directed by Chris McQuarrie. Benicio acted very well in this film with a very cool and wise demeanor.  I actually liked Ryan Philippe in this movie and I think that McQuarrie has done a good job putting him in this film...It shows a more rougher side of Ryan, something people haven't seen much from him.  He acted much better in this movie than in Cruel Intentions, where he plays a seductive little richboy.  The ending was very fast paced and left me wanting for more.  I wanted to see what will happen to Parker and Longbaugh after Caan left them in the abandoned hotel.The gun-tactics throughout The Way of the Gun was very fun and exciting to watch, like Longbaugh and Parker know what they are doing, like they had some previous training using they're SWAT like tactics covering each other in gun draws throughout the film.  The story is a little hard to follow, like the relationship between Taye Diggs character Jeffers and Kristins character Francesca.  It seems like they are having an affair, but the scene only lasts for like 3 or 4 minutes and they never see each other again.  If the budget was a little bigger, it would have been a much bigger success instead of a mere sleeper movie. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"sucked absolutely the worst movie ever made","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was the biggest load of garbage ever made. I found it to be so dumb i was ready to leave the theater but the people i was with didn't so i had to stay through this horrid movie. The whole plot was really dumb and the whole shooting scenes didn't even make sense. Not to mention the dumbness of having a doctor trying to deliver a baby through a gunfight, while he had enough time to leave with the girl and bring her to a hospital. I hope this movie get's all the worst rewards cause it definitely deserved this. I don't understand how this piece of garbage was even allowed to be made "},{"Title":"Lots of unreasonable twists...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, there are a lot of twists in it but what good is a twist when there is no reason behind it? Maybe it was just me who did not understand those so acclaimed twists in that movie. They probably tried to make a movie with a lot of twists in it without backing it up with plausible reasons. I mean I was completely lost in the plot. I could not make sense of the storyline; I am not sure if there is one. Moreover, most of the twists were not given very clearly. For example, the surrogate mother decides to keep the baby. At which point does she really decide to keep the baby? Where she gets out of the elevator and walks literally into the middle of gunfire? I mean what kind of mother in her sane mind walks into gunfires, the kind who wants to keep the baby or the kind who wants to get herself killed? If that is their understanding of twist, I am sorry but this is just stupidity. The surrogate's mother decision to keep the baby was a very important turn in the movie and was not given clearly. It should have been given as a shocking surprise. Instead, it was given so vaguely. The ridiculous scenes (for instance the scene where they first try to kidnap the surrogate mother in the presence of two bodyguards, or the following chasing scene where they push the car with their feet) spoiled my appetite to see a serious movie. These scenes look totally incongruous. Briefly, I did not find the movie enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A 2 hour commercial for guns.  Two morons capture a heavily pregnant woman, and hold her for ransom.  The direction is good, but that's about it.  The plot makes no sense (I'm still not sure what a whole group of old men was doing in this), characters appear and disappear very quickly, the humor is sick, the tone of the film is very disturbing and it's just one gunfight after another.  As for the acting...they have good actors, but they give the worst performances of their careers.  Taye Diggs, Ryan Philippe, James Caan...all are horrible...and they're all very good actors!  A total waste of time and talent. "},{"Title":"just your typical homophobic, misogynistic, nihilistic, degrading fun","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It opens with a loud, outdoor bar, in a nameless street in a nameless town. A car alarm goes off across the street. A young woman (lovingly referred to in the credits as Raving Bitch and played by Sarah Silverman) starts screaming at the two men who are sitting on the car and set off the alarm. They ignore her. She screams more and more; one of them (Ryan Philippe) yells back something equally awful. She and a large chunk of the crowd move over to confront the men &#x96; more insults are exchanged, particularly some homophobic slurs. Philippe punches her, very hard, in the face. The other man (Benicio del Toro), stomps on the sandaled foot of another young woman. A big brawl ensues. These are our heroes.I don't mind antiheroes. I don't necessarily mind films where most of the characters are criminals, evil people, unpleasant people, stupid people, or just really irritating people. I didn't mind Cloverfield last year which was full of people I'd like to smack. The Way of the Gun though is something different, something on another level altogether. Del Toro and (especially) Philippe are every bit as awful as they start out showing in their first scene, applying to be blood donors for some quick cash but quickly resorting to such insulting behavior &#x96; lots of homophobic slurs again, among other things - that they get the man interviewing them to blow his top, then contriving to kidnap a girl (Juliette Lewis) pregnant with a rich man's baby for which she's to be paid $1 million and killing a half-dozen guards as they make their getaway. They're pursued by the rich man's two top bodyguards (Taye Diggs and Nicky Katt) who figure out rapidly that the old man only cares about the baby &#x96; they have no more compunction than Philippe or Del Toro about icing Lewis as soon as the kid is born.The character who ought to be most sympathetic, the mother-to-be, isn't, really &#x96; she's pathetic, tearful and screaming throughout most of the film, and we never get as much sense of her as a human being as we do of most of the nastier people around her. Of course, in her situation, most of us would scream and cry a lot &#x96; but given that nearly every other character is a murdering, psychopathic macho parody that out-Tarantinos the master, I guess I'd hoped for more. The doctor who tries to help her out is similarly not brazenly evil &#x96; but too weak and cowardly for us to care much about him either. Which leaves James Caan as the older bagman assigned to clean up things, get Lewis back and get rid of the two guys holding her, and he again doesn't register as anything beyond a vestibule for wise and cutting remarks and a potential bad-ass who we know will play a big role in the finale. The rich-guy paying for the baby turns out to essentially be a mobster &#x96; his wife is, like the couple of other women we see momentarily in the film, completely unsympathetic towards Lewis, who is treated as a piece of meat throughout the film by everybody.So it's a bunch of really awful people, and there's a lot of self-consciously cool and hip dialog that I guess is supposed to make us care what's going on &#x96; but I for one just couldn't. It was already wearing quite thin on me when in rapid succession three scenes occurred that crystallized my feelings first, Lewis starts getting down on herself, making out that she's a bad person for having done this (illegal, it turns out) baby-for-money thing &#x96; there's an implicit identification here with her kidnappers, which just about had me throwing up, until the next scene where Philippe is given a sort of opposite moment, tearfully explaining how upset he was at killing a man who was praying for his life &#x96; then 5 minutes later after a shootout in which the hotel they've been hiding at becomes a bloodbath, we see Philippe and Del Toro cheerfully torturing a man and threatening to cut his eyes and pour gasoline on them.At that point I was done, for all intents and purposes. I stuck it out to the finish, which sees our heroes lying half-dead with several bullet wounds in the sand outside another crumbling motel (the location choices are just about the only thing I can find to praise here) as Philippe proudly claims in voice-over that he's not going to apologize for anything to God. I honestly think I would have had a little respect for the film if it had gone to the extremes that I'm sure some of its blood-lusting fans would have liked to see it hit &#x96; if the two psychos had killed Lewis and the unborn kid, laughing and joking while they did it. It would have been even more disgusting and revolting than the film already ended up being, but it would have seemed more honest.I could try to be objective here, and mention that some of the performances (Del Toro in particular) aren't bad; the location work I already noted; and that the direction isn't incompetent &#x96; if I were the kind of person who tried to rate things scientifically and justify every element &#x96; if I were an even-tempered sort of guy who could just say ah, it's just entertainment &#x96; if I were that kind of person, I'd probably just say that this was a fantasy I don't share in, not my kind of thing, and leave it at that. But films do matter, art does matter, attitudes do matter to me, and if this isn't the most misogynistic, nihilistic and offensive piece of sub-Neanderthal film-making this decade, please don't point me to anything that's worse. "}]