[{"Title":"strong performances, interesting drama","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"117 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In `Sexy Beast,' Ben Kingsley delivers a bone-chilling performance as the man everyone loves to hate, a role for which he earned not only universal critical acclaim but a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination as well.  Don Logan is so evil that even his fellow mobster buddies fear and hate him.  From our very first glimpse of him high-strutting his way through an airport terminal, Kingsley hits just the right note for his character.  Cleverly, writers Louis Mellis and David Scinto have paved the way for this entrance by introducing Logan ahead of time in a series of conversations in which just the mere mention of his name sets off portentous reverberations amongst the people discussing him.Chief among those people is the film's protagonist, Gal, Logan's `retired' ex-partner in crime, who wants nothing more than to be allowed to enjoy life undisturbed in his seaside Spanish villa with his swimming pool and the wife he loves so dearly.  But Gal soon discovers that a person cannot escape his past forever, when Logan suddenly shows up at his doorstep demanding that Gal join his own personally hand-picked gang of seasoned criminals whom Logan has brought together to pull off a major heist back in Merry Olde England.  Gal would like nothing better than to send Logan home packing empty handed, but he also knows that defying Logan can be the fastest route to an early demise.  It is this atmosphere of fear and dread that director Jonathon Glazer uses to make `Sexy Beast' such an engrossing and off beat little crime drama.  In fact it is the THREAT of violence, far more than the violence itself, which distinguishes this tale.  Without the use of weapons of any kind, Logan is able to cow and terrorize a roomful of reasonably fearless adults simply by his steely-eyed demeanor and the unpredictable nature of his temperament.  Seemingly controlled and rational one moment, he can suddenly erupt into a volcano of exploding anger the next.  One of the most chilling moments in the film occurs aboard a departing airplane in which Logan refuses to douse his cigarette, thereby precipitating a confrontation with the flight crew.  Logan has that quality that distinguishes all great villains  he throws us back on our heels by his refusal to conform to the social amenities that the rest of us simply take for granted and which put us at a decided disadvantage when faced with the evil characters of the world who know no rules and flagrantly disregard the ones we follow.  He reminds us of how weak and vulnerable the rest of us really are.Logan, for all the intensity generated by his character, is not, however, the focal point of the film.  Gal, brilliantly played by Ray Winstone, who provides a fascinating counterpoint to Logan's no-holds-barred villainy, occupies that position.  Despite his criminal background, Gal wins us over by his openhearted frankness, his sincere devotion to his wife, friends and neighbors, and his obvious desire to lead a straight life from hereon out.  Winstone underplays his scenes superbly, yet he never allows himself to be acted off the screen by the fiery Kingsley.  (One should mention that the heavy cockney accents of the characters make what they are saying a bit incomprehensible at times). As is not uncommon in gangster movies these days, Glazer manages to inject an element of black humor into the proceedings.  The comedy often takes the form of twisted surrealism, such as when a giant boulder rolls down a nearby hillside and lands plop in Gal's beloved pool, barely missing taking Gal to the bottom with it.  The filmmakers also have an effective way of heightening the tension through indirection, particularly in the early scenes which prime us to dread Logan's entrance as much as the characters who don't want to see him &#150; and we haven't even met him yet.  This technique of telegraphing information ahead of time contributes immensely to heightening the suspenseful quality of the film.`Sexy Beast' provides superb performances, a nasty sense of humor and a fascinating glimpse into the dark side of human nature.    "},{"Title":"Kingsley is Dynamite","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"112 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley's portrayal of gangster Don Logan is destined to go down as one of the most memorable mobsters in filmdom; up there with the best from Robinson, Bogart, Cagney, Raft, deNiro, Pacino et al. Kingsley's all that good and more.  And the other actors, in their portrayals of fellow gangsters and their lovers, are also excellent.  The story is simple. Gal (Ray Winstone) is a retired English gangster living a life of leisure at his Spanish villa. Then one day his idyll is shattered by a visit from Don Logan, an old protégé, and man to be feared. Logan's intent is to lure Gal out of retirement for 'one last job'. Gal wants nothing to do with it, and the first half of the movie is a battle of wits between the two men. The second half of the film deals with the heist and its aftermath.  The crime is downplayed in the movie which is primarily a psychological exploration of these gangsters; their personal demons, and the relationships amongst themselves. They are indeed scary people, no sympathetic characters here.This is one of the best movies of 2000, and is highly recommended. I don't understand how IMDb reviewers can rate this movie so low. In my book it definitely rates an A.  "},{"Title":"Ben Kingsley is worth the rental price alone!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"60 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  To put it simply  I love this movie!  I've really been looking forward to this movie, mostly because of Kingsley's acclaimed performance.  And he is indeed brilliant in the role of the brash, uninhibited, shamelessly ruthless Don Logan--a role that should go down in history.  I haven't seen Jim Broadbent's performance in Iris, so I can't technically say if Kingsley deserved the Oscar over him, but I'm glad he got nominated, because it would be an abomination if he didn't.  Kingsley is absolutely terrifying, not showing a bit of remorse.  And it's a real joy to see the man who's famous for playing the well-known pacifist Gandhi take on a role which requires him to spout the f word 500 times in one whole minute.  OK, I may have been exaggerating there, but believe me...there are scenes in this movie that make Pulp Fiction look like a G-rated Disney feature.  Let's just say I've never heard the f word used so many times, at such a lightning-fast pace.  Kingsley has some memorable moments, including one where he gets in trouble for smoking on a plane, and cops an alibi involving the male flight attendants sexually abusing him.  As cruel as he is, I found myself laughing hysterically at Don.  As Kingsley said himself, Don is the type of character who says the kind of things that are on most people's minds, but they're too afraid to let it out.    Though Kinglsey steals the film, Ray Winstone is the star and he's also great.  I haven't seen a great many English films, so I don't remember seeing him before, but now I hope to see him in more films.  And I was impressed to find out the movie was made by a first-time director.  Jonathan Glazer did a terrific job, creating a gloriously frenetic pace.  The running time is a succinct 85 minutes, and the film never takes a breath.  It always captures you with in-your-face images.  Glazer's sense of style is amazing.  Not to mention the soundtrack is excellent.  It's a nice irony  how this dark comedy ends to the tune of Dean Martin's Sway. On my first viewing, it took time for me to get accustomed to the cockney accents, but after approximately 30 minutes I was able to decipher most of the dialogue--and the film has some great, memorable dialogue!  It's not like with Lock, Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels where I can watch it 100 times and still need subtitles.  Not to mention Sexy Beast is a much more entertaining film.  All I can say is don't expect an intricate plot, with many twists and turns.  The plot is all pretty simple  Retired gangster lounges around his beautiful house in Spain, then gets persuaded into doing one last heist.  I'm sure that sounds very familiar.  But the beauty is in its simplicity.  And the film isn't in any way pretentious.  It is what it is--and what it is is a smart, energetic, entertaining, hilarious, extremely well-acted dark comedy.  My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Hilarious British crime comedy with a dark edge","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"64 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is a funny and highly enjoyable crime movie punctuated by some blood curdling violence.  The film was directed by Jonathen Glazer, who was responsible for most of the recent amazing Guinness beer adverts.Ray Winstone is Gal, a retired criminal enjoying retirement in Spain with friends and the woman he loves.  But this is shattered by the arrival of a menacing figure from his past in the shape of pyschotic Don Logan (played with evil intensity by Ben Kingsley).  Don wants Gal for one last spectacular job and will do just about anything to get him, including threatening Gal's beloved wife.The story is told at a fast pace, with several surreal interludes but never loses momentum.  Ray Winstone puts in another loveable badboy performance that he does so well, but the film is dominated by Kingsley who steals every scene he is in and creates one of the most menacing screen villains in recent memory.  The brilliance of the film is that it manages to combine so many disparate elements (thriller, comedy, and a touching love story to say the least) into a cohesive and highly entertaining whole.  A real pleasure to watch and a striking, brilliant debut. "},{"Title":"Beastly Stuff, And Utterly Fascinatng","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" At first, I thought this was just a poor man's Snatch, with the wild cinematography, dark humor, brutal characters and language....but not as good as that more well-known film. Well, I have really begun to like this film a lot, equally, if not more, than Snatch.The more I see Sexy Beast, the more fascinating it gets, and it was pretty interesting the first time! And, at less than an hour-and-a-half it's even more watchable. It also is a good idea to play this with the English subtitles on, unless you can understand the strong British accents, and can interpret the slang words.Ben Kingsley, as sociopath Don Logan, is unbelievably intense and almost has my jaw dropping when watching him in here. Intense doesn't even begin describing this guy. Ian McShane is another creepy guy in here as Teddy. These two guys make the lead characters, two couples, look normal. Those four are retired crooks and their wives, now living the easy life in Spain. Easy, that is, until Logan arrives and wants one of them for another job. The retiree wants to stay that way but Logan is not a man who takes no for an answer.This is one movie you will not forget. Warning it's rough, crude and strange. Expect a lot of f words and c words. Also expect an interesting 89 minutes. "},{"Title":"For Best Portrayal of a Rabid Dog...","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ..the Winner is...Ben Kingsley in Sexy Beast, hands down (and panting on all fours).  Ben also wins the award for Best (and most frequent and creative) Usage of the c word, which plays a major part in this outrageously deranged and always thoroughly entertaining (even at its bloodiest) full-frontal bombast of a film.The plot couldn't be any simpler retired gangster Gal (yes, that's his name) is happy lounging around the pool at his Spanish villa with the woman of his dreams and a drink in his hand.  But the big bad brutal bulldog Don (Kingsley) has been sent to convince him to do One Last Job.  Gal says no.  Donnie doesn't like this answer. Violence ensues.To say any more would be a disservice; this movie has to be experienced, not explained.  Suffice to say, the brilliant performances (Ray Winstone and Ian McShane in particular) and the amazingly slick editing make every second of Sexy Beast a kinetic foray into surrealism and a tour de force of epic proportions for Kingsley. So why are you still bloody sitting there, you steaming c***?!!! Go rent it now. "},{"Title":"Go Ben, go!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie in total was reasonably good, but not particularly memorable. However, Kingsley's performance made this a MUST see... particularly for those only familiar with Kingsley's Ghandiesque roles. His character is great - a small, but veritable rabid dog of a man fully versed in the art of conversational terror and humiliation. Again, the film isn't great, but provides more than a reasonable backdrop for Kingley's timeless performance. There is a fair amount of gore, but not gratuitous in my opinion, and it could even be considered somewhat modest by gangster movie standards. However, the psychological terror generated by Kingsley's character is something I will take with me for a very, very long time - and will become, for me at least, the standard by which all similar characters are measured. "},{"Title":"Allegorical?","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It seems too many people have missed the point of this movie.  Someone did notice that the Ben Kingsley character was unrelentingly unpleasant and violent.  Did anyone notice that the Ray Winstone character was pussy cat? Yet at one time in his past life, he must also have also been a very violent man, having moved in the circles he did.In my mind this was a tale of two sides of the same coin.  An inner struggle between the old Gal and the new kinder gentler man that just wanted a peaceful life.  It was no slight thing that it was his wife who killed Don, thereby destroying the male beast within him (Gal).There was also the old Faustian thing with the Ian MacShane character as the devil, allowing Gal to retain his soul.Why am I rambling on about this esoteric stuff?  Just to point out that, underlying the simple story, is a very powerful sub-plot that drives the whole thing along.  If it didn't do it for you, then either you just haven't come accross some of life's unpleasant lessons yet, or maybe you don't like to be reminded of them. "},{"Title":"Don't Provoke The Beast","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one fascinating dark little film. Supported by fierce cinematography, black humour, chilling characters and strong language, 'Sexy Beast' works on many levels. It can be viewed as a conversational film, a study of characters and a psychological thriller. The writing is brilliant as some of the dialogues induce both humour and chill. The screenplay is pretty tight, leaving no place for loose ends or irrelevant subplots. Glazer's direction is wonderful as he keeps the viewer engaged throughout the entire 90 minutes and effectively infuses wicked humour and suspense. The characters are so interesting, while we hate Logan, we sympathize with his counterfeit Gal who is a retired gangster trying to live a straight life with his family and loyal friends. Logan desperately wants him to do a job but Gal bravely yet hesitantly turns it down. Logan won't give up and even he notices that everybody hates him (which is beginning to make him feel powerless). The cast deliver solid performances. Ray Winstone is amazing. He easily conveys Gal's complexity and dilemma with pathos. Ben Kingsley as the hatefully irritating and intimidating Logan is superb. Ian McShane is scary. Amanda Redman is electrifying in a smaller role. 'Sexy Beast' is one slick wicked little film. Not a movie for everyone, but worth watching for those who enjoy black humour and dark cinema. "},{"Title":"My two pence","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At first I was a bit disappointed after watching the film, due to the misleading trailer and the expectations I had. Sexy Beast is at it's core a romance, not a comedy and definitely not an action flick. It's all about Gal trying to protect his life and his marriage. After finishing a nine years stretch courtesy of Her Majesty's prison, Gal has had enough of a life of Crime and Punishment and settles down at the Spanish Riviera with his beloved ex-pornstar wife and another couple. Together with a local Spanish boy who helps Gal around the house they seems like a family, living a peaceful and happy life far from dreary England and their equally dreary past. Enter psychotic Don Logan, who tries to persuade Gal to do one last job. I think the plot can be interpreted symbolically the boulder crashing into Gal's pool, missing him just by a few inches yet shattering the two hearts pattern on the pool's basin, symbolizes the arrival of Logan. Logan is just as menacing, deadly and uncontrollable as nature, endangering the love between Gal and his wife DeeDee. He's a part of Gal's criminal past coming to haunt him, the violent and antisocial part of himself he's been suppressing so long (notice how meek Gal is?), Gal's Id. Logan taunts Gal what a wuss he has become, how fat and lazy he's become, how low he has sunk by marrying an ex-pornstar, that he deserted Logan (some of Gal's own thoughts deep down?). He's trying to snatch Gal away from DeeDee, he doesn't want him to be happy (Gal I'm happy now. Logan, shouting I won't let you be happy, why should I!). Interestingly enough, as soon as Logan arrives at Gal's villa, the Spanish boy leaves; so the boy could be interpreted as Gal's innocent and peaceful side. SPOILER AHEAD! So when Logan beats down the kid (i.e. Gal's evil side is gaining upperhand over his good side) it's DeeDee that makes the final decision and saves their marriage by killing her rival for Gal's soul (in between Logan's vitriolic rants he tells Gal he loves him). Everyone partakes in Logan's murder except for Gal and the boy; meaning that all of Gal's friends want to get rid of that part of him? In essence it's all about Gal's psychomachia, i.e. having to take sides either going back to a life of crime and violence, or saving his marriage and his happiness. On that level, it was quite enjoyable. Ben Kingsley portrays Logan disturbingly menacing (the mirror scene!), Ian McShane as kingpin Teddy Bass is just as believable (no Love nor Joy...) and Ray Winstone reminded me of an English-version of James Gandolfini. "}{"Title":"Big Bad Ben's Show!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Throughout film history, there have been so many grimacing villains that make us tremble as we watch their repugnant behaviors. The latest one is Don Logan from the film `Sexy Beast'. Ben Kingsley co-stars as Logan. His devious & energized performance make him the `king' of all villains that I have seen in film this year. Kingsley's performance was definitely oscar worthy. Logan is the scowling criminal who effortlessly tries to recruit a retired ex-thief in executing another score. Ray Winstone stars as the ex- bank robber. However, it was Kingsley who stole this show! The film does get a bit uneasy at times, and its beast representation definitely was not one of beauty. But for what it's worth `Sexy Beast' is Big Bad Ben's finest hour! *** Average  "},{"Title":"The best Brit gangster movie since The Long Good Friday","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just don't know why this movie didn't get a large release in America despite Kingsley being up for yet another very justified Oscar. It manages to be tense, funny, and totally absorbing all at the same time. The story is told at breakneck speed and never lets up for a second. All the performances are incredible, most notably Ray Winstone, Amanda Redman and Lovejoy himself, Ian McShane, but as everyone points out, Kingsley just steals the show even when he is not onscreen. If this movie doesn't get a major big screen release in the States, it will be a crime larger than any job that Don Logan or Teddy Bass could plan. "},{"Title":"F#$@in Brilliant!","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I liken this masterpiece to Stanley Kubrick's 'Full Metal Jacket' for two reasons. One is the similarity they share in that you're not sure it's OK to be laughing at the content and secondly each film is in two halves, changing pace slightly after the main characters die. Glazer has managed to add a touch of class though that Kubrick didn't. The second half of Sexy Beast is still charging and the flashbacks of Don dying keep the viewers pulse pumping. Ben Kingsley was born to play this role. He was robbed of the Oscar. Try watching Ghandi and this back to back, then you'll see what a great actor is. One of the best of all time. Ray Winstone is also perfect and the two of them together compliment each other nicely like a kind of steroid and sun induced Odd Couple. Don Logan is absolutely frightening which I'd be able to notice more if I wasn't huddled over laughing so much every time I watch it. The scene in the kitchen with Gal in his dressing gown and Don firing into him looks like a very upset football coach voicing his disappointment in his star player. It's so impressive the actors don't look like they're acting and the fear on everyone but Don's face says this. Glazer's direction is stunning as is the soundtrack and production. This film is a masterpiece. Anybody who doesn't see that can go back to watching My Three Sons and listening to Neil Diamond ya ponce. "},{"Title":"brilliant British film","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Im getting rather irritated by Americans complaining about the dialogue and accents, saying that it should be made more understandable for American audiences, so what your saying is we should change our own accents in our own films hence making them unrealistic and unbelievable to all of us brits just so u yanks can get a better understanding ? well im sorry to tell u that this is a British film made by brits starring brits and for brits, whether Americans understand whats going on or not is irrelevant, its not for u !!! do u tone down or change your language when making sopranos/forest gump and all other shocking American style dialogue ? do we ask u to ? exactly so p i s s off !! "},{"Title":"One of the scariest bad guys ever, and he's British!!!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A fantastic British gangster movie that goes for authenticity over 'Mockney' laughs. Continuing where 'Performance' left off (it even features James Fox) this movie has stand-out performances from all of it's cast, with Ben Kingsley (as Don Logan) producing the scariest bad-guy in cinema since Dennis Hopper's 'Frank'. Ray Winstone & Amanda Redmond are perfectly cast, with Winstone flinching superbly from the terrifying aggression exuded by Kingsley and, to a lesser extent, McShane. Ian McShane does a lot to bury his lightweight 'Lovejoy' persona with an excellent, menacing performance that contrasts well against Winstone's thin bravado, but the honours here have to go to Kingsley who is simply stunning, turning in a masterclass performance and proving (once again) that he is a top-drawer actor with every aspect of his character (posture; accent; attitude) finally honed and utterly (appallingly) convincing.Kingsley's scenes set the movie alight (like the stunning airport sequence, and of course the return to the villa) and it would be interesting to know just how much of the dialogue comes from the excellent script and how much (if any) was improvised. These more aggressive sections are beautifully contrasted by the 'slower' character building sections, which allow Winstone to display his charm to full affect. A superb movie, well worth repeat viewing... "},{"Title":"The story really told isn't obvious","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" On the surface it's an artful depiction of British gangsters, but the real story is of a man absolutely driven by an obsession with a woman that he's too socially maladjusted to pursue normally. On the surface he's a strong, hyper-masculine man who is pushy, demanding, intimidating and fearless. Beneath the surface he's lonely, isolated, fragile and desperately craves acceptance, especially from the woman he's obsessed with, and he's frustrated and confused by his inability to achieve that acceptance. The casting is perfect. The acting is outstanding. As an American though, I practically needed a translator to understand what they were saying with their thick British accents. I loved the movie. The only flaw I saw was in the death scene. It wasn't believable. The man didn't seem to be experiencing the kind of pain and blood loss weakness an injury like that would've caused. But believe me, it's a minor flaw. It's a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Dialogue driven film that sadly gets weaker towards the end","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gal is a safecracker now living in retirement in the Costa del Crime in Spain.  Safe from the law and living off the money he managed to put to one side when working.  When London gangster Don Logan calls a friend to offer Gal a job, Gal intends to refuse it but is faced with telling him face to face when Logan arrives from London offering Gal the job in two days time.  As the unpredictably brutal Logan pressures Gal more and more he is faced with the possibility of having to return to England for a job.I watched this several years after it came out in the cinema so I was sheltered from much of the hype.  I'm not a huge fan of all these new British gangster movies that are about of late as many seem to be in awe of `Lock, Stock' and just are happy to copy rather than innovate.  Sexy Beast really gripped me for the most part because it doesn't try to copy like so many others.  Instead it is very stagey rather than slick and energetic.  The plot weakness is that it has nowhere to really go.  The `job' itself is pretty pointless and the key moment that is meant to have us on the edge of our seats doesn't really work.However what does work is the majority of the film where Gal and Logan standoff to each other.  This is very dialogue driven but really works mostly because of Kingsley who rightly got an Oscar nod for this.  He drives the film with his brutal and unpredictable character.  Winstone is good but is almost a support character when viewed beside Kingsley.  The support cast are OK with Fox and McShane being interesting but underused castings.The fantasy scenes are imaginative and the film is very stylishly done without copying off anyone else.  It falls a little flat towards the end and the `job' is not as exciting as one would have hoped &#150; basically once Logan `convinces' Gal to take the job the pressure cooker excitement is gone never to be replaced.  Up to that point this is quite a wonderful little find. "},{"Title":"Too sophisticated for many.....","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie. Yes the Cockneys talk like this, yes the British use the C word rather a lot and yes one does have to pay attention to the movie and not mentally wander off, which is probably why most Americans didn't get it.  "},{"Title":"one of my favorite","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  exquisitely directed gangster movie that's really about love...a genre movie taken to a whole other level - amazing relationships are setup and played through between the characters. kingsley is a prick - so over the top it's hilarious - a perfect foil for winstone's low key brilliance (this & nil by mouth? he is a genius). this movie truly lives up to its title.  "},{"Title":"Top ten. For acting script the lot. Oh and the rabbit Devil.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film yonks ago but only half way through and never really thought much of it. I just got a copy and it's got to be one of the best films i've ever seen. The casting was brilliant. Ian McShane is a fantastic actor,but ben Kingsley was superb. There's a scene when he's in the kitchen with ray winstone when he says we know why the real reason he came and his expression changes. I played it a few times to watch it,it was fantastic,the only other person i've seen do that is jack nicholson in as good as it gets. I'd say it's got to be down to the directing. As i've seen ben kingsley in other movies and not though he was as good,and Ray Winston was not his usual character all the way through. It was the dogs!!! that was!! Oh yeah the Devil Rabbit!!!! I just looked up what was made first Donnie Darcko or this and it was this!!By 1 year?? Maybe in a book before? I saw DD before and it was definitely copied. Unless it was copied from another movie???? "}{"Title":"But quite frankly your attitude appalls me. It's not what you're saying. It's all this stuff you're not saying. Insinnuendos.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is directed by Jonathan Glazer and written by Louis Mellis and David Scinto. It stars Ray Winstone, Ben Kingsley, Ian McShane, Amanda Redman, Cavan Kendall, James Fox and Julianne White. Music is by Roque Baños and cinematography by Ivan Bird. Retired to the Costa del Chill Out, retired thief Gary 'Gal' Dove (Winstone) finds his tranquil existence shattered when menacing gangster Don Logan (Kingsley) arrives on the scene demanding Gal goes back to London to do another job. 2000 saw a slew of British gangster films released. The success of Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels opened the door for film makers keen to do their bit for Brit Grit. As is always the way, quality varies, but the class of 2000 had a healthy rate of good 'uns, of which Sexy Beast is a proud operator. The story is very thin, very film noir, an ex bad boy doing one last job that risks everything he has settled down for, but there's a panache to how the makers construct the tale. It helps that it's boosted by a ferocious performance from Kingsley, who is given licence to unleash his dark half, as he swears, stares, gets violent and has a general disregard for anyone but himself. Director Glazer, in what was his film after breaking out from advertisements and music videos, shows a keen eye for stylist visuals and attention grabbing scenes. He opens with an outrageous sequence of Gal sun bathing by his pool, the sun burning down, and then a giant boulder thunders into view and land in the pool! All set to the sound of The Stranglers single Peaches. Quite a way to announce yourself in film. The first half of film is the best, set at Gal's Spanish villa, Glazer neatly frames the characters (Gal lives with his wife and his two friends from England live nearby) as they bicker and cower in the shadow of Logan, who wouldn't be beyond sending them all to hell if he doesn't get his way. It's sweaty and tense, a coiled spring like atmosphere tells us something is going to give - and it does. The second half of the piece is not so tense or thrilling, though the robbery has a whiff of genius about it, but the pay off works well because Gal has earned our respect, as has his fellow sun seekers. Sexy Beast is not just sexy (tongue in cheeks for the makers), it's beefy and brutal, but also strangely beautiful as well. Nice. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I am so glad people are still talking about this movie!","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't resist the urge to speak my piece about this wonderful work of cinema. Being a connoisseur of mobster movies i.e. The Godfather,Goodfellas,Casino,The Untouchables; Sexy Beast came upon me when I looked up the resume of Ben Kingsley years ago shortly after this movie came out. I have to say that watching a gangster movie was never more enjoyable than this one.You could say that there is a lot of different dynamics to the movie and storyline that keeps you entertained. Personally the dialog is fan dabby dozy tastic though at first I didn't quite understand the cockney accent that was presented. Through years of watching I thoroughly enjoy the banter of Don Logan,the uneasiness of Gal, and the subtleties of each character including the sneaky leader of the hired henchmen Teddy Bass played hauntingly by Ian McShane.The humor that is peppered throughout the film is great. Whether its Gal speaking Boulder under the pool water to an unknowing Dee Dee; or the rabbit hunting incident when Aitch and his toy gun goes clunk and disassembles when Gal is speaking at the restaurant with his close friends.The setting and locales were enjoyable and Gal's Spanish villa overlooking the town glistens and has an air of complete paradise about it. The pool a perfect solace for a retired,loyal and reserved specialist. The underwater heist scene crazy and unbelievable as it was seemed creative and fun to watch as each moment unfolded.I can't forget the music that fits in very well with the mood of the movie too. It lead you through the highs and lows that happen during this roller coaster ride. A scene that jumps to mind is the short walk Gal has to take to talk to Teddy about the disappearance of Don Logan when in London. The electronic beat pounds as to let u know what Gal is feeling at that very moment he is walking to uncertain doom.Never have I seen two more disturbing and different characters in one film portrayed so well with Ben Kingsley and Ian McShane. Each able to show menace and be so convincing. One pushing with such max force and filth in language while diminutive in stature. The other speaking slow and deliberate, eyes piercing through you like you weren't even there. Funny thing is they both got their way one way or another. As Teddy put it, There's a way...there's always a f*****g way. I could ramble on and on but don't let the naysayers cloud your augment. Look at all the factors in this movie to make your opinion count. Many of the reviews of this film are very upbeat compared to the smaller group of haters. Ill give the negative crowd some credit though considering some of my friends and wife considered it average. Isn't that what this world is about though,freedom of choice and speech. To those seeking a fun,throw a movie in and lose yourself for 89 minutes ride this will do. R.I.P. Cavan Kendall Aka Aitch. "},{"Title":" Before  you  begin,  I want  you  to  know ,  . . . .  I' m  Retired ","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are many films which bear the unmistakable signature of Sir Ben Kingsley. This is one of them. The film is called  Sexy Beast is straight out of the gangster era of the nineteen sixties and Ben Kingsley plays a vicious Gangster recruited to plan a covert robbery against a 'Modern Fortress' of a safe. Within the vault are millions kept locked in hundreds of deposit boxes. Unfortunately, the place is state-of-the-arts and guarded by a massive steel door, reminiscent of a Missle Silo. It's impregnable. That is the challenge faced by Kingsley who steals the show with his brutal portrayal of Don Logan. His character is not easily forgotten as he plays a character genuinely abusive to his former confederates. The men he seeks for the job includes Ray Winstone who plays Gary Dove a retired thief now living in seclusion with his wife and son. Ian McShane plays Teddy Bass. a man who says more with his stoic facial expressions, than with his voice. The pace of the film is deceiving as is Winstone who glides through his role as quiet as an approaching storm. The film is subtle like an express train and ends with an event one would expect of a train wreck. Great Movie. **** "},{"Title":"sexy as in sex, beast as in beastly","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Retired ne'er-do-well Gal spends his days sunning himself on the Costa-del-Crime with moll and best friends Aitch and Jackie. All seems well till a huge boulder rolls down the mountain, launches itself into the grounds of his villa and misses him by centimetres before a huge splashdown in his outdoor pool.It is an astounding opening, played comically as Gal cools himself with a tiny battery-operated fan, but bringing in a sense of foreboding that is brought to fruition when the four pals have dinner and news of a phone call is passed on. From Don Logan.Enter Ben Kingsley, complaining about a sweaty shirt, and immediately you feel the first trickles of sweat on your own brow. Kingsley puts in a powerhouse performance as psychotic Don, at his most frightening when most vulnerable, talking to himself in the mirror about his loose mouth. Kingsley plays Don as childish, intolerant, moody, and utterly utterly vicious. It is the role Winstone has made his own over the years, from Scum through to Nil by Mouth, and casting him on the receiving end is a nice ironic touch. It also allows Winstone to exercise his range more than usual and he does not come up short.The film inevitably flags when Don is absent, but to the filmmakers credit the pacing of the final third is briskly done, an awareness that McShane and Fox could not outshine Don.Overall, it's partly a heist story, but mostly a love story, one man's attempt to cover for and get back to the woman he loves.The director's music video roots are for the most part used well in surreal dream sequences with a mutated rabbit, though personally I could have done without the final underground shot that seemed to detract from the overall oppressive tone. A minor quibble, as this film is a near perfect blend of tension, humour, romance, dread and horror. Pretty much unmissable. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 2000/2001","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is one of the best romantic movies ever made because romance is what guides the explosive action from beginning to end. This movie avoids bludgeoning us with the requisite chick movie soft-glow shots of pretty boys and girls (though Deedee is easy enough on the eyes), and load-of-crap about eternal love. Instead Sexy Beast only has to deliver glimpses of realistic, blissful romantic love because the acting is so strong and natural that is all that is needed to convey the depth of emotional attachment that makes the formidable obstacles posed by Don, Teddy and the last job.The cinema photography is impeccable. Some wows off the top of my head boulder sequence, floating in night sky underwater embrace, teddy as rabbitman dream sequence, underwater deposit box robbery!!!! (There are more, of yes there are.) Yeah, it has some video/advertising tinges to it, but the touches serve the film superbly.Dialogue is hilarious and playful. The film's pace is fast, but not overly so. The plot is somewhat familiar, but executed so deftly with such fantastic acting that the familiar seemed new.The acting was incredible all around. Perfect casting. I fluctuate daily about who was a better villain, Teddy or Don. Teddy had the inner cool/evil thing going; Don had the wounded pitbull fire burning in his belly. Gal endeared me from the first frame and retained my sympathy and support til the last. All the supporting parts (including the crime gang bit players) were top of the mark .Simply put this is the best movie of 2001 so far, and one of the best movies of all time. I've seen it 3 times so far and want to see it again and again and again.  "},{"Title":"Highly original thug thriller","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Contemporary London and Spain's Costa Brava has never looked better in this stunning film. Jonathan Glazer 's original take on bank robbery, love, and hiding is a truly  impressive debut.  If you've seen his previous work, its incredible how he manages to put his stamp on this film. Grab bag of weirdness, fun, suspense, surrealism, shock, and horror make 88 minutes feel like two hours. Ben Kingsley and Ray Winestone's performance is  fan-bloody- tastic. Impeccable dialogue and lethal delivery - understated and frightening. Way better than Walken & Hopper in True Romance , Travolta & Jackson in Pulp Fiction.  Watch out for Winestone's alter egos pool boy and something entirely different never seen before. What Glazer superbly handles in three minutes is even more outrageous, disturbing and gratifying than Uncle Fester's half hour 'fraternity party in Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. Although I like some visual techniques in Snatch, Glazer outdoes Guy Ritchie visually, editorially and outperforms him in casting, dialogue, tension and mania. Glazer's onto Nic Roeg's weird elliptical sensibility that is so wonderfully refreshing in this age of 'follow by the book storyline as dicated by accounting, marketing and developing heads. Many directors will imitate this hard edge, spicy film. "},{"Title":"At last a gangster movie which keeps it real","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nice to see something worthy of the title proper British gangster film, in the tradition of Get Carter or The Long Good Friday. Ray Winstone and Cavan Kendall are very believable as the retired crims living in Spain - the vulgarity of their sun tans, gold chains and dark shirts is wonderfully portrayed. Glazer has a great eye for composition and detail, such as the Jackie Collins paperbacks in the background of one shot. The sultry young boy who hangs around Dove s villa is a nice touch - his androgynous beauty a contrast to Dove s understated grossness.The costumes and the detailing in this film make it very satisying and authentic feeling for example Logan, with his shaven bullet head, his wiry frame in nasty blue slacks and white shirt, finished off with prison tattoos on his arms. Right down to the brand of cigarettes he s smoking. Kingsley is really scary as the psychopath, particularly in the way he speaks, which is chillingly authentic.The one thing this film portrays very well is the climate of fear which surrounds anyone in 'the life' Dove and his friends arte like startled bunny rabbits faced with Logan. That sense of always looking over your shoulder and never really being able to relax, or trust another comes across. It s never obvious in this film whose going to be hurt or killed although the limited violence, when it does happen, has an inevitability to it.  "},{"Title":"the cream of British acting","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is by far the most underrated of British cinema. You think its just another gangster film but you are wrong. It is full of mythological imagery. It is wonderfully shot and the sound track brings some humour. You believe the characters are real. their interaction is in some part Verite. Amanda Redman and Ray Winston, you believe they do love each other and Winston would move heaven and earth for her. Ben Kingsley plays the psychopath so well, he actually reminds me of a yapping dog who will stop at nothing to get the rat. His whole persona is you will!. Its as if he is outside his body when he is interrogating Winstons refusal to do this one last job. His appearance causes such fear, he does not need to be violent. The locations are beautiful as a contrast the black evil that is coming to the villa. Winston in his huge size and kind face is n o match for the shorter yet animalistic Kingsley who, if you've seen him in Schindlers list is a total contradiction for this amazing character actor. He sits there like a king not even making demands except with his body language, not even saying anything about why he is there. Everyone should watch this film. The performances are so intense, its as if even the film crew walk on egg shells. The shots are amazing, illustrating the vastness that is Spain, away from the grime ridden England that Ray Winston's character has escaped. Kingsley does not so much as request help but talks in the rhetoric that even Winston cannot refuse politely. Stuttering like a child, Kingsley's voice is calm one minute and instantly becomes an evil entity in what began as a calm film about a man made good from a life of crime. Even Lovejoy himself, Ian Macshane is in his element as a don. Stylish, never shouting, its like a folie a deux when they get together. I cannot praise this film enough, its cool, its scary, its stylish. Not your typical gangster film but it has created a new genre of gangster film. Just superb. Ray Winston, Ben Kingsley, Amanda Redman, Ian Macshane. we salute you are the cream of British cinema that we do not see as much as we should. "},{"Title":"Why are you swearing? I'm not swearing....","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gal, a retired gangster, lives a happy life with his wife Deedee in a beautiful house in Spain.Don Logan, a respected name with the mob and an old friend to Gal, suddenly shows up. He wants Gal to join him on this big strike in London together with a well picked out gang of respected gangsters.When Gal keeps turning him down, Don gets more and more threatening, no is not an answer...After a few sophomore years of mockney gangster movie rip offs, we finally get a classic crime/drama that gives us Ben Kingsleys greatest role ever.As Don Logan, he is the epitaph of gruesome, someone who exudes aggression and can change an atmosphere as soon as he walks into a room. Kingsley can do this with Don without uttering a word, and the fact that he is obviously mentally ill makes him scarier and strangely, quite amusing.But this isn't just a film about a robbery, This is about the past catching up with Gal, and his life not as 'rosy' as he expects (see the boulder falling down at the beginning, indicating a disturbance on the way, and him not forgetting about the past or his time in prison (which could be an indication for the goat).The film is almost comic book in it's character study, it's strange to say that a lot of characters are two dimensional, but the central performances bring them out more. Spain is depicted beautifully, and makes you want to live Gals life. It doesn't help that London is raining or appears to be cold the majority of the time.All in all, this is about being unable to run away from the past, no matter how much you have or how far you go. If someone is jealous of you, some will go to great lengths to ruin your happiness.A truly amazing British film. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm giving it a nine for the excellent acting and good production values. Ben Kingsley was completely convincing as the embodiment of evil. Ray Winstone was awesome and I actually cared for his character even though he was living on money made from crime. He didn't seem to be the type who would want to hurt anyone, but when he starts slugging Don Logan after he's been shot, you certainly understand why. I think they should have shot the man as soon as he walked in the door but then that would have been a short movie. All the other cast members were good and I was completely caught up in the simple story. The photography and editing were top-notch. "}{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ben Kingsley's performance is utterly amazing a combination of fascist thug, drill sergeant and retarded playground bully which is truly chilling. This is a stunning film debut for the writer/director. The dialogue is convincing. The pacing is superb. My personal favourite scene is that of the restaurant, where Gary (Winston) tries to maintain a cool exterior but simply emphasises how utterly devastating the impending arrival of Kingsley is. Ian McShane is also surprising as the all powerful, twisted crime lord. There are some surreal sequences here which are not to everyone's taste, but I think it actually adds to the realism of the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"What a piece of work !!!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm an actress and the work in this film by EVERYBODY took my breath away. Watching it on TV, I felt like I had a great book and just couldn't put it down while most films bore me enough that I will tape the end and maybe watch it later. How intriguing! And big time kudos to the casting director.....I want to work for that person. The entire cast was just so perfect......their looks, actions, etc. The reviewer who said Kingsley was the best thing in it and the story was weak must have seen a different film.No one has to say anything about Kingsley's always fabulous work but I was blown away by the authenticity and charisma that Ray Winston as Gary (Gal) Dove and Amanda Redman as DeeDee Dove exuded. My eyes were glued to their every warm, wonderful move.......the warmth exuding even when their role demanded a hardness. LOVED IT! LOVED THEM! "},{"Title":"Try close captioning","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Stand out performances by Kingsley, McShane and Winstone.  Mcshane certainly sheds his Lovejoy persona deftly. With these performances who needs a story. Ostensibly a 'heist' film Beast transcends the genre relegating the caper to the back burner. For those that cannot make out the dialogue two words - 'close captioning'. I am hard of hearing and use this feature with all videos, dvds or sat. broadcasts regardless of language or dialect. Some theater releases now use subtitles in UK films. Also an excellent way to decipher the lyrics of film songs which are otherwise completely missed. "},{"Title":"This movie deserved a better title!","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie deserved a better title and a better promotional poster. The one they used is just awful and the title reminds of a bad class b movie with seductive hybrids or something like that. The fist 5 minutes of the film never ended...maybe they were trying to show us the sexy beast, but the joke wasn't that great. After that, it all starts to build in a very effective and tense way. The interest grows when Kingsley shows up. Fantastic role. One of his best. All the actors did a good job and the plot was very good till the end. I enjoyed it a lot. I don't consider this one of the best gangster movies, but a good action comedy thriller. Worth to watch. "},{"Title":"115 f**ks and 21 c**ts, plus everything else that was cut from Gandhi","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a spectacular piece of British cinema only made better by the lack of Hugh Grant and Richard Curtis.Ben Kingsley portrayal of a nasty bastard is amazing his delivery is to the point and scary, His character has a slight smile and staring eyes that drill into you and talking himself into a frenzy makes him even more horrible to cope with.What is shown in this film is very quick editing combined with sound continuity so the cuts are invisible and unintrusive, strong use of colour, using a low key to make even the sun of Spain seem dark and a style unseen before, the lack of cliché ridden cockney slang makes this film even more credible.When the film first starts we get a dream like underwater shot which you are not expecting, a metaphor for 'living the dream' possibly, but throughout the film the increasing amount of surrealism adds another layer to this almost perfect British gangster film. "},{"Title":"Logan has that quality that distinguishes all great villains","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In fact it is the THREAT of violence, far more than the violence itself, which distinguishes this tale. Without the use of weapons of any kind, Logan is able to cow and terrorize a roomful of reasonably fearless adults simply by his steely-eyed demeanor and the unpredictable nature of his temperament. Seemingly controlled and rational one moment, he can suddenly erupt into a volcano of exploding anger the next. One of the most chilling moments in the film occurs aboard a departing airplane in which Logan refuses to douse his cigarette, thereby precipitating a confrontation with the flight crew. Logan has that quality that distinguishes all great villains he throws us back on our heels by his refusal to conform to the social amenities that the rest of us simply take for granted and which put us at a decided disadvantage when faced with the evil characters of the world who know no rules and flagrantly disregard the ones we follow. He reminds us of how weak and vulnerable the rest of us really are.Logan, for all the intensity generated by his character, is not, however, the focal point of the film. Gal, brilliantly played by Ray Winstone, who provides a fascinating counterpoint to Logan's no-holds- barred villainy, occupies that position. Despite his criminal background, Gal wins us over by his openhearted frankness, his sincere devotion to his wife, friends and neighbors, and his obvious desire to lead a straight life from hereon out. Winstone underplays his scenes superbly, yet he never allows himself to be acted off the screen by the fiery Kingsley. (One should mention that the heavy cockney accents of the characters make what they are saying a bit incomprehensible at times). "},{"Title":"It starts with  I gotta change my shirt","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sir Sir Ben kingsley i think this is the right respect for the person of this potential , I haven't seen such energetic performance by any actor ever.The real villain , the real evil , the real beast,the character he portrays provides justice to all these words.However the movie without Sir kingsley is very very common but Sir kingsley makes this movie special with his thrilling performance.Gal , dirty deede , Aitch , jacky all are the characters who cant say a word in front of Don Logan. they hate him but can't say , he will beat them but they can't resist , he will swear them but they have to reply softly else LOGAN Gonno fire , I believe there is no way to stop his insults the only way is to kill him.Aitch behave If someone says thank you say behave. Wow Don Logan So i should say please don't miss this flick , highly recommended for the BEN Kingsley lover , NO NO NO NO NO NO No F*ck*g No No No No "},{"Title":"You can't escape","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" If Teddy, the ultimate crime lord, willing to take it us the arse and still turn retribution/cover up into an exercise in power politics, isn't enough for you, then there's still Don Logan.I watched the film with my mid-60's mother - the both of us born and bred South Londoners - and after I asked her if she ever knew any Don Logans. At the same time, we both said, Oh yes. A beautifully photographed, acted, and edited film. The cross cutting between the heist and Don being pummeled by the ex-pats, is alone enough to tell you that you're in great story-telling hands.If you get it, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"WOW is all i got to say","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ben Kingsley is amazing. this movie is very very good. a surprise that just creeped up on me. I did not expect it to be so entertaining. It is a bit twisted though. and the ending is somewhat left to the viewer's imagination. simply spectacular. Ray Winstone delivers as well. he plays his character very well. At times you are not sure if it is his own personality or if it is the character's. He is simply a natural. I loved Ben Kingsley's accent in the movie. The plot is a little strange, and you have to get used to it right at the beginning. I also loved the scenery and the cinematography. You certainly get the sense of the heat in the opening sense of the movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing film!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was definitely the best film of the year...All of theperformances were excellent.  There was not a dull moment. Everyone talks about Ben Kingsley's brilliant performance (whichis true), but there should be more mention about the screenplay,devilish score and tight editing.   "}{"Title":"At last, a good film from 2001.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A true 'indy' film, this one has great performances, interesting plot,dark twists, and an energy and vitality that are missing from therest of the lot this year. Ben Kingsley and Ray Winstone make thismovie work beautifully, and the director and writer both did awonderful job. Go out and see it! "},{"Title":"Tense !","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of film that would work well on stage. It relies wholly on a brilliant script and flawless acting to pull the viewer in. It's not a movie for children or fans mainstream American cinema. Funny how easy it is to draw comparisons between those two groups of people.I know some people found the accents difficult, and I suggest that those people keep their opinions to themselves as they probably missed 90% of the content. If you don't understand a cockney accent then you probably wont get the humour or much at all about this movie.In summary, it's simple; it's clever; its tense and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Such a low score...","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...for such a belter of a movie. Story simple but effective. Casting inspired; who could have thought Ian McShane (i mean, Lovejoy!) could be so evil? And, obviously, Ben Kingsley as the terrifying Logan. Direction classy but not gimmicky (i'm looking at you, here, Guy Ritchie!)Whilst i'm shocked at this not having an 8 score, i can see why this might not be everyone's cup of tea; the language can be rather course and this is a psychological drama between the main characters, rather than a rampaging monster of an action movie.If you like your gangster movies with a bit more brains, see this. If you're a fan of any of the actors starring in it, it's a must-see. "},{"Title":"A sexy beast of a movie indeed!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm a pretty significant film buff and consider Sexy Beast to be one of the tautest thrillers and finest films I've ever seen. Clocking in at just shy of 90 minutes, director Jonathan Glazer has trimmed all the fat on what is surely a lean, mean, British gangster flick like no other. Winding incredibly well-crafted, clever dialogue into a beautifully photographed, often intense yet wonderfully funny plot, Glazer delivers an instant masterpiece brimming with virtuoso acting performances and inherent re-watchability. Ray Winstone turns in an unbelievably controlled performance as the hopelessly romantic Gal Dove and Ben Kingsley and Ian McShane just chew the scenery to bits as two of the best screen villains since Darth Vader.I would recommend turning the subtitles on for your first viewing as a lot of the dialogue, particular that of the character Aitch, is difficult to decipher through the thick accents.I could go on and on about this movie to freakish detail but will leave it up to you, dear viewer, to investigate. As a fan of film, this is easily one of my favorite, if not most favorite, movies of all time. I look forward to seeing anything and everything Jonathan Glazer is involved in as he is clearly an emerging talent of considerable taste and immeasurable potential.- T. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just saw the tail end of this (last 60%, maybe) on IFN (bless you, IFN), and already I love it. This film makes Tarantino look like an amateur (I've always considered Pulp Fiction somewhat over-rated, and Reservoir Dogs VERY overrated, despite good performances in both). This movie had me on the edge of my seat. Yeah the director used some tricks (like when DeeDee was shown lying in bed with her eyes open - was she dead? Had Don blown her off in a rage?), but a '9' is a pretty good score in my books. Kingsley was just over-the-top brilliant - meaning it wasn't overplayed or anything, but just a supreme performance that's PITCH PERFECT! The language, or the violence? Well, my friends, I'm not about gratuitous cussing or gore, but everything fits in this film, including those 2 elements. They're portraying ruthless gangsters, for crying out loud. What do you expect - prithee please, with a cherry on top? For a simple story, it held great suspense to this viewer. Well done! "},{"Title":"David Mamet goes British.","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There's no way to write a review after only one viewing. Not for us who aren't British at least. I needed the subtitles on just to catch every fast and funny quip Ben K. passed by. But the second time, when I knew what to expect, and the plot could be put as a backdrop behind the incredible emotion of Kingsley. Wow! It's been said and needs to be said again. Regardless as how you feel about movies as a whole. If you want to witness some theatrical acting, go no further. A real David Mamet esquire script helped I'm sure but the acting across the board was finely done and shot. Just don't expect it to be a plot thing with twists and turns. Enjoy how it is an exposition on how people are actually capable of speaking to each other beyond the line. If gives you the same feeling as when you watch Glengary Glenross. It almost makes you want to start talking dirty to loved ones, just because it sounds cool. Worth renting, and if you're like me, worth buying. "},{"Title":"Sexy Beasties","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I originally rented this film because of a trailer I saw for it. After my first viewing, I knew I had to own it, so I bought the DVD. I won't provide spoilers, cuz I don't want to spoil it for you.Those of you familiar with Ben Kingsley's work will be shocked and amazed at his complete immersion in the character of Don Logan, which is the antithesis of his most famous role, Gandhi. I've never been disappointed with a Ben Kingsley vehicle yet, but this film really blew me away.The actors worked with an excellent script, and all the performances were utterly believable. Ian McShane plays Teddy Bass, one of the freakiest freaks to freak-out on film. Ray Winstone, as Gal, plays such a likable character that I was riveted, watching his story unfold.The plot has some wonderful twists and turns, which leave the ending a complete surprise. The conversational tone was like rapid-fire machine guns--you have to pay attention, due to the thick English accents and the film's pacing, in order to get all of the lines.Directed by Jonathan Glazer, who previously directed Blur, Radiohead and Massive Attack in their own music video dvds, this first attempt at a feature-length film was EXCELLENT. I'm looking forward to his future projects.I HIGHLY recommend this movie to those interested in action/thrillers and of course, fans of UK cinema. "},{"Title":"a simple story with an amazing support cast , not to mention one of the greatest performances by a British actor in the last ten years of cinema.","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I try very hard to not have any preconceived judgements on movies before I see them but I found it very difficult to not think I already knew what was going to happen in this film ; I pictured some over zealous British gangster tale of woe ,peral and contrived morals but what I thought was going to be an average film turned out to be one of the greatest British movies I have seen in years . the unassuming storyline griped me not for the intricate plot twists but the enigma .the whole cast complement the dry dark theme . Kingsley (logan) truly stands out in the movie not just by his merits as an actor but by the way Winston (gal), Kendall (aitch), white (dee) and Redman(Jackie)relay a score of unwanted emotions so convincingly . from the nervous fidgeting of Winston to the out of character manner of Kendall in Kingsley's presence . it begs the question ,what is it that this man has done to warrant this behaviour? you'll soon find out . could be interpreted as a little odd but with an open mind on your side you might be talking about this one for years. "},{"Title":"Sexy Beast is a feast","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is a surprise. Never before have I felt that simplicity could truly be a strong point for a film. I cannot stress that enough. Sexy Beast has a relatively simple story. It revolves heavily on your sympathy with the main couple, Gal and Dee (Ray Winstone and Amanda Redman). On the surface, this fits into the genre of the gritty mob or heist film. At the heart though is a modern fairytale about a dedicated marriage in times of trouble.Everyone raves about Ben Kingsley's intense performance as a mob thug, Don. Indeed, seeing the dark side of Ghandi one cannot argue that Kingsley is a superb chameleon. This tidbit of star-power that the movie has tends to let people forget that the rest of the actors are equally amazing. Ian McShane (now of HBO's Deadwood fame) has relatively little screen time but a harsh and lasting presence.One note of humanity to point out in this crime flick is the uncommonly expressed simple fear of committing a crime. Another is the steady nod to the basic relationship of a married couple in their 40s. Dodging between such themes, you even find humor sometimes in someone's absurd cruelty, sometimes in a joke between friends. Some may argue that Sexy Beast is slow, I say it is methodical and intelligent. "},{"Title":"Kingsley is a Tasmanian Devil with Tourettes","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  sociopath (noun) 1. A person who is completely unable or unwilling to behave in a way that is acceptable to society. 2. Don LoganThe movie begins innocuously enough, with retired gangster and safe cracker Gal baking in the intense Mediterranean sun, pool bound at his Spanish villa. A giant boulder rolls into his life and into his pool, providing a harbinger of things to come. The quaint tranquility of Gal, wife and friends is broken with the news of a phone call and the imminent arrival of a much more dangerous and sinister human boulder, Don Logan. Ben Kingsley's performance is simply over the top madness that will have you squirming with discomfort then quaking in fear. He plays a part -time gangster and full-time sociopath who is like a speeding freight train without brakes, a Looney Toons Tasmanian Devil with Tourettes, a pit bull with A.I.D.S., only much, much worse. Don has come to recruit the retired Gal for one more heist and simply will not take no for an answer. The dialogue between Don and Gal is Mametian-like staccato that will have you reeling. No-no-no-no...Yes-Yes-Yes-Yes! has never been uttered with more vitriol and intensity as the confrontation builds to unbearable levels.Thumbs up to Jonathan Glazer for a great job of direction, really a slick effort. Kingsley dominates this fine cast, but great performances are put in by Winstone, as Gal and Amanda Redman as DeeDee, standing up to the ruthless Logan. I don't want to spoil the movie, rent it or BUY IT, but Gal ends up going to London to do the job. Here's a scary thought....Don Logan is NOT the meanest, most evil character in the movie, that honor is reserved for Teddy Bass, just watch the movie and see. Highly Recommended! 9.5/10.0  "}{"Title":"An instant classic","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A hugely impressive debut.  This film crashes into the stagnant pond of recent British crime drama like the boulder at the beginning of the film crashing into retired gangster Gary Dove's pool, smashing the twin heart logo.  A herald indeed for the whirlwind of evil that Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) brings into the film when he arrives to try to recruit Gary for another job back in London.The film works so well because it dares to inject an intelligence into the genre so lacking in many recent offerings.  The characters are caricartures for sure but beautifully sketched.  Like a Hoggarth painting there is emotional depth here which draws you in.  Though never explicitly stated you feel that Gary and Dee Dee are exploited characters, drawn into the underworld and now escaping from it.  These are played off against Don and Teddy who are sociopaths of the first order.  The tension generated between them is electrifying and sometimes almost unbearable. "},{"Title":"The yanks just dont get it!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hey guys i just cant believe how you can knock the movie and then admit in the next sentence that you didn't understand the accent.Well me being an australian probably makes it easier for me but let me tell you the way the dialogue is used in this movie is more true to life than any tarentino crap.I work with working class people that realy talk like this and let me tell you that ben kingsley has done an awesome job to put himself in the mindset of don logan.The scene where he insists on paying for H's meal is so typical of how standover men like to assert themselves over others.Later when he talks his way out of trouble with the airport police is just pure magic.I think the understanding of this movie is conditional on the understanding of the dialogue,if you dont get it dont knock it,if you do then prepare yourself for the most full on movie since chopper.9 out 0f 10  "},{"Title":"Did you expect gangsters to talk like Mickey Mouse?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The so-called Americans (we Mexicans are also Americans, we're not Asians or Africans that I know...)express their comments in a very funny and biased way. They focus on profanity or accent instead of doing so on analyzing virtues or defects of a film. It looks unfair to complaint about how many F words appear instead of considering Kingsley's art, why underlying the undeniable tension masterly crafted during some scenes while remarking the low-life London accent. Did you expect gangsters to talk in a very soft manner?Personally, I found the film very enjoyable, though not free of flaws, for example, what´s the origin of the tremendous power Logan exercises over all the characters?. The film also shows to deflate when Logan dies, but in my opinion, it was worth paying the ticket just to enjoy the acting, especially Kingsley who was astounding (even for those who say that screeching it's not acting, try to pull Kingsley away from the film...)  "},{"Title":"Fine crime flick in the tradition of the 70s","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting a slick, fast-paced, shallow gangster flick in the tradition of Tarentino and Ritchie. While 90s stylization does sometimes rear its head (especially in the caper sequences), most of SEXY BEAST harkens back to character-driven movies of the 70s. It's more THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY than SNATCH. Characters are defined by their relationships with each other, not their verbal tics. Even Kingsley's loudmouthed heavy is closer to De Niro's brute in RAGING BULL than one of Tarentino's hypereloquent creations. It's a nice change of pace (though, like many 70s movies, it has the occasional problem with pacing and dialogue). You'll enjoy this movie more if you set aside comparisons with Tarentino and Ritchie and take it on its own terms. "},{"Title":"Painfully straight forward and overextended movie about have-been criminals","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast (2000)Raw, talky, layered with familiar bad guy stuff, not all that well constructed. Yes, Ben Kingsley is a very foul talking bad man. And the two couples holed up in Spain are curiously eccentric the way aging gangsters and their girls can be. It ends with a kind of bizarre heist scene that makes no sense at all, and though it's filmed in a fun way, you still need some logic to the enterprise. Okay, there is something fun about having bad guys going after other bad guys, but a movie needs a stronger plot, better motivations in the characters, and a more intelligent unfolding of the facts rather than just bang bang bang. You give lead actor Ray Winstone credit for giving it his sweaty, unglamorous all.Who is director Jonathan Glazer? Ah, that's how he got to make this thing in the first place. He's a veteran of music videos (short) and commercials (very short), which is a whole different world from the two hour feature. Musicians have discovered this to their peril when Hollywood types have tried their hand at the three minute MTV form, and now movie audiences are discovering the opposite (see Spike Jonze for an exception).The most interesting part of the movie is almost trivial--a huge boulder rolling down out of the hills and crashing with a splash in their big swimming pool. It settled right in the middle like something from 2001, and is gorgeous. There's enough bad judgement to spread around and share here, both within the plot and surround the making of the movie. Why didn't they leave the rock there? "},{"Title":"Excellent, very well-acted, taut movie","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie about a man who wants a life (Gal, played with commendable understatement by Ray Winstone) and another man who doesn't have one (Ben Kingsley as the out-of-control psychopath Don Logan) and so wants to inflict his misery on everyone around him. I saw one of the comment threads at the bottom of this page asking the question, is Don the worst character in movie history? I haven't seen every movie, but he'd have to be up there. I've never seen such fear from other characters, so simply and rawly depicted as when Gal and his wife Deedee (Amanda Redman, again, very well-acted as a good time girl who has probably had some bad things happen to her, but who seems to have found happiness with her husband) walk into a restaurant for what they expected to be a pleasant casual meal with his good friend and cohort in their former lives as crooks, Ted (Ian McShane, playing a tough who is really really afraid of Don) and his wife. Don and Deedee enter the restaurant and walk toward the table where Ted and his wife sit still and ashen-faced. They are not moving and seem ready to revert to the fetal position at a moment's notice. Ted received a phone call from Don who wants Gal to do one more job.Few people in life could elicit the pale, fearful responses which Don has from Ted and his wife. Redman as Deedee, and Gal to a lesser degree, betray mortal fear at receiving word from Ted at the phone call Ted got. Deedee's display of mute fear is an admirable depiction of fear which freezes and renders the mind and body still, although we later find out she had another reason to fear Don. That said, Gal is not easily cowed. He doesn't want anything to do with the criminal life. He has served time in jail and now has a quiet life in Spain with his wife. He doesn't want to risk his hard-won pleasures for a job, no matter how big. He might be as scared as Ted, but he refuses to show it.Essentially, this film comes down to a battle of wills between Don, played as a terse, poorly-dressed, stubborn, although unable to persuade friends, psychopath who, if his initial overtures are rejected, will simply badger insistently, either till his target agrees in order that he will stop hectoring, or simply out of fear of the consequences of failing to co-operate.Gal is also quietly insistent though. He has been in trouble before and he has decided his wealth and happiness are not worth squandering on one more hit. Without giving away what happens, this is a very well-acted and compact movie. The director has obviously informed his actors quite clearly on their motivations and the talented cast deliver sturdy, professional performances, reflecting their desire to live quietly and peacefully in their remote house in Spain.Kingsley was aptly praised for his original presentation of a truly heinous, bullying, venal...and surprisingly poorly dressed, character. However Winstone as the quietly determined Don was not so recognized. In my eyes, he might have had the tougher job, depicting a grimly determined quiet man who does not want to rejoin the criminal life. If you're in the mood for a well-made, well-acted, clear-eyed mob-thriller, this (and The Limey) are your movies. "},{"Title":"I love this film. All about the marriage.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely love this film. I seriously believe that the two greatest actors to have lived in my lifetime are Jack Lemmon and Ray Winstone. And Mr Winstone works his bo**ocks off in this one. And it never shows. The editing, music and lighting are top notch in this too. And an underwater heist - you want original. And done by men in trunks who are no longer in their slimmest youth. But for me it's all about the Gal/Deedee marriage (perfect names). Hence the film title (to her, he genuinely is a Sexy Beast) and the exciting, sexy phone call he makes to her from the restaurant where he may be in all sorts of sh*t, and he just wants to hear her say his name. Romantic or what! And that's enough for him to survive (come on, how many of us thought Gal would end up dead) It's a lovely tender movie with top *supporting* performances by Fox and McShane. The stars (and they are stars) are Redman (a hugely underused actor) and Winstone. Plus please don't forget Cavan Kendall (Aitch) and Julianne White (Jackie). Top ensemble acting. It's a totally shallow subject; how many of us know or are ever likely to know Essex thugs like these folks, or ever know this level of violence?? or of casual wealth?? I guess less than one in 100,000 of us. The UK is year on year a safer place, whatever the Daily Mail may dribble on about. So we need these spectres that we know nothing about in real life. This is a lovely, tender film about love. Second stars for me are the Film Editor, Gaffer and Composer. Especially the Film Editor! "},{"Title":"Preparation, Preparation, Preparation.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An original raw, sharp, fresh and energetic story of a job. Set on location in both Spain & London, a group of retired criminals are living the good life on the edge of Spain. Don Logan is about to change that paradise with the velocity of a psychopathic sergeant major. All Gal wants is to bake in the sun, and have his sandwich by the pool, saying no to this man will be difficult.This film has the perfect blend of characters, blunt, tough and barking accents help accentuate each individual character with a force.  Beautiful visuals form bleached mythical Spanish whites to urban deep blue and grays of London life.  Punching two shot camera action give the viewer a close fast paced dialog that hits hard. Wonderful scene integration with perfect cuts, delivers information amazingly fast.  Lyrically cut with London flavor and Spanish classical it lacks nothing when music is called for.  Ben Kingsley guides you through a commentary on the DVD, which all in all makes this film one of my personal favorites.  If you don't appreciate the film for its story and script, you will marvel at the use of light, visuals, sound and its craft.  9.9/10  "},{"Title":"Why do plots have to be complicated?","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is an amazing film.  Do movies these days really have to have a complex, confusing plot for people to like them?  This plot was sweet and simple, allowing the acting and feelings of the characters to shine.  It is impossible to find a plot that doesn't have similarities to other films, they have all been done in one way or another.  This was an excellent play upon the gangster genre.  I found myself emotionally attached to the characters, which is something that is hard to do.  And by having only a little violence be gruesome, it touches on reality.  A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Pretty Damn Good","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy beast boasts an amazing group of British actors involved in a very witty and tantalising story. Ray Winston and Ben Kingsley play there roles to a tee. It is fully believable that Kingsleys character can turn on anybody on a whim. Winston plays the lovable rogue as per usual but still manages a fairly good performance, though always blown off the camera whenever Kingsley is on. Amanda Redman plays the wife of Winstons character 'Gal'. However she has not always been the lovey dovey wife of him. Julianne White plays the role of Kingsleys ex fling and now married cannot stand the sight of the psychotic Kingsley.As the plot rolls out, Gal and his wife who have escaped the rain drenched streets of crime in London for a life in the sun in Spain with a few friends, will not be able to escape the life completely. This is shown in the appearance of Kingsley at Gals house. Hew wants him for a job in London and despite refusal he will not take no for an answer.............A fantastic film go see it! "}{"Title":"Disappointing, but okay; Ben Kingsley saves it","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS** All I had heard about this movie was how fantastic it was.  I finally saw it and thought it was okay.  Ben Kingsley, as Logan, turned in a superb performance, and I thought the movie took off every time he was on screen.  He is electrifying to watch, and his delivery of dialogue is riveting.The rest of the characters are pretty boring and run-of-the-mill.  The performances are all great, but I've seen it all before.  Basically, it's a late entry in the post-PULP FICTION trend of flashy, snappy gangster movies.  The thief who is forced out of retirement one last time, the darkly dressed, perpetually calm and cool ringleader, the big heist (complete with flashy camerawork and rapid editing).  It's been done before, and it's no different now.The movie is pretty dull until Kingsley shows up, then things pick up.  Once he's out of the picture, things slow down again.  The last ten minutes are really well-done, although no suspense was generated for me because I had figured out what was going to happen early on.  ***SPOILERS COMING UP!***  I thought the single most interesting moment was when Teddy (Ian McShane) shoots James Fox without even bothering to find out how he felt about the fact that he successfully broke into his heist-proof vault.  It added a huge amount of depth to what could have remained a totally one-note character.  He's not a petty guy, and would have gotten no satisfaction from Fox's reaction.  He's above that.  It's business.  Which is why he basically lets Gal (Ray Winstone) off the hook at the end, for no other reason than Gal getting Logan out of the way saved Teddy from having to worry about it.  Those last few touches made the movie.  Unfortunately, it was too little, too late for me.I also did not see the need for the monster that stalked Gal in his dreams; it was a poorly thought out--and poorly executed--distraction that added nothing to the story.I really wanted to like this movie.  But it was a long 89 minutes for me.  I think Ben Kingsley deserved the Academy Award nod he received for his performance, and I think the performances overall are what won this movie such acclaim.  But the story, the screenplay, the characters, the flashy camera work, the self-consciously eccentric direction--I'm getting tired of seeing it in movie after movie.  PULP FICTION, RESERVOIR DOGS, THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD, LOCK, STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS, SNATCH, OCEANS 11--enough already.  Do something original. "},{"Title":"Too Strange For My Taste","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I first thing I noticed about SEXY BEAST was that Ray Winstone`s character is called Gal . I actually know someone called Gal in real life , she`s an Israeli so I wondered why the anti hero in this film has an Israeli girls name when he`s a bloke from London ! I was futher confused why SEXY BEAST has several surreal sequences like a demon tooled up with an uzi approaching Gal`s dinner table . No doubt more pretentious reviewers will discuss the meaning behind these scenes but that`s not really the point - the scenes are distracting and don`t add anything . But my abiding memory of SEXY BEAST is the character interaction between Gal and Don Logan , it`s like something out of THE FAST SHOW , can`t you just imagine Simon Day or Paul Whitehouse playing a retired gangster working in a hotel as a waiter ?  Tea or coffee you f***in` c*** , the continental or english breakfast you f***in` c*** , cash or cheque you f***in` c*** , I f***ed your wife you f***in` c***It does have its good points though . Winstone is a fairly limited actor but he`s made a career out of playing rough diamond geezers something he excels at . Ben Kingsley is excellent as Logan , a role for which he received an Oscar nod , but perhaps the best performance - Certainly the most understated - is Ian McShane as Teddy Bass .But for the most part I found SEXY BEAST ( Why`s the film called that ?) to be disappointing . Maybe I was expecting something like ESSEX BOYS or THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY with a Spanish setting , but what I got was something similar to PERFORMANCE      "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" cool film ray has never been so broken in a film as in this one & Ben has never been such a bad ass. and with a lady cast that has no better i wish i could swear but they will not let me . the dream stuff is right out of my darkest nightmares bloody wolf hell monster . and the soundtrack is great and there is just real looking great people ..i hate that i have to keep writing i have said what i have to say but know please pontificate on and on must have ten lines of me going off on one love to mum and family friends and film lovers all round the world ray's SCUM is fun too please see by all means no still not not happy his daughter is a great actor to "},{"Title":"Stylistic and quirky Brit crime movie","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy beast is one of the highly stylised Brit crime films that followed in the wake of the success of Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels (1998). Like that one, it is full of cockney gangsters, camera trickery and some prominent rock tracks on the soundtrack, in this case an opening scene that plays out to 'Peaches' by The Stranglers. This laconic opening sequence indicates from the outset that this is going to be a crime film coming from a slightly different place though, it concludes with a giant boulder rolling down a hill and crashing into the lead character's pool, just missing him by a whisker. From this early point it becomes obvious that this isn't a film that is really going to go for realism and throughout the picture this is maintained with character actions and the final heist itself always seeming slightly absurd like a fever dream.A former gangster, who has retired to Spain, finds his relaxed lifestyle disrupted when one of his old associates turns up demanding that he return to England to be part of a team who will be executing an elaborate robbery.Directed by Jonathan Glazer who recently delivered the bizarre sci-fi film Under the Skin (2013), this is a short and sharp gangster film which is more character-driven than focused on the crime itself. The latter is a memorably surreal undertaking, which is in keeping with other moments from earlier, including freaky nightmare sequences where the lead character has dreams of a demon rabbit. But maybe for most people, the main draw here is the acting performances - Ray Winstone plays a typical character for him but one with a lot less aggression and much more inner fear, Ben Kingsley turns up and chews the scenery as the overbearing criminal Don Logan, while Ian McShane was, for me, even more intimidating as the top crime boss back in the UK, a character full of quiet, intense menace. Sexy Beast is a well-made Brit crime flick which comes from enough of a different angle to ensure that it doesn't feel too derivative, even if stylistically it owes something to the films of Guy Ritchie to an extent. "},{"Title":"Beautiful. Just beautiful","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have grown a fond for Jonathan Glazer, the music video and commercial director. I've seen some of his work, such as Radiohead's Karma Police, Jamiroquai's Virtual Insanity, the Levi's commercial where a man and a woman crash through walls and the Barclay's commercial with Samuel L. Jackson. He's a visual delight. He's Stanley Kubrick mixed with the Coen Brothers. And when he does films, He is still the next Stanley Kubrick.Sexy Beast is the director's first feature and...It's a well done debut. As with my other reviews, I'll tell you why.What's the story? Gal Dove (Ray Winstone) is a retired crime lord. He is living the good life in Spain with the woman he loves, DeeDee (Amanda Redman) as well as having a good time with their friends, Aitch (Cavan Kendall) and Jackie (Julianne White). All is well for the two couples, until the sociopath known as Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) comes in to destroy their peaceful life. He comes in and offers Gal to work a bank heist led by Teddy Bass (Ian McShane). Gal initially refuses, but Don treats him like sh*t and demands that he does the job. Gal then does so in order to protect his beautiful wife and partakes in an underwater bank heist. But Don doesn't appear in the heist, leaving the colleagues suspicious. What really happened to Don? Will the heist go well? Will Gal save his friends and wife? It's up to you to find out.Now for the reasons1. The direction. It contains beautiful visuals, but also contains awesome performances. Glazer not only pays attention to detail but also performances as well. He can also tell a story through visuals, like a modern-day Stanley Kubrick. It's well presented, well thought out and perfectly placed. It proves that from a commercial and music video background, you can still tell a story through visuals.2. The performances. There is a talented cast delivering the movie. The performances are awesome, particularly from Ray Winstone and Ben Kingsley. They have genuine responses, actions and emotions. Like a high-rate play, the performances are the core of the film. If anything, they should have gotten BAFTA's or Academy Awards for their performances. They're a departure from their usual ego.3. Don Freaking Logan! What can I say? He makes the movie. He is funny, scary, insulting, demanding and here to ruin everyone's lives...and he is an awesome sociopath! Right from the first second you see him, you know he's going to raise hell. He has a lot of memorable moments and a personality that would make Hannibal Lector whiz his pants. I just love how trouble making and hell raising he is. Every time he is on the screen, you are scared shitless. You feel his presence every time he appears. You are either scared of him or you laugh at him, depending on what you think of that character. Either way, he is awesome.4. The visuals. Like 2001 A Space Odyssey, Sexy Beast has beautiful visuals. Some of the shots are really amazing and are very well-presented. Most of the story is told through the visuals and it's told well. Some scenes are straight-forward. Most are left to your interpretation. It's kind of like looking at art. You feel fascinated with the visuals and keep looking at them to see what most of them mean.I do have one flaw with this movieThe story is lacking. I mean, it's not a bad story, It's a simple one. But some of it is filled with clichés. I personally wasn't interested in the second act in London. I kind of felt I was in a different movie. Not to say it's bad, but it's not really that interesting. A bit of it is, but it's not as good as the first act. But overall, a really well done film. It has great performances, cinematography, characters, direction and a really memorable character. It's worth a watch based on Ben Kingsley alone or anything else. The detail on this film is amazing and is well spent on that. It looks beautiful. Believe it or not, bring on Glazer's next movie. "},{"Title":"Jonathan Glazer you Sexy Beast","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Don Malky Logan I love you, Gal. You're lovable. Big lovable bloke.The story is about a former gangster who has made a modest amount of money from his criminal career. Happy to put his life of crime behind him, he has retired with his wife Deedee (Amanda Redman) to the sunny bliss of rural Spain, where he lives an idyllic life with his family and a few close friends. But Gary's contentment is ruptured by an unwelcome visitor from his past -- Don (Ben Kingsley), a former associate who has been hired to assemble a team of criminals to rob a heavily guarded bank. Don wants Gary in on the job, and is less than pleased by Gary's unwillingness to volunteer his services. What ensues is a battle of wills between the two men, with Don intimidating, prodding, and manipulating his onetime friend to get what he wants, forever changing the lives of those around him in the process.Jonathan Glazer seems to be like one of those directors that only direct's movies if he really wants to put in his pure passion, his soul and effort to do so, and how I know that is by looking at his other two movies that he made so far and those two movies have proved that he takes time with filming and he only picks the films that's right for him. Sexy Beast is another great example of that.Ray Winstone may play the same character in every movie that his in. Playing the tough angry British guy in every movie his in, but in this that's not the case, he actually played a character...wow. Ray Winstone is a good actor and I do like him has a person and I'm happy that he's in a movie that shows his talent. Great work Winstone.Ben Kingsley in this movie probably pulls off his best performance that I've seen him in. He plays the loud month guy that dose you head in and in a strange way I kind of like him, even when I shouldn't, it's like J.K Simmons in Whiplash where in that movie you got Fletcher a mean, ass-hole who you just want to hit but at the same time kind of like him and not fully hate him, and that's basically Kingsley in this movie. Kingsley is always brilliant in every movie but in this I think he really dose shine and in my opinion it's my favorite performance from him.Now for problems My only little nick pick with this movie is the that in some scenes in this movie that was a little bit slow and that's it really.Overall Sexy Beast is a movie that's acted well, directed and shot beautifully and overall a well done film. But it's also a movie that not everyone is going to like, but everyone can agree to disagree of things. "},{"Title":"Foul-Mouthed Film with Outstanding Performances and a Sizzling Style","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is an Odd Film with an Even Odder Title. A British Gangster Movie that is One of Their Best. Heavy Accents Aside, it is Refreshing, and Hard-Boiled with Steaming Streaming Dialog and a Black-Comedy Edge with Profane Pronouncements and a Sizzling Performance by Ben Kingsley and the Other Cast Members do Great Work, Especially Ray Winstone and Ian McShane.It has Style to Burn and is a Clever Composite of Character Dimension that is Slightly Unusual. There is a Sweet Side to it All as with the Unconditional Love Between the Ex-Gangster and the Ex-Porn Star.Glitzy and Glamorous, the Film is Offbeat and Offensive to Sensitive Types but it Cannot be Denied the Impact it has had on Fans and Critics Alike. It's Foul Mouth May Turn Off Some but the Dialog is Delivered in a Surreal Fashion with Echoes of Impromptu.Overall, it is a Film that can be Divisive but is Gritty Enough and Different Enough (from the goofy Guy Ritchie Movies) to be Recommended for Fans of Neo-Noir and Character Studies. Great Cast and a Great Debut from a Director that has been Surprisingly Absent. Jonathan Glazer Needs to Make More Movies. "},{"Title":"A house of villains","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Much is talked about Ben Kingsley's casting as thuggish gangster Don Logan that people forget the other actors with roots in crime or gangster films.James Fox played ruthless Chas in Performance, Ian McShane appeared in Villain and Dirty Money and Ray Winstone has been playing villains of some sort since he was teenager such as films like Scum.Winstone plays Gal a retired safe-cracker living out in Spain with his wife and other ex-con friends. However it seems he is being lured out of retirement by Logan which causes fear amongst the group and soon Logan turns up in Spain to personally request that Gal comes to London and he is not a person you say no to. There begins a cat and mouse game and you see that Logan is unhinged switching from being friendly to explosive with sudden surges of violence.Winstone actually plays the nicest guy in the film, he just wants a quiet life with his wife and his pot of stolen loot. Kingsley, that nice Gandhi bloke strips him psychologically with threats, actual and implied, his wife's past as a porn star.The film is strong on language, it does suffer a bit too much with it at times as every other word is peppered with it. There is dark humour although the film does not take the path of comedy cockney villains that some British gangster films like to do. It relies on performances, Winstone underplays enough to let Kingsley shine in his supporting role, a part which took many by surprise because he does not play those roles. "},{"Title":"A Metaphysical Heist Movie Like No Other","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" After a few days puzzling and mulling over the wonderful Under The Skin I though a revisit was required to Glazer's wonderful feature debut. It exceeded my expectations and , like all great movies gave up a whole slew of nuance and forgotten or overlooked details. And an unexpected icing on this particularly eclectic cake, i was very moved. It seems de-riguer to label Logan as the devil incarnate, bit in some senses winstone is the devil who wins out in the end more cunning (in a parochial way) than any of the many devils on display, even ian macshane's terrifying mob boss. as with under the skin, the narrative such as it is is merely a framework to quilt some amazing set-pieces ( and some jarring interruptions of utter mundainity such as winstone's gal waiting on a rain-soaked and colourless bus stop which could be anywhere in the antipodes to winstone's 'baking hot' Spanish villa. there is much here as well to place glazer into the same vaunted pantheon of film makers like Kubrick. these films do not take 10 years to make because of perfectionism unless perfectionism is knowing when the time is right to say a film is finished. After all kubrick's life-long deep passion for making AI and most notably the forever unmade Napoleon, are so distinct by being unmade they are more prefect to that which has been committed and reified using awkward clay. it seems i have been floated onto some netherworld between pretension and deep impacting emotional truth. such is the marker of a great work of art. Glazer i feel has not made at least two. i have yet to see birth but i have a feeling i might have to before the day os out. bravo. go see this and then watch Under the Skin in a few days.. "},{"Title":"Superb character driven vehicle with excellent performances from both Kingsley and Winstone","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gal Dove (Ray Winstone) is a retired safe cracker for the criminal underworld who has moved over to Spain to 'enjoy' his retirement. Things are great for Ray, he spends his days lounging by the pool in his apartment, dining out at restaurants and generally living a care free existence. However, Gal's care free existence is tipped upside down when his friend Jackie (Julianne White) receives a call from Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) who says that he wants Gal to join him in London to help him and his cronies to pull off one last job. Logan gets on a plane and heads for Spain intent on Gal coming back with him to assist in pulling off this job. Gal refuses to do the job, but Don is not the sort of person who takes 'No' for an answer and is determined that Gal will assist with this job whether he likes it or not.What's interesting about Sexy Beast is that it is a character driven film rather than a plot driven film. Character driven films are generally risky because typically if the characters aren't well written then the film will fail - that's not the case here. There is only about a 5 minute segment from the 90 minute running time spent on explaining the heist and it's only sporadically mentioned outside of this scene - until the end when the heist takes place. I could probably fill a 1000 word limit just writing about Kingsley's character, but due to IMDb word constraints I will try and keep my comments on his character as short as possible. On the surface, Logan is a thug, he's arrogant, he likes to let people know he's in charge. If you go deeper into his character, I see a very troubled person - it's clear to me that he's some kind of paranoid schizophrenic (the scene where he's talking to himself in the mirror and claiming that Gal has said various things about him - none of these things have ever been said and it clearly shows that he suffers from mass paranoia). He then proceeds to attack Gal based on what his 'inner' voice is telling him. Likewise, the scene when he's on board the aircraft and he refuses to put his cigarette out - this can be looked at in two ways; 1) He intended to fly back to London, but doesn't like being told what to do and doesn't like conforming to rules and therefore refused to co-operate or 2) He became a nuisance because he deliberately wanted to get kicked off the plane because he needed to complete his task of getting Gal back to London. His reasons are wide open to interpretation and the fact that we're never quite sure what he's thinking or what he's going to do ultimately made him a fascinating character. He's clearly not insane though as the scene immediately after his departure from the aircraft clearly demonstrates -the way he managed to turn the scenario around to make the airport staff believe that he was the victim was not only cold and calculating, but he also made his sob story believable. This shows that Logan is also capable of pathological lying as well as paranoid schizophrenia. What a character!Then we come to Gal; people tend to remember Kingsley's performance in this film (with good reason), but people really shouldn't discount Winstone's performance. His best scenes are the scenes when he is with Logan - Winstone gives a really convincing performance (particularly in scenes where Logan is intimidating him - I felt scared for him and that's a testament to Winstone's acting ability which I think is much better than many people give him credit for).The direction and editing were superb as well; lots of quick editing and stylish camera work that linked scenes together nicely. It was all really clever so full marks go to Glazer for his terrific work. The music was also great; it was retro and cool and fitted in nicely with the tone of the film.Ironically, the weakest part of the film is the heist itself which if I'm honest was a bit dull and derivative, but it didn't bother me because I was so fascinated by the array of interesting characters that I still enjoyed the film even though the plot seemed to take a back seat in the film.Sexy Beast is a great little film which is bound to impress those that love character driven films. It's a rare example of a film that is great despite the fact that the plot takes a back seat to such an extent that it almost becomes insignificant. It sounds bizarre saying this, but if you've watched the film you'll understand what I mean. "}{"Title":"Great movie but cockney accents make it almost unintelligible","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've been away from England too long now! I can just about decipher scouse accents , because that's where I come from but the cockney twitter is like some obscure foreign language to me... They would have been 100% justified in adding subtitles for the North American market, it's no wonder it didn't do so well over here. And it's a pity it didn't, because it's a fabulous movie, with Ben Kingsley the polar opposite of his Gandhi role. He is a menacing,evil, foul mouthed psychopath and so convincing that I wouldn't want to meet him in the street. Ray Winstone is a great foil for him, a typical, likable cockney tea leaf. Every role in this movie is played to perfection and the tension created in some of the scenes takes you right to the edge of snapping point. The undercurrent is a message that tells you that true love has no judgement and that a misspent past life doesn't preclude you from a happy future life. Ian McShane is absolutely superb in conveying a different sort of evil, the evil that is just born into a person who exists only to gratify himself ....just chilling. London Gangland movies have a different quality to them when compared with American stories, you get the texture of the class struggle and the depth of the intellect of the gangsters. If it's done well, like this one is, you root for some of the bad guys even though you know they're crooks. Very enjoyable movie you should try to watch it. "},{"Title":"Neat little crime-tale","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jonathan Glazer's Sexy Beast is an art-house dramedy. The lead character, wonderfully played by Ray Winstone, is a retired criminal living in Spain. Ben Kingsley's character comes into the pictured and stirs things up, asking help for a heist. And he is quite the vicious, sick and messed-up character. The performances are impressive, Kingsley really pulls off the phycho character. Some wonderful cinematography, stylish editing and dark humour make the movie flow beautifully. My only complaint is the length. For me, it feels a bit too short, and I was already missing the characters as the credits rolled. "},{"Title":"crazy stylish absurdist heist movie","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gal Dove (Ray Winstone) is living the retired life in Spain with his wife Deedee (Amanda Redman) and their friends when former fellow criminal and abusive sociopath Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) crashes in. He wants Gal to do a bank heist back in London, but Gal resists. There is a big confrontation with Logan and the group. Gal is forced to do the job for Teddy Bass (Ian McShane) as if nothing happened. Teddy got information on the safe from the manager Harry (James Fox) and everybody is on edge.Director Jonathan Glazer has a great absurd style which he uses on idiosyncratic characters. Ben Kingsley's intensity is great. It's too bad that he has to be killed off. I love the fact that everybody is afraid of him before he even arrives. His dialog is absolutely crazy. Ray Winstone went beach bum blonde. The story is a little light in the first half but that has the fun of Ben Kingsley. The second half gets weird with Gal's crazy visions and overall sense of paranoia. "},{"Title":"Gruelling, dynamic and ferocious","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I never saw this upon its release and have been put off ever since because I'm not a great fan of either Ray Winstone or Ben Kingsley, thought the UK poster was awful and tend to avoid cockney crime as a sub genre. Having recently been entranced by director Jonathan Glazer's, Under The Skin, decided it was time to see his first film. Three films in 14 years seems pretty slow going but never mind, one more to see after this and I'm up to date. Clearly Mr Glazer doesn't wish to make the same film again and again all his life so he has deliberately set out to make his first three completely different from one another. So, what this has in common with his latest film is that it is very well made. Good looking and a great mix of long and very short shots both in time and in space, he also enables his performers to get fired up with the dialogue and make it their own. Trouble is, of course, is that as I can enjoy a poorly made film that has some verve, some spark or originality, similarly I can not particularly enjoy a well made film. Case in point, Sexy Beast. Gruelling, dynamic and ferocious but nothing original about the story and lots of cockney nastiness and stupidity. Has to be said that the performances are very good. I thought perhaps Ian McShane might be the scariest of the three and had no idea Ben Kingsley would whip up his given dialogue and not just spit it out so much as vomit it all over the place. Tremendous performance, although still a very ugly one. "},{"Title":"Intense, Brutal and Stylish","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jonathan Glazer's debut feature Sexy Beast is a stylish gangster film filled with catchy one-liners and dark humor. It has a very simple plot featuring a retired small-time safe-cracker spending an idle life in Spain. Once the hard-boiled gangster Don Logan enters, his life suddenly turns upside down and he gets involved in unlikely things.It takes a while to take off but once Ben Kingsley shows up, everything else becomes secondary. Before this I had never imagined as a brutal gangster, but he simply nailed his part in this film. Ray Winstone and Ian McShane also does fine jobs. I also liked the way it transforms into an intense and tensed film.It has cool cinematography and a signature of a raw gangster film all over it. Background music also plays an important part here, but one just couldn't get over its awesome dialogues. Though I found the British accent little difficult to get but enjoyed the film nonetheless. If you're looking for a British Gangster film, this is definitely worth trying. "},{"Title":"Quite intriguing","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is one of those movies that are hard to judge, at the end of which you are not sure whether you liked it or hated it.For an hour, there is succession of intriguing scenes, calibrated for Ben Kingsley excellent as a totally crazy gangster, but a bit too redundant and sometimes as oppressive as the sun of Spain. Then, the script takes a much more conventional turn, and even though those last 25 minutes revive the interest for the movie, it remains very basic.All in all, Sexy Beast has no big flaw and is overall rather enjoyable, but ultimately, we are under the impression nothing much happened during this 1h25, which by the way doesn't pass that quickly.A second viewing is necessary. "},{"Title":"Fan-dabby-dozy-tastic.","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Don't do the same as me and mistake this for just another Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels although the film features exaggerated Cockney characters, sharp dialogue, snappy direction, and the occasional brutal outburst of violence, its unique pace, offbeat style and surreal asides (that rabbit demon is bloody freaky!) make it a far sexier beast than anything Guy Ritchie has to offer.Surprisingly, for much of its running time, the film is an intense character study, one that relies on talk over action; well over half the film passes without a gunshot fired or punch thrown, but it is riveting stuff nonetheless. This is largely thanks to flawless performances by its superb cast (not least from Ben Kingsley as psychopath Don Logan, who steals virtually every scene he is in with his utterly menacing manner and ripe discourse), although the film also benefits immensely from director Jonathan Glazer's bold aesthetic, his imagery as colourful as his characters' language and as striking as Deedee's eyes. "},{"Title":"A paced, gripping British thriller with visual flair.","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" On face value, 'Sexy Beast' may appear to be yet another pustulent addition to the bloated, adolescent British gangster genre, however it's far from that, it's up there with 'The Long Good Friday'. 'Sexy Beast' is one of the most accomplished films I've seen in a while, it has no noticeable flaws. It's a taut, paced and stylish thriller that exhibits tight narrative control, making the most of its simple yet wholly engaging premise in an effortlessly flowing non-linear fashion.Ray Winstone was deservedly introduced to the world stage with his role as Gal, a humble Londoner who's living the dream and has everything to lose. The plot is a simple, familiar one. Gal has found happiness in his paradisiacal Spanish villa, but his perfect life is ruptured when Don Logan, a figure from his old life, returns to make a job offer. Even before Don appears at the villa, it's clear that it's not an 'offer'; it's an obligatory matter, a grand heist that's been tailored for Gal by the shadiest of the London underworld, he dare not turn it down. Despite Gal being a former criminal, he is a sympathetic character, the viewer can empathise with him, with his desire to leave the filth of London and be on the 'straight and narrow'. This film was also important for Ben Kingsley, his performance as Don Logan showing that he can be both Ghandi and a foul-mouthed psychopath.Contrary to the norm, Kingsley is the villain here, not Ray Winstone; the vicious, unpredictable Don Logan subjects Gal to mind games that quickly turn violent. Kingsley is entirely convincing in this role of aggression and violence, he is the most versatile of actors. The course of events are tense, sinister and unforeseeable. Not a minute of its running time is wasted; it's a top notch crime thriller that ought to be regarded as a great of British cinema. "},{"Title":"My Gal the expert yegg","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Gal' Dove (Ray Winstone), retired English yegg (safe-cracker) and heist man, is living the good life quietly in sunny Spain with his beloved wife (a retired porn actress), his best friend Aitch (another career criminal who's cashed in his chips) and Aitch's wife. All is well until an unwanted old 'friend,' Don Logan (Ben Kingsley), turns up and starts demanding, none too politely, that they return to Old Blighty to assist in carrying out a caper (robbing a bank vault) being organized by Logan's superior, a London underworld lord and frankly scary man by the name of Teddy Bass (played by the pre-Deadwood Ian MacShane), whose quiet menace makes him a thousand times more bone-chilling than the histrionic Logan. The film deftly portrays the anxiety of Gal as he reluctantly joins the caper, the badgering presence of Logan, and the frighteningly quiet lethality of Bass and his London associates as the story moves toward the heist and its confusing aftermath. Gal's fear of being trapped in a deadly situation is enhanced by the fact that, before Gal's coming to London, Logan has disappeared and his whereabouts are unknown, and Teddy Bass makes clear that he wants to know what happened to his right-hand man, and Teddy Bass is a man with whom one does not trifle. A nail-biter with numerous narrative twists, superbly-realized characters, and the type of conflictual interpersonal dynamics that make other great heist films ('The Asphalt Jungle,' 'Rififi') so engrossing, Sexy Beast is one of the best English-language films of the new millennium. Also appearing in this one is the excellent James Fox as a London banker in over his head. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Sir Ben Kingsley's Electrifying Performance!","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Sexy Beast', directed by Jonathan Glazer, is a stylish crime-drama, but, this box-office hit deserves a watch for One Prominent Reason Sir Ben Kingsley. The Academy-Award-Winning Screen-Legend delivers an Electrifying Performance, that leaves you spell-bound. It's amongst the Finest Performances of All-Times!'Sexy Beast' Synopsis Brutal gangster Don Logan recruits retired safe-cracker Gal for one last job, but it goes badly for both of them.'Sexy Beast' is a stylish film, it has an attitude, it has it's own way. Jonathan Glazer's Direction is suave & fast-paced, while the Cinematography by Ivan Bird is raw & realistic. The Unexpected Violence & The OVERDOSE Of The F word play as a trump card for this crime-drama. Sir Ben Kingsley is the Biggest Merit of 'Sexy Beast'. He plays A cunning, violent sociopath, with unmatchable ease. He electrifies the screen whenever he appears and leaves you spell-bound. He delivers a Hall-Mark Performance, that can easily rank among THE Finest Performances Ever. Take a bow, Sir Ben! Among other performances, Ray Winstone is so-so, but Ian McShane, like always, is first-rate. On the whole, Watch it for Sir Ben Kingsley's Unmatchable Performance! "}{"Title":"A great performance from Ben Kingsley...","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Whenever I'm in a conversation about British gangster movies, this one always comes up. Much to my dismay, I haven't been able comment because, for one reason or another, I kept missing it. This was remedied recently when it finally re-appeared on TV. It's an interesting film that's marked by one particularly extraordinary performance and an awful lot of profanity (swearing).Gary 'Gal' Dove is a retired gangster, he lives in Spain with his wife, Dee Dee. His friend, and ex-colleague, Aitch and wife Jackie live nearby and they barbecue, hunt, eat, drink and generally lie in the sun and have a good time. This is until the day Jackie receives a phone call from Don Logan. Don is a nasty piece of work who has decided he wants Gal to come out of retirement to do one more job. The thing is, Gal is happy with his life and doesn't want to go back, but Don is on his way to persuade him. Also, an ulterior motive is revealed for Don's visit that leaves all involved feeling quite uneasy. Now, the heist is being planned by crime boss Teddy Bass and it involves the robbery of a depositary owned by a character known as Harry, but can Gal be persuaded.There is a really good cast in this one; Ray Winstone plays Gal very well, he has all the attributes to pull off this role with aplomb. Amanda Redman plays Dee Dee, his wife, Cavan Kendall is Aitch and Julianne White is Jackie. Teddy Bass is played by another well known British actor, Ian McShane, as is Harry, who is played by James Fox. But the star accolade must go to Ben Kingsley as Don Logan, I don't know what he was on, but he pulls of a masterly performance in this one. It's so different to everything else I've seen him in and I loved every minute he was on screen.I really enjoyed this film, admittedly, the performance of Ben Kingsley has a lot to do with that, but there were also a few rather innovative touches that made the story a bit more interesting that it might have been. So, over all, it's a pretty well made film with a decent cast, an interesting plot, one stellar performance and an awful lot of swearing&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nasty.  Good.","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" My family had an interesting experience over several years, when one family member was married to an individual who could - and did - lie with an absolutely straight face. More exactly, everything this person said and did was determined by how effectively it would suit their purposes, not by how true or right it was. It is not until you have encountered such a person at first hand that you understand how unsettling it is to encounter someone who has a complete disregard for the effects of their actions on other people.If you watch Sexy Beast, it may give you some idea.Ben Kingsley's Don is a monster. He has no fear and is capable of such acts that the mere mention of his name terrifies those who know him.The other performances are all good Kingsley mesmerises.Incidentally, the cockney accents here aren't especially difficult to understand certainly no more difficult than some regional US accents. But do we Brits complain and ask for subtitles? Honestly! "},{"Title":"Underrated British gangster flick","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In terms of pure enjoyment this is one of the best British gangster movies ever in my opinion. Ray Winstone plays Gary 'Gal' Dove - a retired London thief and ex-convict living the high life in the Costa Del Sol whose life is torn apart when he is summoned to London and ordered to undertake one last job by a vicious gangster. Ray Winstone does his usual Ray Winstone thing, most of us know adaptability isn't his strong point, whether he's playing Henry VIII or an American henchman, but he's perfect here as the tired and troubled Dove. The director Jonathan Glazer was best known for directing music videos but you'd never know. His use of the camera and the way he undoubtedly gets the best from the actors is the hallmark of a much more experienced director. If British gangster movies aren't your thing then Sexy Beast is worth watching for Ben Kingsley's performance as the psychotic Don Logan alone. Every time he appears you can't help but watch as Logan hovers on the edge violence but at the same time appears slightly sad and pathetic. Amazing to think this is the same man who played much gentler characters in Gandhi and Schindler's List.A who's who of British actors provide a strong supporting cast to a great movie. "},{"Title":"Infuriatingly brilliant crime thriller","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Released to superlative reviews in 2001, SEXY BEAST is an infuriatingly brilliant crime thriller set in Spain and London. Infuriating in that the dream sequences don't work, the underwater robbery feels rushed and the whole film probably needs an extra act. But, on the plus side, the film is a very English mix of Nicholas Roeg-like directing, Harold Pinter-like dialogue and Guy Ritchie-like cinematography and editing.Three scenes are an absolute standout. Firstly, a mountain top boulder tumbling and crashing into the Spanish villa swimming pool of expat cockney bank robber Gal (Ray Winstone), an event which sets in motion his reluctant return to crime. Second, a sensational Ben Kingsley as psycho Don Logan refusing to extinguish his cigarette on an air flight. And thirdly the sight of frogmen robbers cracking open the safety deposit boxes inside the London bank vault they've just flooded. Ray Winstone has never been more low-key before or since as the mellowed hard man who just wants to live in the sun quietly with his wife (Amanda Redman) and Kingsley is extraordinary in an Oscar-nominated role as a man incapable of restraining his rage - yet he is also very funny at one and the same time. "},{"Title":"You are going to have to turn this opportunity yes!","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Have IMDb reviewers lost the plot. 7.1 star rating for Sexy Beast? You must be 'avin a larf'!! It's worth 9 stars purely for Ben Kingsley's show stopping portrayal of Don Logan who without question is the scariest hit-man to appear on the silver screen. If the TV show 'Ultimate Warrier' pitched Logan against Tommy DeVito of Goodfellas fame (another insane gangster played by Joe Pesci), Logan would finish him within seconds - a terrifying and unpredictable nut job in the best cinematic sense.This film is excellent throughout. If you can ignore the surreal 'rabbit in the burrow' moments which aren't really necessary, in essence Sexy Beast is a love story which is cruelly interrupted by the demands of the London underworld.Gal (Ray Winstone) and his wife (played by the excellent Amanda Redman) have moved to Spain, retiring Gal from his career as an expert safe cracker. Their idyllic life is shattered by the visit of Don Logan (Kingsley) who is looking to persuade Gal to do 'one last job' for underworld kingpin Teddy Bass (played by a wonderfully chilling Ian MacShane).And Logan isn't leaving without his man. I'm not a big fan of Ben Kingsley (anyone who insists on being called 'Sir' lacks a certain amount of humility), but as an actor he is certainly up there with the greats. Don Logan is a character he plays completely against type with a conviction and insanity which is terrifying at times and doesn't let up until he ends up as part of the permanent foundations of Gal's swimming pool.The real fear factor is not caused by Logan's constant swearing, aggression or violence - it's his total unpredictability which scares the hell out of you. Even when he starts talking to himself in the mirror, basically convincing himself that being turned down by Gal is not an option, it really does makes you nervous.So what is Sexy Beast? - a love story, a crime caper, a gangster movie? It's all of these and more. It's also a character study of villains and their molls. And with an excellent cast, clever editing and slick production, it is easy to disregard the certain flaws in this movie and recognise that it is a cracking piece of cinema.So if you are not going to take the opportunity to watch this film again, consider the wise words of Mr Don Logan...Gal I am going to have to turn this opportunity down. Don No, you are going to have to turn this opportunity yes!Sounds funny doesn't it? But its not funny when you watch it. "},{"Title":"Kingsley's Mobster  Could Wipe the Floor with Gandhi","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A sharp, quickly-paced thriller about a mobster's last job before quitting the life.Ray Winstone is said mobster, and he's good. But he's up against Ben Kingsley's portrayal of the mob boss who gives him his orders, and Kingsley tears into the material like a junkyard dog. Trust me -- this performance will wipe away memories of his gentle, benevolent portrayal of Gandhi.Sexy Beast is the kind of tawdry, well-crafted little B movie that falls through the cracks and is discovered on DVD or cable. See it for Kingsley's performance if nothing else -- it brought him a deserved Academy Award nomination.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Interesting British Gangster Film With Several Surprising Twists","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" First-time feature director Jonathan Glazer (who earned his stripes shooting videos for Massive Attack and Radiohead) does an amazing job of keeping everything in perspective while giving the film his own personal imprint.What makes this film so rewarding is that it constantly ups the ante, never once settling for the conventional. It never misses an opportunity to surprise or excite the viewer.The film originally premiered in September of 2000 at the Toronto International Film Festival, then opened in January 2001 in the UK and worked its way to the US in June. Superior writing, acting, and direction almost always define a great film & this one has it all. Screenwriters Louis Mellis and David Scinto create a battle of wills and words that gives the likes of David Mamet & Steven Berkoff a run for their money. The film veers from comedy to drama & back again without skipping a beat.The film picks up with the sunning by the pool of Gary 'Gal' Dove (Ray Winstone), a noticeably British bloke who happens to be a so-called fat-cat UK mobster who has obviously hit his retirement with a perfect zest and zeal for the good life. Our slightly overweight ex-villain has a thick working-class accent who seems to be passing his time away lounging on his bright white Costa del Sol sun-deck in his skimpy yellow Euro Speedos talking to himself about how bloody 'ot it is. The nuance of his relaxation is heightened by the playing of the song Peaches by the punk band called The Stranglers.Suddenly a huge boulder careens down the Spanish hillside above Gal's opulent stucco villa and crashes into the pool, missing Gal by inches.Gal is married to Deedee (Amanda Redman), who he dearly loves, but somehow has gotten past all the sordid past of her being a former porn-queen whose nickname turns out to be dirty Deedee. &#x97; are sitting around in a restaurant waiting for their friends Aitch (Cavan Kendall) and Jackie (Julianne White) to join them. You can barely understand a word out of Aitch's mouth but Jackie looks worried. Very worried, in fact. Within minutes, the fear on her dining companions' faces is palpable.Don Logan wants Gal to do a job. He's picking a team and he wants the very best. This Friday, at the Grosvenor Hotel. London. Gal wants none of it. He's retired, remember? I'm retired, he tells Jackie.Well, you can tell him yourself, says Jackie. He's on his way over. Don doesn't take no for an answer. Cutting to a shot of bald-headed Don (Sir Ben Kingsley) striding ardently through a crowded airport & you already know there's going to be some kind of trouble.Certainly Kingsley is formidable (in a role the Gandhi man appears to relish), but Winstone is equal to him in a less flamboyant performance. Amanda Redman (Deedee) also deserves recognition; she reacts a lot with her eyes, especially in the presence of Don threatening thug, but her performance is beautifully subtle, yet extremely effective. Ian McShane provides additional malevolence in the brooding black-attired form of arch-villain Teddy Bass.The film has its violent moments, of course, a lot of them verbal (Don Logan is a walking, talking Molotov cocktail of viciousness and slurs), but the film is more likely to be remembered for its humor and Gal's undying love for his wife.Cavan Kendall, who plays Aitch (Gal's best friend), soon passed at the age of 57 shortly after the making of this film. Julianne White, who is Australian plays her character quite well also. "},{"Title":"See it for Kingsley and Winstone","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Some of the best movies are ones where we can simply watch brilliant acting and listen to electric dialogue. In these movies, plot is of little to no importance. Sexy Beast is clearly in this category, and what makes it so watchable is the brilliant performances by Ray Winstone and especially Ben Kingsley.Gal (Ray Winstone) is a career criminal who has retired to Spain, living a life of luxury with his beautiful wife DeeDee (Amanda Redman). Life is great, but then his friends, Aitch (Cavan Kendall) and Jackie (Julianne White) get a call from from Don Logan (Ben Kingsley). Don arrives the next day to get Gal to come out of retirement and do another job. Gal declines, but the psychotic Don won't take no for an answer.As good as the script is (and it's very good), where Sexy Beast really shines is the performances. Ray Winstone is doing a nice change of pace as a sympathetic ex-criminal. Winstone, who has been known to play villains of the worst kind (like Dad in The War Zone, for example) is very effective in the role. It's not necessarily the fear of getting caught that makes him reluctant to do the job, it's the fact that he just want to done with that life. But both he and Don know that money was never an object in their life of crime; it was the adrenaline rush they got from doing it. And that kind of a reaction is hard to turn down. Then there's Ben Kingsley, who is completely arresting as Don. Psychotic doesn't do him justice. This is a guy who would beat someone to death at the blink of an eye and go right back to his drink as if nothing had happened. There isn't a single moment that Kingsley is on screen and he doesn't command our absolute attention. Ian McShane is also quite good as the creepy mastermind behind the heist, Teddy Bass. I was reminded of Christoph Waltz in Inglorious Basterds in the way that he seems to know everything, but plays dumb. It's a creepy effect, and McShane is adept at utilizing his facial features to emphasize this.When I realized that this was directed by Jonathan Glazer, whose next film was Birth, a creepy and haunting psychological thriller that was ruined mostly by inept direction, I had my doubts about this movie. Never fear, however, because they are nothing alike. It's a little on the long side (even at a skinny 89 minutes), and there are a few too many directorial flourishes that call attention to themselves too much, but for the most part, the film is well directed.This isn't an action movie, but for those who like outstanding acting and strong dialogue, it's well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Underrated?","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Just like my previously reviewed film Snatch, Sexy Beast is yet another movie showcasing the great quality in British film-making. An extremely pleasant and satisfying film to watch this will have you laughing and thinking seriously at the same time. Yes, it looks and is some of the most fun and exhilarating movie making you'll see but it has its fair share of substance too. That's not the only aspect of the film that keeps it interesting though. You have the performances, particularly from Ray Winstone and the brilliant Ben Kingsley. This is a change from the Ray Winstone that's seen in Nil By Mouth. He proves his worth by expertly portraying a more sensitive and loving character. Ben Kingsley, on the other hand, portrays an insane and and unpredictable character that is both funny and terrifying. What's really unsettling is how Kingsley convinces you he is actually this maniac instead of just acting as him, he fits into the role that well. Anyway the film itself should go down as a classic and anyone who is remotely interested in imaginative and clever cinema should definitely watch Sexy Beast. It is a gem, a gem is what it is. "},{"Title":"If tasked with describing Sexy Beast in one word that word would undoubtedly be cool","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast 9-18-08If tasked with describing Sexy Beast in one word that word would undoubtedly be cool. Cool that ever elusive quality that many films strive for but in the very act of trying to be cool they kill any chance of...well you get my point. So how does a film end up this cool...by being slick you see. Slick contemporary cinematography that uses a few gimmicky tricks..but these are never over used. The narrative moves along briskly and in a linear fashion save for two decidedly non-linear sequences that are quite fun. The second of these sequences takes place in the final section of the film. This portion of the film is amazing as it managed to put me in the shoes of the protagonist in ways few films have ever been able to do...enjoyed this bit a great deal. Its impossible to talk about this movie and not talk about a force of nature I like to call Ben Kingsley. Im certain this man can walk on water and if he cant at the very least he gives one hell of a performance as the batnuts insane sociopath Don Logan. The perfect counter balance to Don would be Gal played by the coolest man on the planet Mr. Ray Winstone. One last thing...I absolutely adore the music in this film. "}{"Title":"Extremely satisfying and stylish crime drama","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jonathan Glazer's Sexy Beast is an excellent crime drama which grabs the viewer's attention from the very beginning with Winstone's unexpected pool addition.Containing some of the grittiest dialogue heard in a movie, the film has a hard as granite edge.Ben Kingsley's Don Logan is a true monster - a psychopath with a raging temper. Kingsley is brilliantly chilling as Logan, his performance is unsettling and very believable.Ray Winstone plays 'Gal' Dove, a man who is desperate to leave behind his gangster days and enjoy a peaceful retirement. Dove is a sympathetic and likable character - the viewer truly roots for him as his world starts to be tipped upside down.Glazer's direction is mesmerising. The surreal sequences involving what can only be described as a rabbit-man (and not in a Donnie Darko way) are nightmarish.9 out of 10. This film demands repeat viewings. It's gold. "},{"Title":"Darkly comic.Relentless and compelling performance from Ben Kingsley","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I sat down one evening to watch this film with minimal expectations but was very quickly absorbed into it.The cast all do very well and are very convincing in their roles.Ben Kingsley gives a genuinely terrifying performance as Don.It seems impossible that someone of Kingsleys stature could manage to dwarf Ray Winstone but such is the calibre of Kingsleys acting that he manages it in spades with the help of a tight an funny script.The film has a lot of black humour in it too.The running time is zippy and hardly a minute is wasted. A top drawer British film.If you enjoy a gangster film with a twist,don't miss this. "},{"Title":"Sexy, and quite brutal, too","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" These are hard men. They could have the Sopranos for dinner, throw up and have them again.. That's Roger Ebert describing London-based gangsters in his review of Sexy Beast. Now, claiming any criminal would be more ruthless than Tony Soprano and his crew would normally border on heresy, but he's got a point, and it's quite likely David Chase, creator of The Sopranos, was familiar with Ebert's assessment when he convinced Ben Kingsley to play himself in the show's sixth season.The film is ostensibly about two conflicting views on crime one that embraces it wholeheartedly, and one that believes the glory days are gone for good. The latter philosophy is embodied by Gary Gal Dove (Ray Winstone), a former mobster who now lives in Spain with his wife (the opening shots, with Gal getting a tan by the pool, kind of give away the director's TV ad background). He is perfectly happy, and dismisses England as a sh*thole. His peaceful lifestyle is however interrupted by the abrupt arrival of his former associate Don Logan (Kingsley). Don is there because another partner of theirs, Teddy Bass (Ian McShane), is planning a near-perfect heist, and they both feel Gal would be the perfect man for the job. Too bad Gal himself doesn't agree on that one he is, after all, retired. Unfortunately, the only answer the increasingly abusive Don will accept is yes. Even better, to use his own words Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes!.Astonishingly, that's only half the movie the rest takes place in London, where the heist is pulled off after we learn Gal accepted the offer for some undisclosed reason and Don's mysteriously disappeared. We therefore shift from one film to another, almost, and the transition isn't exactly smooth while the crude, brutal atmosphere is retained for the duration of the story, the more traditional Cockney setting in the second half isn't exactly as gritty as the Spanish showdown between Gal and Don.The conflict that's where the film's heart truly lies, and it must be said both stars do a surprising job. Winstone, who made his name playing borderline psychos in Scum and Nil by Mouth, goes for a subdued turn as the more mannered Gal, as opposed to the subtle but unmistakably cruel work coming from McShane (an obvious blueprint for the latter's epic performance in Deadwood). But it is Kingsley's transformation that shocks the most this is the man who played Gandhi and Schindler's accountant, throwing out obscenities as he pleases and hitting random objects whenever he feels like it. Just watch the scene where he suddenly kicks Winstone in the gut, and you'll know why he should have won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar in 2000 (which went to the equally deserving Benicio del Toro) it's a bold, shameless, scary effort, so full of energy it nearly cripples the movie's third act since Kingsley is nowhere to be seen in the last section. Like R. Lee Ermey in Full Metal Jacket, the actor is almost bigger than the feature.All in all, a very damn good gangster flick. Recommended especially if you didn't particularly enjoy Guy Ritchie's stylized take on the genre. Just don't get on Don's wrong side.8,5/10 "},{"Title":"Gem of a black comedy masquerading as a caper film.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Snazzy little, fast-paced noir. If the excess in this Brit caper film doesn't make you giggle out loud, have someone check your pulse. Quality production top to bottom with most players unfamiliar to American audiences. The plot is deceptively simple retired safecracker is approached by hood to come out of retirement for one last 'go' at the behest of a distant crime boss. Turns out to be an offer he can't refuse. Ian McShane plays crime boss Teddy Bass with reptilian cool, Ray Winstone's safecracker Gal Dove is sleek, tanned and thoroughly retired and James Fox gives the connected bank executive just the right balance of smarmy decadence. The troop of supporting actors is fresh and without caricature, the women beyond adolescent coquettishness, cool, secure and supremely sexy, the men displaying accumulated bling and adipose fat, rutting through middle age. But this film belongs to Ben Kingsley and his psychotic Don Logan. Sometimes seething, sometimes frenetic, always thoroughly frightening, he is absolutely mesmerising. Easily the most consistently threatening performance in recent memory. Beautifully photographed, the direction is deft and crisp, the dialogue dense and believable and, thankfully, not lost in the usual muddle of British accents. A high grade entertainment on many levels but see it for Kingsley. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good film lacks something","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Reading other comments on this movie, it might be that the humour and subtleties are lost on an American audience. If you are a brit however you should recognise the characters from all our home born stereotypes.Plot wise the movie followed a nice tack at a reasonable pace but I feel we missed any high points. Its a good story well told but there's no car chase, no gun fight and no fantastic ending - its all dialogue and implied slights that keep it running. No issues for a brit, but possibly dangerous for foreign English speaking races.Ben Kingsleys performance is of course brilliant.Lastly, Gary shortened in east-end speak is pronounced Gau (I should f***ing well know sunshine ;-). "},{"Title":"A great performance by Ben Kinglsey","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is an intelligent British gangster flick that is one part character study and one part heist movie. The film begins in a luxurious Spanish villa, home of Gary Dove, and ex-gangster. From the films title sequence and also the boulder scene it is clear from the beginning that this isn't a film that takes itself too seriously. But when Don Logan, played by Ben Kinglsey, comes into the picture a battle of wits ensues between the unhinged Don and Gary. Ben has come to Spain to convince Gary to take part in a heist back in England but the retired gary is reluctant as he has settled down to his life in the villa. However he is eventually forced to and arrives in England to do the job. At this point the film becomes a standard British heist flick though entertaining, in my opinion it lost a bit of steam at this point in contrast to the first half of the film which is gripping due to Ben Kingsleys funny and frightening performance as physcotic gangster Don. Ben Kingsley was nominated for an Oscar for this performance and he definitely deserved to as it was brilliant performance which gave an entertaining gangster film much more depth and meaning. "},{"Title":"A very dark and twisted black gangster comedy thriller.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy beast is the sinister story of ex con Gal and his wife living the life in Spain.There happiness ends when a former colleague of Gals returns,Don,not retired and wants Gal to do a robbery with him. Gal realises that sometimes,it's hard to say no.Sexy beast is a good british film that is entertaining and stylish (especially Ian Mcshanes character).It is violent,funny (at times),and very cinematic.What I hated about the movie is that it comes to no conclusion,and were just left with what happened.I would definitly reccomend renting it though.You can't miss it.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Beast","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film about a month ago and it was great.  I loved the script and storyline and of course Ben Kingsley was amazing.  He is one of my favorite actors.  If you liked this movie, check out the new Insomnia.  I just saw the original one (1997) and it was pretty good for a subtitled movie but the new one has Pacino, enough said. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible accents?  Who cares?","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Somebody suggested that Americans tend to whine about foreign accents in movies.  Actually, we don't.  What we tend to complain about are foreign LANGUAGES, which is what the characters in some British movies seem to us to be speaking.  We have an unabashed craving for nice polite upperclass British accents.  It's those Cockney variations out of Eliza Doolittle's London that tend to leave us feeling, well, confused.  We catch about one out of every three words, and even rewinding the DVD/tape doesn't necessarily set us straight as to what's being said.I just watched the DVD of Sexy Beast.  I was tempted, at several points, to turn on the subtitles so I could at least follow simple conversation. But, mostly out of sheer inertia, I didn't.  And, boy, was I glad I didn't! Sexy Beast isn't about language.  It's about images, editing and tone.  I learned everything I needed to know about the relationship between Gal and Deedee by watching them dance.  I knew what Don was about by the tone of his voice alone.  And when there were important plot points that could be made only through dialog, I somehow understood what everybody was saying.  I wonder if that was coincidence?If movies were only about dialog, we'd still spend most of our time listening to radio dramas.  But great movies are a mixture of visual and auditory elements.  And while Sexy Beast wasn't _quite_ a great movie, it sure did a damned good job of putting those elements together.  "},{"Title":"First Rate Ensemble Acting","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly astonishing film.  It takes a stock plot - retired gangster goes back to do one last job - and transforms it into a showcase for some of the best acting I've seen on the big screen.Other comments have criticised this film for being too much like a play, with the emphasis on the actors.  I feel that this is wholly unjustified. Yes, the performances are central to the film, but it's not as if this is a limitation.  Where appropriate, dream sequences, film effects, and cleverly staged shots are used, but they are never allowed to overwhelm the film or detract from the tensions between the individual cast members.  If it's big explosions you want, rent something else - the excitement in this film comes from the performances.  And for me, Ben Kingsley is good here, but not 'great'.  His performance works only as part of the ensemble, and what he's got to work with is more cartoon than character.  Ray Winstone, however, gives a masterful performance, subtle, and yet constantly simmering.  All the performances are magnified by each other.  I haven't seen ensemble acting this good on the big screen since... Well never, actually!One final point.  Much criticism is levelled at this film because the accents are unintelligible to some American ears.  Not the film's, or the actor's, fault.  Those are real, convincing, East End accents, and real, though exaggerated, language.  This isn't an American film, and to expect it to pander to American ears is essentially arrogant.   "}{"Title":"Train Spotting meets Goodfellas (Closed Caption Required)","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great Flick!  Not your regular spoon fed pablum that us Americans put out and are used to.  It is sort of like Train Spotting meets Goodfellas.  USE CLOSED CAPTIONING ON YOUR TV!!!!  I rented the video and my wife and I probably missed 1/3 of the dialogue the first viewing because of the heavy working class British accents.  I am very good at understanding accents and my wife lived in london for 6 months and we still had trouble understanding a lot of it.  The second viewing, I had learned how to enable the closed captioning on my tv, using the menu commands and it was GREAT!!!  My old TV didn't have this and it is the best part of the new tv so far.  I want to find out if TrainSpotting has CC so I can finally understand all of that dialogue too.  It is the accents PLUS the method of sound recording (faint at times) that contributes to not understaning.  Some people in the UK speak English worse than almost anyone in the world!!  Some Scottish people (school teachers that I know, no less, not coal miners) are almost IMPOSSIBLE to understand by Americans.  I understand French or Japanese or Carribean people speaking Eng. as second language better than working class Brits or any Scots.  I don't mean to offend, I just think it is not my American fault for not being able to understand corrupted speaking styles (as some Brits have implied). "},{"Title":"A Great Performance--But Not By Who You Think","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A superlative performance by Ray Winstone as a retired burglar goaded into one final heist is the best reason to see this picture, even though it's crafted as a showpiece for Ben Kingsley playing against type. The idea of Kingsley portraying an intense, relentlessly badgering criminal driven to blind rages is an appealing one and it should be great cinema but, as fun as it is, it doesn't work you can't get past the fact that it's Ben Kingsley playing against type, that he's a great technician, that he's always acting. Meanwhile, Winstone is completely convincing, subtly juggling heavy mixtures of love, fatigue and sorrow and continually finding new ways to connect to his friends and family (all of whom are excellent, especially Amanda Redman playing his wife with a past) and the audience. The film is directed by Jonathan Glazer making his debut and the hysterics that surround the Buddha-like Winstone are clearly patterned after Danny Boyle and Martin Scorsese with no discernible personal style; like Kingsley, he appears intent on nothing so much as making a splash.  "},{"Title":"Logan a Pussycat","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't see it - all the raves that Kingsley's getting for his portrayal of a psychopath.  I don't know whether to fault the script or Kingsley, but Don Logan was not even mildly frightening, let alone a hair-raising menace.  He was loud, boorish, profane and ruthless, but not a character that should rattle a seasoned criminal veteran like Gal.  Look at James Gandolfini playing Tony Soprano, and you'll see raw, terrifying menace, made all the more unsettling by Soprano's apparently genuine warmth and charm between acts of obscene viciousness.  A guy like that can make you think you've got his clock figured out and then he detonates on you.  But Logan wears his psychosis as his outergarments - all teeth and roar, without a glimmer of humanity to mark him as anything more hazardous than a chainsaw dropped full throttle into Picadilly Circus, harmlessly scattering the crowd until someone steps up and kicks off the ignition.  Had Kingsley behaved partially human from time to time, or spoken quietly but devastatingly at others, he might have succeeded at making Don Logan the feared psychopath the story pretended he was.  But he was so obviously and unrelentingly a mean spirit, and at the top of his lungs, that no one would ever take him seriously - it's inconceivable that such a character would ever have made it past the age of eighteen had such a character actually existed - someone smarter and more dangerous would have put him underground long before he could have become a respected recruiter for a gang of thieves.  So I disagree, profoundly, with all the plaudits Kingley's been getting for this role - his villain in this caper was a one dimensional cartoon on newsprint.Of course, perhaps that's the principal joke of the film - that such a cartoon could be so intimidating.  But if that's the joke, no one's getting it. "},{"Title":"Retired British mobster is coerced by a complete psychopath from his past into doing one last job.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gal, a pretty-boy mobster from England, has retired with Dee Dee, the love of his life, to a leasurely existence in Spain.  Living nearby are Aitch and Jackie, also with previous criminal connections.  In an opening scene, Gal is nearly killed in a freak accident as a boulder dislodges from the hillside and rolls into his pool.Enter Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) a completely psychopathic, amoral mobster from England, come to recruit Gal for one last job.  The verbal abuse is withering.  The threat of violence is palpable.  No one is immune.  We learn about Dee Dee's past as a porn-star, about Jackie's relationship with Logan. Cut in are Gal's surrealistic dream sequences involving the devil.  Is it Logan himself or is it Logan triggering angst about Gal's past?  What job does Logan want Gal to do?  What was their past?  Will Gal relent?  How can he possibly say no?Masterful acting job by Kingsley.  The totality of his amoral personality is truly terrifying.  Hard to imagine that such a diminuitive physical presence can generate so much fear.  Beautifully filmed.  Very imaginative cuts and fades.  Surreal dream sequences of devil are interesting.  For non-British English speakers, it helps to watch with English subtitles on. "},{"Title":"A great study in dread.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly I'm surprised that so many Americans don't understand our dialogue. I'm not criticising them for that, it's obviously hard for them to get the accent or they wouldn't say it, I was just surprised. Having said that this is a very gritty base form of lower class London accent. It's hard hitting and makes the point it's supposed to. At least if you are a brit and know the relevance.It's true to say that this film is short on plot but I think the plot is secondary. It's about how an individual can cause so much dread even if in truth they are no real physical threat. The power of Ben Kingsley's character made me cower, you know there is no way this guy would ever take no for an answer. I could put myself in Gal's situation,I think everyone has met someone with Don's single mindedness. It's a performance worthy of the oscar nomination and you have to say that once Don was dead the movie was effectively over as an event and the rest was tying up the loose ends of what plot there was.I'm just sorry that our American friends couldn't comprehend more of Ben's dialogue. I'm amazed that someone commented that he thought even Ben Kingsley didn't know what he was saying. I speak with quite a well bred English accent and understood every word. You wanna try understanding our people from North East England!By the way Dan Franzen, yes the British do speak English, especially The ENGLISH ones. The further you go from England the less likely it is to be real English you are speaking. One of our inventions you ain't stealing a claim to is our f***ing language.  "},{"Title":"Multi-Layered Film with Excellent Performances","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  	The title Sexy Beast is a grand misnomer.  There's only one beast in the movie and it's not very sexy at all.  Bad puns about the name aside, Sexy Beast successfully fuses elements of several different types of movies together with some brilliant performances and interesting direction.	Even the crew and actors behind the film are unsure of how to classify Sexy Beast, and the film's spreading over multiple genres does make it a tad difficult.  At its heart it's a simple crime story, of an ex-con gone clean having to go back for one more job.  Though this basic theme is simple, built off of it are elements of romance (the love of an ex-con for his wife, who doesn't want him to do the job), suspense (ex-con doesn't want to do the job, other con has to convince him, through any means necessary), and even a few lines of comedy.  Unlike other films that try to blend multiple genres, Sexy Beast doesn't seem unbalanced at all; the comedy is so slight that it never overwhelms the serious aspects, and all else is built evenly off the main story.  The fact that the film is 90 minutes may seem worrisome on paper, but the film isn't too short and never feels rushed (a definite problem amongst good movies that are less than two hours).	Besides proper balancing, the film's multiple elements are able to work because of excellent leading performances.  Although his accent occasionally becomes so thick as to require closed captioning, Ray Winstone has great romantic chemistry with Amanda Redman and general chemistry with Ben Kingsley and other co-stars.  He comes off as a genuine good guy, who genuinely loves his life and wife and would never leave them.  When Kingsley's Don Logan gets into an angry confrontation, the atmosphere quickly becomes chilling, as his imposing nature overshadows his character's simple dialogue (such duality being the reason some have labeled the film a black comedy).  He also comes off as genuinely crazy, with enough screws loose that it's surprising when he becomes even more furious over the course of the film.  Yet even underneath such a hard shell, there are traces of a lacking self-confidence, which perhaps is what fuels his fire.  Kingsley brings such power and emotion to a character that essentially does nothing more than cuss throughout the entire movie.	The direction is also classy, leading to some interesting shots.  The most interesting of these is during a crashing one-boulder rockslide; as the boulder begins to roll, it is shot from the boulder's position, only to switch back to an oblivious Winstone, where the rock barely misses him and crashes into his swimming pool.  More excellent direction occurs in an underwater sequence later.  The only sequences that lack a true sense of belonging are those involving the film's titular beast; it is obvious the beast is a metaphor for something, but it's never made clear exactly what.  Such sequences come off as rather curious and unnecessary.	Sexy Beast includes many different film aspects, compelling characters, and excellent direction.  Although occasionally the accents or foul language become too much, it is still one of the more interesting and better done films of the past couple years. "},{"Title":"Ben Kingsley's Movie","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is an undefinable film, probably best described as a gangster movie. I would not use the word comedy at all. But what it really is is a showcase for Ben Kingsley, who leaps from Ghandi to Meyer Lansky Itzhak Stern to Don Logan, a psychopathic gangster that brought to mind Joe Pesci of Goodfellas.Sexy Beast is all about mood, style, characters and conversation. It is at its heart a love story, the love of Gal (Ray Winstone) and his wife DeeDee. Both have skeletons in their closets - Ray is retired career criminal and DeeDee is a former Porn Star. All they want out of life is solitude. They are happy, until Don Logan (Kingsley) pops back in to their lives to offer Ray a job. About one third of the film is Logan not taking no for an answer, without every growing a tiny bit tedious.Kingsley is amazing and should have won the Oscar. He sits on edge, almost at attention, talks in constant babble, swears almost poetically (although he reprimands Gal for swearing) and is focused clearly on his task. In one of the DVD extra features, Kingsley decribes his character as someone who, at the flip of a coin, could have just as easily become a cop.This is not a movie for the faint of heart (some violence and non-stop profanity), and to be honest, I had a very tough time getting through the accents. (I watched twice, the first time with the subtitles on). A strongly recommended rental if for nothing else, seeing Ben Kingley demonstrate one of the greatest ranges in acting history. ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Bestial","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I like a film that gives us something to think about afterwards, but not any something will do - the time I've spent wondering what the hell the title could possibly be referring to I consider wasted.  Apparently it ISN'T just meaningless there's a London saying (as with A Clockwork Orange) that makes sense of it.  I was told this by someone who couldn't remember what the saying was.The story's good and the characters are good; it's a pity that director Jonathan Glazer, who is at the very least competent, doesn't really know how to handle either.  Don Logan IS a beast (presumably not the sexy beast), someone who manages to be hard as a diamond, vulnerable, and terrifyingly unpredictable, all at once.  (I'm not sure how to divide up the credit for this character between Ben Kingsley and the script, although each clearly deserves some.)  But everyone else we meet in Spain is a solid character, too, and the protagonist (played by Ray Winstone) is more than strong enough to support a story on his own.  As for the story...Spoiler!  Spoiler!Well, you've got to love the basic idea.  Retired criminal Gal is pressured by former associate Don to take another job; Gal REALLY doesn't want the job (he's not just mouthing the word no for form's sake), and REALLY refuses; Don places so much pressure on Gal to accept that Gal's girlfriend ends up killing Don, and then Gal must take the job he didn't want simply in order to cover up Don's death.  The irony of the situation alone is worth something.  And the film's second half, in which Gal is in London pretending to criminals even more frightening than Don, that so far as he knows Don is still alive, by rights ought to have been harrowing and suspenseful.  But for some reason, as soon as Ben Kingsley vanishes from the scene, the film loses all sense of where it's going.  At first we're not told that Don is dead, and Gal's appearance in London is mysterious (although we ought to have guessed); then Glazer tells us what happened by showing some horribly bloody footage of Don's death, then, later, far too much footage, then more footage still; then the tension inherent in Gal's situation is lost in a montage of far-too-easy resolutions.  Then there's that bizarre fantasy epilogue.  (Who knows?  Perhaps it inspired Tim Burton to include something similarly witless and dada at the end of Planet of the Apes.)  If that's not a sign of the director's desperation, I don't know what is.A film this good in principle (to a large extent, it's good in practise, too) OUGHTN'T have depended entirely on Ben Kingsley's character (and the anticipation of his arrival; the scenes BEFORE we begin to anticipate his arrival are undeniably flat).  I suspect the director has been ruined by his training.  An education in film-making which consists of making television commercials is worse than none at all, although possibly not quite so bad as one which consists of directing music videos. "},{"Title":"Ben Kingsley is the s***","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No question in my mind, Kingsley is the best supporting actor of the year 2001.  All the other nominees are not in the same league.  The rest of the movie is also first rate, and the film deserves comparison with other great British crime films like The Long Good Friday, Mona Lisa, and Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels.  A very exhilerating experience. "},{"Title":"English subtitles could help","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is worth a rental when other hotter movies are not available at your video store.  But be forewarned the first half of this so-called comedy is pretty much a photographed stage play (with a few modifications it could even be a radio program). Adding to the difficulty in keeping up with the long passages of dialogue is the fact that the actors speak with very heavy, often unintelligible, British accents. The title, incidentally, will turn off many prospective browsing renters, as it is totally unrelated to the movie's content. "}{"Title":"Brilliant! Kingsley=Oscar! But did I miss a piece of the story?","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley deserves his Oscar nomination for his role as the whacked out Don in Sexy Beast. The rest of the cast is very good as well. The movie is intriguing, visually interesting, and certainly not ordinary! There were clever director's touches, such as jumping times and interlocutors as stories were told, and questions were asked and answered.But something also isn't quite right. It's not wrong, mind you, but the whole thing isn't quite enough of a story to satisfy. Please don't assume that because I am an American that I was wishing for more nakedness, or some Iberian car chases. Rather, and I'm not talented enough to know exactly what (if I were, I'd be writing movies, instead of merely watching them!), but the story arc, or story depth, or story SOMETHING is off-calibration. Perhaps it starts too early, or perhaps doesn't go long enough? We seem to be told a whole lot about a couple of simple things Gal (the one hero) wants to stay home in Spain. Don (Ben Kingsley's whack dude) wants him to go to London for a crime job. Okaaaaaay. That sparseness is admirable. But somehow it isn't quite enough to give a 100 minute movie legs. It's more of a glimpse, or even a glance at an mere event. It's a snapshot, like an old short story, but without the oldtime short story punchline. It's a great middle of a movie, or a beginning--- but I felt a bit undernourished as an audience member when the movie ended. Nothing really happened emotionally or spiritually, or whatever-ly. We don't know any more about anybody or anything, really, at the end that we didn't already know at the beginning.Still and all, it's an exciting experience. Remarking on the buzz, I kept hearing about Kingsley's character, and how shark-like, and unremittingly evil he was, and how mean and nasty and horrible and all of that. How is was an amazing spewer of vileness and hate... Yikes! That actually turned me off, and kept me from seeing the movie when it was in the local theater. I was expecting some kind of protracted Cape Fear, or much worse. I dislike movie-length ugliness. As it is, Kingsley's character could be said to be all of that, maybe-kinda. He was more much more interesting, however. More subtle, more understandable. In a weird way, Kingsley's Don was almost whimsical. Certainly, he wasn't hard to watch. I gave Sexy Beast an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Kingsley is great","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that there is only one reason to see this movie and that is Ben Kingsley.  The rest of the cast is nothing without him in it. In fact, when he is not seen in the film, it is quite boring and ineffective.  Don Logan is one tough Englishman with quite a fantasticvocabulary.  Personally, i would rather just have a version of this film with Kingsley's scenes in it.  He is hilarious and intimidating at the same time.  Was hoping he would've killed Gal, his wife and those two other annoying people but, sadly, this did not happen.  I can understand why Ben is up for an Oscar for best supporting actor and that he has been cheered for his performance here. His performance, although too short, is Oscar worthy.  Notice the rest of the cast gets no accolades because they are all weak and second rate.  Kingsley in the airplane and in the face of Gal, among other scenes, shows the talent of a great actor.  See the film just for his few scenes.  The rest of the film is dull.  Looks like Ben has a better vocabulary here than Terence Stamp had in the Limey. "},{"Title":"Kingsley Dominates this stylish British Caper","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is a very good movie, a ***1/2 rating, that is responsible for not only the best villain in a long time, one of the best performances in along time.  If you have been in a cave for the last 7 months I am talking about Ben Kingsley's shocking turn as vicious gangster Don Logan. He spits out obsenities that we are amazed that BEN KINGSLEY, the man who played Ghandi and who's last villain was Meyer Lansky,is saying them.  His performance is surreal and the only way to fully comprehend what I'm saying is to see it yourself.  Yet, Sexy Beast has two un-ignorable flaws.  One, some of the time its hard to understand what the characters are saying, but thats only in low key moments though so its not a fatal flaw.  Two, the movie looses some of its flare when Kingsley is not around.  My personal favorite part is the last shot, but I won't spoil that for you, or Don Logan might have to deal with me.  "},{"Title":"Tension keeps you looking at the screen..","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great performances and a great psychological thriller. If you want a lot of dumb action or storylines, go see Pearl Harbor or Swordfish that's ok, but this movie is not really about crime, but more about human emotion. Go see it. "},{"Title":"British gangsters in good film shocker!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great film which represents a return to form in a flagging genre. Kingsley's powerful turn as psychotic Don Logan is both terrifying and entirely convincing,whilst Ray Winstone also shines as affable ex-mobster Gal.It is also much to the cast's credit that you WILL believe Gandhi and Lovejoy could be menacing criminal-types!  "},{"Title":"A great blag movie","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After reading some of the earlier comments, it seems that many people didn't follow the movie. That's understandable as those heavy London accents were even hard for me to follow after 12 years away. I think a lot of the humour was very British. Sometimes even the way the word F*** is said can amuse a Brit, but to most Americans and Canadians, it would be nothing more than unnecessary profanity. I lived in South London for 34 years and not only does this movie accurately represent how a lot of Londoners speak (Up the Old Kent Road anyway) but I've met a lot of characters who aren't that much different from those portrayed here.So that observation aside I will say that this is a great blag movie. I can't fault any of the characters . People like this exist in real life. That life in a villa on a scrubby dusty Spanish hillside is the paradise a lot of working men and women dreamt of when I was younger and a lot of them went there. So its spot on as far as that goes.  The movie isn't perfect; the job doesn't seem so difficult that there's only one man in the world that could carry it off, but if you go with it and just watch the great acting particularly from Ray Winstone as 'the hero' Gal. Ian McShane was menacingly superb as Teddy Bass. I enjoyed this movie very much. It's funny in a very London working class way and if you can follow whats being said and get the dark, very British humour, then you will enjoy it too. "},{"Title":"Psychological thriller with the anti-Ghandi","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley's performance as a psychotic and schizophrenic maniac is what makes this film a truly hair-raising experience. Ray Winstone is equally convincing in his portrayal of a relatively mild-mannered ex-con who has learned the benefits of freedom the hard way through nine years in prison. This is a good film, albeit by no means perfect - I will come to that later. I do think, though, that a lot of people here are missing some points. Logan is not trying, as some seem to think, to pull Gal in for one 'last job', this is more about the inability of criminals to shake the criminal system. Teddy Bass's remark that he will have to visit Gal in Spain is ominous in that respect.  This is by no means a Tarantino-style movie, nor does it try to be. There is more realism in one minute of this film than there is in the whole of Pulp Fiction. Also, the tension is maintained much better by the lower pace, and by the sheer discomfort of certain scenes, especially those where they all sit with Don Logan, or where Gal talks with Teddy Bass. Sure, it is never *explicitly* explained why everyone is scared of Logan, but after a couple of minutes that becomes rather obvious Ben Kingsley is SCARY. Finally about the complaints about the use of English lower-class accents has anyone on yonder side of the Atlantic ever considered that a southern drawl or Californian highschool-speak can be just as bewildering over here? English comes in a wide range of varieties, and the extremes can be difficult to understand by those people at the other extreme. This is a sacrifice we have to make for realism, I guess. What I didn't get, however, is why Gal was the only possible man to do what looked like a rather unsophisticated bank heist - surely there would be some people in London who would be equally reliable but less expensive and time-consuming to fly in? A last word about the complaints about profanity what do you expect in a film like this? Wouldn't a film without the F or C word be rather unconvincing? In fact I rather liked the way in which that paradox was satirised by Big Chris in Lock, Stock. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully acted, darkly funny.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Winstone plays Gary Dove, a retired gangster living a blissful life on the Spanish Riviera with his beautiful ex-porn star wife.  Enter Ben Kingsley as Don Logan, a violent and intense gangster intent on convincing Gary to return to London for a big heist.  We are made to fear Logan, and imagine the violence he is capable of, almost solely by the reactions of Gary and his friends to his arrival.  The humor is about as dark as it comes, but the real appeal of this movie is the acting of Winstone and Dove as they play out this battle of wills, and the imagery brought to us by director Jonathon Glazer in his fantastic feature film debut. "},{"Title":"THE BEST FILM SINCE PULP FICTION  TEN OUT OF TEN !","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Everything superfluous has been stripped away ,Its concise ,Its In your face,Its BRILLIANT.Every scene has a quality that makes it a masterpiece in its own right.This film is totally absorbing. Dont take my word for It.........SEE IT !  "},{"Title":"Well 'Ard Ex-Gangster Flick","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An unpretentious film about a gangster trying to enjoy his retirement in the sun.Ian McShane is excellent as the mob boss (and confirms he can do something other than Lovejoy).However, the real actign honors really go to Ray Winstone as the man trying to take it easy and Ben Kingsley who is TRUELY scary. "}{"Title":"Half of a Movie","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It seems as if they started to make a movie and quit in the middle. The film was just getting to the mid-point of plot development when it ended -- after an hour and twenty minutes. Everybody in the theater looked around like You've got to be kidding. Where's the rest of it? It started out good, but ended before the story was developed. "},{"Title":"Pure genius, can't fault perfection.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film made by an already proven director (those wicked Guiness ads)is a debut to be remebered. The reoccurrence of the 'Sexy beast' attitude in the main characters getting them into trouble, an amazing hard ass bad guy (who once played mister peace Ghandi) a british film to kick american idealism all over the screen. Watch it and rave on about it till u drop. This film deserves any award it can claim. The boulder that hits the tranquil pool is prophetic for the forthcoming trials of our loveble hero. so much in such a cute package. watch it again and again and again, then go buy it twice "},{"Title":"Shouldn't be compared to Lock Stock...","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This should not be compared to over-rated rubbish like Lock Stock... Sexy Beast is an interesting and grown-up crime thriller, thick on style and character. The story is all about loyalty and betrayal, a two act story involving retired hood Gal Dove (Ray Winstone), living the good life in a Spanish villa, he has it all, good friends, a good woman by his side, nothing could ruin this, that is until Don Logan (Ben Kingsly) arrives with a proposition.I'm not going to go into the second act, because it will only ruin the surprise of the film, all I can say is that Sexy Beast if top notch entertainment. The two main characters are fantastic, Winstone's subtle performance has been overlooked by most, possibly down to Kingsly's terrifying portrayal of Logan, who would have thought he could be so electrifying, the scene where he talks to himself in the mirror is brilliant. But Winstone is just as good; you can almost smell his fear.The rest of the characters are slightly under developed, Ian McSahne's crime lord Teddy Bass is practically a caricature of every London hood that's ever been portrayed. But first time director Jonathan Glazer makes up for that with his assured handling of the actors and the material, never letting his pop promo roots (Radiohead, Blur) take over the story. There are many surreal sequences in this film, which might be off putting to some, but for the most part Sexy Beast is a great way to pass ninety minutes.7/10  "},{"Title":"Not Great But Not Bad Either","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Consider yourself fortunate in the US. Here in Britain the Cockney gangster flic is such an established genre that we seem to receive an offering almost daily.'Sexy Beast' is, in my opinion, not a bad effort all things considered and is genuinely a cut above the average London gangster flick. I thought the screenplay was quite good - a mix of thriller, love story & character study. The dramatic confrontations between Logan (Kingsley) and Gal (Winstone) were almost theatrical. perhaps highlighting the stage background of Mellis & Scinto - they wrote the play on which 'Gangster No 1' was based.The film is well acted, particularly Ray Winstone in the more understated role as opposed to Kingley's OTT psychopath. Winstone's associated with hard men roles but also as an actor who can display the vulnerability behind their bravado. Also nice to see Ian McShaneon screen again.The direction was fast paced perhaps indicating Glazer's background in adverts and the pumping soundtrack, his background in music promos. I liked the way the film was edited, particularly the scene where the action shifts from a dramatic poolside confronatation to Gal sudeenly in London. It kept you interested in what happened in the intervening time.Perhaps I'm odd but what about the orgy scene. Did James Fox's upper class character do to the gangster Teddy Bass what I think he did. What did it signify? Being Britain, no film would be typically English without some reference to class.I sympathise with US reviewers who find the accents and London colloquial language difficult to understand. Its ironic that in the UK, we don't seem to have this problem with gangland pictures set in New York for instance, like the excellent 'Donnie Brasco'.Finally, I was sad to see the tribute to Cavan MacCarthy in the final credits. As 'Aitch', I thought he played the role well as the somewhat well-meaning but craven friend. "},{"Title":"Not your ordinary British dark comedy!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film really hard to sit through.  I am even not sure why I did! I have to admit that I was mesmerised, like being confronted by a very poisonous snake and being too scared to even blink an eyelid! It was one of the blackest comedies I have ever seen and I was really offended by the coarse language. I mean Ben Kingsley was superb in the role (a psychotic lunatic?) and I know that there are people out there in the real world who have to use such bad language to express themselves but in the real world I would have the opportunity to choose to listen or walk away but not in this film. The acting was really fantastic - everyone in the film played their parts to perfection - so one must take a step back to look at the film objectively and then agree that it is a very, very good film but it won't appeal to everyone's taste. "},{"Title":"Not your ordinary British dark comedy!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film really hard to sit through.  I am even not sure why I did! I have to admit that I was mesmerised like being confronted by a very poisonous snake and being too scared to even blink an eyelid! It was one of the blackest comedies I have ever seen and I was really offended by the coarse language. I mean Ben Kingsley was superb in the role (a psychotic lunatic?) and I know that there are people out there in the real world who have to use such bad language to express themselves but in the real world I would have the opportunity to choose to listen or walk away but not in this film. The acting was really fantasic - everyone in the film played their parts to perfection - so one must take a step back to look at the film objectively and then agree that it is a very, very good film but it won't appeal to everyone's taste. "},{"Title":"Tension too thick to cut.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tension, is the key word here, tension, piled upon tension, piled upon, suspense, and mood.  Sexy Beast was released sadly to a few theatres in this town of mine, when movies like PLanet of the Apes,and American Outlaws sell out.  What the hell is wrong with this world?  I ask you.Sexy Beast opens in Spain where retired British Gangster, Gal has settled into a picture perfect lifestyle.  One that has suited him for 9 years.  He has a daily routine, Sunbathing, a close group of friends who come over for drinks and BBQ, and even a beautiful girl, who is mad in love with him. Oh, and a Spanish pool boy, who is a little chum he takes shooting in the countryside.  So, basically an ideal lifestyle, right?  Enters Ben Kingsley. Yes, I said Ben Kingsley!  Gandhi can scare the crap out of anyone, he is so cool is this movie, when he sleeps sheep count him!  Kingsley is Don Logan, a definition of a man who has no problem saying whatever he wants, hitting whoever he wants, and telling great sex stories to anyonewho will listen.  And a guy who could knock the stuffing out of anyone.  And that is obvious in this film, when at a dinner out with his friends Gal finds out Don is coming to Spain from England to offer him a job.  The table goes silent, and Gal looks like he's going to be sick, he's scared.  Don of course has no idea about Gal's new lifestyle, or his present state of mind, he gave up hisold lifestyle, and now is 'Retired'.  And Gal doesn't know how Don is going to take this.  Gal doesn't even know if he will survive the renunion.Needless to say Don Logan is not a compassionate guy, he came to Spain to grab his old comrade, get him to England, and rob this vault.  The job has been planned down to the finest detail for the last 5 months by the Big Boss, Jackie, another heavy, as if there weren't enough in this movie. Jackie has charged Don with the task of getting Gal and getting him back, but Gal is not going, he tells Don, (carefully) thankyou but no... Don doesn't take no for an answer though.  And that is where the tension kicks into hig gear.That is about as far as I will go, as far as the plot, I like to leave some grey area for you, the audience.  Trust me though, you won't regret Sexy Beast, it is 100% pure grit, and TENSION!Sexy Beast was directed by Jonathan Glazer.  Who combines House music with, inventive camera angles and movement.  I hope to see more from him soon, he is off to a great start.Sexy Beast is in a word, AWESOME, and it rakes up there with some of the best Caper movies made in the last ten years.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Beast yes, Sexy no! no! no! no!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't know what visions the film makers had in their heads, nor what drugs they were taking. I can only imagine the drugs the reviewers (who seemed to like the film) were taking!The film is unfunny. The words which come out of the mouth of each actor, with the exception of Kingsley, are impossible to understand. The plot is a cliche and uninspired. The characters behave stupidly. The film kooks washed out. The editing is obviously influenced by music videos, and in a way which does nothing for the story.Yes, there are some good actors in the film, but for the most part they are not well used, or or asked to perform in such warped ways that it makes no sense. While the basic plot is easy to follow, the development is clumsy and seems the work of amateurs.However, Ben Kingsley is great, his character interesting, this dialogue intelligible. If the rest of the movie held up its end, or even came close, this would be worth seeing. As it is, it's best to save your money or go see Jurassic park III again. "},{"Title":"Better than the usual mediocre English crime flicks","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gal (Ray Winstone) is a retired crook now residing in Spain with his wife Deedee (Amanda Redman). He likes to spend his time shooting rabbits and relaxing in the blazing sun at the side of his pool, that is until a huge boulder comes crashing down a hill and lands in it. Gal's idyllic life is interrupted when a bloke from his criminal past phones his friend and tells him he will be soon paying Gal a visit. The bloke in question is Don Logan (played menacingly by Ben Kingsley). Don is a frightening psychopathic figure. In one scene a man asks Don to put his cigarette out and Don replies, I'll cut your hands off and stub it out on your eyeball. We first see Don walking through an airport (a scene not unlike when we first see Harold Shand in The Long Good Friday). On Don's arrival at Gal's villa, not many words are spoken. Don asks Gal to come to London to do a bank job with his firm. Gal declines, but Don won't take no for an answer. Eventually, Gal must go and do the job. There are some dream sequences where Gal is sat at a dinner table in the desert and Don appears in the shape of a human rabbit, shooting a machine gun at him. The film has a sort of romantic theme with Gal and his wife, and the theme of this enormous ogre that must be overcome. Winstone is as solid as ever playing a cockney crook, but it's Kingsley who (not surprisingly) stands out with his manic turn. It's stylishly shot and a film well worth seeing, and it doesn't outstay its welcome with its running time of just 84 minutes. "},{"Title":"Who is the Beast?","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Part of the fun of watching Sexy Beast is determining who the title character is.  The advertising would have you believe it is Don (Ben Kingsley, who is indeed beastly in his portrayal of an obsessive thug determined to get Gal (Ray Winstone) to do one more job.  The opening shot (no spoiler here) of Gal in his tight swimtrunks poolside would have us believe he certainly thinks himself sexy, despite his middle-age paunch. But keep an open mind as to who the Sexy Beast really is.Sexy Beast is touted as a comedy/crime/drama.  Although there are some humorous elements, I would hardly consider it a comedy.  The tension Ben Kingsley produces on-screen will have you biting your nails.  Some stylized sequences in a London bath house will make you wince.  And the violence (not overdone) will make you feel like you got hit in the head with a bottle.Sexy Beast keeps you fidgeting in the chair right up to the semi-satisfying end. "}{"Title":"A rare great UK gangster film","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Great acting, convincing plot, lovely cinematography (half shot in Spain), intelligent direction and good ending. Welcome after the general stupidity of Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and its imitators. Where the latter sees glamour and excitement in the gangster lifestyle, here Jonathan Glazer paints much more detail. So we get the ordinary fairly thick working class blokes caught up in crime combined with several powerfully convincing psychopaths who give Scorcese a run for his money in portraying the banality of evil. Above all, the real gem (pun intended) is one of the subtlest surprise endings in a film anywhere. And who would think to put the last scene of a film at London bus stop in the middle of night. "},{"Title":"And Gandhi is a riot.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Original.  Beautifully made.  Surprisingly touching.  Funny as all hell. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SOME MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD....... I avoided Sexy Beast on it's initial release in the UK, because it sounded like another Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels, one of the worst films I've ever had the misfortune to see. Just caught up with it on DVD and glad to say, I was wrong. There is some of the same selfconscious directorial bravado at work here, but at least for the first hour this is a tense, darkly funny psychodrama that breathes new life into the retired-gangster-is-lured-back-for-last-job-genre.What really made the film for me is it's offbeat casting and the relationships between the characters, which really made me care for them. Initially it looks like we are dealing with the usual tough guy clichees familiar from early Tarantino and his imitators. Then you realize that Gal genuinely doesn't want to resume his former life because he is happy and deeply in love with his wife and the film becomes involving on an emotional level.Both Ray Winstone and Ben Kingsley are cast against type and it pays off extremely well. The former, usually cast as a heavy is soft and vulnerable but with an edge that makes one wonder if he will snap at some point and Ben Kingsley is hilariously nasty as the ultimate foulmouthed villain. I would have not recognized him if I hadn't known before he was in this. Don Logan is the kind of bully who homes in on his victims insecurities and psychologically tears away at them until he wins. Later we find out he has his own insecurities, which deepens character, but makes him no less scary. The two women are great too and are far from the bimbo molls you'd expect them to be in this kind of film. Ian McShane, who I only knew from bland television parts, is an unexpected delight.The let down of the film is it's last third. The first hour is almost like a stage play, just five characters in one location and a situation that grows ever more tense. I didn't want this to end with an action scene, especially one you'd expect in a film of this genre. Still it's a short film at under 90 minutes and until the last 20 minutes or so it's a great return for the British gangster film and it certainly kicks Guy Ritchies butt. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Myself a Brit, I was able to ignore my friend's complaints about dialect translation problems and enjoy this film.  Ben Kingsley plays a complete antithesis to his characters from Gandhi and Schindler's List.  Lots of laughs and surprises.  The whole rabbit thing made it appropriately off the wall. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as sexy as you've heard","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm just at a loss.  I was greatly anticipating Sexy Beast -- thought it had all the makings of a great movie.  But by the time it was over, I was nearly bored stiff!  It actually put one of my friends to sleep, and he will sit through anything.Sexy Beast opens well, but it dies after about 10 minutes and is simply never revived.  It is pokey, uninventive, and bland.  Ben Kingsley has a part that should be great but isn't.  He tries handily but it just never works.  My advice  wait until something sexier happens along "},{"Title":"Strong performances highlight in British crime caper","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is not your standard British crime flick of the last five or so years.  Steering away from the (often overly) stylized view of films like Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Sexy Beast leans more towards its outstanding ensemble cast to carry it along.  While it could be accused of being occasionally slow, it is a superbly scripted film, ultimately saving it from cliche and over familiarity.Gary 'Gal' Dove (Ray Winstone) is a former bank robber, who has unofficially retired from the 'game'.  He lives in his villa in baking hot Spain, spending his hours working on his tan, swimming in his pool and generally doing nothing much.  It's just him, his wife Dee Dee (Amanda Redman), his friend Aitch (the late Cavan Kendall) and Aitch's partner Jackie (Julianne White).  The life he used to know is no more and he can relax for the rest of his life.  Or so he thinks.Enter English hardman and former associate of Gal, Don Logan (Ben Kinsley).  Don's in Spain to get Gal to do one more job, on the behalf of London crime lord, Teddy Bass (Ian McShane).  Gal's reluctance to return to the UK for one more job is not what Don wanted to hear...Much of the film is built around the extremely intense verbal sparring between Don and Gal.  Movie buffs who like to remember Ben Kingsley as the pacifist Gandhi will be in for an real shock when they see him as Don Logan!  He is superb as the psychopathic hardman, who does not take no for an answer, ever.  Winstone is great as Gal, he has that weathered look to him, not on a physical level, but mentally.  He really has had enough of the life and wants out.  The strain on his life when Don reappears is superbly shown by Winstone.Supporting cast members like Redman and McShane add real weight to the two main characters.  Redman, whose role is small, is impressive as Gal's loving but worried partner and McShane is brilliantly evil as Teddy Bass.  Fans of McShane's British TV series Lovejoy will also be surprised how easily he can shift between debonair and downright dastardly.Director Glazer has a good hold on the film.  His depictions of both Spain and the UK couldn't be anymore spot on.  Largely he lets the film be carried by Kingsley and Winstone, which is a good idea.  So in all, a fine film with a slighlt muddled ending.  A worthwhile excursion from the sometime cartoon nature of more recent British crime films.  Recommended.   "},{"Title":"Incredibly tense, great performances, full of irony","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I needed a massage and a drink coming out of this film.  I haven't seen such tension and emotional conflict in a film in years.  Kingsley is amazing. All of the characters are complex and interesting.  I DO NOT think of it as a comedy.  It had it's funny moments, but I was not feeling jovial or even entertained by the end...more gripped and pulled into the story.  Great filmmaking that pushes the medium.  Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"What's in a name?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After all the dross produced in the name of the post-Lock Stock British gangster film industry at last a good movie has been made Jonathan Glazer's Sexy Beast. (The only other exceptions would be Gangster No.1 and Guy Ritchie's own highly Lock Stock-esque Snatch). From the brilliant opening scene to the last Sexy Beast is littered with masterful surrealistic touches. Although Ray Winstone gives a career best performance as Gary - the retired gangster who just wants to be left alone in his utopian Mediterranean idyll, it is true Ben Kingsley somewhat steals the show. As Don he is as hilarious as he is terrifying. In a unique performance which owes nothing De Niro or Pesci or indeed anything I've seen him play before (certainly a far cry from Gandhi!) Kingsley illuminates every scene he is in as a monster of cockney menace. British TV star Ian McShane is also convincingly malevolent as the ambidextrous Teddy Bass and James Fox also shines in a fleeting appearance.Unlike so many British directors Glazer is genuinely cinematic - using the screen to the full, particularly in the opening sequence. He is certainly a talent to watch even if Sexy Beast made less of a splash commercially than hoped.One quibble - like Grosse Point Blank and Boston Kickout, Sexy Beast is lumbered with an inappropriate and poorly chosen name. But don't be put off - if you want a Brit gangster flick in the spirit of Get Carter or The Long Good Friday then this is for you. "},{"Title":"Can't see a flaw","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can find NOTHING wrong with this film.  I cannot criticize one thing.  I think that it was perfectly executed in every detail. The acting was unbelievable (Ben Kingsley and Ray Whitmore are Oscar nominees for sure), the writing zinged and slinged, the soundtrack added tension in just the right spots, the plot was convoluted and edgy enough to keep viewers on the edge of their seats at all times.All in all, I would TOTALLY recommend this film to any serious moviegoer except those who are turned off by violence.  If you have a sensitive nature and you cannot take hostility and violence, then forget it.  "},{"Title":"Blah, blah, blah.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  We went to see this film today, based on what seemed to be virtually unanimously good reviews by various critics.  Boy, were we disappointed!  The theatre has a policy of giving refunds to anyone who wants to leave within the first half hour.  We should have taken them up on it.This film presents us with a group of assorted British gangster types, with a few female companions, endlessly talking to each other, very loudly and fast, generally in menacing tones, a bit like a Pinter play without the talent.  They are not funny, they are not interesting, in fact, they are hardly comprehensible (at least to my North American ears), due to their thick lower-class British accents, abetted perhaps by the theatre's sound system.  In short, one of the most irritating films I have recently seen.The thing is just about an hour and a half in length, short by present day standards.  This is one of its few virtues. "}{"Title":"Guess who's coming to Dinner?","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After all the reviews I found myself waiting impatiently for Ben Kingsley's character to make his appearance. After all we were told he plays as loathsome a character as  has stepped onto the screen. They were right. Ben (Don Logan) gets right under your skin once he opens his mouth and the foulness of his personna spews out. This is a guy that definitely needs killing, but no-one seems to have the cojones to do it.Be prepared for a torrent of the worst swear words the English language has to offer-especially the one considered the foulest of all-spoken so often, and with such venom, that one never becomes desensitized to them.Ben is someone you don't say no to, and for most of the movie our anti-hero tries to present that word with many democratic faces. Ben's ultimate rejoinder is to jackhammer out No so fiercly that he wears down the opposition. With Ben off the screen things are pretty tame and derivative, although with some quirky nightmare scenes thrown in. The Heist itself is rather stupid in it's implausibility, and Ian McShane gets to be black and Demonic. Yes Ben you have made us temporarily forget Gandhi. "},{"Title":"A very good movie!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this film a lot. I have heard a lot of comparisons to Guy Ritchie's films, but I don't think so. This is a very different style, more on drama and less on snappy lingo and comedy. In fact, I did not find this movie very funny at all. I keep hearing dark comedy but I don't see it. This film is more sinister than funny. When this film starts, you wonder whether it will be a heist film or not. The main characters are so content and happy living the life they are living, that returning to London and crime is out of the question. However, sometimes evil comes and it is hard to say no, By the way, evil has never been played more evil, since Dennis Hopper created Frank Booth in Blue Velvet. This movie has characters that you do feel for and one that you hate. As I watched, I felt for the good guys and hoped that good would prevail over evil. If you want to see a drama that will involve you in the movie, this is it. If you want to see a Tarantino/Guy Madonna film, well, you might just like this as well. I still don't know where they got the title for this one! A solid 3 out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"Ghandi Goes Hannibal Lechter!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good on beast, bad on sexy.Ray Winstone is a former British crook living the good life in Spain with his wife, socializing with friends, content with sunning himself poolside. He's happily retired and he has no desire to resume his criminal career. Suddenly he gets the word Don (Ben Kingsley) wants him back in Britain for a big job. Don is NOT the kind of guy who takes no for an answer. There's nothing Winstone and his friends can do but wait in dread for his arrival.Don flies to Spain and quickly lives up to all their fears. A simmering volcano just waiting to errupt, Kingsley is obnoxious, mean and crude, and speaks in a thick accent just shy of a pirate (very close to a Monty Python comedy voice too). It is the juiciest role Kingsley has had in years. He insults the women, terrifys the men, and pees on the carpet as he tries to bully and force Winstone into taking the job...or else.So the Beast part of the title makes sense. But what about the sexy part? Despite ample opportunity for topless scenes or trips to Spanish nudie bars, the film fails to do either. The women are quite charming and attractive, but they are not given anything remotely sexy to do. Lying in his pool in his speedos, Winstone has all the sexual appeal of the Pillsbury Dough Boy. And frankly, watching Ghandi snarl and curse and try and intimidate people just doesn't seem very sexy to me.This movie should've taken a page from Kirsten Dunst's new movie, Crazy/Beautiful in which she is both. In fact, this movie should've taken a page from Kirsten Dunst's new movie and cast her in the part of Don instead! Now that would be a sexy beast!  Yes! I don't know about you, but I'd be glad to commit any crime Kirsten Dunst asked me to commit! And then some! But I guess then the movie would've been very short. Still, it would've made more money. Ben Kingsley emoting gives you a critically acclaimed art house film. Kirsten Dunst in a wet t-shirt gives you lines around the block!Despite the problems with the title, Sexy Beast is not a bad movie, though the accents are a bit thick at times. The direction by Jonathan Glazer is good. I recommend it, but because of me you can't get the idea of Kirsten Dunst in the Ben Kingsley part out of your mind (I can't!) , you'd be better off skipping this and going to see crazy/beautiful instead.  "},{"Title":"Uneven, overpraised crime film","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see Sexy Beast expecting something really special, based on the multitude of fawning reviews for the film and Ben Kingsley's performance.  Now that I've seen the film I'm at a loss as to why it has been so richly praised, unless of course it's because the bar has been lowered to the point that critics are favorably reviewing these kind of films out of spite for the Hollywood machine.  Another possibility is that the lure of Kingsley got the Merchant Ivory crowd into the theater and so as not to appear sheltered they have mistaken some attempts at violent tension for real drama.  The film opens nicely but sputters about fifteen minutes in and never really recovers.  Ray Winstone does what he can with what amounts to a wisp of a character.  Ben Kingsley was far more comical than menacing, I just didn't feel that his character was much more than a annoying jerk and the other actor's cowering reactions to him rang false.  The story has several clumsy segues resulting in an uneven rhythm and no real mood, the robbery sequence is unmemorable and by the numbers. I won't even attempt to explain what I think may have been homoerotic symbolism. And please, for the love of film, someone make these young directors STOP flailing about with the camera.  The days of jump cuts, speed-ups, hand helds and pounding electronic music that don't serve the scene are over, over, o-v-e-r.  This isn't an unwatchable film by any means, but let's call it what it is a very uneven effort by a first time director featuring some veteran actors doing the best they can, a couple of good ideas and well done scenes, and some occasionally interesting dialogue.  But don't get carried away - all these parts do not add up to a complete film.  Better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Gandhi No More, Whitechapel No More, Spain No More...","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, couldn't resist a cod quote from The Proclaimers to start things off.Sexy Beast is getting incredibly good press in North America. Most of it's deserved, but for me it never really quite reached the heights of, say, Trainspotting or Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. I think the critics are going ga-ga over Ben Kingsley's over the top, scenery chewing, this-can't-be-the-same-guy-who-played-Gandhi mad-dog gangster role. It's fun to watch him doing his thing, but North Americans queasy over the use of the c word are warned!For me, the best bits were the subtle, small touches of romance and the palpable fear and loathing as the happily retired old lag is dragged back into the life he'd left behind. Also nice to see a Cockney Criminals Britflick filmed in Spain. Look out for that rock! "},{"Title":"ben kingsley scares me","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  like robert carlyle's Begbie in Trainspotting, Ben Kingsley's portrait of don logan captures the unpredictability of the psychopathically violent. He is a hysterically unsettling character and it's hard to reconcile the fact that this is Gandhi playing the most convincing enforcer I've seen. Unlike other British gangster movies, sexy beast captures the unsettling, fearful stink of violence. For a director whose background is in advertising, Glazer does not take refuge in fast-cutting in the opening, he catches the slow unbearable heat of spain, holding onto one iconic image of ray winstone relaxing by his pool rather than leaping all over the shop. Apart from the inconsequential dream sequences, this is aesthetically disciplined, expertly acted and well-observed filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"AN ENJOYABLE MOVIE - WELL DONE","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much, despite the difficulty I had understanding some of the cockney accents.  This was quite a different kind of role for Ben Kingsley, and although most of the cast I did not know, I think they all did an excellent job.  It was a fast paced hour and a half.  It is certainly worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Sexy Beast scared me straight","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy BeastThe boss is assembling a crack team of top performers to tackle a particularly tricky assignment and your name comes up immediately. Flattered? Not if you're retired con man Gary 'Gal 'Dove and the boss is the sociopathic Don Logan.  And you thought your boss was the incarnation of the devil. Prepare for the worst when Don (Ben Kingsley) calls you out of your Spanish villa. You should have been suspicious when your first visitor is a huge rolling rock - not the brew -which drops metaphorically into your pool, landing on the mosaic tile linked hearts in its base - or am I being too obvious here? The director tries to bring this full circle by the end of the film and good luck to anyone following him there. The title Sexy Beast implies a physical appeal hidden under layers of a cushy retirement softness, which our hero seems to deny.  In reality, we are introduced to a sweaty beast sunning by poolside, a career British 'wise guy' who has tucked away a nest egg to support him and his wife and former porn queen, DeDee (Amanda Redmond) in style. His associate Aitch (Cavan Kendall) and his wife Jackie (Julianne White) are the perfect couple if your idea of perfection is Bill Sykes (Oliver) and Cruella Deville (Dalmatians). I haven't needed subtitles in an English language film so badly since Billy Elliott. Kingsley's articulate, but Gay lapses into the mumbles and Aitches lines are lost in complete gibberish. The dream sequences are so smoothly integrated to draw you into Gay's anxieties bringing his personal devil as a force he never completely overcomes. This hirsute phantom makes puzzling entrance but shows us that Gal's coolness under pressure has not been lost in his idleness. And he helps untie up a loose end before the final credits. You will find many other characters in this cast who stand up well to Kinsley's superior talent. Teddy's subtle portrayal of the Mr. Big earns the respect of his hired hands as well as the audience. We sympathize with the pathetic trophy wives when they incur the abuse of the psychopathic Don. Even the young pool boy shows an insight to the adult world without any cutesy pretense. Don's gives us the British Gangster Rap when he's up against the reluctant Gal. His staccato delivery of his disagreement (yesyesyesyesyesyes) and his forthright expression of his concern (I won't let you be happy) has an ominous rhythm that makes you want to agree to anything he demands. So have I dispelled any expectation of Ghandi reincarnated? Though the story line is as thin as Memento's, prepare to be blown away by a character whose demeanor, cadence and aura are so intimidating that you'll be comparing your next dozen nemeses to Don Logan, and seriously reconsider the advantages of a life of crime.CrCy "},{"Title":"Ben Kingsley is something else.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! How can a slight-featured actor who has played nothing but serious, nerdy, non-threatening parts turn around and become the last person on earth you'd be comfortable in being around?Much as Edward Norton transformed himself to play a brutal neo-nazi in American History X, Kingsley - Gandhi, the meek accountant in Schindler's List, - is a nasty pitbull of a man in Sexy Beast.The film traces a former mobster's retirement with his loving ex-porn queen wife to a Spanish shangri-la, the mob's long-distance call for him to do a job, Kingsley's beastly mission to destroy the man's peace and bring him back, and the events that follow. The film's title is a bit unfortunate, more having to do with the lead character's nightmares than to the plot.For those who don't easily understand heavy British accents (the character of Aitch - the mobster's friend, is particularly difficult to understand), I'd recommend waiting for the DVD and watching with English subtitles on.Not a great film, but Kinsley should be up for Best Supporting Actor at least. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"An Extended Short with hardly any plot... that works","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The one line summary says it all.  Great editing and cinematography.  Ben Kingsley can play just about anyone.  There is hardly any plot in this film, but the quick cuts and edits make this film highly enjoyable.  I would pay another $10 to see it again.9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Don't be fooled","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"     This is as another reviewer read, a Guy Ritchie, Tarantino rip off that has very little point other than to shock you with gore, vulgarity, and silences.  IT'S AN ORGY!  IT'S A SHOOTING!  HE SAID ***K!  At least Snatch had some wit to it, although by the end I was squirming at all the violence.    Everyone's been talking about Ben Kingsley- I admit he's great at the role, but this is like Nick Nolte as that sheriff in Affliction, a great, devastating role in an otherwise awful film.  DON'T go see this unless you're studying psychopaths, Ben Kingsley's career, or hip (near incomprehensible) British gangster movies.  Yes, it will make you tense, but afterwards you'll wonder what the heck the point was.  Go see Memento.    "},{"Title":"Nice film shame about the title","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast opens with Gal enjoying the good lifestyle his criminal endeavours have bought.  A boulder intrudes on his happiness acting as a portent for the equally unexpected Don.  Talking to Don is like talking to a boulder and that's the heart of the movie.Gal's dilemma is that whether he chooses to go back to Britain for a job or stay in Spain in retirement he risks losing paradise.  Which option offers the least likely chance?Sexy Beast was originally a stage play but manages to disguise its origins better than the over-rated Gangster Number One managed to.  This is mostly due to an excellent structure that includes a good use of flashbacks.  The dialogue is brilliant but it does cause some minor pacing problems at the villa as it might reveal character but it doesn't always move the story forward.  But to be honest I'm not sure if I could bring myself to edit it either.The main thing I learnt from the writing was how the writers added layers.  With the characters it means Don isn't just in Spain to get Gal - he's there to get a gal. That paradox makes him much more interesting tough but vulnerable.  With the robbery, adding layers meant that we get an original complication rather than just the usual run of the mill blag. "},{"Title":"Winstone and Kingsley sink their teeth into their characters as the drama around them unfolds","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With Gary Dove's (Ray Winstone) gravelly voiceover telling us that `this is the life', it begins as it means to go on, as he reclines by his pool in Spain.  He's an ex-gangster, who's come here to start a life of luxury. And this new life's going fine, until psycho Don Logan (Ben Kingsley, convincingly menacing) turns up, wanting Gary for `one last job' and he won't take no for an answer.As the camera homes in on Logan's sharp features and sudden violence, Winstone gives an excellent portrayal of fearful prey, which director Jonathan Glazer conveys brilliantly with a sequence featuring Dove as a hunted animal.  The job is for gang boss Teddy Bass (Ian McShane, clearly having a ball) and is almost an afterthought to Dove and Logan's duel of wills, leaving plenty of room for the superb robbery sequence, which involves drilling through the bottom of a swimming pool to get to the safe in the bank next door.Glazer's assured control of his material stops this being just another gangster film.  Winstone and Kingsley sink their teeth into their characters as the drama around them unfolds.  The script is refreshingly free of clichés, with Dove's sweaty tension and Logan's TAXI DRIVER-esque bathroom mirror monologues.  It is this blatant disregard for the rules and clichés of the British gangster film, which sets SEXY BEAST apart and promises a glittering career in film for former ads director Jonathan Glazer, whose first film this is. "},{"Title":"Too sexy for their shirts","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The reassuring trend of this new year seems to be the sudden pick up of art house fodder like Sexy Beast by the multiplexes.  This has prompted me back into the review room.  Stay tuned for the alreadyviewedbutnotreviewd CTHD.So.  London gangster? - What's Ray Winstone doing?  Slap some gold jewellery on him and let him expose his belly under the Costa del Crime sun.  No surprise there.  But now add Salford's second finest (Ben Kingsley) and make him terrifying beyond poetry, and this film becomes captivating.  Some wonderful head-to-heads between Winstone and Kingsley.  Tick following tock.There's more.  Ian McShane.  My old school mate and Kingsley's Ship Canal rival.  (Actually.  He was only OK.  I just wanted to name drop.)  A dark Amanda Redman?  Hubba hubba!  I've said this before, but an actress who can be sexy in more than one way is an actress indeed.  (See - please see - the blonde Alison Braithwaite currently on TV.)  Well done audience!Ron (Viewed 5Feb2001)  "},{"Title":"If you liked Gangster Number One, you'll like this","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Like 2000's Gangster Number One, this is the dark side of the Brit gangster flick - no lovable Lock Stock style rogues here. A previous poster describes this as a hilarious comedy, which I think may mislead people - there are a few nervous laughs, but on the whole this is a menacing piece of work. Like G#1, psychopathic gangsterdom takes on more domesticated gangsterdom ; and again this is far from an advert for a life of crime. A few stylistic touches don't quite come off, but overall this is well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Acting Re-invents Brit Gangster Genre","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hardly a month goes by without a new British gangster film appearing, as everyone tries to follow the success of Guy Ritchie's 'Lock Stock' and 'Snatch'.Thankfully however the superb 'Sexy Beast' breathes new life into what was fast becoming a saturated genre - the creators rising above the tried and tested approach of relying on a clever fast-paced storyline interspersed with slapstick gags and cheeky Cockney hi-jinks.Instead, we are treated to a film of really quite exceptional acting, no more so than Kingsley's breathtaking performance as Don Logan. It speaks volumes about the succession of Brit gangster flicks that only now we see the first character in the genre who is convincingly evil and genuinely fits the feared reputation which precedes him.Kingsley is cold and instantly loathesome, but compulsive viewing for his brilliant dialogue; short and sharp in speaking his mind yet at the same time mixed up in over verbalising and confusing what he actually says.The silent pauses which also accompany the permanently awkward interaction Kingsley has with other characters are also brilliantly timed and portrayed to evoke the real tension which exists throughout, and adds power to the moments when his temperament gets the better of him.What makes this all the more convincing and watchable is the contrasting but equally impressive surroundings in which Kingsley appears.The life of retired crooks on the Spanish coast is made impossibly inviting, comfortable and cosy without being cheaply glamourised, Winstone as Gal leading a set of strong performances as an endearing and essentially harmless ex-pat taking things easy and minding his own business along with refreshingly un-hollow wife and best friends.The scene is set for the psychological battle of minds between the amiable Winstone and the relentless Kingsley, but also with a string of ultimately irrelevant but all the more entertaining scenes which add to the solidity of the film - the swimming pool, the hunting, the aeroplane.When events switch to a purposely contrasting London the turn of plot sees the pace of the film increase as the movie explodes into full-blown and for the most part familiar - although understated - gangster style.The director makes things so much more viewable and impressive with his occasional jumps back and forth between separate scenes as well as returning to already used themes and settings.It says so much about the quality of the film that the actual crime is almost unimportant and unneccessary for the viewers enjoyment, yet it is still carried out with intelligent direction, capturing the ruthless workmanlike approach of the gang and linking events to the more important storylines involved.In London the quiet calculating kingpin Teddy Bass picks up the well acted battle of wits with Winstone from Kingsley, and once again the timing and conciseness of interaction add to the film, what is not said as important as what is said.By the end the characters have depth, hold our attention and are genuinelymemorable - so much more so than the endless stream of stereotypical cockney wise guys throughout the genre who in many cases are forgettable but for their comedy value.In other words, 'Sexy Beast' has to all intents and purposes reinvented the Brit Gangster flick genre with a movie that stands out from the crowd with good reason.Sadly, it doesn't seem to have made it to many cinemas, which is a tragedy as it deserves a wider audience - a production which is brilliant for the right reasons a *film* should succeed the acting, direction and scenery, not just the storyline.Superb acting throughout - Winstone is exceptional and Kingsley simply unmissable - as well as clever direction, and 'Sexy Beast' adds up to a real gem. Everything is done in moderation, there are no shortcuts taken to increase entertainment value or obligatory excessive violence or neverending visual humour; it doesn't try to make you like it, you just will like it. "},{"Title":"A modern gangster movie of great style and verve.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ENGLAND has turned out some formidable gangster movies in recent years, not least Face and Gangster No 1. Now Sexy Beast comes along to knock the spots off all of them thanks to a mesmerising star turn from Ben Kingsley. Split equally between the Spanish Riviera and London, Sexy Beast centres on retired jewel thief Gary 'Gal' Dove (Ray Winstone, red as a lobster) and the life of ease he enjoys in the villa he shares with wife Deedee Amanda Redman). Gal spends his days lazing by the pool. When he gets too hot he has a beer. Then he goes back to the pool. The only change in his day occurs when boulders crash down the hillside and land in his pool. Gal is the original British criminal ex-pat - a man who's escaped to the sun and left his past behind. One day his past re-emerges in the form of a telephone call from Don Logan (Ben Kingsley), an East End hood who works for criminal kingpin Teddy Bass (Ian McShane). Teddy wants Gal to join a team to ransack a bank vault. Don is the force of energy who will galvanise Gal back into the fold. Sexy Beast is deceptive. It begins as a quasi-comedy, opens to the strains of The Stranglers singing Peaches, before shifting gears and suddenly - and irrevocably - becoming a bloody, terrifying journey into the dark side. The emotional core of the film is Gal, played with panache by Winstone. But the strength of the film is Kingsley, in a tour-de-force performance, who is absolutely mesmerising as the cold, dead-eyed persuader. Anyone familiar with Kingsley's work will have a tough time linking this performance with the man who played Gandhi and won an Oscar for only his second film. Like many actors of his generation, Kingsley revels in playing the chameleon, and the rivers of filth which pour from his mouth as Don Logan would make a sailor's toes curl. He systematically breaks down Winstone's defences until they resemble playground bully and whimpering victim. Winstone has never looked more vulnerable, and Kingsley has never been more menacing. Harold Pinter would be proud of the devastating silences which punctuate the action in Sexy Beast. Director Jonathan Glazer, here moving from massive success in the commercials sector to his debut feature film, pulls off a fabulous casting coup and succeeds in lensing a significant film. He has avoided much of the flashy camerawork which commercials directors often bring to movies with negative results, opting to concentrate instead on solid acting - present in abundance - and Louis Mellis and David Scinto's script, which provides Kingsley with his rants, speeches and monologues. There is, however, a creepy dream sequence with Winstone, eating lunch in the Spanish tundra, stalked by a rabbit man with an Uzi - a reference to an earlier moment where Gal and his mate hunt rabbits with their rifles. Ian McShane and James Fox flit in and out of the action as underworld boss and shady banker, respectively, while Gal's best pal on the Riviera is played, in his last role, by the late Cavan Kendall. This is electric stuff - a modern gangster movie of great style and verve which comes from the same stable as Gangster No 1, but which, for sheer power, eclipses it. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the intense drama, fast pace, and solid performances","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've just returned from a special screening of the film, with a Q&A afterward with Ben Kingsley. Particularly interesting of Ben's comments were that he didn't do any particular research for the role, but simply reached into the basement of the the dark side within himself, which we all in fact have.The film's dramatic pacing and editing are impeccable. I echo much of the previous reviewer's comments. Kingsley is intense as Don. The comedy is evident, but not indicated. The performances are top notch throughout. Ian McShane is deadly. This is a formidable directorial debut.Well done. "},{"Title":"Kingsley King","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Long Good Friday and Lock, Stock had some great British villains that were as scary as American gangsters Then Glazer, Melles, Scinto and Kingsley took one better and created one of Cinema's greatest villains and British Cinema's greatest (even bettering McKellen's Richard III.)But having said that the rest of the crew enhance his performance as well. Glazer, with his music video background, cuts Kingsley and the cast in sharp focus and loud visual, dizzingly back and forth, as if he were directing a scary Goth Emo music video. And it bloody works.UNKLE's Soundtrack is pumping top notch techno stuff, working each scene as if it were a climax at a Rave party.Winstone and the rest of the cast are also spectacular. Winstone, especially, taking the straight man role of this memorable on screen duo, and with that, showing incredible stamina against Kingsley's vicious performance.And lastly Melles & Scinto's script with its simple premise - Don wants him to say yes, but Gal is saying No. Simple premise that's not as confusing as Snatch.There have been critics who have stated the use of the word, C**T, as extremely unnecessary and just over indulgent. But as I watched this film, I realised thats the irony of it Don Logan IS the biggest C**T in Cinema History.And with that, lets talk about Kingsley performance. The great thing about Don is that he is all ANIMAL - He waits to shut down Gal's verbal retorts quickly like a pouncing tiger and he NEVER moves his eyes (only slightly) - like a Shark. There are times, like Joe Pesci in Goodfellas, where I don't know when to laugh or dirtbike my underwear. It is a great performance and showcases a man in battle with his HUMAN instincts for love and companionship. He is a tragic figure.All in all, a rip roaring film.(And if you think the rabbit in Donnie Darko was scary - check this one out.) "},{"Title":"'Well I Ain't Gonna Tell Ya What To Do!'","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A British gangster flick with heaps of style, but unlike many obvious comparisons with the likes of Lock, Stock and Layer Cake, this film has got much more substance.Ray Winstone is retired gangster Gal Dove, living a new life of peace in Spain with his loved wife and close friends. However, a very unpleasant visit from Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) drags him back into the dark underworld of violence and bank robbery.Ask anyone, and they will tell you the best thing about the film is its three leading stars, Ian McShane, Ben Kingsley and Winstone, who are cracking in the roles and the relationships between the character.My only concern is that the second half of the flick pans out like you pretty much expect in the linear well known gangster format with the 'job' taking the role of the film's climax. And despite being done well, and having a few twists, it is heavily over-shadowed by the psychological, tension-packed first half in Spain - with the relationship between Gal and Don being the best thing the film has to offer.A decent British gangster flick...set in Spain. Well worth a watch due to some of its cracking factors, but you've probably already seen it. "}{"Title":"Watch it for what it is a stellar performance and a well paced psychological movie","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Those who give this film one star seem usually to miss the point. This is not a comedy crime drama, but a psychological thriller. The opening scenes paint a picture of Gal's retirement idyll and manage to establish sympathy for a character whose crimes are unknown to us but who now shows only warmth to his wife, his neighbours and even the pool boy.Like many thrillers, the film is driven by a fear of the unknown. First, Logan enters the film significantly before Ben Kingsley appears on the screen. By means of some great dialogue and direction we are frightened by this character and the threat he seems to pose to the lifestyle of our protagonists.Kingsley's performance is spectacular, a deep, multidimensional realisation of a character bristling with the frightening unknown. His task is simple and focused, his behaviour unpredictable and terrifying. This works because we care about Gal and Deedee and the life they have made for themselves. This is not a Pulp Fiction / Snatch / Lock Stock and two Smoking Barrels cartoon gangster caper.This is a realistic drama in which the crime is a (possibly unrealistic) secondary detail. "},{"Title":"Great film with an excellent performance from Ben Kingsley","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy beast is a great movie with an excellent performance from Ben Kingsley.I hated Kingsley's character a lot.The Academy Award nomination was very well deserved.The other performances are great too.Sexy beast is very fun and it's another great independent film.The main idea from the movie isn't very original,but the execution is very original.Jonatha Glazer,with this movie and Birth(his second movie),shows he's a very talented director.Sexy beast is a very fun movie with great performances.Another time,an independent film makes more than most of commercial films.Rating9 "},{"Title":"likely difficult to fathom for anyone outside of the UK (esp its lowest classes!!)","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...as a result the more commercial and palatable 'lock stock' and 'snatch' both grab 8.0's on IMDb and this movie gets an incredible 6 point something. in actual fact 'sexy beast' is far superior to anything guy 'lord of the manor' ritchie could conjure up even in his wildest fantasies (he has many)firstly if you are from outside (or even inside!) the u.k, please consider using subtitles for this movie or else you'll have trouble understanding a thing, and will miss a lot. and if you have delicate ears especially with the c word than go elsewhere altogether....otherwise this movie offers a real treat. i'm quite amazed how someone with kingsleys high class background can get so inside the character of 'don'. if you have lived around the east end and/or have had exposure to characters of this nature you'll appreciate that kingsley is absolutely spot on with it, 100%. and for this reason his performance is way up there amongst his best. (in fact most of the cast perfectly capture the feel of east end uncultured trash basking in the Spanish sun)don spends most of his time slating 'gal' about his weight and orange leathery complexion... some of the lines are perfect gold dust. in fact don lays in to just about everyone. the sections of the movie that do not contain don feel a little empty in comparison, but the film does tie up nicely to a good quality finalethere are some great visuals on offer here, and i also liked the thumping no compromise soundtrack. this movie absolutely does not try to be sophisticated (unlike ritchies efforts), and it is a better movie for it. give it a whirl. and if you didn't get the dialogue, watch it again with subtitles before posting your disappointment on IMDboverall this movie is far more authentic than ritchies contrived efforts, esp for realism (shotgun wielding man rabbits aside..) "},{"Title":"Fascinating movie.  Genuinely frightening.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast asks the question, how do you deal with someone who is utterly evil? Answer (and this is a spoiler) you shoot him.Don Logan (played by Ben Kingsley) is a classic case of narcissistic personality disorder. In his mind, other people don't exist, except as agents of the ambitions and desires of Don Logan. Not only that but Logan may have a slight touch of schizophrenia, as becomes evident when he talks to his reflection in the mirror, and evidently hears replies that we can't hear out in the audience.Sometimes, Logan's utter indifference to anybody else's rights is funny, as in the scene where he blithely refuses to extinguish his cigarette on an airplane. When told that the plane can't take off if he is smoking, he, reasonably to himself, replies that they'll just have to wait until he's finished smoking, won't they? I kind of wish that I myself had such an ironclad sense of my own right to run the world.But mostly Logan is terrifying. He has absolutely nothing that resembles a conscience, and so people who actually are compelled by their natures to treat other people kindly and fairly, like the warm and friendly Gal, are at a loss with how to deal with him. Finally, with a little assist from his grossly insulted wife, Gal is forced to participate in killing Logan. It is clear that Gal, thief that he is, can hardly bear to hurt anybody, which is why he had been at Logan's mercy, despite Gal's superior size and strength.Everybody has, at one time or another, run into someone like Logan. All you can do in the real world with people like that is get away from them. The big satisfaction of this movie is that Logan finally gets what is coming to him. Would that there was such justice in reality. "},{"Title":"Ian McShane is also fantastic...","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Kingsley's performance received all of the press, and it is indeed a tremendous performance. However, McShane's performance is equally great. While Sir Ben portrays Don Logan as a hyper-kinetic, enraged lunatic, McShane dresses Mr. Black Magic Teddy Bass in a cloak of reptilian intimidation. I have never seen a man do more with a flat, threatening stare than does McShane in his few scenes with Ray Winstone's character Gal -- he stares right through him. You expect at any minute he will lash out and kill Gal. It makes one entirely sympathetic for poor old Gal.Sexy Beast is not the most strongly plotted British gangster film, but it is certainly one that has some of the strongest performances. "},{"Title":"Little big movie...","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It is true the the best perfumes come in small bottles, and that's what happens with films such as Sexy beast simple stories that hardly ever last more than an hour and that truly satisfy you.Jonathan Glazer was a well-known director of music videos and now is kind of popular thanks to the controversial Birth. In Sexy beast he seems to be a little Scorsese, with oniric deliriums, a nice sense of humor, and a pretty nice rhythm.The story in SB is as follows a former English criminal lives retired somewhere in the southern Spanish coast. One day his old boss (Ben Kingsley playing the craziest character he's ever played) comes to visit him... That's also true when you've been in that kind of business you can never retired for good. So, if you like gangsters movies and mafia stuff, with sophisticated robberies, well, you MUST watch this one...*My rate 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Gangster film at it's best!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is actually an 8, but I gave it a 9 because Kingsley deserves it for his performance. He is truly terrifying. The story in this film is a good one and hardly predictable. It is not entirely original yet it is done well and therefore is a good movie.Kingsley is so crazy in this film that you can't help but to despise and admire him at the same time. Also Glazer demonstrates his successful history as a music video director, he uses music so effectively in the film that you feel like it is a music video in some scenes. This is a good thing. The only other movie that comes close in this manner is Hype Williams' Belly (please note Sexy Beast is a better film for originality, yet Belly is still very entertaining).I recommend this film to fans of gangster flicks, yet film buffs will also enjoy the incredibly high calibre of acting in this film. "},{"Title":"cracking flick - but was confused with the demonic rabbit thing...","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" just seen the film...was absolutely bloody brilliant, and damn terrifying!! Ben Kingsley was robbed of an Oscar! his performance is the BEST I've seen in any film for a while. anyway...i have presumed the hairy evil rabbit creature in the film is either Gal's vision of Don in his mind, or that it could be Don's psychotic ugly soul, or just the representation of pure evil??? anyone got any concluding theories? I'm slightly bemused.also, does anyone agree that the entire Don sequence is one of the scariest bloody bits in movie history? and its not even a horror flick!fantastic! "},{"Title":"Best Film of the Last Ten Years","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" That's really it. This director is a god-damn genius. The script is so funny and the love story so on the money. Everyone talks about Kingsley, and he's great of course (he got the Oscar nod but lost to Broadbent) but the truth of the matter is the whole ensemble is terrific. Dee Dee, and H and Teddy, these characters are all time greats, And Winstone...forget about it, he makes Kingsley powerful. Winstone's got him by a hundred pounds but you believe he's afraid of Ghandi..I love him. I'd walk a mile on my hands and knees through broken glass just to have him pee on my toothbrush. If you haven't seen Birth yet, check it out. This guy Glazer scares me he's so talented check out the Radiohead videos while you're at it. "},{"Title":"A bit different heist film","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gary (Ray Winstone) lives in Spain with his wife Deedee (Amanda Redman) when his old associate Don (Ben Kingsley) appears on a surprise visit. Gary is a criminal and Don needs him on a job, but Gary is reluctant. But of course mans gotta do and so forth.Sexy Beast actually differs quite a bit from the usual lot of heist crime flicks as the heist itself doesn't play as important role as you first think. It's not about planning and out smarting cops, it's about Gary, who really, really doesn't want to do it. It's just that his psychotic friend Don want him to do it.Actors play the biggest part in the film and Ben Kingsley really shows why he has deserved his Oscar. Ian MacShane has a small, yet important part in the film as the primus motor, who sets the ball rolling.Direction is good and the film even manages to have couple of quite a visually creative scenes in it. Most of the obscure jokes have been left in the beginning of the film, so that also is a difference between SB and other heist films. Thought there is a bit darker undertone of humor going on in the back ground. Over all a good, a bit different heist flick. "}{"Title":"I am now mortally afraid of the man who played Ghandi","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ben Kingsley played Mahatma Ghandi. He got an Oscar for it. He was globally recognised as being a dead ringer for the most peaceful man on earth.Ben Kingsley also played a man called Don Logan, who is not a peaceful man. Don Logan is the only fictional creation I have ever feared might lean out of the screen and kill me in an unnecessarily painful way. I am actually afraid of him. I watched this film in a constant state of fear. Not fear for the other characters in the film - fear for ME PERSONALLY.There's no way I can describe Don Logan to you in a way that will accurately convey his psychosis and terrible screen presence. And when I say 'terrible', I use it in its truest sense - that which inspires terror.Don Logan argues with himself. He pees on the floor of other people's houses. He is foul-mouthed but mostly soft-spoken. He says funny things but has no discernible sense of humour. He is shorter and smaller in frame than Gal (Ray Winstone), but utterly dominates him without question for the entirety of their scenes together. He swings from quietly jovial to a raving monster, always a second away from extreme violence, crackling with maniacal energy. He's a terrifying man, and perhaps his most frightening trait is his persistence. NOTHING can turn him away from his objective. Jesus, I watched this last night and I'm still shaking. It's half past three in the afternoon and I'm still shaking.Of course, Kingsley as Logan isn't the only thing in Sexy Beast, and not the only good thing either. In fact, everybody in this film turns in a great performance. Ray Winstone toning down his massive screen presence is quite an achievement. He's far from the two-snooker-balls-in-a-sock Daddy he was in Scum. Here he's still a cockney geezer, but he's retired from crime and lives only for two things his beautiful ex-porn star wife Dee Dee (the gorgeous Amanda Redman), and lying in the Spanish sunshine, roasting.The plot of the film, not that it's really that important in a film with characters like these, is the hoary old 'one last job' scenario. But, as we all know, everything's been done before. It's how you use the material differently that matters. Ostensibly, this is a heist movie. But the actual heist is only on screen for about five minutes. The rest of the film is Gal being menaced by either Don Logan or Teddy Bass.Ah... Teddy Bass. Now, Teddy Bass is played by Ian McShane. Now, for readers outside the UK, Ian's major acting role before Sexy Beast was 'Lovejoy', a TV series about a cheerful, scheming antiques dealer with quite a hardcore mullet and a nice line in witty asides to the camera. The most menacing he got in that was a half-hearted frown and a 'never mind, tomorrow's another day' shrug.In Sexy Beast, McShane plays Satan.Teddy Bass is not as immediately frightening as Don Logan. He works his magic slowly, turning up the frighteners gently so that you don't realise you've been terrified of him until you look down and become aware you've peed in your pants. He is like a refined version of Logan - dapper, urbane, quiet, and infinitely more dangerous. After all, Logan works for this man, not the other way round.If Teddy Bass told me to pull my own head off I would, because the result of disobeying him would be far, far worse. Need proof? Watch the end where he asks Gal for £10 change from his twenty. A simple thing like that becomes a matter of mortal danger. Incredible.But still, the most kudos has to go to Logan for his inventive excuse for being thrown off a plane for smoking. I challenge you not to crack up in nervous laughter when he describes the male flight attendant's attempts to 'touch me on my front bottom'. Or when he uses the sentence 'I had to sit down, I was so perturbed'.Overall, this film is good, but no classic. Kinglsey's performance, and to a very slightly lesser degree, McShane's, ARE classic, however. Kinglsey was nominated for an Oscar for this and only the fact that 'Iris' was about somebody dying of a lingering disease (and was therefore extremely Oscar-friendly) meant that he missed out. McShane deserves recognition too, but then, I don't suppose there'd be any Al Swearengen from 'Deadwood' without Teddy Bass, so I suppose you get what you deserve in the end. And Don Logan will be a performance talked about for years to come. If genuine audience appreciation means anything to Ben Kingsley, he'll be perfectly happy for a good while.Good stuff. "},{"Title":"In the Grand Tradition of Violent, Gritty Brit Crime Movies","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is noir in the hot Spanish sun, with more than a stylistic passing resemblance to Out of Sight, with the thick cockney accents the great Brit crime movies like Mona Lisa and Long Good Friday, and the sudden flashy touches of Guy Ritchie.It's essentially an unpredictable showdown between Ray Winstone and Ben Kingsley, with Ian MacShane menacingly thrown in to keep things off-kilter.The criminality and violence keeps the audience uneasy, as you're not exactly along on a fun ride, but this is after all a post-Tarantino world. (originally written 6/24/2001) "},{"Title":"Yes! Yes! Yes! (spoilers)","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gal's a lucky man. He's got everything he could possibly want. He's got a wife he loves, he's got good friends, he's got a nice house and as well as a Hulk Hogan tan, he's also nurturing a rapidly expanding waistline. Life couldn't be better. But then life throws a spanner in the works, a bloody great whopping spanner in the form of Don Logan.Not that Gal should be too surprised by this twist of fate. At the beginning of the film it seems as if someone is trying to warn him. First of all a boulder tries to decapitate him and then he almost gets his face burnt off by his barbecue. They're signs all right, signs that they're on a collision course with stone cold, fire-breathing psychopath.Don Logan's entrance is given quite a bit of build-up. Gal's friends quake with fear and Gal himself is plagued with nightmares. Therefore there's quite a bit of pressure for the film to deliver us a top-notch mentalist. But with Don's opening lines you know the film isn't going to fail you (the first shot of him, too, is great &#150; you see him walking through the airport like a heat-seeking missile).Thinking about it, Don really is the film. Yeah you're put into Gal's shoes and yeah you feel for him, but all the time you really just want more of Don. The reason for this isn't too complicated &#150; people get a kick out of psychopaths. They represent everything we fear but everything we sort of secretly wish we could be. After all, wouldn't it be great to shout all the time and call everyone filthy names? Well, maybe not, but there's a whole lot of fun involved with watching a psychopath from the safety of a television screen. You can live vicariously through them and then continue with your normal life.One of the things that I like about Don is how funny he is. Sure he's a nutter and sure it would be arse-puckeringly frightening to be in Gal's position, but that doesn't mean there aren't lots of laughs in the film. Perhaps the thing that makes me laugh the most is Don's 'love' for Jackie. Don's obsessed with her. But that doesn't stop him from insulting her and being appalled by the fact that she once stuck her finger up his bum during sex. In Don's twisted mind this is a slur on his masculinity. He might as well have had gay sex. But I also love the way that Don decimates everyone's social lives. Everyone is too frightened to say anything to him. And in his first scene he plays mind games with Jackie's husband. He 'jokes' with him, pays for him to go to dinner with the women and then tells him to shut up when he grovels too much. You never know where you are with Don. His unpredictability is his main weapon.Then there's Don's shouting. I could quite happily watch an entire film solely consisting of him screaming insults. (Perhaps he and Lee Ermey could be a double act.) But it's amazing performance from Kinglsey. He's like a coiled spring. He's wound far too tight. And the amount of energy he brings to the role is incredible. You can see the veins popping out of his head as he shouts No! over and over again. But it's also impressive the way that he fluctuates from being calm to utterly deranged. For example, the scene in the bathroom. He quietly talks to himself (in a completely schizophrenic way) and then he leaps into Gal's room, beating him up and shouting insults. Again, he's frightening because he's so unpredictable.But although Don is the star of the film, the film isn't really about him. Nor is it really about Gal, although I do like his character and his relationship with his wife (if the film has a hero, it's really Deedee). No, what the film's really about is a scary bastard called Teddy Bass who wants to get his own back on some toff for staring at him.During the orgy scene Teddy is annoyed when Harry, the chairman of a company that has a hi-tech vault in London, isn't intimidated by him. And perhaps because of this, Teddy allows himself to be buggered by Harry &#150; not that Teddy doesn't seem to enjoy it a little bit what with his pained orgasmic faces. But Teddy isn't the sort of guy to just let this go. It seems that he allows himself to be buggered so that he can bugger Harry back. And Harry is perfectly aware of this. In the scene in the vault, he's clearing testing Teddy. I guess the phrase, 'come and have a go if you think you're hard enough' applies here.And it must be said that if anything, Teddy is more frightening than Don &#150; Don's like a pit bull, whereas Teddy's like a vampire. Illustrating this is the cold way that he kills Harry. Teddy's had his fun, he's robbed the bloke blind, so he just coolly shoots him in the face. But although it's a form of revenge, it's also a threat to Gal. He's demanding that Gal tell the truth about Don. And who's to argue with a man like that? (I also wouldn't want to argue with a man who has eyes like Teddy Bass. Just look at them when he tells Gal to get out of his car. If looks could kill, it would be shotgun blast to the face.)But what's great about Sexy Beast is that despite everything, big fat lovable Gal gets the last laugh. He may only get £10 off Teddy Bass, but he steals a gift for Deedee and he gets to go back to his indolent life. Plus the four friends get to bury their past. It truly is a feel-good ending. "},{"Title":"Mature mobster romp","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Glazer is a man who has obviously absorbed Nick Roeg's Performance. This film with it's through-running leathered ribbon of homoerotic masculinity continues in more recent films like Mike Hodges' I'll Sleep When I'm Dead. Does this mean that Sexy Beast is a generic mob film then? It does make a fair attempt at cutting loose, although Glazer is a prodigious magpie in addition to Roeg (note the cast also includes a Fox brother)he also borrows from Guy Ritchie (sharp, kinetic-montage editing); even an orgy scene grafts a louche decadence across from the Kubrick of Eyes Wide Shut.Although the film builds itself narratively around a heist, the title suggests the real interest is in the id-motives of the male characters. Ben Kingsley's remarkable, humanity-void Logan is the exceptional character of the three lead men. His own attempts at sexual intimacy are motivated more by the need for a bar-stool anecdote than personal fulfilment &#150; the suggestion of a homoerotic act during the story reproduced to assert his constricted straightness. Conversely, Winstone's Gal has a charming closeness to a young Spanish boy and Ian McShane's glacial Teddy Bass first appearance of the film is in flagrante implicato with a man. Both women are strong characters too, frightened only by the physical capabilities of the men. Teddy ends up as the most frightening character for simply understanding the lot of them.Despite all this the film has plenty of humour and impressive set pieces &#150; the opening pool-side sequence a case in point. Let's hope that Glazer can recover from the commercial setback of Birth to continue such thoughtful film-making. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A slightly surreal twist on the gangster movie","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ray Winstone seems to have made a career for himself playing psycho hard nuts, but there was surprisingly more humanity to his role as Gal in this film, even a tenderness. It was the classical actor Ben Kingsley who had the real nutter role. Both were played admirably even if Kingsley still looked a bit like a librarian despite his short hair cut, tattoos and mockney accent.Anybody who has seen the excellent 70's movie Villain with Richard Burton will recognise that Ian McShane who had a pretty boy role in that film to Burton's Kray style gangster, gets to ham it up this time as the bad gangster himself. He was quite menacing and the scene with Winstone and James Fox towards the end contained a shocking surprise.The plot was fairly standard fodder, the retired and Spanish ex-pat gangster Winstone pressed into one last job by his former colleagues. The twist being that the former colleague Kingsley, actually has an ulterior motive.Add in the always excellent but sadly underused Amanda Redman and a slightly comic turn from Cavan Kendall and you have a stellar British cast.I got the impression that I was watching a play rather than a film at times and the language will not impress your maiden aunt, but overall it was enjoyable. A few surreal dream sequences mark this film as something more than just the standard swearing, violence and big heist flick.All in all very enjoyable and worth watching but not a classic. "},{"Title":"Move over Pacino, Kingsley is the Messiah.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gal Dove (Ray Winstone) is a retired bank robber living quietly in Spain until his old boss the psychotic Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) flies out and pursuades him to do one last job. This movie is too long, it feels lumpy in places and the robbery itself is a bit of an anti-climax BUT it's worth watching for the blistering performances from Kingsley & Winstone. I cannot believe this is the same guy who played Ghandi and Itzak Stern in Schindlers List. Kingsley is pure genius and electrifies the screen every time he's on. His character is evil incarnate and the famous scene on the plane is a MUST see. I'm also chuffed to bits to see Ray Winstone, at last, getting the quality role he's deserved for so long. Like many people I saw his brilliant performance as a 22 year old in the prison drama Scum and thought he would be a 'star'. Glad to see it's happened Ray. As a gangster film this is NOT in the same league as The Long Good Friday or Brighton Rock but I'm giving it 8 out of 10 for 2 mindblowing performances from Winstone and Kingsley. Kingsley in particular should have got the Oscar. Even for an actor of his genius this was a career-best. "},{"Title":"I'd give Ben Kinsley a 10","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ben Kinsley had to be the scariest villain I've ever seen, granted I'm 38 years old. Oddly enough, as scary as his character was, you immediately wanted to see him again. I loved the opening scene with the boulder rolling down the mountain with that crazy tune playing in the background. Great, yet simple plot which allowed the actors to standout more and you could appreciate the writing. I believe great stories bring great performances and all of the actors gave great performances, nothing over the top. Ben Kinsley clearing stole every scene, after watching the film. I'm convinced Ben Kinsley is the best actor of our time, because I could see him playing Gandi with ease as well as playing Logan with smooth efficiency.The greatest part of the film was the setting up of how horrible Logan really was. Which is not necessarily an easy thing to do. You either character overkills it, or doesn't live up to the billing.Chow "},{"Title":"should be revisited","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" no one disputes that this is a good film. But with age it seems to me to be a bit more. the age of the characters demand that a been there done that mindset be adopted for the viewing. the director, coming fresh from a music video background into his first feature let's the material work without the gloss and just a well placed touch of guilty fun. It would be simple to say it's just a good film stopped from being placed into a more accomplished category because it's style at first glance seems to frame it with that English 'trainspoting thru two barrels' shaggy dog genre that many have come to expect as it's intention. Of course anyone seeing the film knows this not to be the case but i point it out because how exactly when making up your mind about this feature do you shelve it? For me at least i have come to give it a more unique classification. have a glass of wine and give it another play. Let me rephrase that ... let it play and go along for the ride. "},{"Title":"Excellent British Film!","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" British Gangster Movies &#153;  Think Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, think Snatch, think mockney caricatures, think Guy Ritchie. Then think again. Try to imagine a film where cartoon violence is replaced with brutality, where pointless macho dialogue is replaced with biting, poignant wit and where bland stereotypes are replaced with well-rounded and interesting characters. Think Sexy Beast, a British Gangster Movie &#153; with a difference.Ray Winstone is Gary Dove, a retired bank robber who now resides in sunny Spain, living the quite life with his beautiful wife Amanda Redman. Gary's out of shape. He's putting on weight and his exercise consists of reaching for another margarita by the pool. Gary couldn't be happier...Ben Kingsley is Don Logan, a psychopathic thug with a foul mouth and a violent temper. He works in London for mob boss Ian McShane, and he's got a job to do; get Gary to come back for one last raid. Gary knows Logan's on his way and he's made up his mind that he's not going to do it. Sounds simple, but Don Logan is not the type of man you want to say no to, as he doesn't take no for an answer. Logan arrives, immediately disrupting Gary's idyllic life with his vulgar mouth and antisocial behaviour, then he tells him about the job. Gary declines, politely. Logan, true to form, insists that he do it. A battle of wills erupts as Gary tries to let Logan down without getting himself or his wife killed, but a brutal psychological showdown leaves Gary with no other option than to do the job&#133; Debut feature director Jonathan Glazer (he of the 'horses riding waves' Guinness advert) keeps the simple story tight and entertaining, combining surrealistic imagery with a sun-soaked Spanish location and concentrating on what makes Sexy Beast a real gem the performances. Winstone is as good as ever as the put-upon Gary Dove, but this is Kingsley's film, as he takes Logan and makes him his own, making us believe in what could easily have been a one-dimensional character and delivering a multi-layered performance. Witness Gandhi saying lines that would make a dog blush as he insults, threatens and manipulates Gary and his friends with a razor-sharp tongue that spits venom and electrifies the screen. The dialogue is fresh and biting, with some of the most witty and imaginative use of swearing ever committed to film. If you're offended by the dreaded 'C' word, Sexy Beast may not be for you, as it graces almost every line of dialogue throughout the film. In the wrong hands, the script could have been played very badly, but Kingsley's energy and conviction makes the sweary dialogue seem almost poetic. Example 'You f--kin' doctor-white honking, jam-rag f--kin' spunk bubble! You keep looking at me, Aitch, and I'll put you in the f--kin' ground!' Although this may not read like poetry, you have to listen to Kingsley's wording to appreciate it. But believe me, you'll be quoting Don Logan for weeks! For a director whose output consists mainly of elaborate music videos and commercials, Glazer wisely concentrates instead on acting and narrative to deliver a great film - if only more filmmakers would heed to the simple rule that story and performance make for good entertainment. The style is still there, though, as there are some great surreal visuals and Gary's nightmares of a hairy man-hare wielding a machine gun are incredibly effective. Sexy Beast packs a punch in all departments, never flagging or giving in to distracting sub-plots, but going all out to deliver a tight, thrilling, funny, horrific British Gangster Movie &#153; that entertains right up until the far-too-early ending. At a blink-and-you'll-miss-it running time of 84 minutes, Sexy Beast does something that not many films do now days; leave you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Brilliant dark gangster comedy!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The story follows Gary Dove who, living in Spain with his wife, has his past catch up with him (in the shape of Don Logon). Don urges Gary to go to London for one last heist but it goes wrong for the both of them.The movie was brilliant. For a first time movie director, Jonothan Glazer has done a fantastic job! Ray Winstoine's performance as Gary is brilliant but overshadowed by the equally brilliant Ben Kingsley.Sexy Beast has all the elements of a gangster/crime film, adding dark humour and touching moments to it.To keep it short, i highly recommend this movie and give it an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"What about Hank the Yank?","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Although this movie is one of my favorites of the gangster/quasi-comedy genre, I can't help but wonder why the impact of Henry Mancini's enchanting song Lujon on this movie is rarely, if ever, mentioned. It plays such a pivotal part in underscoring Gal's (Ray Winstone) newly found idyllic lifestyle as a retired gangster soaking up the sun, the booze, and the so-called good life in Spain. Notice how the introductory violin ensemble with the accompanying Polynesian rhythms breaks into the twilight outdoor party scene immediately after the barbecue fire erupts, searing the meat on the grill (foreshadowing?). All of a sudden, a transformation, a Baptism of fire, if you will, occurs, taking us into the perceived good life that this former Cockney gangster has so diligently prepared for. Those few minutes of sheer ecstasy, if only temporary, are brilliantly punctuated by Mancini's lush score. The operative word here seems to be temporary, as this fleeting moment of ecstasy is about to give way to a gritty reminder Gal's past life of ill gotten goods, in the form of Don Logan (Ben Kingsley), the quintessential beast. The remainder of the film is an excellent reprise into the realm of the one last job crime dramas and has been duly reviewed by many others listed above. "},{"Title":"re potential, but that's it","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" you stated that the movie had great acting and directing but too small a budget. who the hell cares? sexy beast is possibly the best gangster flick since sergio leone's once upon a time in America and doesn't need a large budget to be a great film. if you're so concerned with film budgets, and nothing more, maybe you'd be more suited viewing Lucas's next installment of the crap wars saga or some other piece of garbage. ben kingsley, ian mcshane, and ray winstone all delivered amazing performances that a monetray value cannot be placed on. get your head out of your wallet and realize that monay doesn't make a film. if that was the case then waterworld would make the AFI's top film of all time. "},{"Title":"unmissable","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" probably my favorite film in terms of acting, photography use and simply because its a gangster film, set in Spain , retired safe breaker/gangster Gal Dove (Ray Winston) thinks he's untouchable finished with all that grim work in england, until slowly we see things going differently after being nearly flattened by a boulder, set on fire by his BBQ we realize that something bad is about to happen... Enter don logan (Ben Kingsley),(aka the epitome of all evil men) a schizophrenic gangster who is determine to get Gal to do one last job in London, but not all goes to plan! Amanda Redmond and Ian Mcshane both thrown in there to turn up the heat, amazing peace of work, best British Gangster flic since Get Carter! a must see 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"unmissable","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" probably my favorite film in terms of acting, photography use and simply because its a gangster film, set in Spain , retired safe breaker/gangster Gal Dove (Ray Winston) thinks he's untouchable finished with all that grim work in england, until slowly we see things going differently after being nearly flattened by a boulder, set on fire by his BBQ we realize that something bad is about to happen... Enter don logan (Ben Kingsley),(aka the epitome of all evil men) a schizophrenic gangster who is determine to get Gal to do one last job in London, but not all goes to plan! Amanda Redmond and Ian Mcshane both thrown in there to turn up the heat, amazing peace of work, best British Gangster flic since Get Carter! a must see 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If you think the title is all about Ben, guess again...","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can't BELIEVE I neglected to review this brilliant film before, but it now becomes topical again with the recent release of the critically lambasted AFTER THE SUNSET. Anyone who believes that there are no decent crime thrillers that start with what happens after happily ever after need to give this one a shot.Gal Dove, (the magnificently dissipated Ray Winstone) is living a fat and happy life in a lavish villa off the Spanish coast, with his lovely wife, and his best friend with HIS lovely wife in tow. It's everything a retired career criminal could ask for. Until a huge boulder seems to drop out of nowhere one day, nearly crushing him into wanker jam.Talking about defining the meaning of the word foreshadowing!It seems that an old and not-exactly-dear colleague, his ex-boss Teddy Bass, has a plan to make one more big score, and he can't do it without Gal's expertise. Gal's a hard man to convince, so it will take a hard man to convince him. But not just any man, mind you Teddy's steel right-hand, the legendarily feared and despised Don Logan.And who, pray tell, is Don Logan? As played by Ben Kingsley, Don Logan is like the pissed-off little Martian guy you see in the Bugs Bunny cartoons. Possessed by Pazuzu from THE EXORCIST. With his finger on the trigger of a nuclear bomb. Where a role like this requires out-of-the-box instincts, Sir Ben simply tears the box to pieces. Wave goodbye to GANDHI and to the kindly co-conspirator to Liam Neeson's Oskar Schindler. No matter how hard he's tried, Kingsley has to admit now that there has been no other role he's played since, that's left the same impression as Don Logan. It's like the other sir, Anthony Hopkins, trying to locate the part that will eradicate Hannibal Lechter from our collective consciousness. (As IF.)As good as Kingsley is, though, (and he was good enough for an Oscar nod,) to portray the boss of a human pit-bull crossbred with a piranha, you would need someone who could play it with a menacing understatement that is at least as equally terrifying, if not more so. Enter British movie and TV vet Ian McShane. Playing Al Swearingen on HBO's critically-acclaimed DEADWOOD, he's been collecting raves as the wickedly duplicitous, opportunistic, nihilistic barkeep and town gadfly. But anyone having seen him play Teddy Bass would not have been so surprised. Teddy is basically rehearsal for Al three years later, and it makes you wonder how McShane managed to fly so far under the critical radar, (or if Kingsley was simply overpraised.)In any case, it is a marvel of character acting that he stands out in an ensemble cast of this caliber.I won't try to warn you away from AFTER THE SUNSET. But, seriously after seeing AFTER, you owe to yourself to see how trouble REALLY does spoil paradise. Even for ex-gangsters. "},{"Title":"Great British crime highlight!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is a film about Gal Dove (Ray Winstone), an aging crook that has retired to a villa in Spain. However, as we know; crime doesn't pay, and had he have been left in Spain to live happily ever after, his life of crime would have paid off big time, but, much to his dismay, he gets pulled back in for another job. From the moment this film begins - with a great sequence involving Ray Winstone nearly being squashed by a falling rock, to the tune of The Strangler's Peaches, it is obvious to the viewer that they are indeed in for a treat. This is a simply brilliant opener, one that is not only funny but also one that sets the right tone for the movie. The movie looks beautiful, mostly owing to the luscious Spanish villa that our hero lives in. Setting the movie in Spain was a great idea; it allows for a very different tone to the majority of other crime thrillers that go for a more dark, seedy look to the film. Another highlight of Sexy Beast is it's script; the script is a big issue these days, with films like Pulp fiction making snappy dialogue cool, and the one here doesn't disappoint. It's witty and it creates the characters in equal measure; and that's the mark of a great script, one that can entertain the viewer and serve the movie at the same time.A great British cast heads Sexy Beast. Ray Winstone is the star of the show as Gal Dove, the crook at the centre of the caper. Ray is an under-utilised talent in the movie industry; he's proved here that he more than do the job, and he also has a great 'crime' voice; upon hearing it, you know you're listening to a hard man. The real star of the show, however, is the title character; played by Ben Kingsley. It is never actually said that he is the title character, but it is obvious that he is to anyone watching the movie. This role is a huge departure from the roles we're used to seeing Kingsley in - such as Gandhi in Gandhi, or some guy from that Schindler's List rubbish, and it's one that suits Kingsley much more than I thought it would. In fact, Kingsley is brilliant in this role; it's maybe even his all time best performance. He brings so much to the table; he's extremely nasty, almost evil; and Kingsley just makes you believe that this man is not someone that you want to mess with. He's not big or strong, it's his aura that gives you this impression, and that is an absolutely great thing for an actor to do. Also starring in the film are Amanda Redman, whom British TV fans will remember from the excellent offbeat sitcom; At home with the Braithwaites and Ian McShane, who has also done a lot of film and TV work.Overall; Sexy Beast is a rare thing. It's a crime thriller that is original, hilarious and exciting, and relies on it's characters for most of the action. These days, it has become customary for crime thrillers to rip off Pulp Fiction; but this one doesn't need to. Sexy Beast is an absolute highlight and one that shouldn't be missed by anyone.  "},{"Title":"Thank God that I don't know a bloke like Don Logan.","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was totally surprised in a very, very positive way with Sexy Beast. Mostly because of the dialogue and the strong performances by all the actors. Ray Winstone is perfect in the leading role as an easy living x-gangster named Gary, who gets caught up by his past(I just love the intro by the pool). But Ben Kingsley overshadows all others as Don Logan, the ill tempered, unpleasant and (at least I thought) laughable loony henshman for the English mafia, who comes to get Gary back in action. I had only seen him in likable roles like the one in Schindlers List, and i was amazed that he was capable of playing such a different character like Don Logan. outstanding! The story in Sexy Beast is not fantastic in any way, but you have no idea what will happen and how it will end, and i find that pretty cool. But its clear that the movie is being held up by the great dialogue and characters all the way through. No question about it.I gave it 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a deliciously unpredictable British gangster film","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ex-criminal Ray Winstone's idyllic retirement is disrupted when Ben Kingsley asks, nay demands, that he do one more job. Another Brit-gangster flick. No wait, come back! While there may come a time when Ray Winstone is known for playing bespectacled nuclear physicists rather than cockney criminals it has to be said that this is most definitely not it. Nor is the casting of Winstone the only predictable thing about Sexy Beast, being the tale of retired Costa Del Crime blagger Gary 'Gal' Dove (Winstone) tempted out of retirement for one last job. Where Sexy Beast starts to deviate from the norm is in the casting of Ben Kingsley as Don Logan, the man doing the tempting. Given that Logan is a full-on 24/7 psychopath who rapidly sets about putting a hob-nailed boot through the blissful existence which Gal has created with wife DeeDee (Redman) the obvious approach would have been to cast someone capable of physically going-head-to-head - not to mention belly-to-belly - with Winstone. Yet, like Anthony Hopkins in the Hannibal movies, what Kingsley lacks in brute strength he more than makes up for in the mind games department. The nerve-rending scenes in which the onetime Gandhi attempts to wear down his reluctant 'friend' show that director Glazer's graduation from directing pop promos is well overdue. To expand more plot-wise would be to spoil the fun except to say that, while things go predictably awry, they do so in a nicely unpredictable manner. Mention should also be made of the excellent supporting cast, not least Ian McShane who puts in the kind of out-there-where-the-trains-don't-go performance that will make you look at those 'Lovejoy' repeats in an entirely new light. Verdict Stands head and shoulders above the late 90s flurry of British gangster movies. Stylish and confident and built upon a fearsome performance from Ben Kinglsey.   "},{"Title":"Interesting, really interesting","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is a very bizard film, I accept that. But it's one of the best bizard films I have seen. The plot is simple a retired gangster, Gal (Ray Winstone) lives in a nice country house in Spain. He lives with his wife and two friends. They are all happy, but then.... Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) is coming to town.The four friends are afraid of Logan, I mean really afraid. Logan did jobs with Gal. And he wants him to do the last one job... and he won't take a no for an answer.The performances are amazing. Ben Kingsley is like a train without brakes and Winstone is simply marvelous. Very strong performances that really give life to the characters.There are strange scenes in the movie, so if you don't like these kind of scenes, don't worry, they are very well made and they are just a couple.The dialogues are very, very, very, very intense. They are just great.For some, this is a fabulous movie (me included), and for others is just an interesting good film. Watch it!  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Performance Ever Captured On Film","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen many a film. Not as many as some of the true movie buffs here on this site, but still, quite a few. And i have sat through some amazing performances. Samuel L. Jackson in Pulp Fiction, Sean Penn in Dead Man Walking, Bill Murray in Rushmore, Marlon Brando in Godfather, Meryl Streep in....everything. But this film has Ben Kingsley as Don Logan.Firstly, this film is a very interesting experience. You can tell it's directed by Music Video director Jonathan Glazer, for all it's weird angles, and wonderful use of slow motion, (the barbeque flames comes to mind).The story involves Gal (Ray Winston in an extremely good performance, as always) in retirement from the world of the London Underground. Until his former boss, Teddy (Ian McShane) to do a job, so he sends in Don (Ben Kingsley) to persuade him to do the job.Visually this film is very good looking. The use of sound and music also adds to the experience. In the latter part of the movie, it almost feels like a dream. The story itself, is actually quite small, and moves over to show off wonderful visiuals. Like the flooding of the vault. And Ray Winston and the rest of the cast give great performances. But it is Ben Kingsley who has all the meat in this film.My god, what a great performance. Whenever Don is on the screen, you shutup and watch. Your in fear of this character and you forget that you are watching a film at all. I felt gueniue fear that Don would just snap and begin hurting other characters that you care about. It's truely the best performance i have ever seen! Ben Kingsley, i take my hat off to you good sir.If for any other reason, see this film to witness this great performance. The film itself is extremely good also. Go see it. "}{"Title":"in defence of a great film","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There is a real danger watching this film to dismiss it as an ok film with one outstanding performance but that is not the case.Ben Kingsley does deliver a blistering performance as Don Logan and is at turns fiersome, frustrating and hilarious. Yes this should have won him a best supporting actor oscar but there you go.But, Ray Winstone, Amanda Redman, Ian McShane all put in excellent performances too (winstone and Mcshane at breakfast in the hotel was superb showing the tension and lies- really cranking up the stress of the situation), it's just that they are overshadowed by the fireworks surrounding Kingsley's character. Is that a criticism by me of the director's construction of this? Nope, I think it was a good script and taut story telling, it had some excellent and innovative work and felt smoothly constructed, it also had a good soundtrack, AND a man-rabbit creature representing all of Gail's fears.I recommend this to everyone, I think it is one of the few good British gangster films to emerge in recent years (alongside Gangster no1) and pales the flimsy likes of Lock Stock etc. Though it shouldn't even be compared as this is a real story and not a cartoon. "},{"Title":"Watch it!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well this was brilliant.Ben Kingsley's performance of an overbearing gangster who should be in an institution somewhere not roaming the streets was great. However in my opinion it is Ray Winstone who gives the best performance here. His gangster,whose 'had it up to ere' with it all is a natural performance. People often say that Ray is good at the rough and ready gangster roles, and he is, but the man is also a very good 'actor'.Fans of Ray and British movies should catch one of his earliest films called 'Scum' to see how good he was back then. Amanda Redman should be doing more films as she has a lot to offer, she is a good actress and one of the few who likes a laugh and is one of the boys. 'H' is like someone we all know - less severe but dry humoured! The small way London was portrayed was atmospheric and I loved the way that the villains were laid back but very tough, which is usually how it really goes! This film is a drama it has funny moments and sad moments.More of these films should be made as they are natural and edgy. Other good excellent earlier British cult classics to recommend are 'Meantime' and 'I.D.' these are for the die hard fan, and for those who do not know a lot about Britain in the early 1980's these films will show you - 'pretty in pink' they aint. ( but no disrespect to 'The Breakfast Club' that was quite good.)  "},{"Title":"The life of the movie","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a clever British gangster film, more on par with The Long Good Friday than Snatch. And Ben Kingsley owns it. His ferocious and deservedly Osacar-nominated performance carries the film for its duration. But that's not quite enough.Spoilers ahead (how I hate that word)Kingsley's Don Logan, a menacing, foul-mouthed, and unpredictable creation, appears at the beginning of the second act. He's come to Spain to see Gal, our protagonist, who lives in a villa with his ex-porn star wife Deedee, and former Cockney thug cohort Aitch and his wife. The film opens with a highly suggestive and comic scene of Gal, played by Ray Winstone (Cold Mountain) sunbathing. He's a tubby fellow just past his prime, a likable guy with a rather unusual life as an expatriate Brit. Aitch is almost illegible in his talk, and in comparison, he is a real dufus. With the news that Don Logan has contacted Aitch's wife, Jackie, with respect to Gal, a bizarre man-sized rabbit appears in Gal's dreams, perhaps representative of Don and his vicious tactics.Don comes in as a man who is, for some reason, tight-lipped. As he falls in with his surroundings, however, he shoots off at the mouth more and more, without concern for possible repercussions. He even has a history with Jackie that surfaces during his stay. But he's here on business, and he wants Gal.Teddy Bass, (Ian McShane, Deadwood) wants people to pull a heist at a high-tech bank. Gal is an old safe-cracker, so Don wants him for the job. But just as he came with act two, Don Logan leaves with act two. In a particularly menacing moment, after screaming every insult and threat he can think of, Don is attacked and killed by Gal, Deedee, Jackie, and Aitch, and murdered. The murder unravels in pieces after Gal is in England working for Teddy. Don Logan was supposed to get off the airplane in London, but he never showed up. And from here, things settle into a mode of minimal conflict.Ian McShane looks the part of a ruthless gangster, but unfortunately the biggest character arc present in him is that he once took part in a homosexual sex act with the owner of the bank he's about to rob. The scene is presented in such a way that it can be difficult figuring out it even happened. But it eventually costs the banker his life.Gal is let go with the full knowledge that they know Don is dead, but Don was the life of the party, and with him gone, what is there to enjoy.Ben Kigsley, in a very un-Ben Kingsley performance, gives this movie more than it deserves. Ray Winstone gives some sympathetic bits, and the more Kingsley raves, the more you want someone to kill him. But once he's dead, there is no life, so the fun is pretty much gone. A generous 7/10 for Kingsley's uncompromising portrayal.  "},{"Title":"Hard to say no!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Winstone superbly plays the ex-villain living it up in his luxury Spanish villa keen to put his gangland life behind him. When the demanding Don Logan (Ben Kingsley), a dark figure from his past pays a visit Gal Dove's idyllic lifestyle is thrown into jeopardy. Intent on dragging Gal away from the paradise he shares with his wife and back to London for one last heist he will stop at nothing to get what he wants.The films high points come from the explosive interactions between the characters played by Winstone and Kingsley, cuts between the stark sun drenched Spanish villa and the previous events in the untamed London underworld allows the story to untwine through both colorful flashbacks and their exchange of  quirky cockney dialogue.It is the uncompromising performance of Kingsley that stands out as the psychotic nemesis that is determined to extract Gal's villainous side. His character will be loathed by many as he seeks to compromise the hedonistic lifestyle of the likable Gal. The intensity that Kingsley brings to the role gives the film a certain edge which is reinforced by its menacing surreal interludes.Brutal in parts the story can also be touching as Gal struggles to come to terms with the possibility of losing everything he has. The themes of the film are underpinned by Gals devotion to his wife and longing for an existence away from his murky past.Perhaps not best sold on the idea of Ray Winstone in his swimming shorts though the slick photography and sharp editing especially during the scenes filmed around Gals Spanish home makes this a real stylish thriller.Sexy Beast is the debut of director Jonathan Glazer the man behind some of the best adverts (Guinness) and music videos (Blur, Jamiroquai, Radiohead) of recent time and it is a corker, mould breaking as both a psychological thriller and gangster action movie that manages to encompass  elements of comedy with a genuinely touching love story. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Watch out for the boulder","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie certainly kept me occupied and anxious until the end.From the beginning, there is a wonderful sense of sleaziness that hangs over the proceedings like...well, a boulder hanging over a cliff. It's the usual gangster story about trying to get out of the biz. While the plot is somewhat pedestrian with a few unexplained twists, everything just hums along, taking you for a wild ride. Ray Winstone (best known at this point to Americans as Teague in Cold Mountain) holds down the thankless lead role well. Ben Kingsley received a lot of attention for his over-the-top performance as Don Logan, and he is great. Ian McShane and James Fox are also good.First-rate direction, script, and cinematography make this truly watchable, and the score is one of the best around.Just watch out for the boulder. I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having read a lot of the comments on this film posted here I think it best if I keep it simple. This film rates highly with me because of the casting, the film quality, the locations and the menace it brought out. Kingsley was brilliant first time out but I'm afraid his performance doesn't stand up when viewed over and over. However Ray Winston's performance was stunning, just watch the scene in the restaurant early in the film where he is teasing and playing with his wife before H and Jackie arrive. Then watch as the camera almost never leaves him. His whole demeanour changes to one of shock then horror then fear as he knows Kingsley's character is not to be denied. I loved the movie and the dvd is well worth it. 5 star. "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film hits the mark big time because it could be a fly on the wall Sarf London /Costa del Crime, real life look.  Kingsley plays Logan to perfection, a right skinny little nutter whose name alone has people needing a change of underpants. Ive met a few like Logan in my time so it's easy to see Gal (Ray Winstone) and his ex pat ex con mates wishing they had retired to Brazil instead of Spain.  McShane was good as Teddy Bass and you really couldnt fault any of the cast. The only bit I thought was slightly OTT after staging such a great hiest, was stopping off at James Fox's mansion in millionaires row to blow his head off. As though drawing up in the early hours in a white left hand drive 911 Porker and leaving Fox's brains and their dabs everywhere didn't quite fit with the master criminal brain of Mr Black Magic himself Teddy Bass. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The obvious reason to recommend Sexy Beast is Ben Kingsley's stunning, forceful performance.  Kingsley plays the Don Logan character with single-minded focus and calculated  nastiness.  He stuns us not so much with what he does, which is plenty rough, but with what he appears capable of doing.  All one can hope for when one encounters a person like this is to survive the encounter and the scrapes and bruises that accompany it.Kingsley's performance could easily have overpowered the other actors were they not up to the task.  But they were, and they make their characters more than the caricatures they easily could have become.  Ray Winstone has the most difficult assignment because he has to match Kingsley's intensity but not his power, and in managing that task, Winstone gives the performance of the film.Sexy Beast is yet another caper film, but the plot has enough twists and the characters enough quirks to keep it interesting.  The film is visually stylish, but not overly so.  The dialog has a poetic quality.  Some great choices were made for music.  And then there are moments of genuine quirkiness and humor.  In short, the film is serious but doesn't take itself too seriously.  Basically, this is a film about people trying to preserve the niche they've carved for themselves when outside forces try to destroy it, and it's thoroughly enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"1st Rate Film","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this having heard it mentioned on the radio (Danny Baker - LBC).I read the comments and felt I had to register to boost it up.It's a great film. Ben Kingsley is mesmerising as the last person you'd ever want to be acquainted with, and all the other performance are excellent.The villainy is on a (more credible) par with Frank in Blue VelvetI see a few comments about it being hard to understand for non-English viewers - I can only say persevere/turn on the subtitles.10/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Great Film, But Watch it and Decide by Yourself,","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great. I liked the thrill of it all.  The camera work and the plot were fantastic.  Also, the actors where great.  It was thrilling; at the beginning of the film you wouldn't see this cause they are trying to develop the characters a little bit.  Great movie, see if you can you won't regret it.  I've being reading the reviews about this film and I can't agree with them, the movie was really entertainment.  I just had problems passing through the first 15 minutes but after that it was worth it.  But the main problem that I had with this film was that I had problems with the accents, I'm not saying that the movie is understandable but sometimes they start talking really fast and I missed a couple of important words.  Anyway, the film was great and it's on my top list of gangster movies, really amazing to watch.  Take the time and see it, some reviews might go on forever saying how bad it was but that's only one point of view, see this film and see if you like it or not, I did and I'm not regretting it. "}{"Title":"You're gonna have to say yes.","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this when I was living in Florida and it was a refreshing change from the usual  British gangster movies. I found the dialogue perfectly understandable but maybe that's 'cos I am a Londoner, but even so, it was pretty straight forward and very entertaining.The plot was very simple too a safe cracker gets asked to do one more job, and finds he can't say no to it according to the brutal and domineering Ben Kingsley character (Don Logan), an incredibly well observed part by Kingsley. I've met people just like that and he had it off to a T, right down to the speech patterns and never-back-down swagger.The story uses flash backs and flash forwards which, admittedly, may confuse some of the dumber viewers but it is a superbly crafted film with nice little performances sneaked in by the likes of James Fox and Ian McShane.It's a little gem.  "},{"Title":"YAWN","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I managed to last about 20 minutes into this film before I turned it off. I found nothing about it to keep me interested at all. I kept waiting for this amazing performance from Ben Kingsley but all I heard was a string of profanity. Although it was nice to see Ian McShaneon screen again, that was about it. I had to turn it off before I fell asleep. "},{"Title":"only a few scenes","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In brief, I was very disappointed by this film. Remembering that Ben Kingley was nominated for his role, I picked it up at the library. In general, the plot, the characters, the action  was just plain boring. I was not entertained. HOWEVER, just before I would reach for the EJECT button, a certain camera movement or voice over would get my attention. For example near the end, the main character gets out of a car, and it was an awesome shot. Unfortunately the style moments, were just that... a moment.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I won't dissect the plot here, because I simply don't feel it necessary. It is simple, enjoyable, and surprisingly subtle in it's symbolism. But it's the acting that really makes this movie a must see. It's mindblowing.Everyone remembers Ben Kingsley as Gandhi. How many of you remember him playing Silas Marner? Unless you watch a lot of English television, I suspect the answer is 'Huh?'. OK, I can forgive you for that, but his role as Itzhak Stern in Schindler's List was one you can't have forgotten. My point? Well, it seems that Ben is the undisputed master of the compassionate, caring human being. Meet Don Logan. Logan is possibly the most loathsome character ever to appear on film. Terrifying, coarse, vulgar. obscene, magnificent. Any bland actor can play a bland character. It takes a good actor to play a truly likeable character. But the role of an evil monster takes a masterful performer. I draw your attention to Sir Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter, Sir Lawrence Olivier as Christian Szell (Marathon Man), or Ralph Fiennes as Amon Goeth (Schindler's List). In this performance, Sir Ben Kingsley lays them all to waste and then some.I do not intend to rob the other fine performances in this movie of the credit they richly deserve. Ray Winstone and Amanda Redman were flawless. I now have a sense of respect for Ian McShane which I admit I never had before. But Kingsley? Wow! Watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Kingsley is buh-rilliant!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although I sat down to watch this movie expecting more of a plot, the beauty of it is that the plot is quite simple.  This film is more of a character study, and as such, is very, VERY well-done, although I admit I would have liked a little more exposition here and there.Kingsley is UNBELIEVABLE, and as others have commented, it's great to see him playing something so down and dirty.  What I've noticed in the British gangster films I've seen -- The Limey, The Long Good Friday, etc. -- is that even the most Neanderthal crook is worlds more eloquent (in an extremely foul-mouthed way) than his American equivalent.  I also liked Ian McShane's performance, as I am used to seeing him as the charming Lovejoy.  His Teddy Bass is very scary -- and you only see it in his eyes.  Ray Winstone gives a wonderful, very real performance.I could go on and on about what is good in this film.  That said, I would recommend that anybody who is overly sensitive pass it by -- the creepy rabbity thing that turns up two or three times is enough to create years of nightmares.        "},{"Title":"One word Kingsley.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is drab and a bore, making it hard to maintain interest even with some clever storytelling and colorful characters. There is no cause to care or like any of these characters though. There is no conviction in most of the actors, underlining what you have known all along this movie sucks. Wait a minute, I'm talking about the second half. Ben Kingsley stole (or saved depending on how you view it) the show.Retired mobster Gal, gets a visit from DON LOGAN to be asked to do one last job in London, England.Ben Kingsley's performance as Don Logan is one of the best performances I've seen. He holds a presence with his madness and maintains fear because he can snap in a minute. I have to agree with Ebert, he is very much like a pitbull and any actor wannabes should study this role. With a movie that deserves nothing more than a 1 gets a 5 simply because of Kingsley. "},{"Title":"I'll take the boulder","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In an almost mythical use of foreshadowing, the massive rock that just misses Gal is just a clue that something deadlier is on the way. Ben Kingsley was poisonous! I heard he was a menacing nightmare in this, but I had no real idea. I'm used to the passive, erudite types he usually plays. Forget that! He was robbed at the Oscars, but this isn't the usual kind of warm and fuzzy stuff the Academy embraces.  And the choice of the Strangler's Peaches over the opening credits was the icing on the cake of rat poison. No! No! No! No! No! No! "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed it. Ray Winstone is, as usual, fantastic.  His acting here is perfect. We really fear the Ben Kingsley character all the more when we see how terrified Gal is.Gal (short for Gary) is a retired British crook. living it up in the sunshine of Spain when an old colleague pays him a visit. Don Logan is not a person to say no to. Not only is he a dangerous psycho but he just won't accept no for an answer. This leads to some wonderfully surreal arguments between Logan and Gal.Other reviews I have read have mentioned that the accents posed a bit of a problem for American viewers, but if we can understand all the different US accents, well then you should make an effort, you will be rewarded.Excellent, funny and with some brilliant stand-out moments, well worth watching. DVD is nothing special, no great features "},{"Title":"Emotionally Stunning Memorable","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film has to be in my top 10. A must see. Story of 'retired' East End gangster Gal ( Ray Winstone ) trying hard to resist the approach of Don Logan ( Ben Kingsley ) to return to London for a safe cracking 'job'. The strength of Gal's love for Dee Dee ( Amanda Redman ) heightens the tension that the viewer experiences with the imminent arrival of the menacing Don Logan into their comfortable life in their Spanish Villa.The apprehension is well founded. Don Logan completely destroys all feelings of comfort and security that we have seen in the opening scenes. The two friends of Gal and Dee Dee, Aitch  ( Cavan Kendall ) and Jackie ( Julianne White ) brilliantly convey this feeling of total inevitable capitulation to Don. Jonathan Glazer sympathetically directs this film cleverly balancing the 'in the face' brutality with the love between Gal and Dee Dee. Ian Mc Shane and James Fox are both superb in their portrayal of their larger than life characters Teddy Bass and Harry respectively. To truly appreciate this film, the viewer needs to believe that the types of characters portrayed are 'out there'. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not what you'd expect from a British gangster movie.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You know after the first few minutes of the film that this isn't going to be another run of the mill gangster movie about 'one last job' that will probably go wrong. Instead, Sexy Beast turns out to be anything but predictable.Ray Winstone plays 'Gal', a retired crook now living in Spain with his wife and enjoying his nights out with friends 'Rich' and 'Jackie'. This ideal lifestyle is shattered for all of them however when an 'old friend' from London decides to come over to persuade Gal in to taking 'one last job' back in England.The film just seems to flow along perfectly thanks to first time director Jonathon Glazer and the performances from the cast are all excellent, particularly Ben Kingsley as the psychotic 'Don Logan'.Although a very tense film with a few shocking moments throughout, there are also several good laughs to be had along the way and the soundtrack always catches the mood perfectly.Definitely one of the best films I have seen recently and also an excellent example of British film talent. "}{"Title":"Brilliant acting","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The story line for this film is thin to be almost transparent. I had no idea what the  film was about, only that it had one of England's greatest actors in the leading  part - Ben Kingsley, which was enough for me. Kingsley plays a characternamed Don Logan, who visits Gal (Ray Winstone), in Spain, relaxing with hiswife, to try and persuade him to come back to London to carry out one moreheist. The bulk of the movie is taking up with Kingsley trying all manner ofmethods to get Gal to say yes. Kingsley's portrait as Don Logan, is riveting. That  bald head, those piercing eyes, and the constant 'heckling' and using language  as a weapon, is something to behold. The use of words is much more 'violent'than violence itself. See it just for Kingsley's performance alone. A warning, the  language is full on! "},{"Title":"Good Short and Sweet Bad Coulda been Shorter, Sweeter.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At first, I wasn't sure I liked this movie.There was all this talk of Ben Kingsley breaking with his usual nice guy theme and playing an Oscar-nominatedly angry, abrasive, caustic, vitriolic, raging, (oh wait not raging, but you know what I mean mad) individual who was unsettling and scary.That leads one to thinking this movie is something sombre in emotion, with American-Beauty-like intensity paired with Soap Opera-like constant scream-argument-fest. Well, that's what I expected anyway.Nah!This movie is actually a very funny and British, it's like an intellectual version of Snatch, which, obviously, is awesome. Starting from the Walking on the Beaches, looking at the peaches refrain of the cheeky (heehee, I made a bad pun) Peaches song in the opening credits and ending with what is probably the greatest last line in movie history, this movie never slows down. And how could it? It's only 88 minutes long!And Ben Kingsley IS great, once you realise he's playing a completely crazy lunatic, who's also not the sharpest bloke in the world. (whoo, I said bloke, aren't British people wonderful?). And Ray Winstone is also superb playing, ironically, a guy named Gal, in what, compared to Kingsley, at least, is an understated and lazy performance.Okay, there's this whole robbery-scene which is neither funny nor poignant, but I suppose had to be there to make sure this was a crime-movie?And then there's this (admittedly hilarious) running joke of two adults with British accents leading some of the most pristinely first-gradish arguments in the world by repeating the same thing over and over again (to illustrate, here are two snippets of dialogue1) -Yes -No! -Yes! -No! -Yes! -No! -Fat C**t! (okay, maybe that word isnt learned in first grade, but you know)2) (Ben Kingsley) -No F***ing way No f***ing way No f***ing way No f***ing Way!)Which although being extraordinarily funny when witnessed in the movie, does extend the movie to about twice its length if nothing was repeated. - Oh yeah, that reminds me, if bad words offend you, this movie sure will (I guess I just proved that, didn't I?) - but the variety! I mean, even 'ponce' is in there.So, in summary, if nothing was repeated endlessly, this movie would be 50 minutes long - but not as funny. Ben Kingsley - bad in Gandhi (not to mention that it showcases how well Hollywood directors of the time thought of Indian actors - or for that matter even black actors), good here. Ray Winstone - good here. The Stranglers - make funny songs. Swearing - lots of it.And possibly the greatest end line in movie-making.Too bad I can't match it with a good review-ending line. But such is life.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Beast is an intense lesson on how crime pays; but is it worth the price?","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should be viewed just on the basis of it's uniqueness. Gil has found his paradise on the hot, arrid plains of Spain. Along with his lover Didi, and best friends H and Jackie, all seem to have found peace and contentment from the cold and damp of London, enjoying their youngish lives in retirement. That is, until Gil's past comes to haunt them, in the form of Don Logan,former friend, socio/psychopath and mercenary crime crew boss, looking for Gil to crew in an upcoming job in London.  After 9 years in prison, Gil has retired; but Don, played magnificently by Ben Kingsley, won't take no for an answer.If you want to feel the cold brutality of the London underworld, this movie gives you a window. Teddy,a truly evil and enigmatic character, is yet another reason to see this startling film. This is not a wild action film, although it does have it's moments; it's a thoughtful movie with such deep black sentiments that it makes you glad to be ordinary.  "},{"Title":"Quite a surprise","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't really planned on seeing this movie, but with my wife and kid out of town and me not feeling like doing anything at all, I plopped in front of the tv and happened to catch this on a local movie channel.What amazed me first and most about this movie was how in-step and fluid it was.  It wasn't necessarily a movie filled with complex story lines or action-packed special effects.  Whatever it was, it just worked.  I can't say enough about the performances by these actors, especially Ben Kingsley, who made me hate every fiber in his character almost immediately.  This also marked the first time I had seen Ian McShane since his mullet displays in Lovejoy, and he was spectacular as well.Although not on the same level of, this movie did remind me of the Tarantino classics, Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs, and does hold its weight as a pretty decent crime-drama.7/10 "},{"Title":"Intensely irritating","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley's character Don Logan is intensely irritating. He yells and yells and yells and yells without saying anything. It was too much for me; it drove me away. I think the only reason it does not bother others is that unfortunately they have too much of such negativity in their lives. So sad. "},{"Title":"perfect british film with some of the great dialogues ever!!!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is a great example of the British cinema and how much further they are than Hollywood.The story of Sexy Beast is a very simple story. Gary Dove is a former criminal and now lives in a nice villa in Spain. But then they get a call from Don Logan, and he asks Gary to come to London for one last big job. Gary doesn't want to do this job, but Don doesn't except this. because of old fights and betrayed honour, there begins a heavy battle between them, and ends in a final confrontation.ok, that is the story. but i hear you think what makes this movie then so great? It's how the whole story fits together the great dialoques in the film. Actually it's the whole film, the suspense, the fear for Don Logan. It's also the surrounding in the film witch makes the film also a bit sticky, and for this picture it is perfect.So go and see this movie and let me know what you think of it. Because it is one of my favorites. Greetings from Gijs and the rest of Holland. See you. "},{"Title":"probably the most entertaining film in the world","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having watched this film 5 times I am still not tired of Kingsley's perfect acting. Chilling. Funny. Heart wrenching. A film you can dive into. Fantastic. Great soundtrack. Great cinematography. Great script. Winstone is a revelation. A real Sunday night with a can of Special Brew type of film. Watch it. Fandabidosie. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but needed more.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is refreshing, at a time when Hollywood is throwing money into junk films that will only be seen once.  This is one to own.  Sexy Beast is the antithesis of a Hollywood blockbuster.  It is cinema.  It is sexy. It is delicious.  It is almost all that film should be. Each character gives rich and thoughtful delivery.  The screenplay has a complexity that's interesting, though could have been slightly stronger.  There are moments I personally desired a deeper development of the relationship between characters, and there are a few holes in the general relationships that never resolve, but for the two main characters, there is brutal honesty.  With such naked display of raw emotion, I needed to watch this twice.  Ben Kingsley proves once more to be one of the greatest contributors to motion pictures, and if you aren't completely taken with his character's opening line, then you miss the entire point of cinema being a true outlet for life.   His work is nothing short of genius. This is his most interesting character since Death and The Maiden.  Bravo!  "},{"Title":"The art of persuasion - gentle...or not!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The unheralded and unwelcome intrusion of Don Logan, a crony from the felonious bad-old days (played by bald, buff Ben Kingsley) into the tranquil, 'retired' lifestyle of Gal (well created by Ray Winstone), sets off a chain of unexpected events.With a plan to commit one last heist, plotted by another bad-guy associate 'Teddy' (veteran Ian McShane), Don tries to lure his 'pal' into the game. But his demeanor and aggressive behaviour, together with a smoldering lust for the wives of his former partners, does nothing to entice his buddy from retirement in the idyllic landscape of Spain. A fact Don just can't accept. Making matters worse is Don's raging psychosis, which leads all the characters on an unexpected path.Kingsley's performance is fearless. His every movement screams violence, yet he reins it in until one unbridled moment on which the picture turns. The storyline is well drawn, the actors skillful and the editing cut to a nail-biting finish. It would be hard to find one moment in the film with which to find fault. It was riveting. Rent it, watch it! "},{"Title":"You need a good hearing to watch this movie...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although I didn't get much of the dialogues, the visual made up for it. Incredible camera, marvellous acting, mostly good music, and what seemed to be a good story plot.  I gave a 9, could have been a 10 if I had understood the humour. "}{"Title":"Another home run for Ben Kingsley and British crime flicks","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Before I can say anything else about Sexy Beast, I should mention that even if the rest of the film were a failure, Ben Kingsley's standout performance as intimidating loose-cannon cronie Don Logan makes the movie more than worth viewing. Without his exceptional background this would still be an amazing performance, but knowing that this same man at one time played Gandhi, the absoulute antithesis of Logan, is simply a testament to his rare, profound talent.Fortunately, the rest of the movie is a solid, darkly witty and captivating piece of British Crime cinema, in the fine tradition (but not in the imitation) of films like Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. Certainly this is a heavier piece of film than that, but it's not without its hilarious moments, outrageous cinematography and incessantly quirky characters. Just as Lock, Stock was refreshing in its distinct LACK of gratuitous romance and sex, Sexy Beast breaks the mould with it's nearly all- senior cast. There are no wet-behind-the-ears Matt Damon/Angelina Jolie types lying in wait to sex things up here, and none are needed. The old-school relationships these characters have to one another makes the film all that much more unique and compelling. If there are any sticking points, they are perhaps the lack of character development with the two female leads in the film, as well as the protagonist's best friend. However, in a pleasingly short 89-minute flick (another refreshing change from Britain!) you can't expect every minute detail to be dealt with, nor do you really miss it at the end of the day. Also, erstwhile Yankees should be warned that the cockney accents can take some getting used to. Fortunately though, Fox Searchlight doesn't patronize us with subtitles for what is still an English-language movie.I highly recommend this offbeat, well-executed, underrated gem. "},{"Title":"Still pondering&#133;.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"     This, for me, is one of those movies that sticks in your brain for days after viewing it.  The plot is fairly simple Gal (Ray Winstone) was once a thief but was caught and sent away for nine years. He's done his time in jail and now he wants to go legit. And he's done so successfully since getting out.  He now lives in Spain, has a nice house, pretty wife and close friends.  But Don (Ben Kingsley), the boss of the gang he used to run with back in London, wants him back for another job. Fearing a return to jail but also fearing Don, Gal tries to say, &#145;no.' But of course Don will not take &#145;no' for an answer.  This is where things start to get interesting.Before we are introduced to Ben Kingsley's character, the movie moves along pretty slowly, letting us share in the leisurely life of the characters. Then anticipating Don's arrival, you can literally feel the tension from all the other characters. When he does arrive, you see them cower like dogs about to be beaten. Recoiling in the face of a flood of foul-mouthed insults. Each one afraid of further admonishment (or worse) if they stand up for themselves, tells you that this is one bad dude.By the end of the movie, which eventually moves away the house of the abused; I felt like I needed a rest. As though I had been sitting in front of a coiled viper ready to strike. Once it was over I could relax. The entire cast does a wonderful job here. Most notably is Ben Kingsley. He is such a great actor and really does a great job playing this disturbed, dangerous individual. His character has no redeeming qualities what so ever. You shudder to think of how he got to be the head of this crime gang. And then there is Ian McShane as cold, confident, frightening, Teddy. You're not sure exactly what his story is, but you can see by the way people react to him that he too is one guy not to be messed with. And I think it is that very lack of information that has the deepest impact in this piece. I usually judge movies by how long after I've seen them, I am still thinking about them. It's now been five days since I've seen Sexy Beast and it's still on my mind (which is a long time for me, considering I see a movie almost every day, either on cable, DVD, or at the theater). This one still has its claws in me and that alone makes it note worthy.Bottom line I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes movies like The Limey or Snatch, but don't expect it to be fast paced. It takes its time and it takes some time to sink in (for me at least). That's my take. What's yours?   "},{"Title":"It's a movie about being human","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I understand why some people don't like this movie.  It's because they hate a challenge.  It's hard to understand what people say in this movie sometimes (when Ben Kingsley is shouting in the kitchen, I doubt even he understood what was coming out of his mouth).  Its hard to figure out what some of the symbolism is about.  Its hard to watch some of the scenes because of their brutality.  Its kind of distracting how often the C word is used.  But beyond that, and enhanced by all that, is a story of man in a hard situation. "},{"Title":"Have a quick, but fun romp with the Devil 8/10","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had my first two tastes of Sexy Beast today.  The first viewing, went down badly -- because I was not ready for the film's short but sweet taste of bitterness.  The second viewing was much more pleasant -- because it was less demanding.Sexy Beast is a film I would recommend seeing at least twice.  Chances are, the first time you see it -- it will be nothing like you had imagined.  The second viewing is much more entertaining.  You can enjoy the film for what it is a short, dark, fun, mean-spirited comedy -- with a hint of romance.  I really dig this film the more I think about it.Oh yeah, Ben Kingsley is AMAZING.  GIVE HIM THE OSCAR! "},{"Title":"Strangely compelling, brilliantly paced.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is not a big movie, but it does amazing things with what it has. The acting is superb, the action just edgy enough, and the soundtrack moves things along when the story calls for it.I like a movie that you lean into, and this story has qualities that keep you interested, and unless you are a typical wasted USA blockbuster movie lover, the pace will refresh and hook you.I'm a big fan of pretty additions to movies too, and the pool boy/family friend adds a sublime touch of youthful beauty and vulnerability to remind you that the main characters are quite past all that. One of the best movies I saw that year. "},{"Title":"Gripping tale of a six foot bunny searching for meaning in an atrocious script..","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Whoever it was that wrote this (no I'm not going to look at the credits so that I sound like a professional) must honestly have watched Snatch and/or Lock Stock and spent a night with a few ideas. The story is atrocious and the dizzying photography is now so tired and transparent that you are honestly out of the movie well before half way.We get this ominous setup about getting a call from a guy and we take by the reactions of all involved that he is formidable, then we get some poorly executed tension and finally he shows up. The other guy had determined that he would say 'no' to the job offer so, shock horror he does; and then the best they could come up with was half an hours worth of YES!...no...YES!...no etc a whole slew of profanity and then, wait for it.....he leaves! But ofcourse they come up with an excuse for him to return and we have a whole big murder scene of bruises, blood, battery and bullets. The story really goes awry then and we find that a big time bank guy has actually put a safe beneath a swimming pool for goodness sake, they were looking for a new type of theft, this one is as plausible as any Jerry Bruckheimer plot development.This pathetic gangster flick compares to Snatch as 'Dungeons & Dragons' (2000) compares to 'Fellowship of the Ring' (2001). Performances are fine, not that that has any effect on a complete movie, its like complimenting The Phantom Menace on its visuals, nowadays that is taken for granted and as we all know it was about the only thing complimentable. There is laughs no doubt for some but myself, I think I remember lauging maybe once, and that was brief. 'Snatch' is an improvement in a more-of-the-same sort of way on 'Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels', this is an improvement in an un-funny sort of way on 'Plan 9 from Outer Space'.If you can bear Kingsleys A grade work in this Z grade flick then its worth watching, otherwise forget it.5 star experience (out of 100) "},{"Title":"Most of the reviews here seem to miss the vital twist in the plot","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I cant believe anyone seems to have missed perhaps the most salient point of the movie ~!If you watch Sexy Beast again, watch for the interaction between Don and the other characters. There is never any real dialogue between Don and any other character except for Gal. The reason? Because the Don represents the alterego of Gal- the cruel side of Gal om his past life waiting to jump out to take Gal away from his bloated existence on the Spanish coast.The resurrection of Don takes place after the falling boulder- this is a watershed in the movie, a device used to make Gal reassess his life.Take note of the beast imagery - here is a man with nasty demons sitting within him.The image of the Don sitting encased under the pool waiting for the right moment to come back to life.It all points in this direction ! "},{"Title":"Acting at it's very,very best from Winstone and Kingsley","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you like a film that feature two lead actors battling with and against each other with supreme brillance, if you love Ray Winstone and Ben Kingsley and if you love films that mascerade as a gangster movie ,a love story and comedy to boot you will love Sexy Beast. Ray Winstone (Gal) plays an ex con who lives happily in Spain with a wife he loves who gets a visit from a gangster played by Ben Kingsley (Don Logan) asking him to do a last job for the firm. This film is not so much about the story but more about the people who are in the story. It is not often Ray Winstone is over shadowed by another lead actor but in this Ben Kingsley is just fantastic as Don Logan. You remember how frightening Joe Pesci is as a nasty piece of work in Goodfellas ,well Kingsley matches that and maybe overpasses Pesci's character for sheer crazyness and horror. I hated the guy with a passion yet he still frightened me. This film has bad language throughout so if you are easily offended give this a miss but on the other hand you will be missing a treat!! 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"What did they say?","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that the plot and action in this movie were fantastic.  Thecinematography and location were good as well.  However, I couldnot understand half of what anybody was saying, because of thestrong accents.  I really struggled with everything.  Ben Kingsleywas absolutely fantastic. "},{"Title":"Some of these reviewers are missing the point.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think the people giving this movie  a bad review are missing the point of the film. It's not a crime or gangster movie and the comedy is meted out sparingly -as in real life. If you were expecting high jinx comedy or a planning the perfect crime type film, then stay away from Perfect Beast . Also, if your command of cockney English is not quite up to par, I suggest you watch Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels a few more times to brush up because, as many previous viewers have mentioned, the dialogue is fast, furious, and VERY cockney and if you blink, you may miss something. That being said, what the film IS about is the battle of wills between sociopath Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) and retired criminal Gal (Ray Winstone).  It's a psychological film, not an action thriller. Imagine My Dinner with Andre if Andre was a psychopathic killer.The cast is small, as is the location. Most of it takes place in Gal's villa in southern Spain -intensifying the feeling of invasion perpetrated by this unwelcome guest. Everyone's performance is admirable, but they are all dwarfed by Kinsley's Logan. Kingsley gives, by far, one of the most studied performances in psychotic behavior I've yet seen on screen. Don't let anyone else's review fool you. Don Logan is DEEP. This is a character you get the feeling would've been been admitted to psychiatric care as a child if his parents had been better off.    Instead, he's carried his childhood neuroses with him and used them to his best advantage in the criminal world. Every aspect of his  persona, from the obvious discomfort with one-on-one communication (unless of course he's bullying), to the autistic machine gun speech repetitions, to the downright schizophrenic bathroom mirror conversation screams Institutionalize me! Instead, he's given free reign to terrorize the people around him.Case in point -his speech is peppered with cockney swear words, strung together with such creativity as to make a hungarian taxidriver blush, but when mentioning intimate body parts in real terms (as opposed to colorful epithets), he uses bum and front bottom. And you can almost see him blush as he says it!Specifically answering the charge that the dialogue is tautological and blocky; Hey, that's the way people talk! Especially people who don't talk much. People have gotten so used to tarentino's criminal monologues that they think hitmen actually give bible speeches before whacking their victims. Fine and good if you want goofy entertainment, but realism is just as valid in a crime film.I know people like the characters in this film (to the point that, in the theatre, we were actually calling out holy smokes -that's so-and- so and that's exactly so-and-so -even the Logan character) and these performances were more true to life than any Tarantino "}{"Title":"what was that he said","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Biggest failing is difficulty in understanding the language.  The English dialect is so thick that subtitles would have helped.  Kingsley's character is so over-the-top as to be from a mental ward.  The local newspaper gave this movie a four out of four.  I guess I'm missing something.  I gave it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful character portrayls, in a crime film","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Winstone has to be one of my favorite actors.  He is a big intimidating SOB who has played some evil people in his acting life such as the alcoholic wife abusing husband in 'Nil By Mouth' and the abusive father in Tim Roth's 'The War Zone'.  With that being said, I never thought I could ever see him cower in fear and find someone more intimidating on screen than him.  In this film, it is all Ben Kingsley in what has to be the most memorable performance I have seen this year period.Ray Winstone is Gal, a retired criminal who does nothing better than sunning himself all day by the pool, drinkin beer, eating well, and living with his wife which he loves so much.  It's the perfect life.  But his world is rocked when he suddenly hears that an old friend is coming to town to ask him to one last job.  For Gal it isn't so much what he is being asked to do, it is who is doing the asking, an ireprehensible man named Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) a Cockney hard wired psychopath that you don't say no to.All of Gal's friends are mortified that he is coming to visit, and the mention of his name just strikes fear into everyone with perhaps the exception of Gal's wife DeeDee since she justs detests him so much.  It's amazing just to watch Gal break down when Logan arrives.  At first he tells his wife he will just say No he doesn't want to do it.  But it becomes apparant from Logan's ravenous antics that he just can't, he ends up making excuses that he is too old, or he's not the same anymore, fidgiting and second guessing himself in Logan's presence.Logan is amazing on screen, even reciting his diatribes in the mirror while shaving just so he can demean every living person he comes across.  What Sexy Beast ends up doing is not creating the greatest crime thriller ever made, but generating one heck of acting grandiose between Kingsley and all the other players involved.  You don't care so much about the plot, but more on how everyone reacts to Logan and what he's going to do next.Director Johnathan Glazer does follow alot of the same stylized Guy Ritchie type motif such as in Lock Stock 2 Smoking Barrels and Snatch, but it's a stylized entertaining picture none the less.  Kingsley should at least get a nomination for best supporting actor.Great film to see.Rating 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not that funny.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have no idea, who might have called this movie a comedy, because only the first scene is funny. It is just normal crime (gangster) movie, although there is not much shooting. I would rather say, that this is a slow paced, well weighted drama.The story is about a retired gangster, who has no intention about coming back. The thing is, that his boss wants him to do another job. This is the basic conflict, which leads to dramatic after-effects.I would like to compare this movie to 'Snatch' or 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels', but Jonathan Glazer (the director of 'Sexy Beast') is definitely not Guy Ritchie. While Ritchie's movies are fast and full of fun and gun shoots, this movie is rather quiet. The emotions and relationships are more important. But unfortunately, this leads to boredom. Although the movie is only 90 minutes or so, you feel like you have just spent 2 hours watching.The last thing I want to talk about is the title. Although great and catchy, it has nothing to do with the movie itself. I have no idea who might have come with this title for this movie, it just doesn't fit.Overall, I rate this movie for 6. "},{"Title":"amazingly beautiful editing","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  the cinematography of this film is awesome. the editing is not terribly fast as if to make the viewer rush to catch up.the scene of the boulder is hilarious.and gal is this giant baby clinging to its bottle when don the preschool kid comes along nagging to get his way. it's not so much of a gangster thing but a sarcastic comparison to the interrelationship among characters. very enjoyable and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Guy Ritchie Who? Sexy Beast is Pure Damage","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the freshest film to come into the British crime genre (or the genre itself) in a long time, hopefully putting to bed the self-indulgent, cutesy, and obnoxious School of Guy Ritchie Cinema.It has stylistic camera-work without bullying you around, this accompanied by a fantastic drum-kit-oriented score, amazing performances---including Ben Kingsley's explosively dangerous, volatile Don Logan---who walks away with the movie's most potent electricity award and suffers the worst death which is almost Peckinpahesque in its violent catharsis. Additionally (and thankfully) the characters are unburdened by a lot of flashy dialogue or cheekiness. There's not a shred of self-consciousness in the whole movie nor a wasted shot. In fact,the film works like an assured, sometimes very lurid, nightmare-induced portrait of the criminal, both in and out of his element. Not to mention, it features the most hideous killer bunny ever conceived. Don't ask.I highly, highly recommend this sucker, and if Guy Ritchie has the opportunity to check it out, maybe he'll shove his hands into his diaper pockets and wobble back to directing music videos. "},{"Title":"A gem of a gangster film - refreshing for mature audience appreciation","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley is Don Logan. Period. He delivered this role as perfect and complete as his Shakespearean characters. So earnest he is in portraying this gangster supreme that he does not need the prop of a gun - his mouth is THE gun shooting off bullets of cutting words, F words non-stop, and delivering right in your face without a bat or a blink of his eyes. Shamelessly brilliant! He impeccably made everyone immediately hates Don.Must not forget Ray Winstone as Gary Dove, the other half of the equation in this earnestly dramatic, yet cleverly entertaining crime film directed by Jonathan Glazer. Always seem so effortless in his portrayals, Winstone's characters to-date are mostly intense, underneath his physical façade and unaffecting facial expressions, there are secret motives and excruciating dilemma. It's fascinating to watch him act (and react.)This is a formidable debut from director Glazer. It's a mature adult gangster film, not the 'Snatch' light and fun kind. It takes itself seriously the story substance, the plot twists and turns, the characters (including the supporting ones) are well-written, well-acted by all, down to the boy who helps Gary with his (swimming) pool chores. It's also a good-looking film - how can Costa del Sol in Spain be unattractive, or the underneath world of London not intriguing? With Ian McShane appearing as the cold gangster boss, that's icing (pardon the pun) on the cake. Amanda Redman is Gary's lovely yet assertive wife Deedee, whom he adores and would do anything for love and their survival from the crime-world mess. They do want to get away from it all alive and retire happily ever after, don't they? Just have to 'dissolve' this sticky Don situation. How far can one bluff one's way through such threatening entanglements?  SEXY BEAST delivers. With a fantastic script by Louis Mellis, director Glazer achieved what he wanted a non-formulaic, highly entertaining, satisfying crime film. Definitely appreciation by a mature audience.   "},{"Title":"Ghandi?","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is the kind of film you so rarely see come out of Hollywood. It obviously wouldn't exist without the influence of Tarantino, but it earns, instead of copies, its place on that shelf. This film doesn't copy Tarantino, but learns from him and improves upon him. This is the film that Snatch wants to be. This has the kind of emotional connection Guy Ritchie wishes he could make with his audience. It doesn't treat death as a joke or gag, it treats its characters with intelligence and depth, and its damn funny to boot. Ben Kingsley is terrifying, Ray Winston proves he isn't just a one trick pony, and all the other actors provide their characters with charm and realism. This movie is a winner from top to bottom. "},{"Title":"This is what all the fuss was about?","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I read the premise for this film and didn't think it looked very interesting, but after seeing all the critics drooling over it (and frankly since there was nothing else I really wanted to see last weekend) I thought I'd give it a chance.  Who knows, thought I, I might get a surprise.  Well no...Ben Kingsley was great, there was a frozen moment that I thought was unfrozen well and there was some good tension at the end.  That's about all I can say, the rest was nothing all that great and a lot of the time, barely interesting.  The ending was far from surprising.  The Critical Review (An assessment of current motion pictures by major American film critics.) ranks this as number one right now, over Amores Perros.  I respectfully, but completely, disagree.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Guy Ritchie with pretensions","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gal (Ray Winstone)--is that meant to be irony?--is a fleshy, permatanned, gold-chained, peroxide-blond ex-gangster first seen roasting in Madrid's midday sun. From the voiceover, it would seem Gal has inserted himself, not into tourist paradise, but into a hell of his own making. Like Catherine Keener in YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS frenetically demanding silence, silence from everyone, Gal wants only to fry like an egg on a griddle in the hot sun, close his eyes, and veg out (or, maybe, deep-meditate on his guilt). Gal has a wife, and two best friends another couple, ex-hood and ex-moll, who have the tatty look of aging semi-handsome underworld folk now taking on the appearance and feel of leather. Everything is dreamy, or at least crisis-free if semi-tense, until the phone rings. A visitor is coming from London--Don Logan. Lips quiver, men turn white, the ladies start to cry bad times are moving in. As played by Ben Kingsley, Don Logan is a cousin to the sneaky, sideswiping husband Kingsley played in Pinter's BETRAYAL. Kingsley's performance here, perhaps because the dialogue was written by two playwrights, has a staginess not seen elsewhere in his work (except in BETRAYAL, where it was tolerable, as the movie made no pretense to be other than a filmed play). He even repeats a characteristic trick from BETRAYAL he talks very, evenly, and, calmly, then spits out ten STACCATOWORDSINAROW! The slight, diminutive Kingsley can glower and ten-yard-stare all he wants; it still makes no sense that Logan, who has no army and seemingly no support from the upper brass of the mob, is able to make everyone in the movie quake and stutter just by showing up. Why doesn't somebody just shoot the guy? you might ask. Winstone gave a great performance as the abusive father in Gary Oldman's NIL BY MOUTH. Or so it seemed. He's so uninteresting here one wonders whether the well-written role and Oldman's direction just made him seem impressive. And the LIMEY-esque editing that turns the movie into wasabi once Logan tries to pull Gal back into a life of crime is more confusing than kaleidoscopic. The movie seems to be a low-key character study at first, but then, as if the filmmakers were prodded to make back their money, it turns into a British-gangsters-are-just-too-cool attitude-fest in the Guy Ritchie tradition. (A heist-plan flashback, shot in the red light Tarantino stole from Scorsese in JACKIE BROWN, made me sigh with depression--I thought we were escaping all this crap!) As in a Ritchie movie, Winstone's combination of flab, Speedos and bling-bling is meant to be the ultimate in middle-aged cool--British Sopranoism. As in a Ritchie movie, all this smugness backfires big time. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly engaging and clever gangster film that wraps all sorts of conventions of the genre into one, massive delivery.","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In Sexy Beast, you have one of the most entertaining and most re-watchable British gangster films of recent years. The reasons for this are partly down to its pacing and spacing of the events and scenarios that it takes on as well as its attention to these scenes and partly down to the fact the film acknowledges three or so decades of British gangster genre film-making while mixing it all up under the hybridity of both ganger heavy and gangster light conventions. Sexy Beast works as a well scored artistic piece; it works as the simplest story ever told and it works as a powerhouse of Academy Award nominated acting from certain individuals.When Guy Ritchie exploded onto the scene with his debut feature Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, he (perhaps accidentally) changed the general aesthetic of the British gangster genre. Books and essays have been written on how he incorporated the character of the 'gangster' as a comic figure; someone who spouts quick, quotable dialogue and no matter how badly they get knocked about, they'll always be ready for the next scrap &#150; displaying very little care for pain and very little attention to injury. People wrote about him creating a gangster-light approach as opposed to the harder, perhaps more brutal films prior to 1998 that dealt with 'real' people exploring precarious and dangerous places and getting involved in 'real' situations. Such examples may include the 1980s Bob Hoskins double 'The Long Good Friday' and 'Mona Lisa', both of which in their respective runtimes looked at the danger of the IRA as well as the expansion of Britain as a nation with Mona Lisa looking at the decaying society within Britain, focusing on prostitution and an individual's inability to come to terms with modernity following being away (in prison) for so long. Sexy Beast incorporates both these styles in the sense special effects and 'Lock, Stock...' style transitions will fly into brick walls and floors showing us what is within them, something rare in a pre-1998 gangster film. But it also adopts attributes of the 'heavy' in the sense it is violent when someone dies, they're down and out and it is realistic in the sense no one is a superhero, withstanding copious amounts of pain.Sexy Beast very quickly establishes its protagonist named Gal (Winstone) and their opinions on Britain. He hates the place and the grotty, grimy existence he once lived. Indeed, when London is presented it is at either at night or raining, maybe both as opposed to the location of Spain, Gal's utopia, which is shot in long, drawn out compositions of warm weather; luxurious locations and generally acts as an attractive place. The idea here being London is a location that is demonised, similarly to the two Hoskins films full of IRA bombs and prostitution, respectively, covered in both those films. Sexy Beast creates the sense that London is not a nice place, unlike more recent crime films that are full of people dodging, dealing, wise-cracking and getting involved in rather comical shootouts to pace-gathering Greek instrumental music as gang leaders outside are head butted and run over but get up to pursue the fight.Sexy Beast is film that begins exotically, becomes quite brutal with the arrival of Don Logan (Kingsley), before becoming more mellow during a particularly touching telephone conversation in which Gal (in London, his dystopia) speaks to his wife back in Spain who is so worried for him, she cannot even speak bar to say his name faintly. Sexy Beast then takes us to the event the film builds up to and then gives us a daring trip to another character's home while placing our hero Gal in arguably the most danger he's in all film. Sexy Beast is smart like that; it pays homage to the gangster films of 1980s in the sense it is quite artistic with slow-motion sequences of BBQs firing up and distilled colours during Gal's dream sequences of an Uzi wielding man-sized rabbit.The film gives us these artistic sequences, before hitting us with the mob message-boy of Logan whose first line of dialogue in the film is a statement of the situation complete with obscenity rather than a mere greeting upon arrival, immediately placing him amongst the audiences' bad books. The acting and scenes revolving around Logan and Gal are incredible, the film pausing everything it's done to dedicate a subtle scene in which Logan is shaving and talking to himself. It could even be argued Logan takes over as the focus here, as scenes at the airport and on an aeroplane later on add to the mindset he works himself up to, something that will ultimately push Gal onto the journey he will take in this film.But with the film beginning artistically; getting tough when Logan arrives; demonising London as a location when Gal arrives there; giving us the actual job he has to do and then presenting us with a gripping scene in which Gal is 'paid' is all part of this brilliant package. The camera is given special attention; close and intense close ups when Logan and co. sit around a dinning table before allowing us to breath with the mid-shots in the kitchen; Logan's back-story with another character and the general use of music, special effects and shot choice all work together and produce a British gangster film worthy of any top ten cannon of the genre, and that counts for all time. "}{"Title":"A strange attractor","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is in the top tier of my favorites. I didn't know quite what to make of it on seeing it the first time, but it has had the power to draw me back for many viewings.It's the story of Gal (Ray Winstone), a former London gangster, who is approached by Don (Ben Kingsley), a one-time accomplice, to participate in a big heist. Gal has retreated to a Spanish villa with his wife Deedee and considers himself well retired from a life of crime. It is an understatement to say that Don is not the type of person who will take No for an answer.Kingsley's performance is absolutely riveting. He plays Don as one of the most frightening and sinister characters I have ever seen on the screen (and, thankfully, in real life as well). He is so good that you have to rethink what sort of person Kingsley really is that he could so embrace this role.You should not let Kingsley's performance overshadow that of Winstone, as his performance is quite nuanced and in its own way is as impressive as Kingsley's. He is perfect at playing the part of the tough guy gone soft. Winstone has some great reaction shots - in response to one of Don's outbursts Gal gives off a subtle wry smile that says, This guy really *is* a piece of work, and makes you think that somewhere in the past Gal had some fondness for Don, or at least had an appreciation of his unique qualities. Also, in the restaurant scene early on when Gal is told that Don is going to show up at his villa, Winstone's reaction is wonderful to behold.The relationships between Don, Gal, Deedee, Gal's friend Aitch and Aitch's wife Jackie are complex. We get to know these characters at a much deeper level than in your average crime drama. One can only speculate about Don's past, but you feel he has never been able to achieve any successful relationships and has reacted to his rejections by becoming an intimidating bully. However, I don't think you get as far from the norm as Don without having some genetic predisposition. Don is attracted to Gal (at one point he actually says, I love you Gal), but he is also intensely jealous of Gal for being a person whom everybody likes. Don's frustrations manifest in vitriolic verbal abuse and when Gal confronts him with a truth about his concealed feelings for Jackie, Don unleashes the most vicious verbal attack that you are likely ever to see. Truly scary. Gal's love for Deedee is tenderly portrayed - in the opening scene where Gal is sunning himself by the pool, the camera cuts to reveal interlocking hearts inlaid in the tiles at the bottom of the pool. The boulder that rolls out of the hills smashes these hearts and presages things to come. Then there is Teddy Bass (Ian McShane) who is the mastermind behind the heist. Teddy has a smile that is so evil that it's enough to make you recoil when you see it. In one scene between Teddy and Gal you can hear Gal's shallow fearful breathing and well understand the reason for it. Don and Teddy make your common thugs seem rather harmless.The entire cast is first rate. Of note is a winning young Spanish boy named Enrique (Álvaro Monje) who helps around the villa - he plays a small but essential part. Don is suspicious about just what Enrique's role is at the villa, and we are left to wonder about that as well, but it is clear that he and Gal have an affectionate relationship.In addition to the outstanding performances, some fantastic editing keeps this film going. Why the film did not win an award, or even a nomination, for best editing I don't know. Some sequences are pure genius, like the cutting in and out between past and present when Don is explaining to Gal what the heist is all about. And some of the quick cuts between Gal and Don that match their staccato conversation are effective. The rapid fire cuts between past and present toward the end are striking. The music is an essential element; it neatly underscores the varying moods. There is original music by Roque Baños - his musical accompaniment to Gal's fear dreams adds a haunting quality to those masterly filmed sequences. And there are other noteworthy tracks such as Peaches by the Stranglers (that helps make the opening scenes so transfixing) and Sway from an early 1950s track by Dean Martin (that serves as a pleasant desert played over the closing titles). If your audio system does not have full bass, you will be missing the complete emotional experience the soundtrack has to offer.Americans may have some trouble with the accents - turn on subtitles for your first viewing. I have seen this movie so many times now that I have pretty much memorized the dialog. Also, if you are offended by strong language, you may want to give this a miss.At the end we are enticed into thinking that things have returned to carefree living in the villa for Gal and his friends. The broken hearts in the pool have been repaired and all is well with the world. But beneath those patched hearts lies a past that may come back to haunt these happy people. Teddy could decide to come visit at any time. Indeed, we are all trapped by our pasts, every move we make is constrained by our previous history.In summary, I quote Gal from the first part of the movie as he is sunning himself by the pool, Fan-dabby-dozy-tastic. "},{"Title":"Uneasy Mix of the Brilliant and absurd","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A friend who is a Lecturer in Film Studies had urged me to see this - I duly did, but with very mixed feelings afterwards.On the positive side an impressive cast , led by a demonic, psychotic Ben Kingsley, seize an innovative, provocative script which is narrative driven, Pulp Fiction style.The strong London accents and vernacular will make this a struggle for non-native English speakers to understand. The crude, profane, mobster, Don Logan - brilliantly portrayed by Kingsley - dominates the proceedings, with an ugliness which borders on the unwatchable.Ray Winstone as Gal, the retired crook being cajoled to do one last heist, seems to have built a career on gangster stereotypes since he exploded onto the screen as a borstal boy in Scum. He gives a comparatively sensitive, thoughtful, performance aided and abetted by Amanda Redman in a convincing cameo role as his wife. A mysterious pool boy, Enrique, flits in and out of proceedings leaving you guessing whether he is offering other services to the rich and indolent.There are some tremendous set pieces between Winstone and Kingsley as Logan refuses to take no for an answer.And a scene where Logan decides that aeroplane's no smoking policies don't apply to him is a powerful tour de force.On the negative side, the heist itself is poorly portrayed and ultimately becomes a bit of a mess. It is almost as if the Director realises that the dialogue alone isn't going to hold the film and so throws in some bangs and drama for effect. Ian McShane has a bizarre cameo role as part of the London Team with a performance that teeters between comic and convincing.Worth a look, but a million miles away from Lock Stock Snatch Long Good Friday etc, and for a British gangster double hander look no further than Terence Stamp in The Hit "},{"Title":"Two movies in one, and then some (but not sure what...)","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, the best way to describe this is, a British hybrid of Goodfellas and Pulp Fiction.Ben Kingsley's over-the-top performance makes it worthwhile (you'll end up saying Mahatma Who?). Ray Winstone as Gal gains depth and appeal as the picture progresses. Ian McShane is the British Pacino. The impression I got is that Gal's character slowly evolves from sun-worshiping hedonist to someone who knows how close he came to losing it all. But, still....what *was* some of that, and what kind of drugs inspired it? The overall point of the story is lost somewhat. Its great strength is its ability to keep the audience guessing, and they watch to see if their questions will be answered. /cr04 "},{"Title":"Film's OK, needs better title","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK so Sexy Beast could be a bit misleading a the title and that really bugs me as it is kind of pointless in relation to the film.The film is good, good actors, good camera-work, good editing, basically good all-round, although I wouldn't be in a rush to see it again. There were certain bits that got me interested, for instance the break-in, that was about it. Ben Kingley's performance was amazing and his character had me laughing endlessly, the rest of the cast was pretty dull although Amanda Redman had some good moments.Overall I think it was OK and would be good to watch once, but thats it. "},{"Title":"TOTAL CRAP.","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As far as i am concerned this movie was a real disappointment. After hearing several positive reviews (and even after reading many more after watching the movie), I really am shocked to see how many people actually liked this movie.It seems that everyone is just head-over-heels in love with Ben Kingsley (irritating gangster Don Logan) and his performance when really I found him to be annoying to the point of MAKING ME WALK OUT OF THE MOVIE (1st attempt to watch it, at home). His contribution to the movie as a whole would have been much better spent actually developing his character more (feelings, motivations, etc) as opposed to the repeated attempts to portray him as a tough gangster which honestly I didn't really see. I never really even felt he was that much of a threat to Gal & company. Sure he was on the edge and clearly they were scared of him from whatever past experiences, reputation, etc, but please. He was just so whiny, I came away with the impression, god, what a brat. Especially that whole smoking in the airplane scene, which I think he would have handled differently had he actually been a badass. Now, Ray Winstone (retired thief Gary 'Gal' Dove) on the other hand, did a great job in his part of this movie, though I think that the script itself kinda let Ray down in that his character could have been more slick, expressed himself more about his reasons for not coming out of retirement, shown his skills more when the time for the heist actually came. Why was it so important for Gal personally to be in the heist when it seemed so simple anyone could have done it? And while we're on the topic of the heist, considering all the screen time they spent actually getting there, don't you think that we'd get a little more exciting display/breakdown of the event itself? Forget flashy explosions or any of that, even just some more exciting shots (which director Jonathan Glazer is clearly capable of, having included some excellent cinematography) or some sense of the tension and danger involved.Ultimately I felt that this movie was a serious letdown, partially because of Ben Kingsley's character all by himself, and partly because all the characters seemed a little watered down compared to what they could have been. It just never really felt believable enough at any point for me to accept it and move on. I like movies that are purely character studies, I like indie movies, I like 'cockney villains/heist' movies, but I feel like this movie was pretty much a total waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Kingsley is outstanding, but slow and not too involving","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is an unusual film -- a good thing these days -- but outside of a terrific performance by Ben Kingsley, there really isn't a lot here to recommend.  The story is an odd take on the 'retired thief being brought back for one last job' cliche, but it's intriguing this guy REALLY doesn't want to unretire.  Kingsley, playing world-class psychopath Don Logan, is sent to Spain to convince Gal to return to England.**SPOILERS**Unfortunately, Gal's wife blows Logan away after a day of physical and psychological abuse, and so in order to cover up the fact that Logan was killed, Gal has to go do the job.  Logan's brutal murder is mostly told in flashback while Gal is working on the job, and that works pretty well.  The problem is that the job itself is uninteresting (and staged in an uninteresting manner), and outside of Teddy Banks, the mastermind (nicely played by Ian McShane), nobody on the job is interesting at all.  Gal suffers few consequences for his actions, even though Teddy is insistent on getting the truth from Gal.Anyway, it's not a bad film, just not terribly engaging outside of the performances of Kingsley and McShane.  Ray Winstone as Gal is all right, but like the rest of the movie, a bit bland.  I gave it a seven for Kingsley and McShane -- it's worth a rental.Oh, and someday, I hope to get an explanation of the title.  Outside of raging irony, it makes absolutely no sense for this movie. "},{"Title":"Old Habits Die Hard.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Dark-edged caper has middle-man lunatic Ben Kingsley (Oscar-nominated) sent by British crime boss Ian McShane to recruit retired master thief Ray Winstone in Spain for one final score. Of course Winstone has no interest as he has grown old, heavy and uninterested in dishonest affairs. However Kingsley can be quite persuasive in such matters. Kingsley terrorizes and threatens Winstone, his wife (Amanda Redman) and their friends (Caran Kendall and Julianne White) until no more can be taken. Sexy Beast is a smart film that works because of clever dialogue, an old concept (with new spins) and Kingsley's dynamite screen presence. The movie moves briskly over 89 minutes and overall the film was one of the best productions in 2001. 4.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"One of the most stylish and yet flawed british crime films I've seen","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast has a paradox about it.  It is often confusing and doesn't make much sense (in parts I mean, the main plot is clear), plus sometimes the dialoge is unclear, and from someone who thinks Trainspotting with dialoge that needs subtitles is a smash, that's a lot to say.Anyway though, the film, does have some really good points to it, including more style than most films you will see this summer.  And, the acting is fantastic with Kinglsey in one of his best and most ferocious roles to date. Plus, this is the only movie I will ever see a under-water bank robbing scene.  B+ "},{"Title":"good actor, boring film","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I tried to watch this movie from the moment I heard about it until last Friday, when I finally rented the video. My conclusion is I shouldn't have lost any minute thinking about it, that is a boring film where nothing really new happens. The plot is dull and there's no fact we haven't seen millions of times before.  Ben Kingsley, one of my favourite actors, saves the day in this Sexy Beast. He's great, as always.For the movie...my rate 5/10  "},{"Title":"Very British, very dark, but worth the investment.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is better than you think it is. A rudimentary understanding of Britain's criminal Cockney underbelly helps. Ray Winstone nails it, as usual, and Ben Kingsley is just as mesmerizing as you've heard. I think maybe people don't like it because they think it's just supposed to be a crime film. There are a lot of different elements to Sexy Beast, but first and foremost, this is a dark comedy. It's funny. It works. Better than Guy Ritchie's last one. The score is amazing, it really helps to characterize Kingsley's character throughout the film as well as Winstone's at the beginning (GREAT opening sequence). Good pacing here too. The film's not perfect, but it moves fast, and it's highly entertaining in a nonfat, sugar-free sort of way. Like stopping for a quick pint. It's a decent first feature for this director, and I'd risk money on his second one... "}{"Title":"Not more cockney gangsters","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Honestly British film makers seem obsessed with presenting us with costume dramas and cockney gangsters. Yet more dull gangster rehash, shot in an annoying pop video style. The script was appalling, the plot ridiculous. Congratulations to Ben Kingsley on his extremly passable cockney persona (the're all psycotic lunes you know) but hey why bother the Eastenders set is crawling with them. "},{"Title":"Boring, boring","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This so-called comedy starts off very well, but as soon as Ben Kingsley appears, it plunges into long, dull, dialogue. The drama is so expected and unthrilling, that I couldn't help yawning. Kingsley mistakes barking with acting.   "},{"Title":"I give it 4 syllables O-VER-RAY-TED.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It tries to be this Tarantino/Lock-Stock/Scorcese kind of movie and falls so lamely on its face, stomach, and ass. It's neither funny nor compelling, and unless you missed any of the movies it copies from, you'll find it totally unoriginal and daft.Ben Kingsley as a mean crime guy and post-crime lacky Gal is played by Ray Winstone. The acting is good, but after awhile, becomes monotonous. The plot is weak and the climax is limp with that everlong cliche of busting into some super secure area.First time director Jonathan Glazer has no idea what the story should be about so you're given dramatic moments, comic moments, and regurgitated camera tricks. I suppose for anyone new to crime dramedies, this might seem a watchable movie, but for someone who has seen the original films this one steals from, it's a forgettable trip down stupidity lane. "},{"Title":"One of the most extraordinary performances ever seen on film.(possible spoiler)","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Sexy Beast' has been garnering some acclaim in Britain at the moment.  I suppose if you look at it in the context of contemporary British gangster films, it's pretty good - beer bellies replacing 'cool'; character replacing narrative; funny psychotic replacing tiresome psychotic. As a film that's been so praised, however, it's a little disappointing.  There is no plot to speak of, beyond the bones of that old stand-by, a 'retired' gangster tries to stay out of the business, but his past catches up on him, and he is forced to accept One Last Job.  In narrative terms, this takes up about ten minutes of the film.  So, what's left?  Character?  Gal is one of the rare figures in the gangster genre - someone who's made it, who's achieved the (British) dream and made enough money to escape grimy, long-faced England, and shack up in sun-blanched Spanish solitude in a fantasy villa/hashee-yendah.  Where American gangsters are obsessed, and eventually consumed, by power, the British gangster just wants to get out, as in the most famous example, Ronnie Biggs.  But this is a gangster FILM, and there are generic demands, one of which is that crime doesn't pay, if not legally, than morally, in terms of conscience.  But Gal doesn't have any moral scruples - his nightmares concern the immediate threat to his well-being.  But if the gangster hero is proven in action, than Gal fails miserably.  He allows himself, his wife and his friends be humiliated by the preposterous Malky, receiving without complaint violence on his person and his possessions.  When the crisis comes to a head, and violent exorcism is demanded by the narrative, Gal and his strutting boyfriend are found wanting and impotent; it is his wife who sorts things out.  this is fascinating and original, as we watch Gal exfoliating, as a man and a gangster, made flabby by the good life, rotten by the sun.  Like all gangsters, he is a man who tries to order chaos, the arbitrary, by fixing patterns.  The boulder and Malky are hurtling dei (sic?) ex machina who rupture the peaceful order of his life; rather than let them stand as examples of the Absurd intruding on existence, he ties them together, gives them a purpose.  This is mirrored in the form, which, despite the violence, divisions, visual instability, strives to connect - character, dialogue, time, place.  The set-piece of Malky recounting the plan, weaving together a variety of voices, interests, locations and time-periods, is a case in point.  Add another ten minutes.The rest is an oppressive battery of narcissistic stylistic tics, a series of ads without products (well, mostly...) that serve little purpose beyond padding out a thin plot.  Even Guy Ritchie is more economical with ad flashiness than this.  Maybe if I hadn't known the director was a celebrated ad-man, I mightn't have noticed, but it's all so hollow and wearing, especially when compared to the underrated 'Gangster No.1' (also directed by an adman).  Thank goodness for Ben Kingsley, in an extraordinary, bizarre, incongruous performance.  People have called his small-statured logorrheic violence Pinteresque, but it's Pinter performed by 'the Fast Show', odd, silly, and very, very funny.  "},{"Title":"Reformed criminal Ray Winstone has to contend with Ben Kingsley and Ian MacShane","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The only question about this movie is how high to rate it.This excellent movie starts from a superior screenplay by Louis Mellis and David Scinto. They have also collaborated on two other goodies 44 Inch Chest and Gangster No. 1. The screenplay has some very deft exposition that moves along swiftly and smoothly, sometimes with successive lines emanating from different scenes. It has good use of quick dream sequences and montage, plus clever integration of the surroundings, a villa set against a rough hill, with the needs of the story. The story etches every character in a very engaging and enlightening way. The acting is flawless. The direction and editing do justice to the screenplay and acting that are taking center stage, bringing them up to their potential.Ray Winstone is a retired and reformed gangster, away from crime for over 9 years, now living in a Spanish villa with wife Amanda Redman, playing a strong protective woman who used to be in porn films. Their close friends there are the humorous Cavan Kendall and his wife Julianne White. Their bliss is disturbed by the appearance of gangster Ben Kingsley who has slotted Winstone into a bank robbery back in dreary London. Kingsley also hankers after White, with whom he had brief relations 3 years earlier. The story is fashioned from the clash between Kingsley and these émigrés. Kingsley is an intimidating source of endless pressure and invective, and quite liable to explode into violence. Winstone is not into that anymore. He has no physical defense against Kingsley, having become a gentle man. He's living an idyllic life. He refuses the job, but Kingsley won't take no for an answer. In the background in London is another scary presence, Ian MacShane who has set up the job after months of preparation. He intends to have a crew tunnel through water into a private bank loaded with safety deposit boxes.There's lots of 4-letter words, but they fit. Even the British accents and their variation add interest to the film. The dialog frequently has turns of speech that are very fresh.This film has rightly been lauded. "},{"Title":"Should have gone straight-to-DVD.","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" By the years of 2000-2001, the crime genre was becoming a little stale. While directors like Quentin Tarantino or Guy Ritchie had made the genre fresh again in the 90's, they had inspired many others who copied their unique style of film-making to a much lesser degree, creating many films which ranged from merely being bad (e.g. Best Laid Plans, The Big Hit) or were completely morally bankrupt (e.g. The Boondock Saints, Natural Born Killers). Because of this, it was easy to cynically prejudge many crime films that were coming out in that era. Occasionally however, you have exceptions to this rule which manage to stand out on their own and not fall into the trappings of crime films of that era, like L.A Confidential, Seven & The Usual Suspects. Unfortunately, despite what it's glowing reviews, box office figures and awards nominations may tell you, Sexy Beast isn't one of those films. While not being a complete disaster it is a very uninspired film that it is so safe and predictable that it feels more like a straight to DVD film rather than anything else.The plot is that a retired gangster, Gary Dove, is currently living a quiet life in Spain, with his wife and friends in a luxury villa. However, his peace is shattered when his former boss Don Logan abruptly arrives asking him to do one last job involving robbing one of London's most high tech banks. A conflicted Gary now has to decide whether to stay in peace and shelter or return for one last time into a dark underworld that might cost him dearly. The plot may sound very engaging at first, but it suffers from being utterly predictable, making the story lack any sort of tension or threat. It doesn't help that the heist isn't the movie's main focus, as most of the movie is spent focusing on the main character and how his decisions will affect those in the movie around him. While that does make the movie sound like an interesting character study, it isn't as there is little time focused on the main character's conflict, and rather is spent more time on Tarantino- esque conversations that don't advance the story much or Ben Kingsley's Don Logan, a character who seems entirely superfluous to the narrative, which considering how he takes up a lot of screen time is a major problem. The heist also suffers from the fact that the characters pull it off so easily and are unaffected by it's minimal consequences because of it, leading to a complete lack of tension in the process. This highlights the film's main problem there is nothing at stake here, as the plot is so predictable and simple, the main heist of the film is so easy to pull off and NONE of the characters change at all by the end of the film as a result. This makes the film all the more pointless of an experience to watch because of it.However, there are some positive attributes that this movie has to offer. The film is at least very well-made and all of the cast work give great performances and the film at least has some style. Music video director Jonathan Glazer does the best he can with such bland material by giving the film look good, using some clever camera-work and has art-house touches here and there, particularly a demonic rabbit motif that looks like something out of the deleted scenes of Donnie Darko. All of these stylistic touches are great, making it look like Terry Gilliam directing a gangster movie, and it helps the film get some much-needed distinction. I just wish with material this generic, Glazer had tried to be more ambitious and risky and had made the film more art-house by cranking his Kubrick, Gilliam and Fincher influences up to 11, as it may have been more memorable film. Sure it may have been more pretentious, but at least I would have admired it more because of it for being ambitious. A film like Snatch for example that came out at a similar time tries to recapture the brilliant plotting of Pulp Fiction, but fails, becoming an incoherent mess in the process and proved that director Guy Ritchie was way out of his depth. While at least I could admire that movie for at least having ambition, Sexy Beast mostly lacks this and when it does try to be artistically challenging, you can tell there is a more provocative and compelling gangster flick in there struggling to get out. As it is though, this is your standard Tarantino-esque knock-off whose plot so safe and characters so uninteresting that there is nothing truly memorable about the film apart from a few scenes, making it feel like this should have stayed away from theaters and should have gone straight-to-DVD where it belongs. Sure it's nowhere near as bad as 44 Inch Chest (although few movies are that bad), which is from the same writers and features much of the same cast, as Sexy Beast is average rather than flat-out awful. It's clearly well-made, has a great cast and that director Jonathan Glazer has talent and shows potential for his future endeavors into film- making. However, it suffers from similar problems as 44 Inch Chest it spends an hour focusing on pointless build-up, but fails to develop an interesting narrative or characters in that time and when the film gets to its main set-piece it is a major disappointment, making the viewing experience feel rather superfluous. Sure, while there are great performances and brilliant artistic touches here and there, all in all, this is just a safe and generic trope that despite its strong word of mouth should have gone straight-to-DVD, due to its lack trying to do anything innovative and experimental to a genre that by this point in time had run out of steam. "},{"Title":"Sir Ben","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is by no means a great film, but Sir Ben Kingsley is positively incandescent. I dare anyone to take his or her eyes off the screen for a second -- it can't be done. He's done excellent work in the past, of course, but if you've only seen him in Gandhi or Schindler's List, prepare for a paradigm shift. The script is workaday, standard gangster heist stuff. The other actors are perfectly fine too. But totally eclipsed by Sir Ben. And the director obviously knew it, because roughly the first half of the film consists of the rest of the characters girding themselves for Sir Ben's character's arrival. And boy, does he arrive! "},{"Title":"Why is that goat staring at me?","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A small-scale heist thriller in which the heist itself comes across as secondary to the film's main interest and rather redundant by the time it happens. The main interest is, of course, a barnstorming performance from Sir Ben Kingsley as one absolutely dangerous, over-the-edge gangster. Kingsley is superb here and makes for one of the funniest, most chilling characters of all time. The dialogue hums and zings while even at the same time the plotting is nothing more than predictable.It's hardly worth bothering with the other characters, although Ray Winstone holds it all together as a likable enough retired gangster type. Ian McShane's around too, but wasted in a minor role and really it's the interaction between Kingsley and the rest of the cast you'll be watching as outrageous, profane, insane and genuinely funny as any other film I can think of. "},{"Title":"Ben Kingsley Saves Half The Movie","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is a crime movie that offers little in terms of innovation or even basic entertainment. It's conventional, predictable. There's some playing around with editing and time, but otherwise it's conventional.If there is a reason to watch this movie, it's this Ben Kingsley.Ben Kingsley, in perhaps his best role of the past ten years, plays Don Logan, a cruel, violent, abusive London gangster whose name alone inspires fear. When Gal (Ray Winstone), a retired safe-cracker living in Spain, learns that Don is coming over to offer him a job, he begins panicking; his wife begins panicking; his friends begin panicking. Don Logan is bad news.When Don arrives, he shows them they have every reason to be afraid he wants Gal for a job and won't take no for an answer. He has no respect for people, no fear, no social skills. He's an abrupt, intimidating bastard. And Ben Kingsley plays him wonderfully. This type of acting has had its imitators watch Ralph Fiennes in In Bruges, or Alec Baldwin in The Cooler, and see how far the image of Don Logan has reached in modern tough gangsters.The movie fizzles whenever Kingsley isn't present, which is about one half of the movie. Just his presence makes the movie interesting, even his silences and fixed staring are fascinating. He's like a time bomb about to detonate, and he acts like he's about to detonate at any time.Winstone and the rest of the cast are alright, but they don't have the charisma to carry an uninteresting heist movie. A heist movie lives or dies by the originality (or far-farfetchedness) of the heist, of the way it's pulled off is is going to be slick and cool like in Ocean's Eleven? Or silent and professional like in Rififi and The Red Circle? Will the criminals have cool gimmicks, like in The Thomas Crown Affair or The Taking of Pelham 123? Sexy Beast never lives up to the level of these movies. The heist proves to be banal and simple, the preparation, which is one of the main aspects of heist movies, is overlooked. In the end the movie is a flawed movie enjoyable because of one great performance. I'm sad to see that this movie is so forgotten today, for everyone should do themselves a favor and watch Ben Kingsley in this. "},{"Title":"Yes, yes, yes, yes!","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Former promos and commercials director Jonathan Glazer proved he had visual flair with those Radiohead videos ('Street Spirit') and Guinness ads (Tick followed tock), but the beginning of Pinter-esquire gangster movie Sexy Beast, aka 'Gandhi's Revenge', seemed to owe more to Raiders Of The Lost Ark than Performance.Starring Ray Winstone and a none-more-swearier Ben Kingsley the film doesn't always work - this is the cinematic equivalent of Britpop, good-looking but hollow. But its marriage of stylish visuals plus cast-against-type luvvies does have echoes in a better film, Martin McDonagh's In Bruges -a real cult item in the making. "}{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Would someone please help me understand this movie. I don't get it & I don;t enjoys it. I like Ben Kingsley but from the start of the movie I don't get what that scene is all about and what's the story is all about. Probably because I'm not so esoteric or whatever inner feeling you should have to enjoy the movie but to me, I don't enjoy the movie at all. I fell asleep watching this the first time. The second time, I'm skipping it and stop at scenes where I thought I would like it, and I don't. It gets violent sometimes. Sorry, but this movie is not for everyone. 5 out of 10 because of Kingsley and the probability that I'm just too dumb to get the meaning of this movie. "},{"Title":"An amazing performance by Ben Kingsley,,,","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ... can't hide the fact that this is a very poor, boring film. The story is minimal, the sound horrible and, Kingsley aside, the characters undeveloped and listless. The normally excellent Ray Winstone mumbles his way around the few lines that he has (nobody has many, after all) in a permanent daze; his wife and friends are mere cyphers and completely uninteresting, while Ian McShane and James Fox have little more import on the film than a couple of extras.If you can stand to see Kingsley's frighteningly realistic portrayal of a psychopath then go ahead and watch the film; just don't expect to be entertained (unless you like looking at fat blokes in their swimming trunks - POSSIBLE SPOILERdouble whammy here as even the robbery takes place underwater).Oh and the relevance of the film's title, 'Sexy Beast'? Absolutely none. "},{"Title":"Beast? Yes. Sexy? No.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When the boulder hit the pool would Gal have been better off had it taken him with it? Or was it some sort of providence that the stone aided in a future burial? I suppose the viewer is supposed to feel for poor ol' Gal as he is stressed out to the max by a former associate, Don Logan. Well, I wound up doing just that because Logan was such a blatant I get my way or else type. Although this film came in on the express train from left field and often didn't make a lot of sense, I still enjoyed it a lot. The viewer is left wondering if Gal's premonition of death in the form of a gun wielding demon ever came to visit, or if it indeed did and he dodged the reaper's scythe.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Beast is memorable with great performances.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie, mainly due to the fantastic performances by the entire cast, with  the versatile, brilliant Ben Kingsley a standout.  I thought the filming was done very well- I liked the contrast of the good life in sunny Spain with the somewhat drearier atmosphere of England (though personally I adore England.)  Great film. "},{"Title":"Very Cool","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley proves he is one of our best actors. Should have been nominated for an Oscar. (I'm sorry, was he?) I wish this movie had received more attention over in the US. Oh well, check it out, it is a very creative movie. My congratulations to Jonathan Glazer. I gave it a solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"decent viewing","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  most of the bad reviews i have read about this movie came from americans. funny that.  anyway, in the end i bought a copy, sat down and watched it and sure enough was glued to the screen from start to finish.  it's excellent - but don't take my word for it - watch it and make your own mind up, just don't be put off by the majority that can't really understand the point of anything if it's not hollywood. "},{"Title":"Passionate story of happiness threatened by the past......","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This a beautifully crafted film with exquisite performances by the leads. A story of a gangland thief who has gotten as far away from his past with the love of his life and what transpires when that life tries to take him back. I can't say any more without spoiling it except to say it is subtle, touching and very funny coupled with some truly chilling moments.  "},{"Title":"a hip, chic and beautifully shot thriller; sheer delight from beginning to end.","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  an enthralling and entertaining british/spanish movie encompassing elements of gangster thriller, black comedy, surreal imagery and a masterful soundtrack from the stranglers to dean martin! along with a rosta of fine performances; special mention must be given to a superb cameo performance by the late cavan kendall who sadly never got to see the completed film. a gem to be seen and seen again. "},{"Title":"genius","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  jonathan glazer and his amazing cast hit a total homerun - taking a 'gangster movie' plot and taking it to a post-mtv level of brilliance. plus the love story between gal and deedee is unforgettable. ray winstone rules as usual...as does the inevitable heist scene. watch it and laugh, cry, cringe and cheer. "},{"Title":"This ain't Ghandi!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The only reason to see this movie is for Ben Kingsley.Having said that, this is one of the best movies out in the last 5 years, all because of Ben Kingsley.I loved this movie, bought it on DVD, I can't believe more people haven't seen it.  Do yourself a favor, rent it, put the kids to bed, fire it up, and enjoy the ride.  Incredible movie, incredible actor, it doesn't get much better than this. "}{"Title":"leave it out!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is an oddly uneven film.  At times it is a truly menacing melodrama, fuelled by nice-guy Kingsley's extraordinary turn as a psychopath; at times, it tries to be a comedy gangster flick in the manner of Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels; and there are even strange moments when it resembles an art-house film gone wrong. The structure is as unbalanced as the tone.  Logically, the film's Spanish portion should merely set the scene for the English part of the tale; but instead, the latter is presented in perfunctory fashion, almost as a postscript nothing here is as scary, or intense, as the earlier material.  And choice of the title is also very strange, Kinglsely's character may see himself as a Sexy Beast but these words hards capture the essence of a film in which this individual is viewed mainly from without not within. For all that, there's some skillful film-making here, but it would have been a better movie if it wasn't so evidently conscious of the huge success of Lock Stock and the apparent public appetite for gangster pictures. "},{"Title":"A great film despite the low budget.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film which I liked from the first second it began. Somehow I don't laugh a lot about films, but this one really made me laugh, even though some people may think it isn't that funny (do you understand?, I don't anymore?!). Anyway, please give it try, the acting was great and so was the story. Go see! "},{"Title":"A brilliantly acted and directed tight British drama.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this film for the second time and it was as captivating and intense as the first time I saw it. Ben Kingsley is brilliant in his portrayal as an evil London gangster. The rest of the cast play off him superbly. This is a very good movie and is so well acted and directed that it deserved bigger audience. I give it 4 1/2 * out of 5.  "},{"Title":"A gangster gem","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Humor and suspense mix in this well written and very well acted gangster movie.  Ben Kingsley outdid himself and won our hearts- yes! yes! yes!. The only gangster movies in 2000 better than Snatch. A-, 8/10 "},{"Title":"British Film making at it's best!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"     Well, what can I say about this film? Everything about this film is excellent the storyline is riveting and the performances of Winstone and Kingsley are commendable. Although the language is bad the whole content of the film just makes up for it. The characters seem to be very accurate and real and you can feel the eagerness to get rid of Ben Kingsley character Don Logan.    Anybody who is British should watch this film and anybody who like gangster films should definitely consider watching it as well. 9/10 "},{"Title":"YES!..YES!!..YES!!!..YES!!!..YES!!!!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a long time since an actor has riveted me to the screen as much as Ben Kingsley did in this film. His monologue in front of the bathroom mirror is chilling. Looking back, I can't think of any role where he hasn't been absolutely true to the character and totally believable. He richly deserved his Oscar nomination and should have won.A few other observations - the Cockney accents were a bit tough to penetrate at times. Also, is it just me, or does Ian McShane look like he's hardly aged a bit over the past 20 years? "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have just watched and re-watched the first hour of this incredible movie. Ben Kingsley plays the most extreme, manic, nightmare of a man I have ever seen. The fact that he's not a towering brute makes him all the more threatening and intimidating. In only six set piece scenes, there are already too many lines to quote and I personally look forward to using You like Idi Amin, know what I mean on my overweight colleague when he returns from the Bahamas.Who would like this? Anyone who rates Withnail will see many a parallel. "},{"Title":"Sexy Beast is a great ride","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a great hour and a half ride.  There are some true edge of your seat moments and Kingsley is awesome in his role as Don.The cool thing is that the viewer knows before the main characters what is happening, but the anticipation of what the characters will do because of it really drives the suspense.I gave it an 8 of 10.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"May seem slow at first, but the tension builds...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley's depiction of Don Logan is at once subtle and extreme (how he dos this, I don't know; he just does!!)It is one of Kingsley's best movies ever. The story is unique and facinating; as it progresses, you too feel trapped by the situation.Tho I seldom give really high marks to movies, this one rates a 10 with me! "},{"Title":"Tries hard, but falters...","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The acting in this film is average at best.  Winstone and Kingsley definitely carry the film.  Pace is fast, and characters could be explained more.  More of a past could have been created between Kingsley and Winstone. I did enjoy the movie, and would recommend it in a pinch.  I felt Kingsley was very good, but short of spectacular.  Reminds you of that smart and creative, yet physically unintimidating, kid in school that was feared due to creating status by being persistent.  I give it a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Maybe I'm jaded...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...but to be honest, I wasn't terribly impressed with Sexy Beast's plot. Regardless of how good Ben Kingsley's performance is -- and yes, it is absolutely stunning and entirely deserving of its Academy Award nomination -- the tired just one last heist, I swear! plot (seen in everything from The Score to Ocean's Eleven just in the past year) is far too creaky to construct yet another film around.  Still, if you like this particular genre, Sexy Beast is a great example of it.Rant is there a particular reason Americans are so whiny when it comes to listening to foreign accents?  The remarks here about the dialogue in this film border on xenophobia.  Perhaps you people have listened to the posh accents in Notting Hill and Sense & Sensibility too many times, but in reality this is how the majority of British people talk in real life.  You might try listening more attentively instead of harping like uneducated simpletons that you can't understand a word they're saying.  Failing that, see if you can get BBC America so you can acclimate yourselves to the British tongue with a few weeks' worth of their show EastEnders (the most popular TV program in the UK).  Note that I'm not only American, but also a native Texan, so I know a thing or two about strong accents. "},{"Title":"Another stupid American chimes in","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, that's it; I'm just not sophisticated enough to get this moviebecause I am an American. Give me a break!  I understood the dialogue just fine and got theplot; I'd seen it in the other 50 movies with the same idea. Thismovie was low on plot, low on talent (Kingsley obviouslyexcluded), low on action, low on just about everything but profanity. Straight up, I could have told you the ending about 15 minutes intothe movie; if an American made it, it would have been cliche. Yuck. I didn't like it at all and I am bummed that I wasted 89 minutes ofmy life that I will never get back. "},{"Title":"The Title","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think I read somewhere that Sexy Beast means money or crime or something like that. Something that gets you into trouble, but it so seductive that it pulls you in anyway. I don't think it has to do with any of the characters being sexy (though they are beastly).That said, I really enjoyed the movie. I have closed captioning so whenever I got stuck on dialogue that helped a lot. I thought of Logan as a mad pitbull, or maybe a terrier, small but tenacious, who grabs hold of you and won't let go. ***********************Spoiler*************************************It's too bad he had to die, he was the most interesting character in the movie.But I absolutely loved that last shot. I laughed out loud at that.Definitely a movie worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Quirky to the extreme!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Kingsley is the best thing in this film.  Without shoving a gun in anybody's face and without using extreme muscle, his words are a frightening lightning bolt of fear to be feared.  He causes trembling by all by simply speaking.  The rest of the film is standard fare and exits somewhat in quality when Kingsley is not on screen.  The last shot of the film is priceless and when 'Sexy Beast' isn't trying to be a gangster film, it isn't very good.  Ah, if only the rest of the film were even half as good as Kingsley. "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a weird film that benefits from a strong supporting turn by Ben Kingsley as a derranged mob guy. The film itself was a tad too oddball for my tastes and the accents were often hard to understand. GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"A few laughs, and that's about it.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Much has been said about Ben Kingsley's performance in 'Sexy Beast', and most of it is true. Kingsley has an absolutely hilarious turn as the cartoon-ish thug Don Logan, a stand-over man who doesn't know the meaning of the word no. Whenever Don is on screen 'Sexy Beast' is fantastically entertaining. The rest of the time, the shallowness and pointlessness of the paper-thin plot of this movie is too much to ignore. Even the talented Ray Winstone, so compelling in 'Nil By Mouth' and 'The War Zone', can't salvage this empty waste of time. Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Not Believable but Posh","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Yeah, Ben Kingsley is menacing, but personally, I'd have punched his muscled-up Gandhi face early on if I were Ray Winstone.Winstone is a retired gangster living with his ex-porn star wife and a few ex-gangster friends in a villa in Spain. Life is good, but then the feared ex-partner, Kingsley shows up to insult everybody and generally ruffle feathers, the ultimate party pooper. Okay, okay, Winstone will help with the heist after a disagreement, a serious disagreement. Back in London, Teddy, played by Deadwood's leering Ian McShane has created a plan to steal from a high security vault a gazillion dollars. The team dives into the most unlikely underwater heist scheme ever devised.It's all very posh and not very believable, but quite entertaining. "},{"Title":"Don't judge a film by it's title!","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is never fully explained. Perhaps it is a nickname for Ben Kingsley's character. Sir Ben is wonderful in this film as complicated bald British burglar. Ian McShane is deliciously evil in his role as the man behind the master plan. Ian is well deserving of an O.B.E. or a C.B.E. Ray Winstone should also get an O.B.E. for his services to acting. The cast is wonderful including Amanda Redman who is best known for playing the older Diana Dors. I hope they don't forget her for a British honour in the same fashion as the late Diana Dors(she should have been given a C.B.E.)but nevertheless the plot is fun and filled with four letter words, violence, a little sex, and brief nudity scene. Sexy Beast may not have raked it in at the box office. I don't know why but maybe it should have with all the sex, violence, and nudity for American audiences. Isn't that what they want and they don't go for it? Maybe it's the British accents that throws them away but whatever it is worth watching at least once without the children. "},{"Title":"Learn to cuss in 3 easy lessons ...","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie taught me a few things about cussing ...Wow ... I will never think of Ben Kingsley the same way again. He takes cussing to a whole new level. The script writer must have had a thing for swearing.There is also some very original camera work going on here, an interesting plot, quite a bit of action, but also some slow moments that I thought worked quite well. The pace is good, it moves you along nicely, but also gives you time to drink in the scenery and what is going on inside the character's head,The ending is sort of surprising, although I figured it out ahead of time.A rather rough film violence wise at times. Kind of mixed feelings about recommending this film.I gave it a 7 - 10. "},{"Title":"Might have better been called Horny Beast.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Some film titles are obvious, many ane not, and I like to figure them out as part of my viewing. This is another example of Britain and America being separated by a common language. In the US, sexy generally refers to another person we view as sexy, e.g. I'd like to have a weekend alone with that sexy model.  Sexy is someone very desirable and enticing. Apparently, the British refer to sexy as something in your own mind. Ben Kingsley plays a beast of a crook, who views himself as a potential lover for attractive women, even the wives of his friends, thus he is the Sexy Beast of this film. But he's really just a Horny Beast.While the overall film is marginal at best, the stroke of genius was casting Ben Kingsley as Don Logan, the criminal on a mission with zero social skills. His performance is absolutely Oscar-worthy. He is so good we quit looking at him very quickly as Kingsley the actor playing Don and simply see him as this menacing man intimidating the two ex-criminals and their wives at their Spanish Villa. The film is worth viewing for Kingsley's performance alone. In fact, for me it was the only reason. When it was over, I thought that was rather pointless.  There was a point, confronting your past to get on with your future. But the whole film was done more in the style as Snatch and other British heist movies and is meant to entertain more than have a deep meaning.some SPOILERS - Gal (Ray Winstone) is out of prison and retired to his Spanish Villa, along with Aitch and their wives. All they want to do is be left alone, to sun by the pool and have dinner and cocktails at night. But Don is sent to recruit Gal for a very big job, to rob very valuable safe boxes in a very tightly secured place, by approaching underwater overnight. They eventually succeed, but to get there is most of the story. Don is so persistent and threatening, not taking no from Gal, his wife shoots Don with a shotgun and they dispose of him. The big boss in London figures this out, but Gal is let off to go back to Spain, his payoff a 10-pound note, basically tyo say I won't kill you, but you're not getting anything and I don't ever want to see you again.The DVD was fine, nothing special, including the featurette and the commentary. Some of the English is so clipped and hard to understand, it helps to view it with English subtitles on, especially the first half of its 88 minutes. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  a little too arty for me","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is a crime thriller where all of the emphasis is on characterization rather than the crime itself. Although I'm an action movie guy, I do have an appreciation for that. Ben Kingsley is really great and I can see why he won an Academy Award nomination for his role.Unfortunately, the film was a little too slow-paced for me. Everyone's a bad guy, so it's difficult to identify with and root for the protagonist. I found the troubled soul metaphor a little heavy handed. And finally, the production value wasn't polished, so the lighting and audio quality were lacking. That made it tough for me, as an American, to understand the dialogue at moments, since the characters all had thick accents.Who should see this film-- action movie buffs, but only on a rainy day-- drama film buffs? I'm not sure about you. See Death and the Maiden first, a better Ben Kingsley film.I'll give Sexy Beast a so-so 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"&#145;I know a bloke, who knows a bloke' and He's about to Have a Stroke.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Note A minor spoiler aheadThe opening credits of Sexy Beast tell us all we really need to know. This is one cool film. Did you get that? THIS IS ONE COOL FILM. COOL. COOL. COOL. COOL. After all, Gal (Ray Winstone) puts a towel that has been soaking in ice water on his crotch during the opening credits, to cool off during a particularly torturous sunbathing session. Frankly, I don't know if I could ever be that cool.When cool films are both cool and fun we can sit back and enjoy, knowing that a piece of fluff is about to pass before our eyes. Ocean's Eleven is like that. The cast of that wonderfully entertaining film winks at us for the entire two hours, and we don't mind because we know that they know it is disposable. The charm of the actors carries the day there. However, I couldn't help get over the feeling that everyone in Sexy Beast wanted us to know how cool they were. By the way, did I mention that Sexy Beast is cool??It's a simple story. Gal is retired, as we later learn, from criminal activities. He lives with his ex-porn star wife and two other friends. Their lives are now all that they could not be in gray, damp Britain. That wonderful Spanish sun can get so bloody hot that you need to douse your crotch with ice water. Then, out of that azure sky, Don Logan (Kingsley) arrives with much fanfare-and a good bid of apprehension from our happy four. He has a reputation, it seems. And he doesn't take NO, NO, NO for an answer. He needs to convince Gal to take on one more job. Of course, Gal will say YES, YES, YES. Don's many charms would work on anyone.For all the air conditioning being blown from the screen, Sexy Beast is still a workable thriller with a wonderful performance from Winstone. Yeah, you read right-Winstone gives the standout performance here, much more subtle and controlled than the operatic ranting from Kingsley. It would be easy enough to say that Kingsley is the wrong actor in the wrong part, but the problem is not quite as simple as that.Kingsley's performance is basically one note, with veins popping and nostrils flaring. He yells the part admirably. Logan must be on blood pressure medication; he seems the perfect candidate for a stroke. Unfortunately, director Glazer lets Kingsley rely on his technique and fireworks. An accent and very upright posture masquerade as character development. But don't forget-Kingsley's Logan loves one of the women in the cast. Ah, yes! That must be the character development. This dolt has a heart, even if it is made of stone. He's the Grinch before all the Whos in Whoville sing &#145;Welcome Christmas.' Kingsley has come a long way from Gandhi. But Logan hasn't come any distance in the arc of the film.Tension finally begins to build in the last reel of the film, but by that time I wondered if I cared. Who lives and who dies? I'll never tell. Just give me my CD player with Dean Martin in the headphones, and pass me the SPF 30.  "},{"Title":"Strange movie kind of like Snatch on Steriods","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie due to the intense feelings that Ben Kingsley made you feel.  It was very tense in the scenes where he would try to coax his old friend into taking the job.  I know that the cockney accents were hard to  understand.  That's why I used the subtitles.  That was a good feature.  I checked out the directors commentary and it was not all that great.  This is a good movie though.  I would suggest seeing it for sure.  There were many scenes where Ben Kingsley's character (named Don Logan) would get so mad at Gal!!  He would yell the word yes or no over like 10 times!!  The plot was just a typical one late heist plot.  It was good acting all over though.  I give this a finger up. "},{"Title":"Title is half right - and it's not the sexy part","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gal (Ray Winstone) is a British ex-safecracker who's living the high life in a pampered villa in Spain. The old gang he ran with back in the day wants him to pull off another job, so they send Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) from London to encourage the relaxed former bad guy. But Gal's out of the game, y'see, and he says no. Repeatedly. Retired, he says. Done, he says. Trying to go legit, he says.  Don't they always try to go legit? And then the Big Boys want them to pull of One Last Heist, or some such nonsense? And so the old fart straps on his hoodlum scowl and gets to work. They never stay straight, these guys.So much of the dialog in this movie is utterly incomprehensible, at least if you're not from England. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but don't the British speak English? The Cockney dialects are unintelligible, at least at the beginning. I suspect that once you get used to the accents, you can pick up at least some of the words, but for my money this is a movie that should have had extensive subtitles. As a point of reference, in Snatch (2001), Brad Pitt's character was an Irish gypsy who spoke a completely unrecognizable dialect - it was so muddled that even the other characters had no idea what he was saying! This movie's a lot like that, only the joke's on the audience, not the characters.It's violent, and it does have its twists, which are both usually good points in a movie of this genre. The movie received quite a bit of acclaim when it came out in the theaters because of Kingsley's performance (this ain't Ghandi, a role he perfected with an Oscar in 1982); however, I don't see his work as fine acting - I see it as overacting. He's hammy, not nuanced. People see a lot of energy, which Kingsley surely brings, and assume it to mean the guy's acting up a storm. Well, chewing scenery is acting up a storm, too - just not good acting. The rest of the cast is relatively faceless, including Amanda Redman as Gil's ex-porn-star wife (I just wanted to use the words porn star in this review somewhere!). None of them stand out above the others; Kingsley only stands out on the basis of name recognition. I'm a little amazed that this received the praise it did, particularly for Kingsley himself. It's not solid entertainment at all, and not worth the bucks to see it, although the plot does scamper along pretty well. But because of the poor enunciation (for Americans, at least), the complexities of the plot never come to light, frustrating the viewer.  "},{"Title":"Intense, compelling drama/dark-comedy for the jaded.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast, which has no sex and almost no comedy, is a slick UK drama which is long on style and short on story. The film tells of two middle aged Brit couples trying to escape their checkered pasts in Spain who are visited by a man (Kingsley) who wants  to recruit one of them for a heist. The film focuses on a stunning performance by Kingsley who plays a man with a pathologically aberrant personality who could well be the devil incarnate. Well cast and brilliantly edited with solid performances all around,  Sexy Beast will spellbind viewers who appreciate acting for acting's sake and repulse viewers who have a problem with vulgarity. Everyone else will be somewhere in between. "},{"Title":"Vacuous English crime movie","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film details the story of Gal, a former criminal who has since retired to Spain to live out his days with his wife.  However, as in too many other crime films, the lead character is pulled in for one last job.   The film primarily concerns itself with the attempts by Don, an old friend and colleague of Gal's, to convince Gal to participate. If you think you've seen this story before, you have, and told better. The only thing to differentiate this film from those going before it is Ben Kingsley's searingly angry performance as Don. One might well expect an actor of his gifts to be able to bring much power to the screen, and he has tried mightily to do so.  But although Kingsley contributes great energy to his role, unfortunately the role itself is so thinly written that there is no additional dimension to it, so Kingsley spends most of his screen time going from angry to fulminating rage, with little other dimension to his character. If the hackneyed plot and one-dimensionality of the characters aren't incentive enough to avoid this film, there is also the small matter of the directing.  In a way, it's kind of a remarkable achievement, to the extent that although there is a consistent visual and narrative style, the direction manages consistently to come across as arch and contrived, rather than in the service of the characters and the narrative.  The direction seems to stand outside the movie, snickering at the characters, or pointing to them with an elbow in the audience's ribs to say, Oh, look at him, isn't that cool.  This treatment might have been tolerable in a action-driven heist film, but it's completely out of place in what is putatively a character study.  So instead of relating to the characters and feeling what they're going through, the audience merely sees the actors on the screen, speaking, moving, standing still, but always the audience is emotionally, psychologically, spiritually distanced. So without an original plot, without entertaining dialogue or action, without multi-dimensional characters, and without any real insights into the human condition, it's impossible to recommend this film to anyone.  I give it four stars only because it was adequately exposed, the sound was adequately recorded and mixed, and the actors made an effort, albeit a wasted effort.  "},{"Title":"Should have been called How Many Times Can I Say the F word?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad.  It's a typical Indy film, where it's cool not knowing what the hell is going on.  I agree with most of the commenters (or is it commentators?) about not understanding anything they were saying due to the thick accents.  Though I didn't hate this film, I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone.  I'd put it somewhere below average. "},{"Title":"What did he say?  Huh?","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't like this film at all, but there are many other comments already here that list reasons I agree with for my dislike of this film (implausible, silly plot; Kingsley's hilariously over-the-top performance which critics are taking seriously, and so on), so there is no point in repeating those points.But--I couldn't understand about one third of the dialogue in this film because of the lower-class British accents.  When are we going to start having subtitles for English films wherein the characters speak with accents such as these characters do?  Is this called a cockney accent or what?Is there anyone out there who can tell me how much Gary Gal Dove got for his participation in the robbery?  I couldn't understand the exchange between Teddy Bass and Dove as they sat in the car and money was exchanged, money which I assume was Gal's part of the take.  I assumed Gal got nothing but the ruby and diamond earrings he stole.  And wouldn't those earrings, if worn by his girlfriend, implicate Gal in the robbery?  Remember what happened to the thief in Rifi who stole a ring from the jewelry store and gave it to his girl.  No, Gal isn't going to pawn the earrings; he loves his girlfriend too much not to give her those earrings.Before paying your admission to this film, be warned You may not understand a lot of the dialogue. "},{"Title":"Great reviews! Why?","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Disappointing, unbeliveably great reviews and yet the movie didn't live up to the hype. Ben Kingsley was fantastic as usual. The photography and music were spectacular. However, being that it was an all british sounding cast, when you did not see them directly most of the audience could not understand what they were saying. They had a bit too much of an english accent and that hurt some of the movie. The storyline was good and different to say the least.  I felt it just didn't meet my expectations and my wife and I generally like everything. This fell a bit short. "},{"Title":"RAY AIN'T SEXY","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Oh no a British gangster film. No other genre (apart from Hanks) has had me heading for the exits in recent years. However, this time we have a creditable entry (take note Ritchie).A film that has romance, comedy, violence, swearing and swearing. A film where Kingsley makes you scared to ever watch Gandhi again. For me I was most impressed with Winstone giving a very understated non-Winstone performance.  "}{"Title":"Stylish and slick - what there is of it.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is a very short film (too short really) and yet it fills every frame and every moment with tension, menace and intrigue. While it is a crime story, a character study and a three act play the portions are far from equal and the dialogue is hard to catch - even with an English ear.There are plenty of directors that would have padded this out with extra dinner scenes, meetings at airports and bland criminal chit-chat but the producers don't want to - every scene has a purpose and if you take one out the whole house of cards collapses.(Not sure about the hare symbolism though - what is that all about?)Retired crook Gary 'Gal' Dove (Ray Winston) is wanted for one last job by psycho hard nut and fixer Don Logan (Ben Kinsley) - BK having the time of his life with a part no one could imagine him playing. Words come thick and fast from his mouth - most of them obscene, but he gets his point across often by simply screaming the word yes over and over again. His performance is worth the price of the ticket by itself.Winston is the British version of Gérard Depardieu. He is not traditionally handsome and he is getting more than a bit flabby, but the camera loves him. He is a reactor most of the time here and that suits him - from Scum (which is a truly frightening film) and Nil By Mouth we know he can be frightening - but here he plays frightened.In contrast Teddy Bass (Ian McShane) is the slick and quick Mr Black Magic. The guy who wants to get things done and is no less deadly, but in a more laid back and slicked way. He provides the how and the why that keeps the pot boiling. Sadly there isn't enough of him to say much more.With the quality of acting and actors on display here you are disappointed by the length and width. Porn star wife Deedee Dove (Amanda Redman) hardly gets a look in on the stopwatch although she does provide a point of high drama.Here even the central crime (or planned crime) seems merely a device to get the characters together and a lot of potential meat is thrown away. A crime film that doesn't seem all that interested in the crime. Strange as that might sound.Most films try and be too ambitious and fall foul of that while Sexy Beast is under ambitious and falls foul on that score - there is a longer and more intricate film waiting to get out if only they had let it. Yes, could have become a classic rather than a classic case of simply being very good. "},{"Title":"?????","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This may be a great film like the critics say, but I will never know because I couldn't understand what was being said, except the f word and the c word.  Why bother??? It was like Michael Caine with marbles in his mouth. "},{"Title":"Bullocks","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pile of rubbish, filthy rubbish (pronounced roo-bish). Redundant exploitation of hackneyed plot conventions, namely, the 1) psychopathic criminal, 2) last job, and 3) ultimate heist.A few seductive overhead shots, neatly composed and symmetric enough to be in a TV ad, accompanied by an off-beat monologue start the film. So far so good. Then there's the quirky humor of a boulder flying down the hill. Still good. But then nothing, fluff, blather, this, that, and the other thing, just the usual neo-hip emptiness for the neo-hip (jump edits, plot ellipses, minimalist characters, yaddi yadda, vide Run Lola Run). When will they ever stop using oral activity--eating, smoking, and drinking--as a substitute for real carnality, real sensuality, real action?At first I resisted even going to see this. Not another sociopath, not one more! But what else is there? Under the Sand? (Sounds like the tawdry confessions of a kinky ostrich.)Oh, no! Ogre Don Logan (Ben Kingsley) is coming, etc. etc. for 15 or so minutes. Then Don shows up Kingsley plays at playing a sociopath, gives a performance which is about a performance (o, these technical times of ours). No self-respecting criminal sociopath I've ever known would behave this way, at least not the ones from San Quentin! Maybe they're different in the UK. Maybe they self-consciously stylize their disease. Kingsley is acting, immaculately acting, professionally acting, method acting, but always acting. It's dry, it's stiff, and after the first 5 minutes boring. Give me the B-flick mother-loving juice of James Cagney in White Heat (Raoul Walsh, 1949) anytime.Then there's the dialogue, as contrived, tautological, and blocky as this review (get it?). SampleNo I won't.You will.No I won't.You will.I won't.Yes you will.Even Mamet could do better. I guess this passes for cleverness in these highly technological, highly evolved times of ours. We're all so clever.The heist itself, conducted underwater and shot like a music video, provides the only kinesthetic and visually lyrical respite to the rest of the film, which otherwise sinks under the weight of its own studied understatement and, uh, leaden neo-hipness, e.g., Teddy (Ian McShane), hating the world from under lowered eyelids, stands frozen stiff like the statue of an ice-blooded killer--ooh, how new. As if Pacino hasn't done this before.In the end, walking out, you feel you too have been stiffed. Much ado about nothing. The tritest most overused plot embellished with the latest doodads, all style, no substance. "},{"Title":"I couldn't believe how NOT FUNNY it was!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a terrible movie.  I went to see it on the advice of practically every movie critic on the planet and once again found out why movie critics are critics and not actual members of the film industry -- they're morons. Dear God, this was the worst movie I've seen in years! There was not a single funny moment in what claimed to be a dark comedy.  No one in the audience with me laughed even once.  Ben Kingsley may be a great actor but his job here was mediocre at best; of course, what CAN he do with such a terrible written character?  The rest of the cast was laughable but certainly not funny.  The plot was cliche, and hey film writers, guess what, adding a giant bunny to your plotline does not suddenly cause it to be not cliched!  The giant bunny has been done, people! "},{"Title":"Vile piece of dung","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps my disenchantment with this movie comes from the fact that I wanted to see it long before I actually was able to.  When it came to a Theatre in my small town of Carlisle, PA (not a cineplex but one of those one screen old school places that smell of dank memories and cheap popcorn) I was entralled.  About 17 minutes later, or whenever the boulder finally made that infamous plop, I quit caring.     Critics have said that Kingsley gives a stellar performance here and perhaps he does.  If he was meant to play an ultra-annoying person who I wanted to die immediately if not sooner that the Oscar is his. But the rest of the movie is so poorly thrown together around such a threadbare plot that I almost walked out of the theatre.  Only my knowledge that I alone had wanted to see this, not based on the reviews of my friends or critics, kept me in my chair.         But an eternity later, I left with such a bitter taste in my mouth that even SnowDogs looks like it would be a better flick. "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There were few movies I was looking forward t seeing more than Sexy Beast.  In my little hamlet here in Central Pa I never expected to see it until it came out on video.  So you can imagine my excitement when it came to an independent theater.  And you can imagine how disappointed I was when this movie sucked rocks! I half to say that this is one of 3 movies in my life where I almost walked out of the theater.  I know my opinion is only my opinion and I do not want to go into it too much but Jesus everything about this movie was horribly wretched.  Have a boil lanced before you wasted 90 minutes of your life on this dreadful piece of trash. "},{"Title":"It was an insult","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know how people rated it high. The story made no sense it was violent could not understand most of the dialouge and it was a total waste of time and money. Ben Kingsley should be ashamed of his participation in this movie if there was a story I sure did not get it "},{"Title":"A bland, never really there, montage of semi-related stories","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's really not surprising to find out that the director of this drivel made his name in the land of TV commercials. The movie never really seems to be one whole, but rather is made up of several loosely related 'scenes' which attempt to move the plot along. Not that there is much of a plot to begin with. The movie opens with a send-up of a Kahlua commercial with a jolly fat guy (Gal) sunning himself in the Mediterranean sun. You understand that he is relaxed and fully content with his inactivity and would be very happy to remain so for the rest of his retirement. This is the last time you understand ANYTHING in this movie. There's the cliched recruitment scene (think Tastes Great! Less Filling!), a neither here nor there love triangle mess that never really goes anywhere except maybe sending you to sleep, and finally an inane bank robbery which still doesn't explain why Gal simply had to be involved. Don't just suspend your disbelief at the action in this movie, leave it at home. The less you think while watching this movie, the better. "},{"Title":"criminy","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, I've liked Ben Kingsley, Ray Winstone and Ian McShane in most of the movies in which I've seen them, but Jonathan Glazer's Sexy Beast is too weird. There have been so many retired-criminals-go-in-for-one-last-shot movies that they've become a blur. I will admit that Sexy Beast has some neat scenes -- namely the boulder -- but I didn't like it otherwise. I guess that I'd taken to Guy Ritchie's movies so much that I preferred for crime-themed movies to have a very comedic tone. You might like this movie, especially Kingsley's sociopathic thug (a totally different role from Gandhi), but I didn't find anything appealing about the movie. Could someone please explain what that thing that looked like a monster was supposed to be? "},{"Title":"Uneven, but the performances make it.","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast was a lot different than I expected, but that's probably a good thing. I was expecting a standard British crime film with with great performances, but while I got the latter it definitely wasn't anything standard. The tone was very unique, but also all over the place. It would go from this '80s pop heist movie to a staged character drama to a quiet noir tone, it never really felt like it was comfortable in it's skin. A common occurrence with a first time director, trying to do too many things in one go. Some of this stuff worked, I dug any scene with the characters being still and interacting, but some of it really didn't; the supernatural element was so bizarre and unnecessary.Ultimately it's all about the performances though and they really leave a mark. Ray Winstone's character wasn't one I had much of an investment in, but I always love when people give that guy the opportunity to really dig into something. He's got so much talent and he's usually stuck in the background. Of course it's Ben Kingsley who steals the show with one of the most explosive, terrifying and intimidating performances I've seen in some time. He completely steals the movie and is the thing that resonated the most for me. A wild performance.Ian McShane is really under-appreciated here though, also quite intimidating but in a polar opposite way from Kingsley; a quiet menace. McShane does his best, but the film suffers a lot whenever Kingsley isn't on screen. That's the problem with a supporting performance that takes center stage; everything else pales in comparison. Also, for an 80-minute running time, it dragged a bit in the final act. "}{"Title":"An average British gangster tale","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sexy Beast is a very ordinary film and certainly doesn't rate among Ray Winstones better roles.Ben Kingsleys character plays a shouting, threatening, over the top bully boy full on psycho come to force Ray to return to England to take part in the robbery. Bens character delights in make his victims squirm as he makes certain to play heavily upon past extra marital relationships with the other guys wives. The plot is full of holes and there are definitely goofs yet somehow it does tend to draw you in as you watch it. Perhaps in many ways because it is so bad! The best role in the film is Ian McShane as the gang boss in England, Teddy Bass. Ian plays this guy to perfection and much better than anyone you'll see in most British gangster movies. Teddy is frightening but never threatening. You know he'll eliminate you as easily as clicking his fingers but you never know when or if. He sees through any stories Ray tries to tell him, chuckles in a sinister manner but never opening challenges the explanations. Teddy never shouts or talks about what he is going to do. On the one occasion he kills someone it is sudden and without any warning, emotion or explanation. Classically understated. "},{"Title":"Didn't get most of it...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  because the British accents are too thick.  About the only words I could understand was all the swear words, and there sure was a lot of them.  I am not sure why some people think Kingsley deserved an acting nomination.  To me, all he did was swear, mutter some unintelligible words,and walk around looking mean.  Even things about the plot made no sense. What did that boulder in the beginning have to do with anything?  And I never understood exactly what they did as the final robbery job. (SLIGHT SPOILERS)  Where did all that water come from they were gathering jewels in?  And there was that one scene thrown in just for gratuitous violence.FINAL VERDICT  Hard to understand if you are not used to hearing British accents.  Not a great story either.  Not really worth watching. "},{"Title":"For Those Who Find Implausibility a Turn On SPOILERS","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This type of Brit Noir was just coming into vogue when Sexy Beast came out; though I find it sort of a cross between The Hit and one of those dumb things by Madonna's ex husband. A clever touch here and there, but this is a woefully overrated film. I guess if you can understand how Spanish Airport security would be intimidated by an absolutely ridiculous claim of sexual molestation from an obvious lunatic, well, this is your movie. Not much else here is more credible than that, from the heist of the super villain of the impenetrable fortress which obviously lacks the most basic alarm system. Super ruthless, powerful bad guy shows up at your door in the middle of the night? Sure, let him in, he probably won't kill you. Kingsley's celebrated performance is fine but he's been better elsewhere. No fault can really be found with any of the cast. Often Noir is concerned with the desperate lives of the hopeless people who turn to crime. This is sort of an interesting wrinkle on that, though we are never really told just what Gal's hapless buddy did, and how such a person could have been much of a criminal in the first place. "},{"Title":"Not  very good","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is some weird movie and Ben Kingsley, all pumped up,very toned and slim, chest shaved bare and affecting some ludicrous accent, that, at times, most times, is unintelligible to discern, is the beast in this film, although, I would not say sexy. I could not get with it, into it, or stomach the massive, unending profanity. The movie was filled to overflowing with profanity. All about how a former, he says, retired, criminal is urged or made to participate in a robbery attempt...not a new plot by any means. What is new is the absolute ridiculousness of the Don Logan/Kingsley character. The man is clearly insane and filled with arrogance and self love. A lot of subdued gay subtexts here, but that is not the main take here. IIt was interesting and absorbing to watch, that I will say, but when it ended, I was glad. "},{"Title":"SEXY BEAST (Jonathan Glazer, 2000) **1/2","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite the accolades this one has received, I wasn't all that impressed with it for a gangster film, there's little action (though the underwater robbery was certainly a novel idea) - the rest is mere posturing (a common factor with modern British efforts in the genre...but I did like its injections of surrealism!) and endless talk (a lot of which is unintelligible anyway, due to the heavy accents and the overwhelming soundtrack)!! Performances are mannered - Oscar-nominated Ben Kingsley above all - making the characters insufferable rather than tough or scary! It's watchable, well enough made (i.e. not overdone - being former music-video director Glazer's debut feature) and mercifully short. "},{"Title":"Potential, but thats it.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film has strong acting, and directing, but the budget is too small. A lot of potential, and no money to utilize it.  The story is ok, but the film becomes theater drama instead of a film.  A few years later no one will know of this films existence.  5/10 "},{"Title":"I hated every single thing about this movie )","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just finished this truly terrible movie. I know that others love it, I get it, it's called having a different opinion. But I found this film inane, poorly paced, dull, idiotic, and didn't enjoy any of the performances - including Ben Kingsley's Oscar nominated performance. I found him totally dull and uninteresting. I love certain British crime movies so much Mike Hodges' Get Carter, The Long Good Friday, with amazing performances by Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, mostly because the ensemble was so incredible and distinct, and older British crime films such as Brighton Rock (1947 version), The Blue Lamp (1950), etc.One of my problems with this movie was the poor casting choices of truly dull uninteresting actresses. I have never seen them in any other movies and I have seen thousands of British movies over the years.I found myself annoyed but I did watch the whole movie. There are only a few movies I couldn't make it all the way through (In the Loop I just couldn't make it past the first boring 45 minutes of it). This was a complete and total waste of my time. And yes, I know, others really love this movie somehow... "},{"Title":"One of the most boring film this year (maybe ever)","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hardly ever saw a film that made it as hard for me to stay awake as Sexy Beast. The film is about a standard bank-robbery story, and thats about it concerning story. Are the characters supposed to be elaborately worked out? The characters are flat and stereotype as they could be. Talk about story Tell me again, if there are like 10 men robbing this bank and like 5 underwater cracking the walls, WHY DO THEY NEED THE GAL SO BADLY????? What exactly did he do??? The scenes of brutal violence that are unmotivatedly thrown in a couple of times were the only thing that kept me awake. All I can say, go with Tarrantino, Guy Richie and the likes, DON'T WATCH THIS BORING FILM!!! "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  To begin with, it needs subtitles as the music track overcomes the garbled, overly-done British accent.  Waiting the entire 75 minutes for a point to it all was a waste of time.  The only redeeming thing was seeing Ben Kingsley in an odd role but his role was short-lived.  The other redeeming thing was that I only wasted $3 to rent it as opposed to $6.50 each.  "},{"Title":"Pointless and overrated","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I dunno.  My friend and I thought this was pretty pointless.  It's basically a character study, which is usually fine by me.  The movie started in a pretty unappetizing manner, and characters were introduced, and the dreaded Don (Kingsley) was referred to again and again with great dread.  Fine.  In that vein, it goes on.  And on.  And on.  Finally Don arrives on the scene, and while he obviously could use an anger management course, it's not a true crisis.  So they argue and argue.  I'm assuming there's going to be quite a payoff, so I'm being patient.  About an hour in, I asked my buddy, Is this going anywhere?    Finally, events occur or are revealed, there's an okay twist at toward the very end, and that's basically it. Now, I give a great big damn about character and nuance, and am willing to jettison a certain amount of structure for the sake of getting to know the people better.  Some of my favorite films are Diner, A Woman Under The Influence, Nashville, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, What's Eating Gilbert Grape, and sex, lies and videotape.  So it's not that I find the genre anathema or anything.  Yes, Kingsley is very good, but that's really about all I can truly applaud.  Why this thing is so overrated is beyond me. "}{"Title":"From Gandhi to Sexy Beast? Nah, Don't think so.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think it is fair to say that in future I will look at Ben Kingsley quite differently.  I cannot recall ever seeing a worse piece of junk than this film.  Not funny.  Not Clever. And one wonders the mental state of the person who wrote this drivel.  Am I missing something here?  Is the new trend for the new millennium? Mean spirited artless crap?  Was this a terrible film or what?  Almost Inaudible, do to bad sound..o.k. probably my t.v. ....but the cockney accent was so thick you could have cut it with a knife, but hell after the first 15 minutes you didn't want to understand it anyway.  Who cared?  Ah yes and then there was my very favorite the required urinal scene .....replete with Ben doing it all over the floor.  Lord knows how clever and New and cutting edge that was.   It did teach me one thing, at least I will never complain about Dumb and Dumber again...that was a piece of junk also, but it at least did have some clever moments.  This film other than the Boulder in the Pool and the firearms falling to pieces was utter rubbish in every regard and not only was devoid of humor but was barely a two grinner.   It is this viewers opinion that when this becomes a rental...it should be rented along with Leaving Las Vegas  Fight Club and while drinking a gallon of cheap wine and popping whatever old medicine hanging around in the bathroom cabinet, flagellating ones self (or bring a friend) repeatedly,  This then would be a lovely evening for those that liked this film.  Well then, for me...this film truly takes the title Dumb and Dumber.  I cannot think of one redeeming thing about this film, Other than it ended eventually. That alone was it's best feature. "},{"Title":"I hated it.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the few films under 90 minutes that has almost nothing going for it. I didn't find it exciting, humorous, engaging, or even entertaining. It was just there. It is aggravating to me that this film exists. The opening sequence with the boulder is nice, I thought to myself, ah, I'm in for a nice surprise. But that was the end of it all for me. Indecipherable speaking, filled with profanities as far as the ear can hear, why? because Ben Kingsley was Ghandi so its so cleverly ironic? I don't know how this got made or why people watch it or like it. It's almost as bad as Scary Movie 2, but at least they had David Cross. "},{"Title":"spottily stylish, tediously homophobic","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Caution Spoilers---This film contains tacit homophobia the likes of which hasn't been seen since the heyday of seventies f-gbashing police procedurals. To begin with, Don Logan learns of the closeted Teddy Bass's bottoming for the upper class bank insider. Teddy Bass expresses little concern upon surmising Don's demise. Teddy himself ties up the other loose end, that of the bank insider. This leaves no one alive with knowledge of his predilections. Couple this plot thread with the manner in which Don Logan weasels away from airport security. The use of such imbedded, latent homophobia is lazy and reprehensible. One might argue that this is the context of these sort of men, but why not call the thing what it is?---instead one is treated to an eyeblink of Teddy on all fours...in the rain? Classy. "},{"Title":"Sub-titles might have helped","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The lower-class English accents in this movie are so thick 75% of the dialogue is completely lost.The plot is something that's been done a million times before. Why Ben Kingsley has so much power over Roy Winstone in this film is never explained, and after awhile you just don't care anymore. Visually, there is nothing interesting here except for the opening sequence. The non-linear style has been done to death in the past few years, and it just isn't interesting to watch anymore.There just isn't anything original here. This was one of the worst films I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Not As Good As They Say","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" To Say That Sexy Beast Is One Of The All Time 15 Best British Movies Ever Made Is Synonymous To Claiming That Martin Scorsese Is An Amateur Film-Maker. Cause I Personally Didn't Find Anything Unique, Exhilarating or Mind Blowing about This over-Rated Movie.Some Says It's A Thriller With A High Tech Heist Under Water. Yes...There's An Under-Water Heist. The Heist Is Of Poor Quality And It Doesn't Boost Of Any High Tech Gadgets, Fool-Proof Strategy, Great Escape Plan etc.The Film Is More About Character Development Of The Leads In Coping With New Unwanted But Unavoidable Development In Their Life. To Say That It's A Thriller Would Be Gross Injustice.Also, I Didn't Understand The Fuss About Sir Ben Kingsley Acting. Yes, It Was Good But Equally Good Was Of Ray Winstone As Was Rest Of The Cast. In Other Words, The Casting Seems Perfect.Overall, it's An Average Movie. No Need to Heighten Expectations Keeping the High Ratings in Mind. Watch It But Just Don't Expect A Great Movie As The Rating Says.My Verdict 6/10 "},{"Title":"What's so great about this film?","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Don Logan a notorious feared Gangster arrives in Spain, looking to include his friend Gary in a armed robbery, however Gary has no intention of going back to London...But Don Logan is not someone who takes 'No' for an answer.For years, this one movie kept coming up whenever there was a discussion on the genre of 'Gangster', it was described as by some the pinnacle of 'British Gangster' films, it was 'raw and moving', 'terrifying and stomach churning'....So, I decided to watch this and I have to say, I was disappointed. Now, I'm a person who enjoys drama's with well structured story lines and riveting dialogue, but this is not that...The Don Logan can be described as scary, but thats all the film has..And of course, Don Logan's demonic alter-ego.The film is slow paced and weak, especially considering the talent it holds, Ben Kingsely, Ray Winstone, Amanda Redman & Ian Mcshane. "},{"Title":"What are people smoking? I actually created an account just to complain for this one","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am 100% sure that all the good reviews for this movie come from Britain and if so, I feel bad for you people...this is without a doubt, one of THE worst movies I've ever seen in my life!After 35 minutes into it I had to turn it off because not only do you spend the entire time trying to figure out what the hell they're saying because of their thick British accents,but you keep wondering when the action is going to begin....Im still in shock how bad this was, please do not waste your time watching this mess because when you are lying on your death bed you will be cussing ben kingsley for stealing an hour and a half of your life "},{"Title":"Befuddled","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy Beast is a relatively short film about relatively little matter. I don't know what the title refers to, or what the film is about.Ben Kingsley is getting all the reviews for a performance that is nothing more than a laughable imitation of either a Robert DeNiro or Joe Pesci mobster. Maybe he is an out-take from Scary Movie 2.The rest of the performances are good enough for the old-fashioned, obvious story, cliche caper plot and predictable resolution of the genre. But not good enough to keep me from being bored and checking my watch frequently and impatiently during its 88 minute running time. "},{"Title":"Good idea","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a disappointment! Even Ray Winstone's solid performance couldn't save this film from being truly dreadful. The plot was totally predictable from start to finish and the acting of Ben Kinglsey and Ian McShane almost bizarre. The film wasn't lifelike enough to be a true gangster flick and lack of humour prevented it from being the black comedy/parody it was meant to be. Definitely one to miss! "},{"Title":"Stunningly awful","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a tiresome bore of a movie that goes nowhere, albeit with a lot of sound and fury aimed at nothing of value. The film reminds me of that Monty Python skit where they argue about whether they are arguing yes we are - no we're not - yes we are - no we aren't, etc. It's funny for a few seconds, but becomes moronic when drug out to over an hour You will rob this bank - no I won't - yes you will. If such a lame conflict is to power a motion picture, the ensuing conversation had better be imbued with wit, charm, style and/or tension -- all commodities sadly missing from this insipid mess. And after enduring such banality, the viewer had better be rewarded with some sort of finale that will, at the very least, amuse. Instead we get a big heist that is utterly ludicrous and not even particularly daring. And we also realize that the protagonist needed for this one last job is totally unnecessary, making everything that proceeds the climax totally irrelevant. The actors fall prey to the great fallacy of method If I screech loud enough, then I must be doing great acting! Their work is - to put it kindly - embarrassing, but at least they put forth an effort, which is more than can be said for the writer and director. The film's one and only asset is the provocative title, which is utterly wasted on film that uses it to mislead the viewer with false expectations. "}{"Title":"Maybe it's just me...","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I beg to disagree with almost everyone about this movie. There is absolutely nothing even remotely good about this film. ...On second thought, strike that. There is absolutely nothing even remotely good about this film, except the acting performance of Ben Kingsley. That stellar performance (he is really frightening and actually oozes psychopathy from all pores) is however not enough to redeem a movie that has no story, no script, no sensible dialog, nothing whatsoever to capture the viewers attention. The film simply doesn't make any sense, it is centered on nothing and isn't going anywhere.Probably another one of those 'artistic masterpieces' I am simply too stupid to understand. Too bad for me. "},{"Title":"I was robbed!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having spoken to a bunch of friends and read the reviews, I expected Sexy Beast to be awesome.  A sleeper hit!  No way!  This movie was terrible. Maybe it's that I'm not British or overly-artistic, but I thought Ben Kingsley's character was the only one that showed any life.  Kingsley did a great job playing someone you pray to be killed.  He's loud, annoying and incoherrent.  In fact, I couldn't understand 2/3 of the movie!  Maybe, again, it's because I'm not British, but I didn't find Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels any trouble to understand.  It's NOT fast-paced, the plot is extremely predictable, and the ending is a supreme let-down!  Don't get duped into seeing this.  Just because something's hard to understand or follow, doesn't mean it's good!PS... What the heck was the hairy, deformed, upright bunny rabbit-looking thing carrying the gun!!?? "},{"Title":"simplistic film-making at its worst","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I was expecting too much from this film. Then again, I doubt it.I can't believe others would compare it to Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels or Pulp Fiction or even the best film noir since Chinatown, L.A. Confidential.First of all, the music was way too loud. I have seen many movies in the theater in which I saw this one, so I know the mix was off.More over, the plot was easily one of the worst I have been audience to. I kept waiting for the movie to happen. When the credits rolled, I had to think of which part of the movie was supposed to be the climax.Furthermore, there's absolutely no character development. Not once did I relate to any of the characters or feel anything but contempt for them.This over-rated piece of tripe must be put in it's place. I encourage those of you who see it and dislike it to vote accordingly.  "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing good about this movie is that it is short. While people in real life may may talk in an incomprehensible manner, when they are portrayed on screen, there should be some effort to communicate to the audience. I missed the point completely, and why it is called Sexy Beast I will never know.  "},{"Title":"Beastly bore...","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't get the praise this film is getting. Overlooking the fact that this is a loud, obnoxious bore, it also doesn't make a bit of sense. Like the also vastly overrated The Score, the film features supposedly brilliant criminal masterminds who behave rather stupidly.SPOILERS. Gangster thug Kingsley goes to Spain to browbeat a retired crony into doing one last job. But he goes to see him three days before the actual heist, even though the robbery as been in the planning stages for four months. Why is this guy so vital to the plan? That isn't clear and becomes less clear when we see the robbery. He appears to be of no more importance than anyone else involved in the break in. Plus, the robbery makes no sense. Flooding the vault? Wouldn't that short out the security system and set off alarms? Wouldn't the water damage or destroy a lot of the valuables in the safety deposit boxes? And won't the gapping whole in the vault leading to the bathhouse lead the police directly to the people behind the robbery? Take away the ludicrous heist, a small part of the film anyway, all you have is Kingsley's overbearing attempt to become a Cockney Joe Pesci. And that is a mighty meager goal in itself. Kingsley's too good to waste his time - and ours - with such junk. "},{"Title":"#2 of the top three WORST films I've ever seen","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Do not ever go see or rent this movie.  I think movie critics are sometimes taken in by art films simply because they are art films.  The director's attempts at symbolism were ridiculous and incredibly heavy-handed.  When you see what one of my friends calls the gross, psycho bunny-man,  you will probably start laughing in the theater,  as I did.  The symbolic nature of the bunny-man is so obvious that it is an insult to my intelligence. Furthermore,  I had a very hard time understanding what everyone was saying,  and I have watched other British movies where the accents are similar.  Ben Kingsley does give a good performance,  but unfortunately I felt like I was the one who was being yelled at during the movie.  In addition,  there is one extremely violent scene that I found to be utterly repulsive.  I am usually not shocked by anything either,  but this was a bit excessive.  Don't waste your time going to see this--there are many other films of much higher quality out there. "},{"Title":"Hilarious?","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a bit of a let down and did not live up to myexpectations at all.The opening sequence, though one of the few truly funny scenesin the film, is awkwardly shot and cut, and a little less snappythan I expected from a film reviewed as a hilarious Britishcomedy.Is there humor is seeing Ghandi (Ben Kingsley) as a blue collarEnglish gangster that is, in my book, anything but intimidating? Why were these ex-patriots living the good life in Spain so worriedabout a short, sociopathic illiterate coming to visit?  I could tell thatman NO and get on with my life no questions asked.  I would notneed to sweat over it, and repeat myself a dozen times to get mypoint across.  Is this what British humor has been reduced to?The movie is poorly paced  and at times so slow I felt I was tryingto back up a car stuck in mud.  Then the film, like the mud boundcar, frees itself from only to surge forward in a sloppy manner. Maybe I just don't get it, but it is not a funny film. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film I have ever seen. In fact it is!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a blind watch as the cinema which i went ot see it had no posters advertising the film - I now know why! Until now I had never walked out of a movie before in my life - until I watched this one!My initial view was that it was slow moving and to give it a chance to recover. Although the acting was not particularly bad, unfortunately the directing and the story line was. The acting eventually deteriorated into a farce and the storyline did not improve.One of the key scenes and the only one to make me laugh was when the two main male characters and the pool boy go hunting in the desert. The pool boy attempts to kill a rabbit with a blunderbuss and knocks himself over backwards. The one but i found funny. One of the men then attempts to kill the rabbit only for his gun to fall apart.The theme of the rabbit recurs later as Gal is having a nightmare about Don Logan coming to ask him to do a job for him. This is totally farcical as he is dreaming of a flashback to when the 4 characters were sitting having dinner when the news that Don was coming and wanted Gal to do a job for him. the camrea pan's back to see Gal on his own in the desert at the table on his own eating. He is oblivious to the fact that he is alone dining at a table in the middle of the desert as a Rider on a horse approaches from the distance.As the rider slowly approaches you can make out that he is carrying a gun....as he gets closer you see that it is in fact a man with the human legs but a rabbit torso and head. Surreal is not the word. Even at this point the make-up of the actor playing the Rabbit is terrible.At this point my patience gave up and we left!If you do consider wanting to see this film wait till it comes on TV. It certainly is not worth the money to see it in the cinema. Even the picture and sound quality is badly reproduced. The most ironic thing about it is that is is by FilmFour whose motto is Life's too short for bad films.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Beast","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I had heard about this film a coupe of times, and seen one or two clips, so I had to at least try it. Obviously I recognised the opening sequence, where a boulder is rolling down the hill, and close to hitting the lead character. Anyway, basically Gary 'Gal' Dove (Ray Winstone) is the retired gangster living a happy life in the beautiful house and surrounding of Spain, with his wife Deedee (Amanda Redman). Soon this peacefulness is to be put on hold by the sudden arrival of respected mob name, and Gal's old friend Don 'Malky' Logan (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sir Ben Kingsley). He wants Gal to join him on a big strike in London with a well picked out gang of respected gangsters. Gal obviously keeps turning him down, and Don gets more and more threatening trying to persuade him, no isn't the answer he wants. Gal eventually accepts this final mission, but without Don, and in a few flashes back to Spain, you find out why he is trying to cover up the death of Don. Oh, the title by the way relates to some dreams Gal has of a hairy beast in a cave. Also starring Ian McShane as Teddy Bass, Cavan Kendall as Aitch, Julianne White as Jackie and James Fox as Harry. To be honest, Winstone was a bit quiet and not as aggressive or swearing (his use of the c word usually most common) as usual, the whole reason to see this film in my opinion is Kinglsey. It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film. Ray Winstone was number 32, and Sir Ben Kingsley number 16 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, the film was number 34 on The 50 Greatest British Films, and it was number 5 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die. Very good! "},{"Title":"Forgive me for saying it but This Movie Suck A$$..","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" if I was to describe this movie in 4 words then I would say THIS MOVIE SUCK ASS.******* CONTAIN MINOR SPOILOR ******* First of all I would like to start with saying I am a British, born & grew up in East London, so before anyone thinks I might had not understand the accent or see the movie from a Brit point of view then its total nonsense.This movie was nothing but a complete & utter rubbish except the you get to see a different act of Ben Kingsley (portrait as Don Logan a Essex Gangster with extreme Cockney Accent) People say in their comments Ben rocked in this movie & his performance was the absolute Oscar winner, I can't resist to roll my eyes & ask those people that has any of you actually heard someone speaking in British Cockney Accent for you to know that for a Oscar Winner Brit he really sucked in that role, indomitably his facial & physical reactions & dialogue delivery was nothing but perfect but he pushed it abit to off with his accent, although some of you may disagree but I am a huge fan of Ben Kingsley & I had really high hopes with him & Ray Winston together in a action flick & ended up with nothing but disappointment.With regards to the story line, this suppose to be some high end robbery which requires bunch of pro Cons team & & needed to be pulled off as it supposedly couldn't be done without high risk involve, which is the reason why Ben flies from Briton to Spain to convince or somewhat force Ray Winston (Gal) to do this job, when yet the heist itself turns out without the shadow of a doubt the most stupidest idea or robbing a secure vault of all time, which could have been done bunch of Contruction Workers or your local Builders, not to mention Ray was needed for his skills which were never used as he meant to be some greatest safecracker lol.PS~ I have never seen Ray playing a chicken role, despite he may have been out of business but no one should continuously smack you around & disrespect you & your wife & you just sit there act dazed, confused & scared.Thats my 2 cents anyways, just like a lot of people I absolutely hated this movie, it was slow, boring, confusing & most importantly ridiculous from start to the end.So unless you're a HUGE & I mean MASSIVE, British movie fan or simply was hate your favourite actors Ben or Ray then please watch this movie else avoid at all cost. "}{"Title":"another terrible British film","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Another prime example of why the British should not be allowed to make movies. This is absolutely dire stuff. If you enjoy ridiculously stylised cockney gangsters posturing around then this is for you. If, like me, you're tired of this stereotyped garbage then avoid at all costs. Any film which features Ray Winstone and Ian McShane - TV's 'Lovejoy'- is off to a bad start and this one gets worse as it goes along. It's astonishing how someone as talented as Ben Kingsly could be involved with a project like this. I suppose he got paid well. It's a shame that lock stock and 2 smoking barrels did so well, it's success is undoubtedly responsible for spawning this whole tired genre. "},{"Title":"Fascinating? Are the rest of you on mind bending drugs!?","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film was absolutely awful. Let me tell you why.The first 1/5 of the film is spent introducing the first four characters (two couples) - and this must have been on a tight budget, because they only used a couple of sets - one by the pool, the other in the restaurant.The acting was really poor - and the characters even less believable.Let me elaborate.... lets take Ray Winstone - what a poor choice of lead character. He neither comes across believable, nor does he have an ounce of menace about him - I mean let's be serious - is he your idea of a big time gangster in retirement? PLEASE...The problem with this film, is that it stars Ben Kingsley, who some people would give 10/10 even if the production was absolute rubbish.Towards the end of the first fifth of this film ,we have some more poor acting, when Aitch and Jackie approach the dinner table, seeming to come across as they've seen a ghost - trembling with fear because they've picked up a phone call from the brutal(not) Don Logan (Kingsley). The acting at this point is quite pitiful and overdone.When you see Ben Kingsley for the first time, you'd be forgiven for thinking he'd just starved himself for an upcoming role in Ghandi. I mean the man is scrawny, aged, and has no presence. His overacting showed no bounds where in the next 3/5's of the film, he kept pestering the lead character agree to a 'job'...Oh and the big surprise was, he had slept with Aitch's wife... woo hoo Big deal ! I can't be bothered to write anymore about this film, except to say that it was an anti climatic bore of an excuse for a director to put reel to camera and produce this junk.It just wasn't convincing and the storyline was pants.ps. and what's all that underwater drilling rubbish about...Oh god this is depressing - don't watch it, even on DVD or 19th re-run, unless you're a Kingsley fanboy.ALSO.. WHAT'S WITH THE BUNNY! Donnie Darko Ripoff. "},{"Title":"one of the most awful movies i've seen...","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think i'll not succeed in watching this film one more time... I don't even remember a scene in this movie that i've appreciated. no story, no interest, nothing. clearly nothing. One of the films that give you mistrust in professionnal movie critics... "},{"Title":"Not Kingsley's best, B-Movie","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the worst pile of trash I've had to sit down and watch in a long time.Ben Kingsley showed he can't play every side of the coin in playing this role.He's not made out for it.It was a total embarrassment to watch, mainly because it was Ben Kingsley that was trying to act in this role.I almost cried for him, it was such a wasteful, total run out the door embarrassment.I don't care what anyone says, this is trash as far as I'm concerned.I turned it off after 20 minutes!!! "},{"Title":"threw it away!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Piece of crap,waste of time. Don't listen to the emporer has new clothes crowd. I'm an avid fan of Indies and foreign films from a to z. I'm a radio-TV-film graduate from U.T. Austin,Texas(you know, where Rodriquez, Linklater and Tarantino work- whose films by-the-way make this movie look like the toilet paper it is.) I'm telling you, the only reason to keep this film around is to show people how NOT to make a movie. Do yourself a favor and see Lock,Stock and Two Smoking Barrels; Snatch; Pulp Fiction; Bottle Rocket and see how it's supposed to be done. Don't give me any of that crap about how I can't understand this movie. If you in fact are insane enough to like this movie, then go ahead and buy I'll Sleep when I'm Dead and keep yourself distracted instead of misleading more viewers. What a bunch of pretentious attention-whore losers! I hope you have to watch this p.o.s. for eternity- in hell! "}]