[{"Title":"How divided people are on this one","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most interesting aspects of this film is how divided people feel about it.  Most people either love it or hate it.  There is little in between.  I fall into the group that loved it.  Yes, it's true, Casper Van Dien is a little inconsistent.  When he's good, he is very good, but sometimes he is less than adequate. (He is more often good.)  Catherine Oxenberg is believable in a fairly standard role.  Michael Ironside gives a very nice performance in a difficult role; difficult because his role, Dominic, was not well conceived, but he overcomes this problem beautifully. The casting of Michael York was inspired.  His excellent performance as Stone Alexander is very suave, very powerful, very weird.  I must also mention Jan Tríska and Gregory Wagrowski as the prophets.  Their performances are very subtle and most convincing. Overall, well written, the script and story were well executed.  I did have a problem with a couple of unnecessary scenes.  There were several lines of dialog that were not believably written, but for the most part the script was sound.  One piece of advice - go see this movie with an open mind. This isn't a perfect movie, and if you accept that, you should enjoy it immensely. "},{"Title":"A Decent Apocalyptic Film (For once)","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is undeniably flawed, but it does contain an intriguing premise and story line. The idea that someone would use the Bible Code to try and conquer the world is an idea that has not been utilized before, at least to my knowledge.The characters definitely could have used some refinement, as they never really are fully developed during the movie. The acting, although not academy award material, was tolerable and did not detract from the story.Overall, this is an interesting film that has good special effects, especially considering the budget it used. Although it has little competition-considering some of the terrible Apocalyptic movies that audiences have been exposed to-this is one of the better end times movies.     "},{"Title":"highly recommended (with a catch)","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"42 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I would highly recommend seeing this movie. After viewing it, you will be able to walk out of every other bad movie EVER saying at least it wasn't The Omega Code.Forget my money, I want my TIME back!  "},{"Title":"Televangelist's wet dream","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Unlike other 'bad movies' like Battlefield Earth or Plan 9 from Outer Space, this mindless piece of propaganda disguised as a film fails to entertain. It's clearly a ham handed attempt to ram an apocalyptic televangelist philosophy down your throat. And you would expect nothing else when you learn it is produced by Matthew Crouch, son of Paul Crouch who is one of the countries leading televangelists and founder of TBN. The  plot is lifted directly from the popular Bible Code series of books by Michael Drosnin, although it is dumbed down substantially for the film.Unfortunately, this film lacks the wacky charm and unintentional humor of the Crouch's TBN TV productions such as Praise the Lord.I never expected much from soap actors like Casper Van Dien and Catherine Oxenberg but it is truly sad to see how far Michael York and Michael Ironside have fallen, that they need to appear in mediocre movies such as this. "},{"Title":"Entertaining thriller","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is much better than the severest critics give it credit for. It is not great, but if you allow yourself to ignore the Christian Right agenda, it is a rather entertaining tale. Films have a long tradition of exploiting biblical phenomena, and people have been entertained by such stories for years. The Exorcist, The Omen, and Raiders of the Lost Ark come to mind. Even the use of a crucifix to scare off vampires is well established. I think too many people are hung up by the fact that this film was intended to support a specific agenda -- the Fundamentalist interpretation of biblical prophesy. Casper Van Dien shows occasional glimpses of knowing how to act -- a refreshing change from his previous efforts. The rest of the cast does a decent job for this type of film. Taken as a high tech suspense-thriller it is quite a fascinating yarn. To me, those who rate this movie below 4 or above 8 are simply not being objective. It probably should be an average of 6.  "},{"Title":"Best Christian Movie in decades","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was a good movie. The pace was fast, and rarely did it lag. Michael York was splendidly evil as was Michael Ironside. The lighting was superb, and it was good to see a movie that could contain violence without feeling as if they had to rub my nose in the blood and gore. The most amazing part of this movie was that it was made for $7M. I only wish they would have spent $8-9M so they could have given Cassandra more depth, and perhaps spent more time working on a little more plausible dialog between Gillen and his wife. The wife's lines were the most disappointing part of this film for me.I was left with some questions from a Biblical standpoint, but really, it's just a movie, and doesn't claim to be Revelation on film. "},{"Title":"Great production values, if not perfect story/acting","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a great fan of the Left Behind series of novels, I found this film to be a great beginning for films with a prophetic backdrop.  It is filled with high production values - good camera work and special effects - comparable to what Hollywood studios have to offer.  It's not a perfect film.  The script and talent can fail so that some of the key moments the producers would like us to fully appreciate don't quite make it for a cynical audience, but that can all be corrected on the next venture.  I hope the box office supports their first attempt in this marketplace so that they will produce more -- and I hope I'll get a chance to work on the next one with them.  So see it.  Buy tickets.  Send your friends. thanks, "},{"Title":"Disappointing to say the least","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Yes I did see The Omega Code, knowing full well that it was probably going to be disappointing, but I was hoping that my preconceived ideas about it would be wrong...they weren't. I am a Christian and I have always thought that if a real Hollywood type movie could be made about the end times, then it would be very entertaining and very frightening, even if you don't believe the Bible. I still have that belief, but this definitely wasn't the movie that will entertain and frighten people, on the contrary it will make people confused and probably laugh a lot. I know it wasn't a Hollywood movie, but it did cost about 7 million dollars to make, and that is low budget, but I have seen movies that cost less, and were much better. This one had sub par acting, a horrible musical score that sounded like it was done entirely on a keyboard, and a script that seemed like it was done by people who have had little experience with screen writing. It was extremely confusing to me, and I have some knowledge of Revelation and Daniel, so I can imagine how confusing it would be to someone who has little or no experience with those books at all. Obviously too much of the budget was spent on the effects (and they weren't that great), and not on getting good screen writers and good actors. Overall, very disappointing. "},{"Title":"An interesting film, but eerie to watch","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If I gauge this film on the story, without accounting for the religious implications, I'd rate it a 7/10.  It's a decent film, but the ending is a bit unexplained to me.  I'm a little surprised it has earned such a low rating, but I imagine it could be considered offensive to some people.I'm not a religious person, but I don't think the antichrist would be so blatant with his identity.  I can't imagine people in the world not rising up to stop such an evil force, much less that many people siding with him.  That is, if they know who/what he is.  I fault this movie on the religious side for that, because the antichrist would come like a sheep in wolves clothes, or so I would think.Still, an interesting concept that seems somewhat based in truth. "},{"Title":"True to the texts from which it was taken, thrilling, but lacking in some aspects...","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie impressive.  It remained true to the book of Revelations and true to human behavior.  I was, however, disappointed in some of the special effects, and the methods used to depict the story.  I expected to see explosive, earth shattering depictions of the tragedies that the bible describes in the rise and fall of the anti-christ.  Instead the majority of what we see is the inner turmoil surrounding Casper Van Dien's character, and not the turmoil the entire world is supposedly going through. I feel the production team did not adequately convey the chaos and tragedies that were supposedly enveloping the entire world. If that was more clearly depicted the audience would have attained the feelings of horror at the events unfolding, which was necessary to the audiences' rallying of support against the anti-christ, and his exploits, and the support of Van Dien's character. All things considered, with the tremendous volume of information from Revelations, the story was still conveyed honestly, well acted, and thrilling. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie has been referred to as a Bond film without the sex and gratuitous violence.I agree with this and more!! Usually Christian films are mediocre but not the case with The Omega Code;especially when you consider the budget they worked with.Another good thing is in the end God wins and the movie ends with hope rather than despair. "},{"Title":"One of the best supernatural thrillers ever","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For almost no promotion and a relatively small budget, this was an extremely pleasant surprise.  The story had enough intelligence to hold the attention of adults, and yet it did not disappoint my teenagers.This film offers people from a variety of world-views an up-dated glimpse into the prophecies of the Torah, Revelation, and the writings of Nostradamus.  If you enjoy movies about prophecy, end-times, or the supernatural in general, you will love this film.This movie just happens to be based on a true story.  "},{"Title":"Best low budjet film I've seen","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Can't believe the production value of this film. While I'm had to impress, a rating of 7 would be like many, giving it a 10. My hope is that this film will encourage others and Hollywood to produce more films like this one!!! "},{"Title":"WWF of Religion","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.It is not unusual for us to be presented with incredibly dumb films, and it is not unusual for them to use the devil (or some surrogate) in some cosmic battle. Carpenter's stuff, Barker's stuff always find an audience. And this movie is about as good as they are, which is to say a 2 on a scale of ten.What makes this film truly remarkable is that it was made not as a mere opportunity to skim money from the trailer park crowd. Instead, this film is deeply self-referential The filmmakers themselves are engaged in a battle with the devil and the film is a salvo in that war, the same war depicted in the film.Part of the shock is that virtually no film today takes itself seriously in every respect, and on that basis alone this film demands that we apply a more rigorous scale. Just on that, this film needs to be slapped hard -- being just ordinarily bad is amplified when you claim the work comes from God.But add to that the difficulty of the `truth' that the film relies on. It relies on a notion of fate, and on a use of the Bible which is radically unbiblical, instead subconsiously invented to attract and bind committed members. This specific notion of apocalypse has predicted the end of times within a generation for the last 120 generations!And on top of that, some numeric monkey business with the text of scripture is employed, which is fine enough for fiction. But the film and the books behind it tie this to Kabbalah. I know something about Kabbalah and can report this is absolutely incorrect. Kabbalah is supposed to be the true word of God, a mystical oral tradition because what was  given to Moses could only be imperfectly and ambiguously translated into the written work. In other words, the secrets of Kabbalah are unbiblical by definition.If you wish to see an intelligent film based on study of Kabbalah, directed by a first class director, with more competent acting, check out `The Ninth Gate.' It takes some work in viewing. I live down the road from Pat Robertson's Christian film university/broadcasting center/law school. They have billions of dollars behind thousands of students that are working toward films such as `Code.' What happens when they produce stuff that is not so obviously vapid? "},{"Title":"Long Overdue! A breathe of fresh air for Christians and Non-Christians alike!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hollywood has long forgotten how to make a movie that can be exciting, thought provoking and interesting without foul language or extreme gore. Hopefully Omega Code has lifted many eyebrows, and given Hollywood a wake up call that a movie can be good without being vulgar.I have seen a few reviews bashing this film, but the sites that list the negative reviews never reference the positive reviews like the ones from CNN, USA Today, The New York Times or Time. Why? Is it because they can not fathom that a quality film could be made on a $7.2 million budget from a young company? Is is because they could not handle the idea that maybe Bible prophesy could be true? Who knows.My son, a 13 yr old big fan of guts and gore, thought this was a good movie even without the graphic violence evident in many of today's films, and he is not an easy sell. It also made sense to his intellect & sparked a good discussion of prophesy and what the future holds for him, something teens rarely like to consider.Lastly the numbers can't be wrong. Grossing $7,745 per screen average the first week it opened, the highest of all the Top 10 movies that weekend, it has still managed to garner over $3,000 per screen average now 5 weeks after release. Most big movies average $2,000 per screen. If it was all that bad, the numbers would not have held up!If extreme violence, sex & potty mouth is your idea of entertainment, then you probably ought to skip this film; If you are looking for a exciting drama that will give you food for thought, Omega Code should be on your 'next to see' list.  "},{"Title":"Exciting film with nothing objectionable","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want intrigue with action and elements of just plain fun, then the Omega Code is your movie.  The Atlanta Constitution-Journal said that it was a James Bond film without any of the immoral parts.  Those who are heavy into religion will probably hate it and strongly object.  Those who want a good time, a great show, and something that could be life-changing should go see it.  It will make you think and could wake you up from the drugged slumber in which so much of television and film can keep you these days. It is the only film I have ever had the privilege of seeing that left me absolutely numb.  Great acting--characters with whom you can identify--highly involved, detailed plot with a beautiful mixture of the expected and unexpected--filmed on location.  You get more than what you pay for in ticket price--it truly is a film of the new millennium. Those who have issues with it probably do not understand the purposes of the movie and the subject matter with which it wrestles.  It is only a movie yet there is that unearthly tension that it is so much more.  It is supernatural/natural, ordinary/extraordinary, fact/fiction.  The bottom line is it is an out-of-this world piece of cinematography. "},{"Title":"Slow at first but builds with intensity and suspense","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code was a little slow in the beginning. This movie picks up very quickly though and then keeps you on the edge of your seat. The special effects were great! I thought the ending was spectacular. The things that happen you just don't expect until they are there. Well worth watching. Superb ending.  "},{"Title":"He is a God of Violence!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the more bizarre films I have run across in awhile.  The ideas are great and some of the technical  details are awesome but it suffers from TV movie qualitycharacter development and interaction. What's more, they seem to be trying to take a religiousstance but it ends up proving that god is very violent andwill put a cap in dat ass without even thinking twice. The movie is more of a thought provoking comedy than  anything else. I thought the destruction of the Dome of the Rock tooksome balls and I doubt if anyone has ever attempted someof these things in any other movie. I give it a 6 out of 10 for being funny, having a cool premiseand ideas, employing some unorthodox action elements  and having Michael York as it's star (who is good in this bythe way). "},{"Title":"Very correct and good","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought this movie expecting it to be some corny and cheesy rendition of what might happen in the last days but upon viewing, I was surprised to find that it was very accurate.The story line and plot were really well thought out and planned and the acting was superb. "},{"Title":"A Must See!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code is a must see! Action packed thriller. Kept me on the edge of my seat. No one left the theatre for popcorn or even a restroom break. I was amazed at how the story just pulled you right in and left you waiting for more. There was applause several times during the movie by fellow movie-goers. Don't look at it as just another religious film. It does follow the Bible pretty true to form. I don't know whether there is a so-called Bible Code but it is just a movie. I would highly recommend it! "}{"Title":"Condenses Way Too Much Material at the End","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie starts off with a Jewish scholar by the name of Rabbi Rostenberg (Yehuda Efroni) completing research on a Biblical code which can unlock secret messages of prophetic importance from within the Bible. Because of the significant advantages to be gained from its possession, evil forces want his work and send a hit man named Dominic (Michael Ironside) to kill him and acquire it. They succeed in killing him and they get most of the code. But not all. When the news of Rabbi Rostenberg's murder leaks out a popular motivational speaker named Gillen Lane (Casper Van Dien) is called upon by television reporter Cassandra Barashe (Catherine Oxenberg) to explain to her audience the importance of this Bible code. Not long afterward the man recently appointed as the Chairman of the European Union, Stone Alexander (Michael York) calls upon Gillen Lane to be his public relations spokesman as he launches an effort to consolidate the world under his leadership. Anyway, rather than disclose the entire plot and ruin the mystery for those who haven't seen this movie I will just say that while this film is entertaining the story itself is mishandled a bit. The main cause of this is the fact that it spends a great deal of time on setting up the story but condenses way too much material at the end. As a result the ending leaves much to be desired. Still, both Michael Ironside and Michael York, along with Catherine Oxenberg to a lesser degree, performed in a reasonably good manner and their performances make the film watchable. However, I cannot say the same for Casper Van Dien as he just didn't have the presence required to be a lead actor. In any case, this isn't a bad Christian film and I think it deserves an average rating. "},{"Title":"Another end times movie","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How well I remember back in 1999 when the Crouch family went into the movie producing business with this end times film, The Omega Code. End times films are a regular cottage industry among the evangelicals and the beauty is that it can be interpreted so many ways that those who want to make these films will have yet another interpretation of scripture.Usually they're not very good and this one is no exception. But with a network at your command The Omega Code was promoted like only a Disney film would be. Paul Crouch and his wife Jan who looks like a Christian version of Mae West put their son Matthew in charge and he directed this film. I suspect that players like Casper Van Dien, Michael York, Catherine Oxenburg and Michael Ironside probably directed themselves. Each made very sure there presence was known often clashing with the others. No one was piloting this ship.And of all things scandal befell this Christian movie as Casper and Catherine found love while married to others. A dime store version of Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor. Not the kind of publicity you want with the fundamentalist audience you are trying to reach.Scandal did not hurt Casper Van Dien's career, but I suspect association with this product did with mainstream audiences. He had done so well playing Tarzan and with Starship Troopers. Here he plays a charismatic motivational speaker along the lines that Tom Cruise did in Magnolia. He gets a call from international media magnate Michael York to work for him as a kind of press spokesman. That arouses some jealousy in Michael Ironside who plays a Satanic hit-man. As for York he's getting the ultimate kind of help for the ultimate kind of ambition.Those who are fundamentalists will not be deterred from seeing The Omega Code. It's better than some Christian films, not as good as others. "},{"Title":"Fairly interesting movie about world dictatorship!","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Some despise this movie only because it offers a dramatic interpretation of the Bible's view of end times...but I think the movie is moderately entertaining for most persons--Christian or not...and is suitable for grade school and above kids as an action film.Why indeed do people give themselves to dictators? And the dictator's rule over their whole lives? Whether or not you are a believer, it behooves you to reflect on the nature of Dictators and Deception. And enjoy the drama while you are at it!This film hints at some reasons people swoon like teens at a rock concert...for the latest Dynamic Leader!!!...The ever charming Michael York (an A list actor by any standard) plays Mr. Stone Alexander. Alexander gets great world press for his charity and humanitarian work (he invents some great products to help feed many). He can shmooze with the best in European and world society...as we see in an early scene. And soon - world leaders from different nations will offer the great benefactor and supposedly great peacemaker Alexander Stone...the world chairmanship.Stone's romancing the World...is seen through the eyes of his early adviser on peacemaking...the Pop Psychologist & TV Feelgood Guy Dr. Gillen Lane. Nice Guy Stone's Good Guy Mask will come off...and he will betray people right and left!Gillen can wow the TV crowds...he can even charm Stone into hiring him as peace adviser, but Gillen's own wife sees through Gillen and thus is estranged from him. ...The plot is a bit overcomplex...but here's a basic scorecard. Only Gillen's estranged wife, his young daughter, and the two rabbis in black are...who they seem to be. Others wear some kind of mask...And perhaps...you will recognize the pitfalls of Idolizing some Human Leader...instead of the True God! "},{"Title":"The *other* Let's Kick the AntiChrist's Butt movie for the season","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hollywood's doing it again. In 1996, it was The Arrival and Independence Day. In 1997, it was Dante's Peak and Volcano. In 1998, Armageddon and Deep Impact. (Not to mention Thin Red Line and Saving Private Ryan, Antz and A Bug's Life). In 1999, House on Haunted Hill and The Haunting, and now, two more films with similar themes have been released back to back End of Days and The Omega Code.Actually, this is a small, independent film, written and constructed by TBN broadcasting. I must admit, it is nice to see a good, clean film about pretty interesting topics. The premise was exciting (and chillingly subtle) and the actors are effective, on an independent-movie scale. Michael York turns in a top-notch performance as the AntiChrist, attempting to use hidden codes from the Bible to take over the world. The hero, Casper Van Dien, is flooded with doubts about faith, and is aided only by two supernatural prophets as he battles the Antichrist, demons, and deadly visions in an attempt to take him out.Though the first part is total cheese (miserably cliched and poorly acted), once Van Dien gets enrolled as the Antichrist's assistant, the film picks up, and what's left is a nice supernatural horror/thriller.Though one question remains The film takes place over a series of years....Why does everyone keep the same haircut?Oh well.... I'll let it slip. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Heart Stopping Action like you've never seen before....","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Whether you're a believer in the Bible or not, you will love this film.  No cursing, no sex and all thrill.  Seems impossible in today's world?? Check it out and see for yourself.  Michael York is riviting, you'll want to slap Catherine Oxenburg and you'll end up rooting for Casper.  You will leave this movie with more insight, and I promise you will want to go back! "},{"Title":"The best movie of the year!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The best movie of the year! The collaboration of the Bible Code with Scripture and end times politics are outstanding. Truly the making of this movie will show Hollywood that Christians will go and see these movies. Go see it and you will be amazed at the awesome power of The Omega Code... "},{"Title":"A must see!  Good family entertainment, exciting, and relevant.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I took seven teenagers, including one of my own, to see this movie.  It was the first time in years that I felt comfortable in doing this.  It is a great story, action-pact, and suitable for almost any one.  The acting is great.  I did think that it started off a little slow, but when it picked up, you could see that it had just been laying a lot of ground work. Thought provoking.  Highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Nobody make a move","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was so gripping, that no one wanted to talk, whisper, leave for popcorn or the restroom! The only sounds you heard from the audience were the sounds of cheers, during some very exhilarating moments! I was captivated from beginning to end and was surprised when I heard my own quiet demeanor letting out sounds of exhilaration through many of the scenes.Im going back!!This is one movie I've got to see again!! "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE!! Thrilling, Entertaining & Thought Provoking","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code can be compared to any top box office action/thriller movie. Excellent story line. Entertaining and Thought Provoking. Completly accurate according to the Bible.I intend to see it again and will buy the Video when it comes out.This is a MUST SEE movie!!!  "},{"Title":"My enjoyment was great and my expectation matched.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a tremendous work presenting a new kind of Biblical thriller.  It kept me on the edge of my seat and when it ended left me longing for more. Special effects are well placed and well done enhancing key moments. Momentum builds as the stage is set for a millenial ride of a lifetime. Highly recommended whether you believe implied content or not - entertainment value surpasses any reason not to see the film. "}{"Title":"Not Only The Worst Movie Ever Created...","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"30 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is the worst thing ever created period. If this were the days of the Old Testament, God would smite everyone who had anyhting to do witht his movie and ten plagues would descend upon the studio that made it. Not only is it a poor piece of directing, writing, and filmaking altogther, it goes on to frsutrate the viewer with promises of an interesting story, leaving you unable to walk out of the movie, in hopes that at the end it will all come together to make sense. Heads up guys It doesn't.Do not see this movie. If you are ever forced to at gunpoint, take your chances, if you live the bullet will be far less painful than watching this piece of garbage. If you die, you can die never having seen the Omega Code, a feat I only wish I will be able to claim on my death bed.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Some bits in the movie were tense but it fails to keep the flow. It almost feels like a cheap TV series pasted together to make a movie. I can't remember 1 good movie with Michael York in it, should have paid attention to that fact. It feels like a low budget production. Casper Van Dien becomes likable after all but unfortunately makes it difficult at the beginning with copious overacting.Towards the end of it I asked myself if this could possibly be the worst movie ever made, and that says a lot, I am usually pretty open-minded and forgiving.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Better luck next time...","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I came to the film Omega Code with no predetermined opinion of it being good, despite being a Christian.  Over several months before it's release on video, I had heard so much tripe about how I was supposed to support this movie and like it just because it was a Christian movie and it was supposedly supposed to save the world.  However, I am also a movie buff, and I rate movies on their ability to entertain me rather than by some message that I am told that I should like.  Going into the movie, I was hoping that it would be enjoyable, but I hadn't already made up my mind that it would be, as I can see many of the reviewers on this page are.  Overall, the film disappointed me.First, I would like to comment what I liked.  The best part of the film for me was Michael York as the Anti-Christ.  Of all the films I have seen that feature this infamous villian, I found Michael York to have one of the most fun and over the top performances to date.  Michael Ironside also did a good job with his performance as the henchman.Despite these fine villians, the rest of the movie left me feeling like I was cheated.  First of all, there is Casper Van Dien, who I enjoyed in Starship Troopers, who's character was so wooden that I couldn't believe my eyes.  When he was first introduced in the film, I thought it was a joke, but his character stayed the same for the whole movie!  Just because he started to believe in God at the end of the movie doesn't excuse the poor writing and lack of motivations.  Next, the plot is so far changed from the Book of Revelations that it is supposedly representing.  Then there is the idea of the Bible Code itself.  How can we take seriously a Code of predicting the future that only has stuff from the presant and future, but not of our past.  It is sloppy and irresponsible writing to think that just because a few hundred years ago is past to us it wouldn't be future to the people alive at the time of Jesus.Overall, I am glad that they are trying to get more Christian films made, but competent directing and writing and excellent acting (as Ironside and York potrayed) is the key to making an excellent film.  It doesn't matter if it doesn't have sex or swearing if the film is so mediocre that you would rather watch an average R rated film for a more entertaining time.Better luck next time, guys... "},{"Title":"God... save me from your followers...","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  That's what one little sticker said.  And after seeing about 30 minutes of this turkey - and reading the reviews from almost every source - I couldn't help but agree.  Evidently made by fundamentalist Christians who believe the world is coming to an end for fundamentalist Christians who believe the world is coming to an end, this film manages to do the impossible take manipulation and escalate it to almost unheard of levels.In short, I've never been seduced by predeterminism theories, and I doubt that I ever will, especially after seeing this.  "},{"Title":"No profanity and no spoilers","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went because I had a pass. Wouldn't spend the money. Still wouldn't spend the money. If one hasn't read the Bible one will be totally confused and bored. Good attempt at special effects but lacking understanding in story line. All in all a TBNish idea of a movie thriller and not one to reach the unchurched which is what I thought their agenda was. Go back and try again. Go rent The Omen for quality conception. "},{"Title":"I liked Omega Code 2 Better, but this one is Worth Watching","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If its religious base; I usually like it. I bought this one because I liked Casper Van Dien (who starred in Starship Troopers) and Michael York (stars in Omega Code 2). We, Christians encourage one another, so thumbs up on this movie and WELL DONE! Be sure to see the sequel Omega Code 2 (much better movie).A Note to the Movie Producers I also want the women to dress modestly, with decency and propriety, adorning themselves, not with elaborate hairstyles or gold or pearls or expensive clothes. 1 Timothy 29 I agree with the Lord that women should dress decent and the state or quality of complying with morals. That means, no low-cut blouses. Maybe women can wear under-clothing underneath their blouses. After all, not all of us have self-control. There are millions of poor souls out in the world that fall and do harm to others because of the way that women dress in movies today. "},{"Title":"Semi-Entertaining Psuedo-Religious Yarn","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Good acting by Michael York---but that's all.  Rather unoriginal story about a rise of an anti-christ, just in time for the new millenium (It reminded me of The Omen 2, or was it Omen 3-???).Incredibly hyped-up movie (by the Christian Network, if you can believe it!), true Christians will find this movie, at the most, silly---Evangelists---darn right sacraligious!  I expected a great apopcalyptic movie like Strange Days, but instead, got just a half-way decent flick Michael York could berely save from being a total failure. "},{"Title":"Great acting, good special effects, but scriptually wrong.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a born-again, evangelical, fundamentalist christian, I was eager to see this movie.  I'm very much into eschatology, (the study of Bible prophecy). After viewing this movie, I left the theater greatly disappointed.  The acting was first class.  Mr. Ironside, in particular, did a superb job! The special effects were good, with the exception of the nuclear detonation, which in reality, is nothing like what was depicted.  The BIG disappointment was a failure to portray, or at least allude to THE RAPTURE.  The film also erred in depicting the death of the Antichrist as occurring halfway through the 7 year tribulation period, when the Bible clearly indicates that his demise is at the end of this period.  If you want to see a movie which accurately depicts the upcoming tribulation, I recommend YEARS OF THE BEAST, (1982), with Gary Bayer, Jerry Houser, Sarah Rush, & Alana Rader. This movie has crummy special effects, but the acting is first class! Keep watching the Eastern Sky!  "},{"Title":"Great message but could've had more Bible-Code explanation.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Haven't been to the movies in years. Can't wait to take the kids! Great movie with a superb message. On the critical side I think they could have expounded on the Bible Code itself a little more which is a VERY intriguing and awesome discovery. "},{"Title":"oh god","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie was just a complete waste of movie-producing resources.  the acting was horrendous, the writing was bad, and if that isnt enough, those special effects was laughable.  at times the entire theatre was laughing uncontrollably at the dialog.  well, thats enough time wasted on that. "}{"Title":"Someone gave the go ahead for this movie?","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If the producers had intended to make a comedy, they succeeded. The over the top acting and predictable plot had us laughing as the movie went on. We thought Casper Van Dien's acting in Starship Troopers was campy. "},{"Title":"Resist any temptation you may have to see this movie","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My Grandmother was visiting and my parents wanted to take her and me out to see a movie.  Just about every movie out was wildly inappropriate for her (horror movies and such).  Absolutely custom-made was David Lynch's The Straight Story, but agonizingly, it was only playing in Los Angeles county -- too far to drive.  Therefore, The Omega Code was basically our only choice.We should have stayed home and rented a video.  This was by far one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I've never walked out of a movie in my life, but if I hadn't been there with my family, I *certainly* would have walked out of this one.Had I known this film was produced by the Trinity Broadcasting Network, I would have strongly resisted going.  Not that I'm anti-Christian (though I am generally anti-televangelist), but perhaps I can explain how bad this movie was by way of analogy.TBN's headquarters are in my home town of Costa Mesa.  They are... well, *painfully* visible off of the 405 freeway.  The theme of the building and grounds is some unholy, Frankensteinian hodge-podge of Roman, Greek, Biblical, and American Colonial architecture. Their photos on their website fail to show the ultra-tacky bright white Christmas-type light strings that line the building year-round, and the unaesthetically-scattered statues that dot the lawn, but you may understand what I mean when I say that The Omega Code is the cinematic equivalent of TBN's HQ.As of this writing, there are 123 comments on this movie already, so I don't need to go into great detail on what makes it so bad, but I'll cover a few highlights.  First off, the score may be the worst I've ever heard. Unimaginably schmaltzy.  A horrid example of a sample-playback-synthesizer-pretends-to-be-an-orchestra score.Now let me tackle suspension of disbelief.  Events and developments that would be astounding in real life, like the formation of a World Union, are nervously rushed through with as little fanfare and human reaction as possible, in some misguided attempt to force them down our throats and make us believe them.  They present things like the oceans turning to blood with matter-of-fact TV newscasts.  I thought the way these newscasts drained all the inherent wonder out of the subject material was a good metaphor for what the movie did as a whole to its subject matter.I could go on and on, but additionally I'll just say that the nuclear holocaust of holiness CGI from the end of the film was lifted straight from 1982's Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan.  Also, I can't recall another movie I did as much groaning, sighing, head-shaking, and chuckling at inappropriate times on as this one.It would have been infinitely more interesting and satisfying to watch a film consisting of nothing but author Jeffrey Satinover sitting on a stool and reading from his book (on the same topic) Cracking The Bible Code for two hours.  "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie started promptly at 715PM.  At MIDNIGHT, I looked at my watch and realized to my horror that it was only 745!  The story line was so hard to follow, I found myself exhausted from trying to connect the fragmented pieces.  This film was touted as a Biblical story, but was not accurate at all.  On top of that, the acting was poor and forced at best.  I'm sorry I didn't walk out of the movie and ask for my money back.  "},{"Title":"The decades most awful film","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just occasionally you have the profound experience of knowing that you are watching a truly ghastly, awful film.  Treat yourself to it see this film. Every film thereafter will seem fantastic. It is so awful that you can't even laugh at it; afterwards you have this strange feeling of near hysteria. `B' grade? No. `C' grade? No. I don't think there is a letter in the alphabet low enough.  "},{"Title":"whew, this was a bad one","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was badly acted, badly written, and it was incredible that I actually watched as much of it as I did.  If you're looking for a biblical drama rent Ben Hur, this thing isn't worth your time.  What bothers me even more than the poor quality of the film is the paranoid, conspiracy theory, anti one world government, the apocalypse is upon us so repent now and accept Jesus plotline.  I'm willing to bet this movie recieved substantial financial backing from Christian fundamentalist groups. "},{"Title":"Apocalyptic nonsense","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If this film represents evangelicalism's best interpretation to the book of Revelation (and for the most part it does), is it any wonder that most educated, critically thinking people avoid Christianity?  Based on a childish, literal reading of the Apocalypse of John (they should have given him a screenwriting credit), this film throws in equal measures of Bible Code and hack writer Hal Lindsay to create an unintentionally laughable story about the end of the world.Shame on the evangelical church, which claims that the Bible is the inspired, authoritative word of God, to give even an ounce of credence to the ridiculous Bible code theory that asserts a deeper meaning to the scriptures, a closer relationship to God, and the ability to predict who will win the World Series await those who can crack its code.  A much better thriller is the independent feature Pi with its story of a mathematician who theorizes that the mysteries of the universe can be unlocked and comprehended in light of mathematics.  He is pursued by both Wall Street, who thinks he can predict the market, and a crazed Hasidic sect who thinks he unlock the secrets of the Torah.Avoid the Omega Code like an Old Testament plague.  "},{"Title":"This movie sucked.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is, without a doubt, one of the worst films I have ever seen.  The premise had a lot of potential, but the script failed.  The special effects were very lacking, especially considering the technology available for such a story line.  Michael York, however, was terrific as a good guy turned villain.   "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't believe people who make films like this are given funds to produce garbage, when there are plenty of starving LEGIT artists who have trouble shooting on video. You'd think that they could spend some of that $8 Mil on a new screenwriter, and not spend it on hammy actors and sad special fx. I have seen high school films a hundred times more powerful than this, with a story. In this case nothing could have saved the film. I usually don't complain about movies, but I feel robbed.Kinda inspiring though, if this can be made what can't? "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this movie from Blockbuster because the summary on the box sounded good.  Secret codes in the Bible, end of the world, anti-Christ...not a bad idea for a film.  But this thriller is more funny than anything else. The script is terrible with so many holes it appears the plot is stapled together.  With the exception of Michael Ironside, the acting is awful...especially Casper Van Dien.  Never have I seen a less convincing performance from a lead actor.  There are some interesting special effects, but they in no way make up for the rest of the film.  On paper, this was a good idea, but on film, its God-awful. "},{"Title":"Awful, just awful!!!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was actually rooting for this movie, because I knew it had been made with a small budget outside mainstream Hollywood, but they didn't even try & make a movie you could follow. Too bad, because they really had a chance to upset the apple cart in the movie industry.BTW, the spirituality was just silly, sadly silly. I hope they really don't believe this rubbish! "}{"Title":"Good effort, but falls short","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While I commend TBN for attempting(key word) to make a film about the end times, this movie, along with almost every other Religious movie out there was disappointing. The acting was horrible, the plot lame and full of holes, and the action too slow or too fast. The cinematography on the other hand was very good, but it was also lacking. It was a good effort, but in the end it falls short.Hopefully, many peoples lives will be saved because of this film....hopefully. "},{"Title":"Amazing beyond expectations","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Amazing beyond expectations. The tag line for the movie, ...The end has begun, fits perfectly. An amazing story-line, a wonderful plot, and a superb cast. This movie took me on a constant road of twists and turns that kept me guessing till the end. The reference to the Scriptures in this movie was perfect, and the omega code could not have been thought out better. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was an interesting movie about a TV guru and bible student who learns that a person whom he thinks will be the anti-Christ is rising to power. I liked this movie, though it tended to drag at times. I loved the locales, too!** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"People Aren't Giving This a Chance","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was stunned twice. First when I watched the movie, then when I read only a fifth of the comments made here. I went into this movie thinking it would be mediocre at best, especially since it starred Casper Van Dien. I did manage to dislike a few things Van Dien was too young (but he was good in the role), Devon Odessa was simply horrible, and some of the camera tricks (the childhood flashes and night vision scenes) were annoying. Yet this movie was startlingly wonderful. I was shocked by how into this thing I was. The rest of the acting was good (especially Michael York and Michael Ironside), the story was compelling, and the effects were very good, especially considering that this movie's budget wasn't very large. When I saw public opinion, I was shocked again. Everyone seems to hate it. Some people complain about acting, direction, and similar things. Those are all right differences of opinions that everyone doesn't have to agree with. After all, I thought Three Kings was a vile hunk of trash, but I don't expect others to hate it. However, when I see people spouting out nonsense about inaccuracy, I lose my patience. The Bible has various interpretations, and no book has more of a variance than Revelations. This is because Revelations HASN'T HAPPENED YET. How can anyone say They did this event wrong when one doesn't know how the event is really going to take place? If you use that kind of thinking, how can you enjoy any futuristic science fiction movie? Well, 2001 A Space Odyssey is bad because it is inaccurate. Here it is 2001 and it hasn't happened yet. What a bad movie. That movie, like this one, is speculative fiction and shouldn't be expected to follow things to the letter. You don't have to believe it. I liked End of Days, Stigmata, and The Seventh Sign but I don't believe the world will see these events. I had a history professor that thought Braveheart was the worst movie ever made because of the historical blunders. It is a slightly valid claim, seeing as how we are dealing with history and past events. Still, that is no reason to trash Braveheart. And it didn't stop it from becoming Best Picture of the Year. The Omega Code should be treated no differently. Just because it has a Christian point of view is no reason to reach into thin air to pull out poor criticism and cynicism. I know because I was trying to do it myself; I was wrong to try. Give this movie a chance. Zantara's score 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Solid movie","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie to be pretty entertaining.  One can take it as more, I suppose, since it deals with some pretty serious subjects like the Bible and religion, and of course the end of days. Not knowing really the first thing about serious Bible study, it's hard for me to know whether it's accurate or not.  But I do know that this movie is quite a good thriller--probably better than the Omen or like movies.  The story is basically about how a power hungry individual uses Biblical prophecies to gain power, a revived Roman Empire.  And in that vein, it's a pretty good movie. The problems are an unfortunate central character--Casper Van Diehn is a pretty bad actor and the scripting isn't much better.  Michael Ironside is one of the best bad guys there is, and he does pretty well here.  Michael York, a veteran, does a pretty convincing megalomaniac, though Catherine Oxenberg doesn't seem to have much to do except look beautiful, which she does beautifully.  It seems a bit odd that this movie brings out such strong reactions--strange that just because it has a pro-religious feel to it, some people, extremists in my view, seem to want to hate it.  It's not a great movie, but it's a pretty fair one.  I think they did a very good job on what was likely a modest budget--and as far as I understand it, it did very well at the box office.  On par, I'd recommend it--it gives you an interesting story and a few things to think about too.  As much as I as of any movie really.   "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly the BEST Film since the Ten Commandments","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   The Omega Code. A message hidden within the Torah, a man inhabited by the devil himself. Full of twists and turns, this film will keep you guessing until the end. The only reason this gets bad reviews is because unlike all the other rot out there, this film gives you something to THINK ABOUT afterward. In a culture where Titanic is the best movie ever made, it's normal that a film with such power and precision as The Omega Code would get kicked at. It doesn't have nudity. It doesn't have sex. It doesn't have graphic violence. And that's why a few narrow-minded people think it sucks. Be different ~ give it a try! It'll be an eye-opening experience. "},{"Title":"Well, it gets a C+ for effort","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I will admit I went into the movie with mixed feelings.  I was a little bit uncomfortable with the subject matter -- the Bible code -- and I was a little bit suspicious of a cinematic treatment of the Book of Revelation.  But I was also excited, because as much as I tend to shy away from  things like the Bible code, I could see great potential for a movie plot.  And I was  thrilled to see what was billed as a Christian movie playing in mainstream theatres to mainstream audiences, and with mainstream appeal.Unfortunately, I my suspicious side was more right than my excited side.The problems began with the story.  Written by two people with no previous cinematic experience, the tale jumps and skitters through a transitionless rendering of a possible interpretation of the Apocalypse of St. John.  Character develop (the few characters who are developed) with no motivation, no context, no grounding for the changes which they undergo.  Events take place with no internal support; audience members must draw from their outside knowledge and experience to understand what's going on and who's who.  But those in the audience who do have such an understanding are going to have other problems at times the movie draws more from the Book of Daniel than from Revelation, and many of the elements from Daniel which make it into the film are thought by most scholars not to reference the end-times but to reference other things, such as the destruction of the temple and the conquest of Jerusalem. Those Christians in the audience who believe in a pre-tribulation rapture will be disappointed that the rapture does not feature at all in the film.  Those Christians who believe in a post-tribulation rapture will still be disappointed, because there is no tribulation -- apart from struggling fishermen in Japan and a broken-down manufacturing plant somewhere in the world, life goes on as normal.And the goal which is proclaimed on many of the posters of the movie -- to open audiences up to the Gospel -- can only be achieved if the Gospel is actually referenced, apart from allusions to Christ.This is not to say that the story is the only problem with the movie.  The movie (which may be film, but is certainly shot, staged, and lighted as if it were a video) is directed by an inexperienced director who told most of the performers to use exaggerated stage mannerisms, as if subtlety were impossible on the big screen.  The sound and score are laughable -- over-miked, synthesized, predictable.  Most of the acting is largely mediocre.  The casting was questionable.  The editing is sloppy.  The special effects (by the folks who brought Godzilla to life) look as if they were airbrushed and applied with Q-tips.The idea of the movie had potential, and I look forward to future attempts by Christians to put legitimate work in theatres, but the folks who put this movie together needed to either consult with people who had more previous experience than they did, or else to first watch a couple of movie and see how they should turn out. "},{"Title":"A thrilling dramatic review of apocalyptic scriptural revelations for Bible students everywhere.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What the world needs now is an alternative genre of cinema that can both entertain, and still successfully portray the divine truths of the infallible and holy Word of God. Don't we have enough misconceptions of sex and love, as well as, intrusive and graphic, violence and language?  If adultery, fornication, falsehoods, murders, horror, and the occult can be magnified, why not holiness?  Preventative medicine is never out of style, just as the advertisers of abstinence before marriage have seemingly figured out.  The Bible has a true meaning that is too often wrongly depicted.  The true essence of God's eternal and holy characteristics need to be revealed in a way that is untainted by the philosophies and hidden agendas of the faulty finite secular desires of this age. "},{"Title":"Best religious movie I've ever seen.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that I am a Christian, but that doesn't effect my judgment on watching movies (e.g. I like Halloween, Stephen King, and other stuff that you would think a Christian wouldn't care about). This movie may seem boring to some, but if you've ever read 'Revelations' (the back of the new testament) you'd probably be more interested in seeing how the symbolism in the Bible plays true to the realistic forms in the movie. The movie itself has good acting, better than usual special effects, and a gripping story line placed on top of the Bible scriptures. Beside the low rating, there should be a sign that says, 'Most of the people don't like religious movies.' "},{"Title":"Awesome Wholesome Family movie!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It had been 19 years since I had stepped back into the movie theater. The past years, movies have not been at a quality where I would bring my entire family. This movie was it! It had action, adventure, and no repercussions or after affects on us after we left except to think of our place in life and eternity! There was only one down side to the movie, it ended odd. I know what it meant but it still ended odd. Outside of that, it was one that had to become part of my loan library! "}{"Title":"It is not as bad as the vote portrays it to be.","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember hearing the buzz about this movie and deciding that I had to see it. So, I rented it and was pleasantly surprised. Granted, Casper Van Dien would not have been my first choice for the lead, but these types of movies don't have the financing to get A-listers.What I do not understand is why there are so many bashing this movie as Christian propaganda or apocalyptic foretelling. The movie is someone's interpretation of the Antichrist being unleashed on the world. On that note, if you are an atheist, do not believe there will ever be an Armageddon, or couldn't care less if Armageddon happens or not, then why would you watch this movie? It's like a vegetarian going to an all you can, extreme carnivore buffet. You know you won't like it, you won't try to understand the underlying story, and you will lose focus because this subject doesn't interest you.I have to say, given the resources available, the movie was actually quite good. Michael Ironside, as usual, immerses himself in the role and makes the villain larger than life. The movie attempted to bring the message of evil waiting to attack to the masses, and did it in a quite entertaining way. Before I get bashed for being a bible thumper or a religious zealot, I want to point out that I am not affiliated with any organized religion and watched this movie with people who were Christian, agnostic, atheist, and wiccan. No one complained about the movie. "},{"Title":"Thrills and Chills... Heart-Warming and Heart-stopping...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Thrills and chills. Heart-warming and heart-stopping. The Omega Code has all the mystery and intrigue of The X-Files, the adventure of Raiders of the Lost Ark, and the impact of Saving Private Ryan that will change you forever. Prepare yourself for the revelations of the Code. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Seriously, this movie was really truly bad! The story is filled with some gigantic plot holes and because of this already 50% of this movie doesn't even make sense anymore and gets very unpleasant to watch. The movie is ridicules and at times laughable bad and it all just leaves a pointless impression.Visually the movie looks like an average made for TV-movie, complete with some stupid cinematography and horrible looking special effects. But even worse is the awful directing. Poor Casper van Dien and Michael York, they try the best they can but even their efforts can't save the horrible script, awful dialogs and the even worse directing by Robert Marcarelli. Van Dien seems uncertain how to play in most of the scene's, at times he plays his character with sarcasm and fun (kind of like in Starship Troopers) but in other scene's he plays him totally serious. Not really van Dien's fault but more the director's I think.Only thing that saves this movie from being a complete disaster is Michael Ironside. He does what he can do best; play the villain. I mean just look at the guys face, great villain actor! Basically he plays his Total Recall role all over again. Catherine Oxenberg always is quite a good actress in this but what the point of her character was?...Most of the characters are just mainly confusing. Also it was kind of fun to see William Hootkins in this, by the Star Wars fans he is better known as Red Six, Porkins from Star Wars Episode IV - A New Hope.Poorly made movie, on every front and a waste of the quite good cast. Most certainly not worth your time!2/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A complete insult to the the viewer's intelligence and patience","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I actually paid money to see this abomination when it was in theatrical release. What happened was that I was visiting my mother and step-father during the Thanksgiving holiday a few years ago and we decided to go to the multiplex without having any particular movie in mind.When we got there, a debate ensued over which film to see. I didn't want to sit through whatever Meg Ryan romantic comedy was playing and Mom vetoed anything potentially violent. So I suggested that we break the impasse by seeing The Omega Code, a film that none of us had seen advertised or knew anything about. I figured that as a result of being adventurous, we might be pleasantly surprised by an offbeat box office sleeper.What a mistake. I sat cringing throughout the entire film, with the shameful knowledge that my open-minded, random pick had backfired on us so miserably. I spent literally hours after we left the theater apologizing for leading us so far astray.Another reviewer commented that Omega Code's premise of a numerological interpretation of the Bible is similar to that of Darren Aronofsky's Pi. While I felt that Pi was ultimately unsuccessful in its treatment and plot, it is at least a watchable investigation of the idea. Even my mother, who has purchased and read novels of the `Biblical fiction' genre, was unenthusiastic about this lackluster interpretation of the apocalypse.I remember the film Dogma, which covers similar Biblical subject matter was also playing at the same time. I wish we'd stumbled into that one instead. I'm not a huge fan of Kevin Smith's films, but I've since rented Dogma and it at least presents a coherent, if convoluted plot and some interesting characters in its comically warped take on Armageddon.There have already been over a hundred commentaries for this movie, but the reason I felt compelled to write this one is that I stumbled across the entry and found that the title of the first contributor's summary is a very positive  `Accurate Biblical Drama.' I couldn't disagree more.And I'm not some high-minded cinema buff either. I enjoy a well-paced thriller or moderately smart sci-fi movie once in while. But this doesn't work in any way on any level at all. Don't even rent this one for its supposed camp value as some commentators have recommended, its just plain inept in a tedious way that's not even interesting. I'm both baffled and horrified that it actually somehow spawned a sequel. "},{"Title":"He won't be Michael Who? after this!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Our local movie guru who's famous for reciting entire scenes from memory can't even picture Michael York.It's October 19th, three days after the big Omega Code debut.  (And what a debut it was!)  The post-weekend review of Omega was not unlike the pre-debut pans, ranting about violence and misinterpretations of the Biblical story, etc.  (Hard for me to believe, since the lame Noah thing with John Voight and Mary Steenburgen was embraced by the media even though it was sickeningly violent and so far from the original story as to be ridiculous.  I get mad every time I think about it.)Setting aside all the religion movie complaints, Michael York is the best reason to see Omega Code.  Though he was nervous about his involvement, what with some other actors not pulling their weight--and there were certainly one or two really lame graphics scenes--the man was awesome and makes me regret ever thinking ill of him for his sad Dilbert-boss goofiness in the Austin Powers body-humor flicks.For any thinking person in Hollywood, the Alexander Stone role is York's official transformation from a character actor to a lead who has proven that he can not only hold his own, but everybody else's own too.  His performance was that powerful.  Even people who wouldn't get all the Biblical nods or appreciate the conversion scene should see this movie just so they can witness the power that Michael York can plug into a role.  Did I say role? Movie.  The man plugged this movie in and turned on the lights. "},{"Title":"The movie makes me realise why people check ratings on IMDB before watching movies","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I registered on IMDB for one reason.  To alert people to how incredibly bad, painful and generally nauseating this movie is.  The acting is bad.  The plot bad.  If considered within the context of a Christian movie, it's worse.  If you want to spread a message, at least get half-decent actors, better script-writers and a director that knows what he's doing so that you don't just drive off the people you're trying to get your message to.  The storyline had a potential to be really good, but instead they left me wanted to stab myself in my eye.  Singularly the worst movie I have ever seen, it got me to desperately and passionately believe... in my desire to press Stop on my remote.  I considering walking out of it, but unfortunately I was watching it in my living room. "},{"Title":"Powerful Film of Intellectual Challenges","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Gifted director Robert Marcarelli flirts with greatness in bringing this thought provoking and exciting motion picture to the screen. Using his camera like a sculptor uses his chisel, Marcarelli crafts a film of suspense, adventure, philosophy, and ultimately, Truth. Screen writers Stephan Blinn and Hollis Barton have fashioned an unusually intelligent, intellectual script that manages to educate and illuminate as it entertains the audience in grand style. Casper Van Dien is superb as usual, playing a man in search of the truth while another, essayed with brilliance by the wonderful Michael York, seeks to change history to his own advantage. The lovely and extremely talented Catherine Oxenberg is also great in a significant supporting role, as is veteran Michael Ironside, making a strong impression in a small part. The past, the present, and the future hang in the balance as a struggle between good and evil will ultimately decide the fate of humanity. This is a philosophically challenging film and is destined to stimulate even the sharpest intellects with its sophisticated puzzles. "},{"Title":"Plot Drops Off a Cliff","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't watch many violent movies, but when I do.., they better be good(think Clint Eastwood, Steven Segal). I was willing to go along with this movie and was perfectly fine with it until...The woman that he spent the whole movie with and who risked her neck getting the lead actor onto a network jet to smuggle him out of Rome...pulls a gun (with a silencer) on him. Give...me...a...break. It just reeked of Hollywood so badly A cheap, sensational, non-sensical turn in the plot. Totally without any credibility. (Think DaVinci Code if the leading lady had turned on Tom Hanks 3/4 the way through the movie). I turned the movie off, sighed, and threw it out. "},{"Title":"Good Idea for a Story....Bad Script and Acting","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the most glaring problem with The Omega Code was the horrible miscasting of Casper Van Dien in the role of Gillen Lane.  His performance was uninspired, unemotional, wooden, and mostly not believable. Plus it is hard to believe that a kid that looks 26 years old would have PhDs in World Religion and Mythology, a successful self-help book with a loyal following, and have easy access to someone as powerful as the head of the European Union.  Not that it's all Van Dien's fault.  The script for his character was very weak.  The comments about the Bible and religion that Van Dien's character Dr. Lane makes to the studio audience during the talk show are lame.  I find it VERY hard to believe that an audience would react with cheers and support when told (by Dr. Lane) that there is no God and they should find a higher power within themselves.The only salvation (pun intended) this film has is the nice performance by Michael Ironside.  Why he agreed to do this movie is a mystery.  Maybe the reason could be found in the Bible Code?  (tic)Bottom line If you want a biblical end of the world type film, rent The Omen or even The Seventh Sign.  You'll think the world has come to an end if you watch this one! "},{"Title":"Wake me up when its over..","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh joyous, a film about the false prophet and decyphering the bible code.. with car chases. This was one of the worse films I ever saw produced in 1999, and even had a hard time keeping myself awake to actually finish watching it. Bad acting, no direction, horrorfic storyline, and cheesy action scenes, it all adds up to terrible movie. If I wanted to waste the amount of time I did seeing this movie, I would actually gone to church. The word crap should be inserted in the title. "}{"Title":"A Skeptical Opinion of Omega Code","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a Christian.  I have always been skeptical about movies made by Christians, however.  As a rule, they are know-nothings when it comes to movie production.  I admire TBN for trying to present God and Jesus in a positive and honest way on the screen.  However, they did a hideous job of it.  The acting was horrible, and unless one is familiar with the Bible in some fashion, one COULD NOT have understood what the movie was trying to get across.  Not only was the movie terribly made, but the people who made it even had some facts wrong.  However, in this critique, those facts are irrelevent and too deep to delve into.  In short, the Omega Code is the absolute worst movie I have ever seen, and I would not recommend it to anyone, except for comic relief from the every day grind. "},{"Title":"Instead of this movie...","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Others have described The Omega Code's shortcomings as a movie, and even though I am a Christian; even though I believe much of what is described in this movie will happen -- though not necessarily as The Omega Code portrays it -- I have to say I was disappointed in the movie as well.  It could have been so much clearer, so much better, even on the producers' limited budget.That having been said, let me suggest that those of you interested in this topic but disappointed in the movie fall back to the old cliche  forget the movie, read the Book!  In fact, besides the Bible, there is an exciting series of books by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins, beginning with Left Behind, that dramatize the same end-time prophecies.  And the Left Behind movie is also in pre-production at this time, with a release date sometime next year.  Given the quality of the novels, it has a decent shot at being what The Omega Code was not -- a good movie. "},{"Title":"This is a film released in theaters?","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see the Omega Code with a group of other Christians totaling about 15 people. We all expected a good piece of Christian film-making.  What we got was an excruciatingly painful, drawn-out, and pretty boring attempt at a film.  It has good looking production values but also has poor acting, a weak script with lousy dialogue, and no real sense of direction.  From the first 15 minutes we all knew it would be a long night.  We all hated it, and some people in our group placed this movie as reeking of more cheese than Anaconda.  None of us could believe that the movie lasted less than 2 hours.  Flashy effects and crisp looking cinematography can't save this bad, bad movie.  I'd give it a 3 out of 10, and the rating is only that high because I rented the abominable movie Werewolf (1996) the night before I saw this movie. "},{"Title":"My Opinions Continued(Spoiler)","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The more I analyze this film, the worse it becomes.  First of all, why a motivational speaker?  That part was just stupid.  I mean, why would a megalomaniac trying to control the world rely on a motivational speaker? Is Alexander Stone really that disorganized?  First he can't decide what he wants to do to control the world, so he looks to the Bible for ideas.  Many of these ideas, I might add, really have no reliability(For example, the part of the The houses of Ishmael and Isaac shall scream out in terror could have already happened.  It could have been have been the synagogues burned during Krystalnacht and the mosques could very well have been the mosques blown up in Baghdad or something.)  And Gillen Lane's family!  They had no part except to provide a family values platfrom and dab their eyes with water!  I might add that since Casper van Dien/Gillen Lane is only in his twenties(or that's the impression that I had)and has a ten year child, he had his child during high school. Yeah, there goes TBN's family values. Also, why did this film have to be so damn propaganda-like?  I'll repeat what an earlier reviewer said.  The Indiana Jones flicks use Christian mythology as a plot dvice and manipulate it well so that we are intoxicated. This film doesn't do that.  The beginnig starts off well, with Michael Ironsides playing a priest who murders a scholar off some sort and steals the dead guy's Omega Code.  Then when confronted by two men who he is obviously afraid of, the two prophets tell him Tell your master that we are here!. Dominic(Ironsides) replies He already knows  and points to a small surveillance camera.  That part sent chills up my spine.  Had only it gone on like that one scene I would have loved this film.  I'll give Michael York credit he does a fine job of acting out his character, as does Michael Ironsides.  But the good guys are horrible.  I've already went on about Lane's family.  Now that I'm over the acting, I'll get on to plot.  This is obviously a Baptist film, since our beloved Pope of the Vatican is portrayed as an oaf.  The world domination plot I liked and found plausible and subtle, as were the action sequences were also thrilling and well-done.  Also another diatribe against the Vatican, their leaders are seen as dogmatically minded, since Gillen explains to the Pope that it's not the end of the world, but the beginning of a new one Also, the Vatican (or Israelis)says their going to secede from the World Union aince they used the Omega Code to control the world.  Whoever it was, they wouldn't just secede, they'd send over commandoes and kill them.  This is the equivalent of America knowing about the KGB going to kill the President and simply saying We're not going to talk to you any more!. Come on!  I did enjoy the scenes where we see bombers headed towards Israel and see them again on the monitor.  Mediocre in short.  "},{"Title":"It's a Sad, Sad, Day for this movie-lover","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I truly wish I was not writing this review.  I'm a Christian, so I waited anxiously to see this movie.  It seemed great -- a Christian movie with some fairly famous stars and a plot that seemed intriguing (not that I buy the Bible Code itself -- you can make it say anything you want.  I do, however believe everything inside the Bible).  So I'm sitting on the edge of my seat enjoying the previews, when the movie comes on and manages to destroy my mood in a matter of minutes.  I had to bite my lip to stop from commenting on the terrible writing and acting while I was in the theater (I would have been torn to pieces by the people cheering at the rather clumsy but basically uplifting scenes and gasping at the insanely obvious and predictable Tension Scenes, I'm sure).  Once the final credits began to roll, however, I could reflect.  There were many parts of the movie I liked -- some mostly unexpected plot twists, some effects that were indeed special (I'm not counting the Visions.  Those were poorly done), and some interesting technical work -- fades, sets, that type of thing.  Unfortunately, I got the distinct impression that if I read the book of Revelation to a monkey and set the monkey in front of a typewriter for an hour, I could've gotten a better script.  And the music was beyond cheesy (even for a Bond fan who likes kinda cheesy music in scenes of action and intrigue).  So I wish I could be like everyone else in the theater -- like the people who came out crying and breathless because of how incredible it was -- but I'm not someone who can be appeased by a writer who throws some words over a Biblical shell and slaps a Christian stamp on it.  I need a good plot and believable dialogue before I can enjoy most movies, and this just didn't have either.  I'm sorry, but I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone.  And that's the tragedy.  When will we see some intelligent Christian fiction?  It has to be out there somewhere... "},{"Title":"Omega should have followed the scriptures. not some code","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is not based on the bible.   It completely leaves Christ out of the movie.  They do not show the rapture or the second coming of Christ. Let alone talk about it.  It does not quote from scriptures.  The end times are called the great tribulation.  The movie does not even show bad times. The seven bowls, seven viles and seven trumpets of judgements are boiled down to a 15 second news cast of the sea changing it's structure.  The anti-Christ was killed 3 1/2 years into the tribulation and that is how the movie ended.  The only part they got correct was there was two prophets. The did not use there names of course because that would be too close to the truth of scriptures.  The worst part of it was I really wanted it to be a good movie.  I wanted to take unsaved people to it.  I feel that the movie is evil.  It is a counterfeit just like everything the devil does.  I just hope it does not take away from the upcoming movie based on the left behind books.The second problem with the movie is it was just bad.  Bad acting, bad special effects, bad plot and poor character development.  I have seen better episodes of Miami vice.  "},{"Title":"I think I'm being extremely fair.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film had so much promise. I was very excited about this film. In the end, it was laughable at best, painful at worst. The acting styles ran the gamut from really, really, flat (the angels, the wife and daughter) to over-animated (Casper's character). I felt that the dialogue was just an attempt to transfer information to the audience instead of real people trying to talk to each other. Pay special attention to the scene regarding the bug. It's pretty much an insult to the audience's ability to figure things out. In defense of that scene, though, it got the biggest laugh of the whole movie. I had read that they spent alot of money traveling to various overseas locations. Too bad they didn't make use of it. I didn't feel like I was transported to exotic locations. Anybody could insert stock footage of the Coliseum in Rome. However, to end on a positive note, I thought the sets were pretty good. I really liked the graphics that were displayed on the decoding computers. It is my opinion(and that's all it is) that if the SCHMALTZ factor would have been much much lower and the ACTION factor would have been greatly increased, this film would have been good. "},{"Title":"Matt Crouch's dream come true","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Interesting to read comments by viewers regarding Omega Code... many of the overwhelmingly positive comments were lifted almost word for word from TBN broadcasts... the movie looks as if it were made to go directly to video, to be stocked besides the three-part rapture series that was done by some other religious group in the 70s.. dont remember it? You wont remember this one either in a year or two. This is the first movie I have ever seen where it was implied that it was your religious duty to go to it and buy as many tickets as possible to save souls... very shameful... this just goes to show that if you are a televangelist's son, you too can play high-roller Hollywood producer with lil ole ladies tithe money... "},{"Title":"This one's bad...really bad, yet not bad enough to be even humorous.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Disjointed, unclear, bad screenplay, poor photography and direction...all in all very obviously an ill-conceived first effort at commercial film-making by the good people at TBN.TBN Pictures has had great success in the past by helping to bring China Cry, the story of Nora Lam, to the big screen. But The Omega Code is an unfortunate miscue. As a Christian who supports TBN and a lot of its programming and who loved China Cry, I still find it impossible to recommend this film to anyone. They do much good with their ministry, but this isn't an example of it. Don't waste your money...go rent China Cry instead. "},{"Title":"Good idea poorly executed.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The premise of the movie is really interesting, but the movie was not very well done.  Michael York and Michael Ironside do a good job, but the rest of the acting is poor.  The dialog is hokey, the action doesn't flow smoothly, and the ending looks like they ran out of money and had to end the film quickly.  Definitely a B movie. "}{"Title":"Now I know why Paul Crouch and TBN is so annoying","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie demonstrates to anyone who has an interest in Bible that Paul Crouch (Who produced and financed this opus.) is now and always will be a total nitwit.   This film is evangelistic in presentation and obviously designed to spread the theology of the Trinity Broadcasting Network.  The movie wants to take the viewer through the `Tribulation' of the Book of Revelation and the Book of Daniel.  If you can stand the trite television programs that TBN broadcasts you know the script of this movie.   We are to believe that the Bible is really and encryption code and a 3D hologram to boot.  Well which text is the code in?  We do not have the original and there is a fair amount of difference between the official `Massoretic text dating from the 10 Century C.E. (the Common Era) and the either the Qumran texts (the Dead Sea Text) or the Samaritan Pentateuch for example.   Who decided which text to follow for the encryption work?What really was annoying though is the movie conclusion, where all has been programmed by the code, and must be fulfilled with no exceptions, but one person making a decision to believe then negates all that the Bible has predicted for 1900 years.  Casper Van Dien by his discision to kill Michel York (who has already been resurrected from the dead) somehow stops the Second Coming of Christ by his act of belief in God.  If God went to all the trouble of encrypting the Bible, you would think He might have know about this little fact and changed the code.  Overall the acting is wooden and Katherine Oxenburg (last know from Dynasty in the 80's) is as wooden as a puppet. Wait for the movie in a Church near you and save the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Had so much potential...","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a Christian and someone generally interested in end time prophecy, I was interested to see what The Omega Code had to offer.  Unfortunately, what I found was a very poorly made movie.  The dialogue was horrible, the plot was sketchy at best, and the picture was very poor - was this shot on 16mm film?  And why-oh-why was there a 15 minute dream sequence that had nothing to do with the actual plot, when the time would have been much better served to explain the code in better detail, flesh out the characters somehow, explain and go into more detail of Revelations prophecy, or really focus on the lead character's conversion to Christianity?I know a lot of people will give this rave reviews and 10 ratings because it is a blatantly-Christian movie.  And I can respect that - we need more movies that don't rely on sex, violence, and worldly-attitudes to put people in the seats.  But this was a poor movie, any way you look at it.  Prince of Egypt did a much better job all-around of respecting and telling a Biblical story - granted, Dreamworks has a vastly larger resource pool than TBN.  But I can't help but think that if TBN had of spent all that money that went to useless special effects on better scriptwriter, directors, actors and cinematographers, we would have had a much better all-around movie. "},{"Title":"The Omega Code, Mega Film(There May be a Spoiler)","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Most films these days when they attempt to use religion as a plot element they just use it as a backdrop.  Omega Code immerses itself in the Torah, prophesies(sp), and revelations.  The plot involves a European industrialist, Stone Alexander, who wishes to use the Omega Code in his quest for world domination.  Dr. Gillen Lane is caught up in his plot to set the world right, which is a nice idea.  Alexander's character is a creepy modern-day Messiah.  Unlike other films, this is not about trying to stop the red digital readout to a bomb blows up but rather trying to undo what the villain does.  A cut above the recent Bond flick TND.  I'd recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have seen","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I got suckered by the Christian propaganda.  This movie is by far the worst I have ever seen.  Usually I look for something redeeming.  Legends of the Fall had cinematography, etc.  But there is nothing that I could find in that movie.  Cheesy, bad acting, stupid plot straight from some horrible books on Revelation, combined with American paranoia (nuclear war, the beast, Jerusalem, the temple, etc.) "},{"Title":"a complete waste of time","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Throw the movie away, burn it, its really, really @#$%@! bad. Complete waste of your money!. my child can make better special effects with a pencil, my dvd-player isn't build for playing such rubbisch. I hope dat when you still want to watch it you add the same review as mine. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie )","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is my favorite Casper Van Dien movie after me starting to be a fan of his) I think he did an awesome job in this movie portraying a motivational speaker who was skeptical and bitter towards God, ending up to be helping the Anti Christ at first without realizing the danger he is getting into or who he is helping and the outcome of this... I know that you could tell he believed in what he was acting. I became a true fan of his after this movie and went and joined his official messageboard at his site. I am a Christian and was so moved by the acting in this movie that I wanted to know if he was a Christian or what his personal beliefs were after this movie. Michael York did a terrific job as the Anti Christ in both parts one and two!  "},{"Title":"The WORST movie I have seen in a long time","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a stinker, this movie has no redeeming value. I saw it on video because the premise looked interesting. However, the acting was pathetic and the plot infantile. My wife was so disgusted by how bad this movie was she actually asked for her money back at Blockbuster. Save your time and money and avoid this dud. "},{"Title":"Pathetic display of unconvincing ludicrousness","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All I have to say What a pathetic display of unconvincing ludicrousness. The acting was terrible and the story is the most ridiculous thing that I have come across, yet. And I have seen some bad movies... "},{"Title":"Deserves to be on the bottom","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The whole time I was watching this movie I was thinking why did anyone want to make a movie like this, it's aweful, absolutely aweful, but I stuck with it until the end, only to wonder why I watched it for as long as I did. I am a Christian myself, but absolutely hate Christian movies. Why can't anyone make a good Christian movie about something besides the end times, someone please explain this to me, there is more to life than the end times. So anyone that actually gave this movie a 10 needs to go watch a real movie. I just wish I could give this picture a 0, but I'll have to settle for a 1/10. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is, quite frankly, one of the worst movies ever. It belongs on Mystery Science Theatre 3000 but Mike and the bots may not even sit through this terrible thing. How badly made is it? The character with a Ph.D. in Mythology can not pronounce archetype correctly.I know that TBN was involved in this and I just have to say, if there is a hell, I hope that all of the people who made this celluloid abomination spend eternity there. "}{"Title":"A Waste of Time","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Without a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen.  The only aspect of it more pathetic than Casper Van Dien's performance was the script itself.  It makes Battlefield Earth seem like an Oscar candidate.  The Omega Code was a complete waste of the 30 minutes I endured before turning it off, burning the tape and disconnecting my vcr for a month. "},{"Title":"Junk!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a worthless movie in every regard. The acting is dismal,the story is silly,the special effects are cheesy. And worst of all it insults your intellegence. Don`t wast your time,check out any of the releases by Cloud 10 pictures instead. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sadly, I was extremely disappointed with The Omega Code which I rented this evening.  The characters and the story were not developed, the plot didn't flow, the acting was poor, and the writers assumed FAR too much.  The only reason I was able to follow this movie is that I have a rough understanding of the Revelation prophesies (drawn from my reading of the Left Behind series, and don't get me started on the movie of that one!) As a Christian I would love to see some quality Christian film coming out of Hollywood, and I had hoped that maybe The Omega Code was it after everything that I've heard about it.  Sadly, I'll have to keep looking.  Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Worst movie EVER made!!!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the WORST movie I have ever seen. I hated it with a passion. It is sort of funny how I had got the idea of wanting to see this movie, some friends and I where at the theater to see the movie Three Kings and they screwed up and started to show the first minute of the Omega Code which made it SEEM like an interesting movie. A few months down the road I rent it from a video store, BIG MISTAKE! It has bad plot,acting,effects and just drags on and on and on. Oh yeah, did I mention this is the worst movie ever made? I should have known when the credits said Casper Van Dien.  "},{"Title":"A good bad movie.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Omega Code is one of the few bad movies I've seen thatare extremely fun to watch. The acting is hilarious, thoughit's not supposed to be. The plot's apocalyptic millenniummelodrama is at least less cliched -and less time  sensitive- than End of Days which was released aboutthe same time. The ending... what's the deal with the  ending? Couldn't they come up with anything? Is so  sudden it makes the movie even more hilarious.Overall, great movie to see on cable. The price for rental isnot worth it, but it's fun. "},{"Title":"bad PR for the Church","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a pastor, my main objection to this film is that it helps perpetuate the myth that to be Christian, you have to be obsessed with two books Daniel and Revelation (there is no S in that name by the way) and that you have to read them as literal facts, which is not even what they were written as for their original audiences. My comments will be derided by fundamentalists as satanic liberal influences in the church, but I have come to expect that. The overwhelming majority of Christians I know, however, are not obsessed with end-times prophesies. This film presents itself as a Christian family movie. What a heap of nonsense. Please do not see this movie and assume this is what the average Christian is interested in.  Oh yes, and the acting was only bad because these people had nothing to work with - I was never convinced of the motivations or character of any of these caricatures.  "},{"Title":"A boring piece of c**p!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it is close.I rented this movie because I'm open minded and wanted to see a well made Christian movie. I could only watch 45 minutes before I had to shut it off.The acting was bad, the direction was bad, the plot is standard book of revelation.Dont waste your time with this stinker. Just read the book of revelation and you'll have a much better time.I'll give it the 1 rating. Thats as low as it goes folks! "},{"Title":"Oh my G-O-D!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I hate it when primitive Christians try to connect with the modern world by using an everything-except-reality(cursing, violence, anger) concept to TRY and connect.  It doesn't work.  Any film that is, in any way, associated with TBN(Trinity Broadcasting Network) does not deserve anyone's attention.  TBN. I don't want to get off the subject; but here is a network that celebrates the poor, undistinguished, even hell-ish life of Jesus with gold chairs and gold-rimmed flowers.  Like I said, OH MY G-O-D!!!.  If you are a traditional(primitive)Christian than this is for you.  If you are a knowledgeable Christian and/or person and CONSCIOUS to reality, than learn, to a higher degree, a better message with depth.  Go see Fight Club and, not or, AND Dogma; possibly the two most profound films of the 90's(possibly ever). "},{"Title":"The plot is apparently none of our business","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Do NOT watch this film, at all costs! It may not be the worst movie I have ever seen, but it ranks right up there..About halfway through, a friend next to me said, The plot is apparently none of our businesss, and I was rather inclined to agree. Up to that point, the movie consisted mostly of unconvincingly written and acted scenes, none of which seemed to have any sort of strong connection to another.To be fair, the latter half did somewhat bring everything together, although at that point, it is impossible to keep from laughing, as the movie veers from only slightly unbelievable to, what?!? where did that come from?Bottom line, if you want to watch a movie having to do with Bible codes, watch Pi, and steer as far clear of The Omega Code as you can! "},{"Title":"The single worst directed film I have ever seen","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was once said that you could have the greatest script, the most prominent, talented cast in the world, & the highest production value in history for a movie, but if the director wasn't any good, the rest didn't matter. The director is the one who decides how the actors use their talent & what the producers have to work with. Nowhere has this been more true than in this movie.I thought the ideas put forth were pretty good, and it really tried to make an effort to be philosophical, but it all got drowned in the direction of Robert Marcarelli. I have seen much better action films from around the same budget(El Mariachi for example). Even if the gore and sexual content got cut out, they would still be good because the directors knew what they were doing. Marcarelli never seemed to understand how people really look and act when they do stuff. The pauses were too long and when the people spoke, they sounded forced.It was a step in the right direction for people who don't like a lot of blood or sex in their films, but not a very big one. If you want to see a good biblical film, watch Ben-Hur or The Ten Commandments, but skip this one. "}{"Title":"York's best film since Logan's Run.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow. And I mean wow. As Stone Alexander, Michael York (Logan's Run) gives the performance of his career, Casper van Dien (Starship Troopers) gives off a well-appreciated Michael J. Fox vibe, and Michael Ironside (Superman the Animated Series) is completely chilling. A great script, great effects, great direction, and a great everything else rounds out this film, one of the best of 1999.  "},{"Title":"Not very good at all.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is, quite frankly, terrible. From the amateurish acting and childish dialog to the pitiful special effects and dull & confusing pacing, this movie makes any TV movie from the USA Network look like Kubrick or Scorsese.The movie is meant to open people's eyes up to the gospel (that's what the poster says) but it's messages range from embarrassingly unsubtle to just plain silly (did you know that the bible predicted Princess Diana's death? Apparently that was one important, Earth-stopping message that God Almighty had to predict).Film-makers' views on religion have spawned films both thought-provoking (The Apostle) and entertaining (Life of Brian, Dogma). The Omega Code is neither. It falls into a bad category It's an awful, pretentious movie that's too dull and insipid to even be enjoyed as a good bad movie, ala Bride of Chucky or Deep Blue Sea.  "},{"Title":"The worst perversion of revelation and modern cinema","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie abhorrent, repulsive, and generally bad.  The special effects were amateurish, the plot was cheesy, the acting was horrible, and the overall design left much to be desired.  If that wasn't enough, I was offended not only as a film student but also as a Christian.  I thought that the position this film took on prophesy was disrespectfully literal and base.  Whether believer or skeptic, any authority on the text would agree that this film doesn't do the richness of biblical prophecy justice.  What frightens me is the reality that impressionable people will flock to this movie.  I, on the other hand, regret spending money on it.  If you appreciate good cinema or biblical prophesy, save yourself the trouble of wasting your time with this poor excuse for both. "},{"Title":"Boring Christian mythology","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Indiana Jones movies successfully presented Christian mythology in a way that a thoughtful person could enjoy, by treating the subject matter as a story, not a message.  This movie fails in that endeavor completely, by choosing a path of proselytization, rather than entertainment.  For a mythology movie with better production values, better acting, and a better story, try Clash of the Titans, which is a B-movie in its own right.Finally, this movie is centered around the infamous Bible codes, which are a statistical joke.  The same information about historical events (wars, assassinations, etc.) can be found in any book a couple hundred pages long.I still can't decide what's more ridiculous that there's meaningful information in the Bible; or that someone can alter the flight computer of a Cessna via the Internet (see The Net), when you still can't find out from one Blockbuster Video whether or not another one 5 miles away has a certain movie in stock.The bottom line for this flick is, don't bother.  Your time would be better spent looking for patterns in the way clothes tumble around inside the dryer at the laundromat. "},{"Title":"confusing and unbelievable","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To say that this movie stretches the imagination is an understatement.  In order to follow and believe the nonsense that is presented on the screen requires stretching and distorting your sense of reality beyond recognition. As one of the most confusing, bewildering and illogical movies I can recall The Omega Code easily becomes my choice for worst movie of 1999. I pray that no movie will come along in the remaining months to upstage this honor because wasting two hours on a movie like this is not an experience I want to repeat.  "},{"Title":"We literally burned our tickets in the parking lot","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My husband and I saw a portion this film because it was playing at the right time and the title sounded cool. This is the first and only movie we have walked out of. The reason, five minutes into the film there was a blond girl with a golden retriever smack dab in the middle east just waiting to be snatched by a baddie. To clue in the clueless audience bad guy themed music boomed through out the theater. After this cliché to the hilt opening my husband and I walked out and took a cigarette lighter to our tickets.Years later friends were discussing awful films, I told her that I had seen 5 minutes of a truly awful movie. Interested she asked me the title when I told her it was the Omega Code she became upset. Being a born again Christian she told me that this was a really good film and that she had it on VHS and that I could borrow it. I told her no thanks and she said she would pray for me. "},{"Title":"Evangelists spend millions to stupify movie audiences","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was absolutely the worst piece of tripe I have ever had the misfortune to subject myself to.  I could feel brain cells rapidly disintegrating as each scene assaulted them.  I have no idea how many IQ points I lost while allowing the movie to play out.  Is it possible that anyone actually liked this piece of garbage?  It is tele-evangelism goes to the movies, and even worse than any TV preaching that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"No more. please.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a follower of Christ and aspiring filmmakers, I would like to quote Leland Ryken. The Christian element in art is not primarily a matter of style, form, or subject matter. It consists rather of the perspective that a work embodies toward the subject matter that is portrayed. ... Christian artists must first of all be artists (from the book 'The Liberated Imagination Thinking Christianly About the Arts').I ask all Christians who want to make films to acquire a much deeper respect for the medium of film. The medium is just as important as the message.And to those who are not believers in Christ, I apologize if the lack of quality coupled with an over-the-top message in this film offended you. Not everyone who believes in Christ makes such films as this one. I do believe Christ's words are important, and that is why I am ashamed that such low quality films are made in his name. "},{"Title":"Not THAT Bad, But Still Pretty Bad...","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Caspier Van Dien of Stormship Troopers and Michael York star in The Omega Code, another low-budget Christian movie, that had good potential, but for some reason didn't work.I think it's the directors. Christian films get really bad directors. I'm not sure why. I've seen many of them, and the direction style is always quite bad. The actors aren't great, either, but seeing that Michael York is in this film is quite an achievment, I'd think.Still, The Omega Code does not have enough in it to break through that Christan movie stereotype. Too bad. Perhaps the film producers/creators will eventually figure out that you have to have talented people to make a film. Here's to hoping that day comes soon so Christian movies can actually be enjoyable.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I'm glad I forgot this movie.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have an excellent memory.  I'm so happy that I can't remember this movie.  It must have been horrible because I gave it a 2.  Checked my vote history, went to see what this movie was, but couldn't remember.  After reviewing the other comments, I'm glad I forgot what it was.  I still can't remember! "}{"Title":"The absolute worst film I've ever seen","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Poorly directed, supremely fake, and atrociously acted. This movie does the complete opposite of compelling viewers to be followers of Christ.  The plot surpasses even campy spoof movies like Robin Hood Men In Tights in its lameness and predictability.  Even the special effects were boring.  The only reason I didn't leave the theater early was to avoid insulting the person who asked me to come, bought my ticket, and sat next to me.  This movie is an utter waste of time. "},{"Title":"worst film ever","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Rent this on DVD and watch the car chase scene.  The bulk of the budget must have gone to Michael York.The cars in the crash are vintage 1970s and one car has already been damaged in the exact spot it gets hit (from a previous take?).This movie is so bad on every level it's compelling to watch.  "},{"Title":"Past Comments Read...","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Of the comments that I have read, of course, there are some parts of Revelation left out.  In the movie, they sort of mentioned some things without going into very much detail (i.e.  The water turning foul).  But of the sections they did cover, it is only ONE of many interpretations of how things might be with today's technology.Someone mentioned that the explosion at the end was a duplicate of Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan.  I would not kick this movie down because they copied and slightly modified the same  explosion.  Other movies have used this same type of explosion (i.e. Stargate).One big thing that was not even mention or shown was the Rapture (i.e. Christians are called up to Heaven during the bad 7 years of trying times on Earth.)  There was no depiction of this happening.It was an interesting movie.  But during my lifetime, I know and believe that I won't be on this Earth when this actually takes place.  "},{"Title":"Good, needs some work","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw previews of the movie, I was excited.When I saw the movie, I was satisfied very much so.The only problem I had with it was whom they had in the cast. I seriously don't think Casper Van Dien is a good actor, and Catherine Oxenberg as well needs some work. However, Michael York, Michael Ironsides, and the guys that played the two Prophets did EXCEPTIONALLY well!As for the content, the only reason people are giving it bad marks is because it's a movie that caters to Christians. And a good number of people don't see what they see. The content of it is pretty darn accurate, and is VERY important to plot development, which was extremely good. Matt Crouch did a great job as far as directing went, and I give him props.Now, if we can only get some more movies that focus on Christians...That'd be cool! ^_^ "},{"Title":"Not your average soul winning tool, this movie packs a punch!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally here is a film that the average American Christian can walk INTO and OUT of with their head held high.  Not since Cecil B. DeMille's epics have I seen such integrity to scripture, yet not lacking in ACTION, ADVENTURE, and THRILLS! This movie will make Hollywood sit up and take note that there is a very viable market out there,that of people who want the above WITHOUT the sex,filthy language, and unwarranted violence. It was refreshing to hear the name of Jesus spoken in a way other than profanity.From sci-fi fan to Bible scholar, The Omega Code explodes with spine-tingling entertainment for all! "},{"Title":"My 5 cents worth","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Loved this movie, this movie is so believable, I like the style of this film, I am a great believer in the strange and unexplainable. Casper was the only person I could see playing the role, he really made the part more believable, and a lot more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Blown away!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WOW!  That is all I can say after this awesome hit of a movie.  What a great thing in 1999 to have a small budget movie finish in the top ten, a Christian movie at that.  There are so many trash talkers, but just as many lovers of great faith films that show truths and facts about end times and religion.  Michael York is some actor along with everyone else made this film an excellant drama/action flick.  Great special effects and story made this film a great wonder. "},{"Title":"Ignore the negative remarks.  This is interesting.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It seems a lot of naysayers stuffed the ballot.   In the video stores, I had walked past The Omega Code, solely due to imDB's poor ratings -- and I seriously question the sincerity of those remarks, most of them vicious or exagerrated.  The Omega Code is worthy of your time.  The screenplay is fluid, and the graphics and cinematography are first rate.I've seen a lot of films made by cheesy independent filmmakers, and this is NOT one of them.   Honestly, with all the hype given to dreary films like 'Blair Witch Project', (and the lemmings' response to it), why would you be reluctant to stay away from Omega Code?Scholars worldwide ARE deciphering the Bible, and there does appear to be a systematic Authorship behind the words.   Will  current events manifest into a future as envisioned by Omega Code?  For sure, this film makes you think about it.   "},{"Title":"The Omega of all movies!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This Christian film gives way toward the future of Christian filming. Finally, a movie thats depicts accurate themes from the Bible!  Christians went out in groves to support this. It just goes to show a film can be made today without graphic violence or harsh and filthy language, sex, etc. After seeing this movie, all I can say is let the Christian films roll.  "},{"Title":"A Breakthrough Film For Christians","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although not an Oscar-worthy film by any means, this film is certainly a breakthrough for us Christians.  It is the first theatrically released film in awhile to deal with issues pertaining to the Bible. Among having a great idea, a decent script (although some lines were pretty corny), The Omega Code's best asset was the wonderful acting by Michael York.  Also, considering its low budget it had pretty good special effects. However, the thing that got most of my attention was the twist that I never saw coming. Maybe it was because I never thought a film like this would do something like that, or maybe it was because they did such a great job of hiding it. Either way, I have seen many movies and I would rate the twist that occurs in this one among the top ten. (If you want to know the Number 1 twist you can e-mail me.) The only thing disappointing about the film was that it never mentioned the Rapture, but it also contained nothing that said that the Rapture never happened. Also, some people debate that the Rapture will occur after the seven years of tribulation, which is the time depicted in this film. Overall, I would definitely say this film is worth seeing in the theater, not only because it is entertaining but also because it deserves our money. I encourage all Christians to go see this movie so that Hollywood will agree to make more movies concerning the Bible once they realize that they can make money by doing it. "}{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever MADE! Do not listen to the Bad Comments!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code is the best movie ever made. A lot of people are saying it's a horrible movie, That's very incorrect! This is the BEST (see how I caps locked it! that's how excited I am!)movie ever made. A lot of people say they can't understand, that's because you people are not Christians. This movie was made for when all of this does happen people will think, what about that movie I saw.. Hmmm this doesn't add up right... Some say this movie has horrible Special Effects, I totally disagree with that! The special effects were fantastic, and hey if anybody doesn't think so, get on your computer and try to make special effects, IT'S HARD WORK! I KNOW! So to all the people who disagree with the movie are totally off. This movie is a MUST see! For everyone. So Thrilling! So Exciting! When this baby comes out on video, I'll be the first in line to get it! "},{"Title":"6661","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Bearing more than a distance resemblance to David Selzer's the omen (transferred to the screen by Richard Donner in 1976 ,followed by two sequels),the omega code ,released in 1999 (almost 666 in reverse),borrows from it politics ,military power ,religion,and of course Italy ,churches and priests.The best idea is the two brothers subject(Abel and CainCain ,after all was inspired by the Devil),but the love affair between the in-laws is a cliché.All that concerns religion is a spate of clichés as well in the last sequences,Satan's image is obviously inspired by the gargoyles ,and Hell is the place I was told about in my long gone Sunday school daysbelow us.Mickael York 's character is a cross between Mussolini,Hitler and the preachers depicted in Brooks' or Duvall's works .If you don't ask too much ,it's fairly entertaining;if you are looking for classy fantasy and horror movies,you must move on. "},{"Title":"Apparently someone forgot the 2nd half of Revelation","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie up until the end. Way to go. Let's film a movie about a sensitive issue regarding end time prophecy and let's leave out several pieces. What happened to the mark of the beast? What happened to the 2nd half of the peace and what happened to the bowls, trumpets, etc.? Gillen Lane appeared to have saved the world in the end. The bible doesn't end that way fellas. Why were so many critical parts of Daniel and Revelation left out?  Not doing the cause justice are we? Next time we decide to make a movie on bible prophecy, let's not forget to throw another reel of film on the camera. Decent attempt but I give it 1 star due to false ending. "},{"Title":"Looked Great - Less Fulfilling","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've never been a fan so to speak of the big Angels of Light Battling The Angels of Darkness type of movie, and yet somehow when I see one, I am drawn into it. Then there was Omega Code. Faltering on the unconvincing acting of Casper Van Dien, this movie never really managed to convince me to take it seriously. As an over-caffeinated motivational speaker, Gillen Lane would barely rate a 300am paid infomercial on the lowest rated of cable access channels, much less the fame and adoration of the majority of the planet. And the movies troubles only BEGIN there. It attempts at several points to draw in the viewer, moments which had me hoping for this movies salvation, but then failed to follow through. Some very weak dialogue between Michael York and Van Dien simply contributed to this film's chuckle factor as the two threw cliches at one another at about the talent level of your typical middle school drama class performance. The movies big climactic scene ends with an unexplained explosion in Rome that wipes out the bad guys (And if the special effects are to be believed, the rest of the planet as well) and leaves you wondering, Okay, what about the REST of humanity? A terribly weak ending to a mediocre movie. Only because the underlying concept was sound can I even go as high as a 3 on this one. Save yourself the bother of watching this apocalyptic nightmare.  "},{"Title":"Well, the Christians have done it again","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that this film was not SO bad as the other reviews I am reading on this board imply.  However, it was not excellent by any means. My beef with Christian filmmaking is why do they have to cut their teeth on an epic?  For crying out loud, if you are going to have a budget of less than 10 million dollars, don't try to do a 100 million dollar film with it.And I will say that the script killed this movie more than anything.  The most exciting action sequence was resolved by the character waking up from a dream - the #1 taboo for plot writing.  As others have said, it was hard to follow - even as a Christian who is familiar with end time prophecy, it was hard to follow - and definitely an insider's film.Why can't Christians who want to make a film make simpler, thought-provoking films instead of these epics they aren't qualified to make?Who knows. "},{"Title":"Very Inconsistent Movie","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code was a model of cinematographical inconsistency.  There was a bit (but precious little) of good acting, primarily by the two prophets and Rostenberg, who only appeared once and had no lines.  Otherwise the acting was decidedly bad.  The plot line was rather weak, and only partially based on already questionable Biblical interpretation.  Certainly not one of the year's best. "},{"Title":"Valiant effort","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I applaud the makers as to trying to get national attention for what I call a non-genre film. This proves that a film can be made without sex, gratuitous violence, or swearing, and people will go see it. However, as noble as the moviemakers ideas may be, and however strongly the wished to get their message out, this was not the way.The action was almost non-existent. A couple of brief chase scenes that were poorly choreographed were about all for the action.The acting was atrocious. Casper Van Dien MUST have gone to the William Shatner school of overacting. His hero was not believable in the least. Michaels York and Ironside held up the movie, and Catherine Oxenberg did a decent job filling her role.The story followed no real pattern, and certain parts made even the most astute of the movie goers scratch their heads and ask What the--? Not TOO many holes in it, but the ones there were big enough to drive trucks through.The message about the apocalypse was a little convoluted and hard to follow, even if you have studied the book of Revelations.In short, save your money on this one. When it comes out on video (where it should have gone straight to), coerce a friend to rent it and watch it on his dime. Or wait till it comes out on Cable. Spend the two hours you would have on The Omega Code, and read Left Behind. Much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Change the title to Beta Code","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What was this about ??  Pre-destination, you can not change the future cause it has already been written ??I'll give it this much.  I did want to see what happened next and therefore watched the whole movie.  This movie took a concept and made it watchable.If you're looking for a recommendation, See it at matinee prices.  No thrills but an interesting concept.  They should have left the Y2K reference out....  "},{"Title":"Poorly Done ...","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The idea had potential, but the movie was poorly scripted, poorly acted, poorly shot and poorly edited. There are lots of production flaws ... for example, Dr. Lane's daughter who never ages despite the passing years. Wait for video, but don't expect much. "},{"Title":"So disappointed","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was hoping that this movie would go somewhere.  Anywhere.  I really enjoy watching the lady on TBN with the platinum blonde layered wig look and Tammy Faye Make-Up.  I truly believe she believes what she says when she talks about GOD, and religion.  I wanted to go see this movie, if for nothing else, for her.  She has made me laugh and shes made me cry.  If there is a GOD, he does have a special place for this mammoth-haired doe-eyed sweetheart.  Something she said about a week before this movie came out struck a cord with me.  She said that the Omega Code wouldn't make any money.  She was being humble, and honestly felt that it would never make any money, due to the amount of money that was spent on it. (i.e. above and beyond the break even point.)  She said that it was sort of like a gate to get Hollywood producers to make more movies of this nature.  I am all for a variety at the box office.  So I went to see this movie for her.  I am sorry my love.  This movie was sorely lacking in many ways for me.  Now I know that my lady on the TV screen had many many Hollywood big names say that this movies was way beyond expectations for a $7,000,000 movie. but I just didn't see it.  The only thing that I saw the was going good for this movie was its Blair Witch Project like word of mouth marketing.  It couldn't even duplicate those results.  Good luck on your next venture my GOD-fearing TBN make-up queen. "}{"Title":"Why are devout Christians always so damned violent?","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Whew... what was that?  i was certainly taken off guard that this pile  got a major release and wasn't straight to GodTV or blockbuster, so, of course, i had to go.  what a waste this was.  cliche after cliche, bad line after bad line... man - people laughed more during this bunch of drivel than when i saw south park in toronto.  all i'm saying is this - it's amazing how much worse this movie gets towards the end when the funding ran out.....to be honest, i'm amazed that the 700 club and other fanatics are all over this movie - it's  definately more violent than most i've seen this year. violent and stupid.  this is definately worse than the god awful rapture movies from the 70s.you've been warned.  wait to see it for free on tv... even then watch what you eat before. "},{"Title":"The Biblical Equivalent of Tums for the Soul!","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Omega Code is no Revelation.The Trinity Broadcasting Network (TBN) produced this amateurish, often predictable apocalyptic suspense thriller about the epic battle between Good and Evil on the eve of the new millennium. Clearly, the 'end time prophecies' in the books of Daniel and Revelation inspired the evangelical screenplay by Stephan Blinn, Hollis Barton, and Hal Lindsey based on TBN founder Paul Crouch's book. Nothing exciting or enlightening about the controversial Biblical code, however, ignites sparks in this loquacious yarn. Sadly, sketchy characters uttering embarrassing dialogue in a cliché-riddled script with little overall action and an anemic ending make only a slight impression in this barely tolerable 100-minute, PG-13 rated melodrama.The Omega Code depicts the efforts of misguided philanthropic tycoon Stone Alexander (Michael York) who spends millions to usher in a new era of peace and prosperity with a little coercion and terrorism for good measure. You know Stone is up to no good when he talks about a one-world currency and an improved Roman Empire. First, he sends out his right-hand henchman, ex-priest Dominic (Michael Ironside of Starship Troopers), to gun down an elderly Jewish scholar after he had broken the 'Biblical Code.' Second, when our sartorial megalomaniac doesn't have his minions manipulating the Bible code to stage a global takeover, Alexander charms a motivational guru, Dr. Gillen Lane (Casper Van Dien of Tarzan and the Lost City), into serving as his mouthpiece. Dr. Lane drops everything to accommodate Alexander, forsaking his young daughter Maddie (Ayla Kell of Rebound) and estranged wife Jennifer (Devon Odessa of Shoot the Moon), before he realizes that Alexander has deluded both the world and him. Meantime, our straightforward but simple-minded hero suffers from hallucinatory visions, apocalyptic horses, hooded monks, and the tragic death of his mother. He refuses adamantly to believe in God. As far as Lane is concerned, no benevolent Higher Being could be so cruel and callous as to destroy his saintly mommy in a senseless car accident. In the middle of a conversation with TV talk-show host, Cassandra (Catherine Oxenberg), Lane experiences these terrifying visions, but he doesn't understand what they symbolize. Shrugging them off as uneasily as he does his botched marriage, he helps Stone embark on his quest for global domination until a jealous Dominic intervenes. When he tries to knock off Lane, Dominic accidentally shoots Alexander in the head and then frames Lane for the murder. Not only does Lane now know the scope of Stone's perfidy, but he also because a fugitive on the lam.Long Ride Home director Robert Marcarelli struggles against a formulaic B-movie script that makes any of The Omen sequels appear consecrated by comparison. The action unfolds quickly at first before it bogs down in numbing passages of exposition designed by its didactic scenarists to highlight the problems of modern society. The characters stand around and chew the scenery, but little happens that would make anybody's pulse race. Even the third-act Raiders of the Lost Ark pyrotechnics cannot salvage this heavy-handed religious propaganda potboiler. The filmmakers allow Michael York of Logan's Run little leeway in his villainous portrayal of Stone Alexander. He appears more urbane than intimidating. We are never in doubt from the outset that York's character is anybody but the anti-Christ. Check out Stone Alexander's star-shaped corporate logo that bears a suspicious resemblance to a pentagram. Indeed, York lends The Omega Code what modicum of dignity that it has with his polished performance. As the square-jawed, reborn hero who locks horns with Stone, Casper Von Dien acts like a school boy with a bladder control problem. Only career baddie Michael Ironside seems genuinely convincing as a hard-fisted fiend with no compunctions about homicide. The closest thing to profanity occurs when he utters 'son of a . . . 'then charges out of the room in pursuit of our hero before we can catch the b-word.The Omega Code draws its inspiration from bestselling authors, such as Michael Drosnin in The Bible Code, Grant Jeffrey in The Signature of God, and Jeffrey Satinover in Cracking the Bible Code, that argue you can find prophesies concealed in divine scripture by using equidistant Hebrew letter sequencing. Hasidic Jews argued the same nonsense as early as the 12th century so there is nothing new about this crackpot theory that is derived in part from Pythagoras who believed that numbers represented the ultimate reality.No, The Omega Code is not the greatest story ever told. The same people who complain regularly about sex and violence in movies should think twice about taking their children to see this shallow morality saga. Nevertheless, this TBN feature film contains several obligatory shoot-outs and a knuckle-bruising interrogation scene that earn it a PG-13 rating. Laudable as TBN's evangelical goals appear, The Omega Code amounts to little more than a second-rate imitation of a secular doomsday adventure opus. Altogether, this innocuously bland Providence Entertainment film release tastes like Tums for the soul.Stay home and read Revelation; it tops this muddled mystery thriller. "},{"Title":"Definately B-Grade","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film probably looked good on paper, it seems to have attracted a few familiar faces and a reasonable budget, but the results speak for themselves. Maybe the director is to blame, maybe it's Michael York's bad shakesperian acting (I thought he was good in the Austin Powers films but then he wasn't on screen for very long). Casper Van Dien and Michael Ironside (who recently voiced the main character in 'Splinter Cell') seem to making the best of it. The whole film takes on a farcical nature as it goes on and I shudder to think that a sequel was made to this (funnily enough it's minus Van Dien and Ironside). "},{"Title":"A great apocalyptic thriller.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  York and Van Dien are top-notch as Evil Incarnate and the young innocent who is duped under Evil's spell. Oxenberg (Mrs. Van Dien) has come a long way from Dynastys alluring Amanda. Through all the murder and mayhem, there is still time for a spot of fun (Gillen repairing Cassandra's torn bra-strap with his name tag).  "},{"Title":"Oh my gawd!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh, well. What could you expect from a movie starring Casper Van Dien and Catherine Oxenberg. This is not worth seeing. Not at all. You'll lose an hour and a half of your life, and you'll never ever get it back. Everything is awful, I give it a one. "},{"Title":"You can pass this one by ...","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Casper Van Dien plays the lead in this movie.  The plot was sort of interesting the hidden information in the bible about the future and the foretelling of events that lead to the end of the world.  I figured they would do a good job with Casper in the lead.Let me say this up front I have a lot of problems believing in Casper's acting abilities.  He is a very small man in size and when a lead actor is small (Alan Ladd was small in stature) they always surround them with short actors.  In this case Casper was surrounded with Michael York and Catherine Oxenberg (remember her from Dynasty?).  I actually saw Casper in person one time and was totally shocked at what a little tiny guy he is.  Very well portioned, even somewhat muscular, nice face and he does photograph well on the big screen but he is not one of our more intelligent actors and often isn't too convincing. Knowing he is just a short little guy can crack me up at times when he is being Mr. Forceful or Mr. Lover on the screen. Honestly, I have nothing against short people but I do have a problem with short people who act like they are big people.  If I had never seen Casper in person his height would probably never be an issue with me.  If the guy was six feet he would truly be an amazing hunk.Ok.  So the plot is somewhat interesting and the effects are digital. Michael York is a religious freak and Casper plays one of those guys who make millions off of let me build your confidence seminars.  Much of the action takes place in Israel and there are lots of Hasidic Jewish guys with the braids and little skull caps.  I got up to feed the cats during a lull in the action and when I do stuff like that it means I've lost interest in the movie.  I came back and never did get back into the plot until near the end when York believes he is the new God and Casper finds the secret to the bible.  There are these two mysterious guys in the picture who save Casper's butt several times.  I think they are Angels of some kind but can't be sure.Anyway, I wouldn't rent this film again for the life of me and I don't recommend it to others.  No sex scenes, you don't see Casper without a shirt or naked (which would have raised by 4 rating to a 5).  "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as you might think....","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Seriously...this movie was not as bad as I first thought. My expectations were so low that I came out actually having positive comments. I am normally not a fan of TBN but they have actually managed to create the best Christian film to date with a budget of only 7 million. It's nominally Biblically accurate, yet doesn't try to visualize things that are just impossible. (Unlike other Christian end-time movies that shall remain nameless)The acting and other type things were more than bearable for me, actually eclipsing certain other movies I've seen recently.Take it at face value, and it's an enjoyable action-drama, but on it's deeper level can be used as a great conversation starter. "},{"Title":"They charge money for this???","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to this movie, not really knowing what to expect.  I hadn't seen any previews, but I had noticed that the reviews were not good.For once I agree with the critics.This was one big mishmash of a story.  It was very hard to follow.  When I read reviews of people who liked it, it reinforces my belief that if they can't understand a movie, it must really be an artistic achievement!!Casper Van Diem is very good looking and that is about all I can say for him.  Michael York is a very good actor totally wasted in this movie.To sum up  This movie is right down there with The Avengers, "},{"Title":"Ambitious Film Falls Short","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a Christian, I wanted to see a quality film based on the prophecies of Revelations, the Anti-Christ and the last days.  I did not.  Although this film offers strong elements -- cast, special effects, production design, and cinematography -- the story is confusing and the dialog is weak.  I applaud the effort and didn't mind paying my $6 contribution to the cause.  But I left feeling disappointed and wanting more.  The filmmakers obviously had a decent budget.  I just wish they'd spent a little extra on the script. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Casper Van Dien (An actor that talent forgot.) stars as Gillen Lane a man who is trying to prevent a maniac (Michael York) from using the secret codes of the Torah to change the world to his liking in this preachy and moronic thriller. Terrible movie is so much of an entertainment dud, that one can die from sheer boredom of this thing. Even the actionscenes are perfunctory. "}{"Title":"Things can only get better","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 100 mins.After the first 10 minutes of the Omega Code you'll be thinking 'not bad' maybe it will pickup a bit now that the main story is under way. Alas you've already seen the best. The acting and the actors are OK but the story is pure drivel.To be honest - I tried, successfully, to get to sleep about half way though so this opinion lacks the full facts.Incoherent, disconnected, gibberish sums it up.3/10 avoid if possible. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, really..","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   While I'm no religious buff, I must admit I enjoyed The Omega Code I didn't think of it as too preachy, a good thing since I would have likely turned it off if it was. Casper Van Dien was decent (as always, not good, just not bad) and Michael York was good as well.   I'm not too sure I completely understand the story, but by the standards of the end of the world genre, this is at least a step above End of Days. So if that makes this seem like a flick for you, then rent it for yourself and enjoy. *** out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"To see quality entertainment, look elsewhere","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Without a doubt, this is the worst film I've ever seen.  I've seen bad films that were actually campy and meant to be silly.Here, the dialogue was completely inane, the acting deplorable; actually sophomoric.  The young deserted wife behaved like a whiney teenager. Casper Van Dien is far too young and cocky to be taken seriously in this role at least.  I found him incredibly annoying, both his character and his delivery were, I'm sorry, thoroughly nauseating.  I don't believe Michael York reviewed the script before signing on for this role. In some ways the acting was terrible in part because the story was so ridiculous, there wasn't much to do to work around it. If the story and text are bad, even decent acting will not make it work. Don't waste an evening on this one. "},{"Title":"God has nothing to with it","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the most appropriate phrase that could be applied after viewing this flick would most likely be Oh my God! Watching it almost compelled me to pick up my old dusty bible (2,95 at the local bookstore or get it free at your local church) and catch up on my Revelations and Book of David, hoping to find some clue as to whether or not i would win the lottery any time soon. I could'nt find it. And probably for obvious reasons. To say it short, this flick is based on pure fantasy, and a sick one at that. Ofcourse it has an appealing look about it. I mean, i think just about anyone would want what is discussed in this movie ( A nice house, a good job,a beautiful wife, some kids,maybe a dog and ofcourse complete and total world domination) Yet i thought this genre died when Flash Gordon kicked Ming's butt. As a movie, it's not very good. The story is weak and incredible plus the acting reminds me of the Romeo and Juliet-play i did in highschool ( I did'nt really, but you get the picture). Micheal Ironside is a favorite of mine and is about the only bright spot in the movie. Casper van Dien has no credibility at all and Micheal York...well, the Count of Montechristo and D'artagnan would roll over in their graves. If you wanna see a good movie, get one of those Scream movies. They rock.... "},{"Title":"Pure crap. Not worth the effort to even blink.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What's funny about this film is not anything about the film itself. The most interesting part is watching all the bible pounders and religious fanatics make a valiant effort to try to convince the general audience that this is a movie worth seeing. But the simple fact is that this film is only entertaining if you have more than a few beers in you to laugh at just how dumb of a flick it really is. An ill-conceived plot, pathetically trying to be a literal impression of the book of revelations. And all the while, there is Casper Van Dien gritting his teeth, and trying to play the hero. Its so sad its funny.  "},{"Title":"Uniformly awful","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was dreadful in almost every regard.  The story concept was intriguing, but the writing was terrible and the presentation was butchered.  The basic premise was that the mysteries of prophesy for all of human history were encoded into the bible.  A bible scholar breaks the code and he is killed and the code stolen by Stone Alexander (Michael York) who then uses it in his attempt to set himself up as king of the world.The direction in this film was awful.  Robert Macarelli was uniformly bad in direction of the actors, the camera work, and the use of cheesy special effects.  The film had the look and feel of a bad TV production.But Macarelli's paucity of talent in direction was greatly exceeded by the abysmal acting.  No number of acting lessons will ever help Casper Van Dien.  He was so plastic and forced in his presentation that I retched at almost every line.  He needs to be modeling clothing in magazines or some other endeavor where we don't have to hear him speak.Michael York, who is actually a good actor, seemed like he had caught whatever bad acting virus Dien brought to the set, since his performance was also stiff and overacted.  Michael Ironside gave his standard bad guy performance which was probably the only decent acting in the film.In a word this movie can only be described as AARRRRRGH.  Avoid it like bubonic plague.  If you must see it, be sure not to eat for at least five hours beforehand.  I rate it a 2/10 (and that is being kind).  "},{"Title":"A for effort, F for results","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Do we want Hollywood to produce non-offensive movies?  YES!!   Do we want non-offensive movies that stink?  NO!!The Omega Code is simply a bad movie. In my opinion, it's simply taking advantage of the popularity of the Left Behind series of books. The acting is sub-par, the plot is all over the board and it is so choppy, I started getting seasick (Who edited this thing!?).  A non-believer would come out of the movie thinking, Man, that was a wheels-off production.Samples of some inconsistencies1. The movie takes place over a period of about 4 years; however, the main character's daughter never ages nor does anyone's hairstyle change.2.  One character is Oprah-type talk show host, yet the movie never explains why all of sudden she is in Rome as a  CNN-type reporter nor does it explain why she stays in Rome over the next 4 years (maybe she was doing an Oprah from Rome type of show for 4 years!!)3. One scene shows the main character being chased by bad guys.  You see the chase through the eyes of the bad guys who apparently are tracking him with night goggles as they run after him through the night (everything appears in green as they would if looking through night goggles), yet whenever you see the bad guys from another camera perspective, none of them are wearing goggles.4. The main character goes to his in-law's house to hide his family. The house is very big and there is a bathroom in the foyer next to the stairs leading upstairs.  Just from a simply architectural standpoint, you get the feeling that this bathroom is located in the center of the first floor, yet when the bad guys track the main character down, he goes into the bathroom and escapes from a window!!!  ( I guess most homes have windows leading to the den)The Lord wants us to be good stewards of our finances.  Because of that, I can not recommend you spending your money on this film unless it comes to the dollar theater.  "},{"Title":"We need more films like this","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code may not be the best movie that ever was, but it had a great message and had amazing effects for a $7.2 million dollar budget. I loved the way Gillen Lane sank to his knees and repented towards the end of the film. Michael York was eerily believable as the villian. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Very dull movie","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only people supporting this movie are Christians who watch or belong to the Trinity Broadcasting Network. TBN made this movie so it stands to reason. However, I think it's an embarrassment to Christianity and to Christian tastes for liking this badly made movie.But as a movie, it's so bad that it doesn't even make good camp. Poor acting, silly plot, terrible special effects.I can only recommend this movie for two reasons1) You're escaping from the law and need a place to hide for 2 hours.2) If you're an insomniac, and in need of a good sleep, this movie will do the job.  "},{"Title":"Decent plot, awful acting poor follow through","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First of all i would like to say that Casper van Diem is the worst actor of all time... Ever...EVER! This movie is just another reason he should be banned from making movies along with a few others. This is a movie of epic proportions depending. The acting and writing in end of days better. From the beginning the execution of what could have otherwise been an average plot is lacking and some of the more seasoned actor in the film seem to be phoning it in. To sum things up i would definitely recommend this movie to other viewers. It is a must that movie goers see this film as a reference point for what movies shouldn't be. Bad form...Very bad form. "}{"Title":"Make believe meets faith","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This hideous waste of celluloid warrants less than a 1. The problem with movies like this - other than the obvious low production value of this one - is their conflation of religious mythology and suspense/thriller genre techniques. Even for those who believe in the fairy-tale nonsense of ancient prophecies, this movie strains the imagination. Casper Van Dien offers what is probably the flattest performance of his lackluster career. Michael York - an otherwise brilliant actor - shows an unappealingly hammy side. Catherine Oxenberg, York's protégé, gives the best performance in this otherwise worthless piece of hysterical religious propaganda. Michael Ironside looks like he'd rather be somewhere else.... I couldn't blame him! But, hey you take what you can get. The graphics are very obvious and overdone. The entire movie fails to suspend one's disbelief - except in disbelieving that anyone could make such an awful flick. Thanks to the fans of Christian TV, it will sell some DVDs. "},{"Title":"A US reporter needs to stop Evil itself after HE helped it.","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To start, I don't know anything about how this movie relates to stories in the Bible, only that it does. I enjoyed it just as is, without any preconceptions. The idea of a peaceful, unified planet isn't a bad one. Where is gets scary is when the Devil, or a demon takes the form of a European political leader, possessing enough intelligence and charisma to become the founder and leader of a New World Order. Casper is a US reporter who at first supports this leader in Europe, but eventually sees through to the true nature of his Evil. Now begins the task of undermining Evil itself to save humanity from a very bleak future. An entertaining and thought provoking movie. This story is very similar to the Left Behind series.  "},{"Title":"Very nicely handled. I think this is pretty good.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While I don't think that that will be the exact outcome, I think it was very good. A little bit better than the Left Behind series if for one main reason, I believe that the rapture will happen after the Tribulation has happened, and this film seems to support that. There is no mention of rapture anywhere, and the only mayhem is caused by the Devil and his servants. The effects were pretty good, and the characters were superb. Although you felt that it actually took less than seven years for the whole thing to happen, it doesn't take away from the story. I recommend that you see this movie. Some people might not agree with it, but hey, everyone's flocking to Left Behind, and God's the one that's causing the mayhem there.  "},{"Title":"Ignore the Christian-bashers","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Once you wade past all the people who have nothing better to do than bash this film because it is a Christian film, you will find that this is a very accurate fictional account of how the last days could be. It plays like a live-action Frank Peretti novel (I can't wait for his books to get adapted to the screen). The acting is very good, especially Casper Van Dien who plays his role very well, with good performances also by Michael York and Michael Ironside. The film is accurately based on the accounts foretold in the Book of Revelation, with very few minor errors that I noticed. The special effects were surprisingly good, as I was expecting a low-budget film, but it surprised me with how realistic it actually was. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Camp drivel designed to exploit windowlickers","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is, to begin with, deeply offensive. Taking a subject many folk believe in then building a cynical, impossible lie of a story on it, based (not as some would have you believe, Revelations) on a cheap, National Enquirer style sensationalist bit of airport reading trash like the Bible Code (BTW you know they've done 'The Da Vinci code' now too) is offensive not just to anyone who cares about how a premise for a film gets the green light but more disturbingly to anyone who is a mug for this sort of thing.Now I'm from England so my knowledge of US Christianity is limited but most positive respondents to this pile of pants appear to take it as much as gospel truth as er... the Gospels. That is worrying because in many cases they overlook the eye-popping absurdity of the film. And they should be aware...Now I missed some of the movie because i took the precaution to be good and drunk while watching this and I fell asleep in some of the slower bits. however, I loved the bits I did see. Highlights and there are no SPOILERS, it can't be doneCaspar and york's initial conversation was the campiest piffle I've ever seen, I've seen more macho dialogue in Maurice. I have no idea how they kept straight faces.The dodgy angel guys chasing down the Jewish guy was the least thrilling chase down in any movie. The chuckle brothers are more tense.The explosion was hopelessly weedy. It was.... I can't be bothered. This film was pathetically horrible. The only reason to watch it is to drink heavily with and chuck junk at the telly. Funny stuff and utter bollox "},{"Title":"An embarrassment!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was not only disappointed; I was embarrassed. As a TBN viewer and supporter, I had heard all the buzz and thought that maybe, at long last, we Christians had finally produced a quality movie on a par with secular productions. Dutifully, I invited and bought tickets for several unbelievers to attend with me. The movie was so amateurish, so fraught with plot holes and so poorly edited both pre- and post-production that I was mortified. Since I work in this industry, it was readily apparent to me how easy it would have been to maintain plot integrity and thereby give the production the quality it was lacking. I was astonished that no effort was made to do so. I can, however, give this movie credit for teaching me never to listen to hype and always preview any Christian movie before inviting unbelievers. "},{"Title":"Omega Code equals a Mega-mess","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Omega Code, as we are quickly informed, is some secret words hidden in the Torah which will unlock the prophecies that will bring about the end of the world as we know it and with it the Rapture. As it turns out, God being all knowing and all seeing, saw to it that these codes could only be unraveled by computer.Before the opening credits have finished rolling, there's this guy named Rostenburg (Yehuda Efroni) sitting at his computer where he has just finished deciphering The Omega Code. Just before being eliminated by a bullet hole to the chest, he rips part of the code out of his book and hides it in his shirt pocket. The guy doing the killing turns out to be Dominic (Michael Ironside), who is prancing about in the most ridiculous Rabbi disguise straight out of the Halloween Costume Department of Wal-mart.After stealing the CD Rom which contains the computer program that unlocks the code, and not for one minute thinking to search the corpse, Dominic begins his escape where he is quickly confronted by two strange characters, who after showing Dominic that his pistol is no match for their angelic prowess, tell him to be on his way like a good little boy so he can kill a few more rabbis or priests or whoever crosses his path the wrong way.Later on we will find out that Dominic is employed by a guy named Stone Alexander (Michael York) whose goal it is to rule the world by making sure the biblical prophecies are fulfilled. The best part of this opening sequence is that it let's us know early on that nothing in this film is going to involve logic, but at least the opening credits were finally over.We quickly zoom back to the good old U.S.A. where we meet Tony Robbins wannabe Gillen Lane (Van Dien) just as he is about to appear on an Oprah TV like show hosted by Cassandra Barashe (Catherine Oxenberg). She doesn't seem too enamored of Lane as he comes bouncing out like Dr. Phil on steroids and immediately gets the audience applauding and laughing along with his antics as he preaches to them how they can release their own empowerment. The funniest thing about this whole sequence is that the audience looks as if they were paraded over from TBN's Praise the Lord show and their laughter sounded like it was stolen from an old I Love Lucy episode canned laugh track.Shortly thereafter we meet Gillen's wife, Jennifer (Devon Odessa) who is not at all amused by his globe trotting, book selling antics. Jennifer has two personalities, glum and glummer. There's also his daughter Maddie (Ayla Kell), who simply loves her papa regardless of what her dour mother thinks. Later, Gillen once again runs into the Oprah host Cassandra, who has mysteriously quit her television show to become a globe trotting reporter completely in awe of Stone. Stone, with Gillen's help starts shaping world events so that the prophecies of The Omega Code can fall into place, which in turn will make Stone more powerful than a locomotive, faster than a speeding bullet, and holier than Jesus Christ himself.All of the events in The Omega Code take place over a period of about seven years, but the way this film is edited it could easily have been two days or two hundred years. We are never given any logical sense of time and place. Often, when Gillen is running from Stone's men or the police, he escapes but we are never shown exactly how. And he does a lot of running. At least a fourth of this film's running time is taken up with shots of Gillen running up the street or down the street or onto another street, running out of an alley or into a tunnel.In another sequence he returns home and at first his wife Jennifer won't talk to him. Then she holds up a sign saying the house is bugged and immediately they begin talking about their escape plan. In another goofy moment, Gillen is at the home of a friend who is secretly working for Stone. Coincidentally and right on cue, when the friend has to pop into the bathroom, the phone rings, Gillen picks it up and it just happens to be Stone once again which enables Gillen to escape.As for the rest of the cast, I have to admit I didn't mind Michael York's over the top portrayal of Stone. He made me fondly remember the lineup of villains on the old Batman TV series. As for Dien and Ironside, both of who took a right turn out of the bug hunting of Starship Troopers to appear in this mess, my suggestion is that they both re-enlist in the marines. Oxenberg does nothing more than appear as needed when the plot calls for it. Just about anybody could have phoned the part in . Too bad they couldn't get the real Oprah at least that would have been interesting, but you won't find Oprah within a thousand miles of this fiasco.If Crouch and Company were trying to win over some converts with this film, they probably failed. I'm sure it pleased those who are already sending in their nickels and dimes to the TBN conglomerate, but it certainly won't convince too many others. The plot is convoluted and totally incoherent. The dialog is stilted and goofy. The directing and editing wouldn't even pass the mustard on a network hour long television show. Anyway, if you're a good Christian, I am sure you can find some good causes to send your money to instead of lining the pockets of the Crouches. It'll get you closer to heaven then this mess ever will. "},{"Title":"it's a Christian thing an  atheist wouldn't understand","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Most of the reviews here seem to be written by Godless mockers who are just trying to be smart *sses. Although in order to make it interesting the movie has added a bunch of junk about computer codes the movie really does seem to do a good job following Biblical prophecy. Hal Lindsey who is a well known expert on biblical prophecy was an adviser. First read the book of Daniel then read the Book of Revelation. By the way this movie has nothing whatsoever to do with Nostradamus. The movie would have been better if the sequel Meggido had been bundled with it. Thats really all I have to say but since that is less than ten lines I need to babble on like the rest of the people here who want to make them selves seem important other wise it won't be accepted. "},{"Title":"Is this a joke?","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen this movie two times actually. One time i rented it. I think i asked for my money back. I thought, and still do, this movie was a spoof. A joke. Like Hot Shots or something. How can anyone in his right mind, and with a career like Micheal york had agree to perform in a movie with a script, plot and effects like this. Was he bored? In dire need of money? we'll never know i guess. It must have been a joke.I just watched it again on TV.This is not only Yorks worst movie ever. Not even Dien's worst movie ever ( to be honest i've never seen a good movie with him period. Starship Troopers featured some of the lousiest acting i've come across too ) but this movie i think qualifies as the worst movie of all time. Directing, editing, acting, plot line. My 2-year old nephew would have done better.Who came up with this crap? And they made a sequel too. God help us ( no pun intented ) "},{"Title":"Worse than I could've imagined!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I'd heard about this and I just hadda see it when it rolled around on cable. Shoot, it's even worse than I could've imagined.Michael York must have been really desperate for money to show up in this (although he does his usual good job, I must admit--he really is a trooper). OTOH, Casper Van Dien's performance in this serves only to remind you that his appearance in Starship Troopers was Oscar-caliber by comparison. And the constant rewriting of the Bible to suit the filmmaker's or producer's own agendas is really embarrassing to anyone who actually knows their Bible history.I'd have to rank this film as second only to Battlefield Earth for the title of Bad Film of the Decade.  "}{"Title":"Christian doesn't have to mean bad","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far one of the worst films ever made.  As a Christian I am offended at several different levels.  First off the writing for this disaster was so bad I thought I wrote it.  The characters were very one dementional and stereotyped (I thought this is what the fundies hate about secular film) and the plot was rushed and inaccurate to the bible.I do have some suggestions for people who want to see good movies with christian themes.  ANYTHING BY INGMAR BERGMAN!!!!!  For great film with real character studys and the struggle to be faithful in a secular world, Bergman can't be beat.  If you want biblical accuracy try Il Vangelo Secondo Matteo (The Gospel According to Matthew) by Pasolini.  La Nazarin by Bunuel is a great film in the tradition of Job and when bad things happen to good people.  Notice that all these films and directors are foreign, I guess that says something about America and Christianity.As for the Omega Code, if your idea of Church is to watch Oral Roberts on the Bible Network than you may like this one, all others are forwarned.  "},{"Title":"Don't believe the bad reviews - they are biased.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am wondering if it all boils down to this Adonai versus Lucifer - the dark Universe versus the Sun. The Universe is the mother - female - which gives birth to stars including our Sun - the male. The Universe is the Creator - Adonai - who creates the created - the Sun - Lucifer. Although we can choose to face and embody one dimorphic extreme, we can Love both - and be both. That is exactly what the hermaphroditic god represents Siva, Zoroaster, Baphomet. IS = ISIS = FEMALE RA = SUNGOD = MALE EL = LORDJacob became a balanced sexually schismatic God - ISRAEL!This movie is amateur - but the plot is second to none if you can get past the home-made directing. Is is unabashedly Christian - which only bothers those who fear Christianity. I am Western, but not Christian. This movie is refreshing as it attempts - and more or less succeeds - at enacting Biblical Anti-Christ prophecy in a way no other movie I have ever seen comes even close. Why not let Christians have their say? What are you afraid of? "},{"Title":"A very unusual film with great photography and special effects.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To understand this film more fully a fair knowledge of the Book of Revelation from the Bible, would be useful.  It concerns a prophecy of the end times, an evil world leader and his attempt to dominate world governments and to rule the earth. It is a very intense drama with lots of action, intrigue, car chases, and suspense.  The action takes place in three major cities, Los Angeles, Rome and Jerusalem, Israel.  The clever camera angles and locations gave a fresh appearance to these popular film locations.  The night time sequences were especially good.  This film had a fresh approach to movie making that I could really appreciate.  "},{"Title":"Worst biblical thriller ever","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I must admit that I'm not a huge fan of biblical thrillers, once I've never seen a really good one. These films are poor in every way acting, special effects, score and script, everything in them is terrible. I couldn't believe when I searched IMDb for the opinions of the users on The Omega Code and I still found positive reviews! Nothing is interesting in this example of how you mustn't do biblical thrillers. Casper Van Dien in a leading role makes everything worse. He never convinces the audience as a religion expert with master degrees in Cambridge! Anyway, this film must definitely be erased from my head, and I honestly hope you don't even put your eyes in it. It is not good. Trust me. "},{"Title":"Not really good","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I saw this movie title I thought it was going to be a great film, however, as a Christian, I can only say that I walked away disappointed and just frustrated with this film. The only thing Christian about it seems to be the subject matter--The Antichrist, and even then they don't rely on the Bible. I like the Left Behind and the Apocalypse films a lot better, they are a lot edgier and have a great concept with a conversion to Christ in the midst. I really do think that the Lalondes did a great job with their films and I hope that the Omega Code will be seen not as a Christian film, but a sliver of Christianity used to support the plot. I would really see it as that, although it did come from a Christian studio. I am hoping to write a film about the Rapture and I want to see it on TBN someday, but as far as the Omega Code, I think it is the butt of all Christian movies, although it seems to be far from it entirely. "},{"Title":"Basil Exposition the Antichrist","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so bad it's good. The acting and cinematography (or lack thereof) make the whole thing play like a comedy. Basil Exposition, er, Michael York certainly seems to act as if it were. From his character's perpetual smugness, to his constant exaggerated pronunciation of the word EVIL-ution, his performance is pure comic relief. All the actors seem bent on overacting their roles to the point of hysteria, most notably Casper van Dien and Jan Tryska. Only Micheal Ironside seems to take the film even remotely seriously. He delivers his usual more-than-adequate bad guy performance, the only decent acting in the film.Like the infamous Chick Tracts, this film could be an embarrassment to Christians everywhere if taken too seriously. But don't. Just enjoy it for the comedy that it truly is. Had it been released a few years earlier, it would have made excellent MST3k fodder.  "},{"Title":"Eh, it's all right...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Possible Spoilers)   sure it's not a great movie and yes the acting, special effects and pretty much everything else had a very Cable TV feel to it, but The Omega Code is certainly better than it's horrific sequel, Megiddo. Yeah, Casper Van Dien is pretty bad, but when you're high point picture was Starship Troopers it shouldn't come as a shocker. The story is pretty ship shod but at this one had a story, Megiddo sure didn't. The special effects are okay, I've seen better, but there all right given the $12 mil. budget. Overall, it's not great, but there is something more enjoyable in Omega Code than in the atrocious Megiddo. *1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Tragic","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this film along with a couple of my friends (who are also Christian) when it first came to video, and afterward all of us were disappointed.  For Bible scholars, this movie is almost a mockery of the events described in Revelation.  To those who don't know the Bible very well (if at all), this movie gives a very misleading and potentially dangerous impression of the things to come.Instead of pumping the storyline with cheesy special effects and relying on the use of the Code to give the plot momentum, the writers of the movie should have stuck to the Bible a little more.  The extras they threw in only made the movie less believable and less powerful.  Giving creedence to the Omega Code to unlock the mysteries of the Bible only hurts the message of the movie.  Let the Bible speak for itself.  Writers and directors of Christian movies need to get on the ball.  The movies they produce need to send the message to the unsaved that they need to accept Christ, and to motivate and encourage those of us who do believe.This movie failed to accomplish either goal. "},{"Title":"One of the worst I've ever seen","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't waste your time on this one.  It is truly awful and a sorry excuse of a film.  I didn't enter the movie with high expectations, either, just curiosity.  Unfortunately, it seemed like the actors' lines were written by a sixth grader (no wait, a third grader).  Cheesy special effects, just plain bad...  Thumbs down, way down! "},{"Title":"A good idea, a bad outcome","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Omega Code has a very interesting subject, with a lot of potential to be a good sci-fi/thriller/action movie, but instead, it's been totally missed. The first half hour is very boring, and if you've already lasted that, you find out that the rest is rather predictable and disappointing. At least if they would've invested in effects they could have had an action movie, but even that didn't happen. Needless to say the acting is not so great. Casper Van Dien in his usual charming good guy role. Michael Ironside in a very disappointing role (what made him take this job???). "}{"Title":"A True Bumbling Tragedy of a Film","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My, my, my, if only there was something below a rating of 1.  I am, admittedly, not a student of the Bible, so I can only offer my opinion of The Omega Code as a stand-alone film.  And that opinion is low indeed.  From the start, Omega Code is obviously a religiously centered movie, and yet it seems to want so bad to be secular.  Slick camera shots, two big name leads, and the action flick format seem to scream Look at us!  We're making a secular film with Christian subject matter!  We've done the impossible!  But rather than intelligently weaving religious aspects into an already strong movie, the filmmakers seem to treat the mainstream and biblical elements of Omega Code like the hot and cold water in a broken gas station sink.  Sometimes it'll be hot, sometimes cold, but never properly mixed.  And in this case, neither are well executed separately either.  So we're left with a motion picture that spends half its time on mind-numbingly boring biblical diatribe and the other half on mind-numbingly boring hackneyed action scenes.  Don't get me wrong.  The Ten Commandments among other films has proven that the words of the Bible don't have to be boring.  But in this film, boring is all they can hope to be.  In fact boring is the operative word in this flick.  Boring boring boring.  So boring, that even when attempting to lampoon it with a friend of mine, we were quickly silenced by the sheer mesmerizing tedium taking place on screen.  How could a movie with so many explosions be so boring?  I'll tell you how.  1) It doesn't respect its audience.  2) It was ill structured and ill conceived.  3) It was clearly written by a mentally-challenged orangutan.  Final thoughts?  This thing makes Batman and Robin look like The Sting. "},{"Title":"OUCH!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I picked up the Omega Code the other night. I'd meant to see it when it was in the theatres, but never got around to it. Thank God. I wouldn't have wanted to spend $8 on it. This movie was *bad.* Where should I start?Ok, so the premise (the apocalypse was predicted by the Bible) was good, but they could have done *so* much more with it. The Prophecy series was based on Biblical narrative as well, those movies are great.The Omega Code, however, is *not* in that league. First, the special effects were bad. I expect glaringly obvious CGI on TV, but not in film. Some, like the globe and the screens, were quite good. But I had a problem with them using an upright pentagram for Stone's logo. As a non-Christian, I found it very insulting. There are other symbols (like an inverted cross) which would have been better. Ok, ok, so technically an inverted cross is the cross of St. Peter, but that bit of trivia is not universally known.Secondly, while the actors themselves for the most part were quite good, the script was horrible and there was absolutely no chemistry between the characters. Speaking of the characters, they were also totally unbelievable. I'm sorry, Lane and his wife looked like they were both in their mid-20's. And they have an 8-or-9 year old daughter? And that wealthy too? Yeh, right.Next, everything *mysteriously* works itself out in the end. Last I checked, the God in the machine bit went out about the same time medieval mystery plays died out too. *sigh* And everything conveniently worked itself out at once.Finally, the final code was 0000--dawn of a new millenium. This film is two years old and sadly out of date. Cashing in on the hype in 1999 was fine, everyone else did, but if they were trying to make a sweeping statement (as I suspect they were) it failed the second they put that in.I'm sorry, I know that there are people who like this film. That's fine. But I couldn't watch it without feeling that it was a 95-minute insult to my intelligence as a human being. The fact that there's a sequel in the works I find rather disturbing, actually.Thank God I can return it within 7 days and get my money back. That's exactly what I'm doing with this disc. The only higher purpose I can find for this DVD is the noble title of Coaster.Cheers "},{"Title":"Why this is a terrible film....","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, there are many reasons that this is up there with Plan 9 from outer space as the worst film of all time (that I have ever seen anyway....)The plot - if there is one, is so incredibly unbelievable that about half way through the film I began wondering if the film was a comedy.....The other thing, of course, is that the Bible Code is a complete hoax - well the words are there of course.... but if you look for enough matches in any book you'll come up with predictions and other amazing facts - for example in Moby Dock (the book) you can find predictions of the assassinations of Trotsky, Ghandi and Robert Kennedy....all in all this is a terrible film. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was not only a complete waste of time to make, but to watch too.It was completely bland, the special effects were something out of a 1970's star trek, and there was no actual point to the entire thing.To anyone with more than 1 brain cell, this movie will not appeal.  It's unbelievable, unrealistic, unimpressive and unoriginal.Please do not bother to waste your money and time seeing this crap.  The story could be interesting, but I think only when you read it, not when you see it.  The story as a movie is visually impotent.  I think it is the worst movie I've ever seen, and the only reason I watched it 'til the end was because I'd paid for it.  It wasn't worthwhile though because the climax never happened.Ever seen Dangermouse?  well Baron Greenback would be a more scary villain.The acting was beyond puke.  The only semi appeal this movie could have is to teenage girls who like that sickly actor (whoever he was) with the bum-chin.(The same person that recommended this movie to me, also recommended Pi, so I shall not be seeing that movie!) "},{"Title":"Rent Pi instead of this garbage.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is bad... And I mean BAD! OK, so there are a few cool effects, and the camera work is sometimes very good. Ironside plays, well... just about every crook he's played in his career. York is pretty good, but Van Dien is a joke. This is simply not his type of character. When you look at the story, well it is bible porn. Using a lot of references to the Bible is not the same as dealing with the subject of the Bible. If you wan't a better movie on this subject, watch the movie The Ninth Gate, or the incredibly overlooked movie Pi (yes, as in 3.14xxxxxxxxxx...) Pi (directed by Darren Aronofsky, and starring Sean Gullette as an obsessive mathematician) deals with the numerological approach to the Torah, but also with what can happen if a person devotes his/her entire life to one pursuit.I recommend Pi over this movie any day!!! "},{"Title":"It must be a sin . . .","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted, I'm not God, so I don't get to decide what is a sin and what is not.  But it has got to be sinful to make such a lousy film about God's people and the Bible.  The acting was soap opera-ish, the cinematography felt unfinished and cheap, but worst of all, the plot couldn't decide whether to take the Bible literally, figuratively, or simply ignore it and rely more on tradition.For exampleTradition only  The Bible Code is considered mythical by most, and has absolutely no basis in any Biblical passages as written, but it is the basis of the movie.Traditional/figurative interpretation  The Bible does not actually *say* that the Antichrist will die of a head wound and be resurrected (the Bible *never* says the beast from the sea, who has a healed head wound, is a person), but that happens here.Tradition ignored  The Bible makes no mention of the Rapture (in which Christians will be removed from the Earth before its destruction), so, despite the die hard tradition supporting it, the movie ignores it.Literal interpretation  The book of Revelation says that the seas will turn to blood, so the movie actually has the seas undergo a chemical alteration to become blood.It's like they're trying to appease everyone on every level of the spectrum regarding belief in the end times.The one (and believe me only) bright spot in this movie is that you can tell the actors, director, and everybody else were having fun making this film.  That is just enough, just *barely* enough, to make this disaster watchable.  Rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"Biblical INACURRACY at it's worst.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't be mislead! This film is anything BUT accurate in it's portrayal of end-times biblical prophesy. This poorly acted, horribly written, and misleading movie not only misrepresents itself as truthfully accurate in the depiction of biblically prophesied end-time events, but is also, like so many Christian backed and produced films, one of the worst and most boring films I've seen in a long time. There has been, as of late, a cult-like fascination with Bible Codes, unproven and highly controversial revelations that appear from random computer generated searches of the Biblical text. There is little rhyme or  reason to many of  these searches so whatever evidence there  is  to support such an idea is circumstantial at best. The bible depicts some very interesting and exciting events-definitely the right stuff for the high-budget apocalyptic film genre, but  this film, and many like it, try to approach this material with hackneyed B actors and miniscule budgets. They hope to proselytize the lost by scaring them with frightening tales of the end-times and the reign of the barbaric Anti-Christ. While the end times may be near, and they may truly be a horrible time in human history, the only  frightening things about this movie are its acting and its goofy, UNbiblical story. If I  were lost I would laugh hard at this film far before I took  any of it's content seriously enough to be scared into repenting. "},{"Title":"Christian Exploitation","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm ashamed that some people might think this is a Christian movie. I saw it just because a friend lend me the video and urged me to watch it. Its not that bad - the camera work and sound was not too badly done. What I do have against this movie is that it is an exploitation of the Christian faith for capital gains. Very little biblical fact went into the movie and I guess it could have just as well have been another '7th Seal' or 'End of Days'.  "},{"Title":"A mess, a holy mess from the first frame to the last","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Suedo science meets phony religious hokum crossed with phoned-in performance by Michael York and Casper Van whatever.York is just sleepwalking through the role, not that it has much to offer any actor outside of the eighth grade. None-the-less he sounds like an Oscar contender compared to Casper I married Robert Mitchum's grand daughter because I don't know how to act! But even I have to admit he's pretty. Pretty awful. The kind of awful that sends actors to duty on some reality TV show -- oh -- that did happen to him, didn't it. Bye-bye.Written by some writer who has no clue how people speak and only seems to be interested in his rather shallow plot line. The bible has been re-written many times, this we know. Then how could a code have survived the cross language translations which are solid historical fact. Had the writer attempted to 'wink' at the audience, he might have succeeded in creating a bad B-grade movie. As it stands it is so bottom of the barrel, so Z-grade -- only the most devoted followers of the National Enquirer or a right-wing religious fanatic/ doom sayer might find it appealing. Selling this idea that the code is a blue print for the end of Days -- is beyond logic even for the movie industry. This film is nothing short of a religious cartoon and a darn silly one to boot. "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a ridiculous compilation of tripe. You know what I hate? Movies that, with a good ending, could be at least slightly redeemable, but end up having a baffling and mindbogglingly retarded one. I have no idea what the point of this movie was. For the majority of the time I figured it was to depict one version of what the end of the world as described in Revelation would be like, which is fine, even interesting. And then they completely ruin it at the end with something not even remotely similar to what the Bible says. As if that weren't enough, it doesn't even make sense logically. What happened to the world? Did the nukes blow everyone up? Why would Alexander launch an attack that would result in his own death? Where is the computer that printed out the final translation of code? Did time go backwards? Did God give up on people? In what form does the earth now exist?Where's Mystery Science Theater 3000 when you need it? "}{"Title":"Oh! Mega crap!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you think this is a serious study of an alleged Omega Code in the bible, don't waste your time.  The headline-type predictions that mysteriously come out of a fax machine or appear on the computer screen are not those of the world's fate, but are specific to the lame characters of this dreadful movie. Terrible dialogue and some of the worst (over)acting I have ever seen.  On the positive side, there is some good footage of locales such as Israel. "},{"Title":"I never knew that a movie could be this bad.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I never have gone so far out of my way to warn people of a particular movie. I actually registered with IMDb just so I could caution folks against seeing this amazingly bad film.  The only slightly redeeming quality of The Omega Code is its premise as advertised, but that too is ruined ten minutes into the picture by outrageously horrible acting, cheesy music, what were you thinking? directing, and unexciting and uninspiring cinematography, not to mention a story that is about as dry and shallow as a puddle in Death Valley.  I am not a Christian, but if I were, I still would hope to have the good judgement to recognize this movie as what it is, something that is not truly worthy of our time.  Then again, if you want to observe filmmaking at its worst, go rent the Omega Code.  It at least will make you laugh a bit. "},{"Title":"My God, this movie sucked!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How bad did it suck? It was all I could do to keep myself from ripping out my eyeballs and throwing them at my TV/VCR. This pathetically directed, miserably acted, and horribly written piece of tripe was actually recommended to me by a stranger at a video store as a terrific action flick. I'll get even if it takes forever. "},{"Title":"The movie that's worse than having a tooth drilled","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie sucked.  There's no better way to put.  The whole thing is just a propaganda tactic to get people to go to church.  If you were going to do that, you could that least come up with a better script.  A main character who complains and acts smug most of the time, a bad guy who seems like you could send your six-year-old to defeat, world leaders who seem to be about as smart as fungus, and two of god's representatives who bug you so much you want to go to the dark side.  BAD, BAD, BAD! "},{"Title":"Stay Away!!!!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has the makings of what could be a thought-provoking, intelligent film.  Instead, we are left with an unfulfilled plot, choppy editing, bad acting, no sense of a time-line, and the lack of any sort of resolution. The movie seemed to want to be the Hollywood hit mirroring Pi(1998), as more of a mainstream hit.  But it seemed as if the rush to get it out before the year 2000 really hurt it.  At times the movie did seem to be leading towards a statement about religion, prophecy, the end of the world, etc&#133;, but time and time again the viewers are let down.  It tries to create a mystique by keeping the viewers in the dark about a few key points in the plot, but is never able to fully resolve itself before completely losing and/or confusing most of the viewers.  Save this one for a rental if you still want to see it.   "},{"Title":"Worst Biblical movie since DeMille's Samson and Delilah","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First, I am a practising Christian who likes movies.  Second, as an aforementioned Christian, I was initially kindly disposed toward this movie. . . that is, until I saw it.  To say that it is merely bad is being unjustly generous.  The poor direction, the overacting, the internal incongruity have already been pointed out, and I will not go into those in depth here.  Suffice it to say, that in this discerning Christian's view, everyone associated with the production of this film deserves severe professional censure.What bothers me most is the theological smorgasbord that constituted the eschatological framework.  I know the Bible pretty well, and this film makes End of Days look like it was written by a team of  Jesuit scholars.  For example, the prophecies in Daniel and Revelation are supposedly related. Throughout the movie we see this Biblical code spitting out prophecies taken from the Hebrew.  Problem is, part of Daniel is written in Aramaic, and all of Revelation is written in Koine Greek.  Three different languages all purporting to point to the same Biblical prophecies, but we don't see any type of effort to find some holographic meaning in Revelation.  Why not? Is the Greek portion of the Bible, that is to say, the New Testament, not subject to the same scrutiny?   Another example, the Abomination of Desolation was mentioned.  I thought it was pretty clearly understood in the Christian community that this refers to the defilement of the temple by Antiochus Epiphanes, and eventually led to the creation of Hanukah.I admire the effort put forth here.  I know what they were trying to do, and their efforts are commendable.  That is to say, their hearts were certainly I the right place.  But, if they're going to do it, do it right. Christians get enough abuse as is; don't add to the store of that by producing perfectly awful movies such as this one.  "},{"Title":"What a disgrace!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a HUGE disappointment, not only for me as a film buff but also as a Christian. The film has very little biblical basis and the plot is utterly ridiculous. Michael Ironside and Michael York probably didn't know what they were getting into when they signed for this deal; it was a shame to see their talents wasted on such trash and I really felt sorry for them. The writing was just plain awful and it wasn't helped any by some of the worst acting I have ever seen. I heard there would be good special effects; where were they?  Those little cartoony demons (a cheap rip-off of Raiders of the Lost Ark) looked like something out of a Bugs Bunny clip.  There were many inconsistencies as well, for instance, why is it that when soldiers are running around at night, we (the audience) see things through night-vision goggles, but none of the soldiers are wearing them? Why is it that the Antichrist didn't ever know he was the Antichrist until half-way through the movie? Why is it that the characters make prophecy come true, when, if I'm remembering right, God does that, not humans? Why is it that seven years (the amount of time prophecy will take to be fulfilled, according to the Bible) seemed to pass in about five minutes? Why is it that the producers of this movie preached about how it didn't have any sex or bad language and would make a good family movie, but still thought it was okay to throw in some violence and receive a PG-13 rating? Unfortunately, although I do believe in the Bible and I wish that more quality biblical films were produced, I have to say that this movie is on my top-ten list as one of the absolute worst movies I have ever seen. I've never come so close to falling asleep in a movie theater.  I've never been so tempted to walk out of a movie because it was just so disgustingly pathetic. Maybe the producers should have used a different source of information for this movie, like the Bible. "},{"Title":"Yet another frustrating backwards step.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a youth pastor's wife and we took some youth to see this film.  We then spent an hour trying to explain it to them.  They didn't get it and I didn't enjoy it.  It is based on a concept that has run through all three of the major religions of the world (the Bible Code, the Torah Code and the Code in the Koran) and is so questionable as to be laughable.  This is not a step forward for Christians in the arts, it is a step forward for those who believe we check our brains at the door. "},{"Title":"This movie is Horrible!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Christian, I know the book of Revelations from head to toe but I know about good film making too. I am deeply disappointed on this movie. It's very, very bad, full of stupid stuff, horrible acting and a despicable script. If you really want to watch a movie that deals with the subject in a more theological way and made by someone who actually knows how to make a good movie and write an script that makes any sense, rent the The Omen triad...Again, this movie sucks big time! "},{"Title":"Encouraging Fundamentalist Christians to be more paranoid.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In this movie, Michael York plays a guy who finds codes in theBible that, following their instructions, enable him to becomethe much-prophesied Anti-Christ. Why would he want to be theAnti-Christ? Because he read about all the power and fame hewould have, of course, and also because he seems to be possessedby Satan. (Apparently, he neglected to read the REST ofRevelation, where the Anti-Christ is defeated and Jesus wins.You'd think this would make him NOT want to be the fulfillmentof prophecy.) Anyway, Casper Van Dien, acting so poorly and obnoxiously that Iwas hoping HE would be the devil figure, is the guy who forvague reasons has to stop the aforementioned Anti-Christ. The purpose of this film seems to be to encourage FundamentalistChristians to be even MORE paranoid about the last days, whichwe are certainly living in. The Anti-Christ is shown to be aregular, successful world leader who slowly gains domination,the implication that we should watch very carefully any suchpeople in real life. The thing is, we all know how it's going to end. There's GOINGto be an Anti-Christ, and he's GOING to gain much power, andhe's GOING to be defeated. It's all prophesied; it's gonnahappen. What good does it do to be all paranoid about WHO thatperson is? Don't follow people who are evil, and you'll be safe. This film looks, feels and sounds like a made-for-TV movie,especially in the lame dialogue department. Bad stuff, "}{"Title":"Should be Shown in Film Schools as Example of What Not To Do","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Quite honestly, The Omega Code is the worst movie I have seen in a very long time. During the first 30 minutes I sat stunned in my seat, trying to decide if I should demand a refund. But since I hadn't paid to see it in the first place (passes), I figured I might as well stay.  And I didn't think it could possibly get any worse.It did. I will quickly run through the low points (includes some spoilers) The horrible miscasting of Casper Van Dien as Gillen Lane, a motivational speaker with two PhDs. The characterization was inconsistent; for example, Lane, despite his credentials, is a complete nitwit.  Then there's the lame-o depiction of the fulfillment of the Biblical prophecies; we see a bunch of sensational news soundbites accompanied by ridiculous computer print outs of the translated Biblical Code. Also, terrible action sequences Lane escapes from tough situations without explanation, and the one time Lane actually does seem to be in danger, it turns out to be a dream sequence! That's cute for grammar school writing assignments, but it's an inexcusable plot device in a motion picture. The pacing was bad after a long opener, the first third of the movie changes scenes every 90 seconds.  Later, the pacing improves, but there is still far too much unnecessary jumping around.  And as someone else mentioned, years pass yet no one (not even Lane's young daughter) ages.  That was disconcerting.There are a few good things, though. The quality of the film (e.g. lack of graininess) is high and very attractive.  The outdoor shots were well done and the location shooting added a touch of realism.  Also, there are a few moments in the last part of the film when Lane calls on God (finally) to help him - this proved to be quite exhilarating - even to me, someone who does not accept Jesus as a personal savior. But I liked this because it struck me as being the only genuine scene in the movie. Unfortunately, it was followed by major incomprehensibility.The characters, dialogue, direction and acting were ALL poorly done. Michael Ironside had nothing to do, and Michael York was just weird.  I think the producers wanted to do too much; if the plot had been tighter and more focused, and the characterization more fleshed out, the film would have been far better. In a nutshell, The Omega Code disappoints.  Definitely do not pay to see this.  I give it ** out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Religious propeganda at its worst","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I should have known I was in trouble with Casper Van Diem as the lead character. Words cannot describe, nor do they do justice to just how terrible this movie was. But please allow me to try to describe it Horrible acting, terrible dialog, corny situations and through it all you get the feeling that you are being force-fed the beliefs and propeganda from the Trinity Broadcasting Network. Its a weak attempt at trying to show Hollywood that a movie can be entertaining and have a deep, religious message attached to it. They failed miserably. It was clearly the worst movie I have seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Well, Dogma is coming out soon at least","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What else is left to say?I've read all the reviews here and most are right on. .  However, one person even went so far as to call this movie evil and that Satan tainted it (or something along those lines).  Evil?!  Wow, what a shocker. . I mean, TBN basically made this film. Open your eyes please.Anway, this was the very lowest grade of propoghanda nonsense that has come along in years.The most terrifying thing about Omega Code is how much money they spent to make it.  If this movie can be made, there are no limits, and therefore, we have no choice but to get ready for Yentl 2, and Ernest Loses the Omega Codes.For those of you who are into the biblical stories, the new movie Dogma will pickup where Omega Code never started.  "},{"Title":"A tear-jerker....","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes I admit I cried during this movie.  It was so incredibly disappointing, that I couldn't help myself but cry.  TBN (Trinity Broadcasting Network) has done it again.  First with having the Million Dollar Man (ex-professional wrestler) on their program, and now this.The Omega Code follows a stream of sketchy religiously oriented movies. It was quite amusing, yet at the same time it was disturbing to find it so biblically inaccurate.  The movie follows what is known as the bible code rather than following actual biblical scripture. This film is extremely poorly made; from its writing to its directing to its hilariously horrible acting.  Its depressing that people actually put effort into this movie.  It appeared more like a late night movie someone would watch on the USA channel or a straight to home video rather than a theatrical released movie.I highly recommend you do not watch this movie, even if your life depended on it. "},{"Title":"An awful film","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect from the film.  Well, now I know.  This was a truly awful film.  The screenplay, directing and acting were equally bad. The story was silly and stupid.  The director could have made a smart and thought provoking film, but he didn't.  I squirmed in my seat for the last half of the movie because it was so bad.  Where was the focus to the film? Where was anything in this film?  Christians should boycott this film instead of promoting it.  It was shabbily done and a waste of my money.  Do not see this film. "},{"Title":"Poor excuse for a movie.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was weak.  Undeveloped plot, overacted, bad editing, poor dialogue. It's not worth seeing. I gave it 3 out of 10 stars. My friend gave it 4 out of 10.  A few people in the theater even left before the movie was half finished.   "},{"Title":"This film is proof that warped minds produce bad films.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"      If there was ever a call to make a bad film that reflected how stupid humanity could become, this one would take the prize.  The plot centers around bible prophecies that lie in hidden messages of the scriptures that prompt a group of power-seeking thugs to attempt total control of the world.  Just how stupid does this writer believe people to actually be?         The acting was bad at best. Casper Van Dien wasted his talent doing this film.  Michael York's work was a fair match for the role, since he was the center of the film, and did a good job.     This plot was sickening and very disturbing.  No tender or immature minds should see this film.  This is how a basic good vs. evil plot can go astray.    There must be a lot of mental disease floating around the film circles, who look for ways to market this type of junk.  There must have been something censored out to get a PG-13 rating, but it was still awful.     "},{"Title":"This movie was a first for me.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was a first all right.  I had been talked into seeing this movie by a friend.  Thirty minutes into it, we walked out of the theater, went to the ticket counter, and demanded our money back.  I had never found a movie so utterly inane, badly-scripted and acted, and hokey.  In fact, we were joking that the secret ending of the Omega Code itself was Surprise, we ripped you off!I cannot for the life of me understand how people found this movie at all worth seeing.  I've read the glowing comments, and have wondered if they were watching the same movie I was.  I mean... the whole thing was a joke, plain and simple.  Even the code translation itself was rather contrived and silly.In short, it was a first.  It was the first movie I had ever walked out of. "},{"Title":"Racist, insulting, misogynistic, and astoundingly bad","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only is The Omega Code a mess in terms of acting, plot structure, schlocky special effects, and pacing, but it is also racist and misogynistic.  Everyone in the movie with an accent is a 'bad guy', females are treated as side thoughts, and lines such as the new EVIL-ution pervade the half-baked script.  It's also confusing!  It was hard to tell who the viewer was expected to root for.  A character is striving to bring peace to the world, and we are told that that is bad!?  I personally would like to know where the $7 million went in the making of this movie.  An insult to this Christian, and I find it sad that some Christians are actually happy about this movie.  It makes Christians look ignorant.  I found it to be insulting at best.  I only wish that I could give it a zero. "},{"Title":"it's not the best but....","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After watching this film it got me to thinking as a Christian of what is coming when the Anti-Christ makes his move and for that reason I think its worth a look.There is some plot areas I think could've been more better and our here always getting away so easy with nothing to protect him, Spoiler perhaps, His visions was never explained why or who caused them.but putting that aside I think people should watch as a reminder of what is coming because like a thef in the night you never what coming unless reminded to be aware. over all the movie rates 7 of 10 Magictrain "}{"Title":"My Son was sacrificed for this?","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  MAN DAMN IT!  This movie should be expunged from existance.  It was so bad it made Mary's eyes bleed!  This movie was a huge waste on money.  I hope the religious right sponsers for this flop get crucified.  The only way this could have been worse is if el Diablo (adam sandler) was paid $20million to be in this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The acting was terrible. The plot was stupid. Everything about this movie was bad.  If I hadn't been with friends I probably would have left before the movie was over. It was painful to sit through it.  "},{"Title":"MST3K material","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Gloriously stupid.  This movie is cartoonish vision from a paranoid outlook that is just barely disciplined by a slavish devotion to matching current events to the book of Revelation and the traditional trivia that's grown up around it.  The basis of the plot is an old myth that messages can be picked out of the bible by selecting individual letters based on a code.  It's been debunked by scholars who used the same methods to extract all sorts of idiotic messages out of the Bible.  But this alone shouldn't make the movie suck as bad as it does.The sloppiness of the Omega Code can sometimes be astounding.  For example, Catherine Oxenberg's character is clearly either an amalgamation of other minor characters or (more likely) is simply an all purpose character who stands in for any role where exposition is needed.  And man is there a lot of expository dialogue.The special effects are years behind their time.Casper Van Dien's aerobic delivery as a new age/agnostic/motivational speaker is comedy gold.  It's meant to parody secular charismatic types I think, but actually looks like an infomercial hosted by the biggest dork since Carrot Top.There's an insipid stretch in the center of the movie where Dien flees from the military and police forces of the whole world, and evades them by going to see his Dad, a Senator.The use of stock news footage is not only bad, but it is used so frequently that one can't help but suspect that they were padding the slim 100 minute running time.  Even though much of it is filmed on location, the direction indicates an almost feeble inability to suffuse the places with any grandeur. In the end, the plot just falls apart.  Actually, except for the fact that there are signs of the apocalypse and then a white light, the plot is a shapeless mass of stupid people babbling about things that make no difference to anything at all.  Really.  This plot is, and I don't say this lightly, as incoherent as Plan 9's.I did like how hurt Michael Ironsides sounded when he found out he wouldn't be antichrist Michael York's evangelist of evil.  The guy is a tight-lipped thug who can barely get along with the antichrist.  How dumb would he have to be to imagine that the antichrist would put him in charge of PR? Improbably dumb, even for this film.  But Ironsides invests his sense of betrayal with so much feeling, and the idea that he might have thought he was in line for a PR job is so unexpected, that it's a gut busting moment.I guess the funniest thing about this film is that it has so little to do with Christ - as in the guy who was in the Gospels and ransomed our souls and stuff.  Instead this movie obsesses on tearing Christian prophecy down to the level of conspiracy theory.  It's like watching the overarching theme of the X-Files, but without any interesting characters and lots of bloopers. "},{"Title":"You GUYS ARE JUST TOO FUNNY!!!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey! Everyone that is insulting this movie is just too funny! Your messages are so entertaining I always read them and get a good laugh out of them. You guys are just HURTING your self with all the insults! You guys crack me up! Casper Van Dien (Starship Troopers) brings the film together, his acting is stunningly good! Michael York is of course good too! This film starts of slow, but pick's up and is terrific! I loved it! Hey! What anybody says it won't change my view on this film! Fun, entertaining, terrific, and Thrilling. Wanna exciting movie with no sex, or language for the family? You just came to the right page, buy through Amazon! "},{"Title":"Accurate Biblical Drama","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie, based on the Book of Revelations and the controversial Bible Codes depicts the rise and fall of the Anti-Christ.  The special effects were convincing, and the action was fairly intense and thrilling.  With the exception of veteran actors Michael York and Michael Ironside the acting was a little rough.  A true student of the bible and those who have an interest in the bible code will find the movie interesting, all others will be entertained, but will be satisfied with one viewing of the movie. "}]