[{"Title":"A breath of fresh air","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"70 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's like a breath of fresh air to see a drama driven by characters rather than by a typical Hollywood plot. If this were any other drama, someone would get cancer, the little boy would go missing, the stars would look like supermodels, and the characters would talk with a screenwriter's emotional phrase. Here, the characters think, act and talk like real people. They could be us. That's the genius of this movie. If you want fantasy, don't see this film. If you want to be touched by great acting and a wonderful plot that shows the complexities of human relationship, see this film. This isn't Terms of Endearment, Steel Magnolias or One True Thing. This is real. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Originally written as a one-act (which manifests itself as the eventual meeting of Terry and Sammy in the restaurant) by stage veteran Kenneth Lonergan, 'You Can Count on Me' is an amazingly realistic look at the filial dynamic and relationships that come from the breaking and separation of family.Split from their parents at an early age, Sammy and Terry, the older and younger, respectively, are forced to rely on one another throughout their youths until Terry vanishes, travelling across the nation for a long time.When he finally returns, Terry finds that Sammy has built a somewhat stable life for herself in their beautifully provincial Appalachian hometown with her single-mom life and her adorable son, Rudy.'You Can Count on Me' boasts honest, believable dialogue and acting in like kind.  Laura Linney's performance as the somewhat-restrained Sammy is easily her best, and Mark Ruffalo's as Terry is also highly evolved.  The beauty of this film is that there are literally hundreds of places for the plot or action to derail and become an emotional sap-fest ripe with over-dramatic exclamations, but it stays right on track, always honest, brutal, and, ultimately, endearing.Lonergan has hit a kind of gold mine here.  Fans of his hugely successful 'This Is Our Youth' will recognize his work here, as 'You Can Count on Me' is obviously kith and kin to it.Do not expect breath-taking special effects.  Do not expect dramatic exlcamations or exposition.  Do not expect the typical or mundane.  This film is extraordinarily truthful in its telling of the boundaries we build for ourselves and the ones we love. "},{"Title":"See this film.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"49 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I almost didn't know anything about this film, but when it came out on DVD, a lot of critics  recommended it, so I checked it out. And - wow! A real little gem of a movie that perfectly  blends drama and comedy.The story may be slight (to say the least), it's basically just a couple of days in the life of a  sister and her brother, and the people around them in a small town. No real beginning, and  no real end, but a fantastic, original script, and some really great acting. Mark Ruffalo and  Laura Linney (she gives one of the best performances I've ever seen on film) are both  extremely likable despite their characters' flaws, and it fun to see Matthew Broderick in a  different kind of role for him.A film about ordinary people, living ordinary lives, all done in a near flawless way. Great  script, direction, and acting - that's something you don't see every day, so make sure you see  this one. "},{"Title":"You Don't Need a Crisis for a Great Movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not all stories need a crisis for the characters to resolve or an issue to press to be compelling.  Some stories are just slices of our workaday worlds, packaged and presented in such a way as to entertain us. You Can Count on Me is one such story, and its cinematic telling results in one of the best movies of 2000. The story's protagonists are two siblings, Sammy (Laura Linney), a divorced, single mom living the middle-class life in her small up-state New York hometown, and Terry, her foot-loose, presumed screw-up, brother. Apparently, he rarely visits, but when he does its because he wants something, usually money. You Can Count on Me recounts one such visit. That's about it plot-wise. But the movie looks deeper into their lives; Terry's impact on Sammy's 8-year old son, Sammy's relationship with her old boyfriend, and her new boss, Terry and Sammy and their differing expectations of one another.I hope this doesn't sound boring, because it's not. The movie illustrates these lives and relationships without Freudian analysis or angst. Things are what they are, and it's a treat to share them.  "},{"Title":"Acting par excellence","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie centres on a brother and sister.  Samantha lives in a small town going through the routine of life, when suddenly she finds out her brother Terry is coming to visit again after a long absence.  However, we soon find out from these 2, that not everything in their lives are perfect.This movie has the most engaging characters I have ever seen.  The two actors, Laura Linney and Marc Ruffalo, I could have just sat and listened to them all day talking about their lives.  It is that good.  Marc Ruffalo has this charisma and screen presence and makes his character come alive like no other person I have seen on film 'ever'.  These people are so real in this film it is unbelievable.The movie is charming, witty, heartwarming, unpredictable, VERY funny, and so great.  You leave the theatre wondering what well become of these 2 and their trials, and they seem like people you know.  The great thing also is the film is not sappy, or has predictable plot holes, or a serious climax that you are waiting for to erupt.  It just unfolds so perfectly.Great film (must see)10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"quite refreshing ...","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  you can count on me is a truly refreshing movie. the most enchanting aspect of the movie is its true to life characters and brilliant acting.the characters are human, there are no angels here, no evil devils - just real people, with real failings and real weaknesses, real moments, real feelings, real warmth, real stupidity ... you can count on me is a simple story that is beautifully told. a romantic movie, a family movie, a warm movie about human relationships, the complexities and the tender moments in between.this is an absolutely pleasant movie that has no corny moments, the background score is terrific, the acting is brilliant especially laura linney is quite extraordinary. there are many funny scenes in the movie, the movie is well-paced and the script well brought out, the dialogs are enjoyable. a truly fine movie.absolutely recommended for people who are pretty bored of the big budget fake hollywood scripts, with their outwordly characters. this movie is close to the heart.a refreshing 9!! "},{"Title":"A Rorschach Test of a Movie","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A quick glimpse at others' comments here confirms what I suspected when I finally caught this flick on video myself -- it is something of a Rorschach test for viewers.  I notice that there are people who absolutely identify with Laura Linney's character, Sammy, and others who completely see the film from the point of view of Mark Ruffalo's character, Terry.  I think this is a sign of a good film.  I myself was prepared to dislike Terry because he seemed such an obvious mess, but the film allows him his own point of view that you come to respect.  And I am not a religious person at all -- in fact, I have major issues with organized religion -- but I was impressed with the even-handed, sympathetic treatment of religion here, and also of small-town life -- both very rare in American movies.  The cast is uniformly good -- in addition to everybody mentioned in others' comments here, I'd single out Jon Tenney as Sammy's well-meaning, on-again off-again boyfriend -- but Linney was simply phenomenal.  See this, if only to see how *you* react to it. "},{"Title":"I really don't know where to begin.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't. This is just one of Those Movies, y'know? Shot for shot it's great. The cinematography definitely knows what it's doing and it's VERY mindful of itself in such a way that we can ignore it if we're not paying attention to it. As such, the camera steps out of the way and we're free to absorb the story, as simple as it may be. Man... I honestly loved this movie. The acting was top-notch, the principles were great and everyone else was cast so perfectly that every second of the film just falls into place. Just go see it. Please. Mark Ruffalo gives a fantastic performance as an Unfamous, Untalented Bob Dylan. The script is not heavy-handed. It's charming without being aware of itself. It's just a really really good film in the style of good films (re The Sweet Hereafter) that's going the way of the dodo under the weight of these iconoclastic Hollywood heavy hitters (re Shaymalan et al). Such a good film. So good.  "},{"Title":"To Settle Or To Roam","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A sister and her brother, both grown, see the world in ways that are significantly different. The divorced sister and her young son live in the small town she grew up in. These are her roots. Nothing exciting happens here, but her routine life offers security and stability. One day her brother comes to visit her. The brother is something of a wanderer, moving around from place to place, unmarried, unsettled, looking for adventure. His visit sets up a clash between him and his sister and their different life styles one sedentary, the other nomadic. In the absence of other siblings, and with both parents dead, each counts on the other to provide familial support.It's the kind of film a lot of viewers can identify with, because most of what happens in the film is very ordinary babysitting, plumbing hassles, time sheets, an annoying white-collar boss ... the stuff of everyday life. The emphasis is on contemporary realism.Both Laura Linney (as the sister) and Mark Ruffalo (as the brother) were well cast for their roles. Both do a fine job of acting. The film's dialogue is realistic and believable. The country/western music is nice, but a little surprising, given that the story takes place in upstate New York.If there is a downside to the film it is that it gets off to a slow start. Also, the story comes across at times like a soap opera.Since the brother and sister have no other adult family, the film's theme is the same as its title You Can Count On Me. The story tugs at your heartstrings, especially with that poignant ending.Because of its relevant, contemporary premise, its character development, and the high quality in direction, cinematography, editing, casting, acting, and production design, this is a film that most viewers probably will find satisfying. "},{"Title":"you can definitely count on this movie","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In one of the many manifestations of the power of the indie flicks during the past ten years, rebellious young Terry Prescott (Mark Ruffalo) comes to visit his sister Samantha (Laura Linney) and her son Rudy (Rory Culkin), upsetting their normal lives. You Can Count on Me is very much a script- and character-driven movie, a far cry from a Hollywood cliché movie. As for the characters themselves, Samantha and Rudy are quite respectable; Terry is hard to classify, as he almost seems to be wasting his life but is the sort of rebel who we all wish to be; Matthew Broderick - as Samantha's boss - made my skin crawl, and I suspect that you'll feel the same.All in all, this is certainly a movie that I recommend, and I'm eager to see Kenneth Lonergan's next movie. "}{"Title":"Good movie,  Bad Message","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film was fair with skilled acting and a fairly entertaining story (except for Linney's acting which is mediocre). However, I felt the film sent bad messages. I won't be a spoiler, but suffices to say that Linney's character's actions are tantamount to blackmail and sexual extortion. The film demonstrates that it is OK to have sex with a coworker, then use the threat of a lawsuit to advance and sluff off your responsibilities on the job. In the film Linney plays a loan officer , a basically unskilled job of questionable value to society, especially when viewed through the eyes of those victimized by the financial crises. On the other hand, her brother's character is a carpenter, a skilled hardworking position of which our society has a shortage. Yet he is portrayed as sad , pathetic, and an addicted looser. He is also apparently undeserving, as Linney's character takes much of what is rightfully his for herself, and he seems to inexplicably agree. Linney's character wants to leave work early to pick up her son, yet they never show the worker left behind who picks up the slack, or are we suppose to assume the bank closes early for her too?The film seems to imply it is OK to use kids as a human shield against criticism if they are used as the reason for shirking one's responsibilities and taking from others; a message of which I do not personally agree. I would advise the writers, next time you need a home repair or remodel, call a loan officer. "},{"Title":"You cannot count on me","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe as a one act play, on a stage, this story might have served some kind of purpose. However, 111 minutes of it on film was tedious and a serious downer without mercy. It could serve as a terrific example (terror being the root of that word) of morale relativism in action, with excellent effects and photography to bring home that message. Martin Scorcese can put a movie together. It could serve very well for instructing older children how shabby life can be smoking pot and shuffling along without purpose, an evil bedtime story, maybe. But it isn't something they'd want to watch again for entertainment, which wasn't its intended purpose. "},{"Title":"The Human Bullwinkle","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.From the amazing talent of the writer behind Bullwinkle, we have a personal exploration of sibling roles/rivalry. It fails because he attempts something requiring skills he doesn't have a sensitive reshuffling of expectations which simultaneously tugs at common strings. Naturally, a kid is exploited. We wonder where is the dog?But there is one surprising thing the writer appears in a small but pivotal role. He's pretty darn good -- in fact most of the players are. But they can seldom control the threads the writer hopes to weave. "},{"Title":"An original screenplay with excellent acting","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You Can Count On Me is full of interesting, real characters that tell a simple story, without any major crises or special effects. Some people may find it boring, because it is too real, or may strike too close to home for them. I found it to be one of the more interesting films I've seen in a while.******SPOILERS******Kenneth Lonergan tells the story of a brother and sister who at a young age lose their parents to an automobile accident, and the long term pain and uncertainty that such an event can bring about. Sammy(Laura Linney) stays in the town she was raised in, and leads a normal if uneventful life. She spends most of her time trying to shield her 8 year old son from the horror that is his father.Terry(Mark Ruffalo) is her younger brother who has never been quite able to get his life together, but doesn't seem in any hurry to get it together. He has traveled around the country, sometimes working, sometimes getting into trouble. Just drifting.When Terry comes to visit Sammy, everyones world is turned around. Sammy tries to live a freer life, within parameters, like her brother. Terry tries to connect with her son and be more normal. Both are heavily dependent on each other, and both use the 8 year old(Rory Culkin in a superb performance) as a crutch.The beauty of the story, is in it's simplicity. This film reminded me of The Trip to Bountiful or Tender Mercies. Stories that were simple and believable, populated with real people, not characters.Linney and Ruffalo are wonderful and totally believable. Lonergan himself is terrific as Sammy's spiritual adviser.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Lonergan's new film was a big hit (and winner) at the Sundance festival, and rightfully so.  Not only is this one of the best films of the year, it is also one of the best (if not the best) films ever made on families, especially siblings.  Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo play a sister and brother who have parted ways for some years, but when the brother who is a drifter comes back home to her sister's (now a single, flawed mom), things very deep come in.  Like Pay It Forward, this film brings deep feeling in family matters brought on by good acting, writing and direction.  One flaw the boom mike appears so much during the scenes, it's a wonder that the boom mike guy wasn't in the film just as a bad plot device; otherwise a must-see.  Performances by Linney, Ruffalo, Matthew Broderick (as Linney's boss) and a intro performance by Rory Culkin (brother of Macaulay and Kiernan) as Linney's son make this a winner in more ways than one.  Director Lonergan appears as a preist Ron.  A+ "},{"Title":"Brother and sister see each other again after six months","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We saw this movie on television yesterday, we got caught into it when it started while we had planned to watch something else. We is me, my fourteen year old son, his sixteen-year old friend and my twelve year old daughter. Rare for an 'ordinary life' movie like this, it gripped us, the kids too, from the start... it was the brilliant, brilliant dialog that did this. We continuously found our alliances switching between Terry and Sammy and back. 'Hmm, he has a point there', 'But she's right when she says...'. Would Terry disappoint the kid and thus fail in our view, did he have the right to comment snidely on his hometown to Rudy like that, etc. The constant tightrope made it gripping to watch. The conversations and also the little details like the thing with the plumbing etcetera were so incredibly lifelike. What a great film, great writing, great acting... "},{"Title":"Fine acting, questionable plot make for a fair not good movie","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting was excellent, pacing was OK.  But the plot had some big holes and seemed sort of scrunched together at times.  Where things did not fit, they just mashed them together.  This could have been a really fine movie, but for the lack of true quality editing and writing. Also the lead character just starts jumping into bed with guys with no obvious or likely motivation...highly doubtful the way she is portrayed. An enjoyable movie, but not in the top tier by any means. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had heard some really great reviews about this movie so maybe my expectations were too high but I was extremely disapointed.  The first half of the film is very engaging and you develope a caring for the characters but then the movie really goes no where.  Nothing is actually resolved or accomplished which is not necessarily a bad thing.  The problem is that I felt that the characters were more less in the same place as when they started the movie. 4/10  "},{"Title":"Totally not interesting movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  when I went to see You can count on me, I thought it was going to be some good and sensitive movie about families torn apart. Of course I did, as I had seen it had a prize at Sundance! But you know what? I almost slept! And I dont often sleep at a movie. But this movie is just full of clichés about religion, psychology... It's all so conventional. you dont even get interested by the actors nor their characters! It could have been great, there are some interesting things in the screenplay but... I may be the only one (well, not a friend of mine agree) that have thought this movie was really not worth to be seen, but, i had to claim it! "},{"Title":"Boring film about dysfunctional people","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My reaction to the title You Can Count on Me is to wonder why anyone would want to count on any of the people in this film. None of them are reliable. None of them have a moral compass. And none of them are the least bit interesting.You Can Count on Me deals with siblings Sammy (Laura Linney) and Terry (Mark Ruffalo) Prescott, who lost their parents in a car accident when still young. Apparently, whoever raised the two of them did nothing to teach them right from wrong, as in adulthood they still don't seem to know the difference. Sammy has produced a child, Rudy, Jr. (Rory Culkin), out of wedlock. She is raising him on her own, as she has no respect for Rudy, Sr. Terry has gotten his girlfriend (a grown up Gabby Hoffman) pregnant, and immediately after finding this out, leaves to visit Sammy and Rudy. Shortly after he arrives, he finds out that his girlfriend has attempted suicide, although this news seems to have little effect on him. Sammy, in the meantime, begins an affair with her new boss, Brian Everett (Matthew Broderick). Terry and Rudy, Jr. bond, and Terry decides to take Rudy, Jr. to meet his father (Josh Lucas) without telling Sammy. The visit results in a fist fight between Rudy, Sr. and Terry, and his detention, with Rudy, Jr., in Rudy, Sr.'s hometown. Sammy is, of course, frantic about the whereabouts of her son. Meanwhile, Brian threatens to fire Sammy for missing work while trying to find her son, but she convinces him not to since he has committed an ethical breach in sleeping with her. Once Terry and Rudy, Jr. return home, Sammy asks Terry to leave. Terry storms out without saying good-bye, but he and Sammy reconcile before he leaves town.While this could have been an interesting plot line, the decision to portray it as mundane takes most of the drama out of it, merely presenting the story as a series of facts. In the end, you are not drawn into the story because the story is not told in a way that draws the viewer in. The characterizations are awful. Who would care about any of these people? Sammy is so full of herself that she doesn't see her son's need for some older male - ANY older male - to emulate. Terry is possibly the biggest screw up I've ever seen, so completely devoid of any sense of right or wrong, that you realize his admissions of guilt are merely words said to smooth over with no sincerity in them. Brian is smarmy and irritating. And Rudy, Jr. could have benefited from further development.This movie boasts an impressive cast, and they struggle to rise above bad material. Linney succeeds, and gives us a character that we are drawn to in spite of her shortcomings. Ruffalo is wooden and delivers his lines as though he were reading them off a teleprompter. Broderick gives his usual good performance, but one gets a sense that he is underused here. Culkin is actually quite endearing in his performance of Rudy, Jr.If this is supposed to be a celebration of the mundane, then it shows why the mundane is not usually celebrated. This film could have been interesting, but in the end it is so poorly done that it fails to entertain. Count on it to put you to sleep. "}{"Title":"Run...don't walk away from this movie","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ostensibly a tale of redemption this movie is basically a waste of the audience's time.  Laura Linney plays a successful single mother who receives with great joy the news that her rapscallion of a brother, Mark Ruffalo, is returning home for a visit.  Laura's character has stayed and prospered relatively well in the town they grew up in and Mark's character seems to have hoboed around and spent more than one night in jail.  Somehow he connects with her son and apparently has an epiphany and his character changes.OH THE HORROR!  The plot was weak, the dialogue was a joke, the characters were poorly drawn to begin with and had no moments of growth.Oh wait, I know I said Mark's character had an epiphany but it made no sense and was never explained.  The movie seemed to start in the middle of nowhere and ended with no resolution at all.  Mathew Brodderick had what looked to be an interesting minor role for him and then just became a waste of camera time.  SKIP THIS ONE!!!!   "},{"Title":"Only Scorcese can get these kind of reviews for a movie like this.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let's summarize the plot kids lose parents in car crash.  Sister grows up almost decent.  Brother is a jerk.  Brother comes for a visit.  Brother remains a jerk.  Sister remains almost half decent.  Brother leaves.I was under the working assumption that a key point of any literature, movies, etc. had to be character development.  Apparently Martin Scorcese has found another alternative.  This Scorcese Paradigm, apparently, involves extended weeks on end of viewing time elapse (what do you mean this was only 100 minutes long?), while the audience is waiting with baited breath for something to happen.  When the credits eventually rolled, I took a deep breath, looked quizically at the screen and said out loud, Why was this film made in the first place?.  I mean, nothing had happened.  The only appreciable change that took place in any character was that the previously moralistic sister became a dope-smoking harlot, not that I wouldn't expect that from a Scorcese piece.  And there is some virtue, I suppose, in exposing a hyper-judgmental moralist to be as much of a fallen creature as you or I, but there is something to be said for showing us personal integrity and strength of character and conviction.  But I must be realistic here as well.  This is a Scorcese piece.And, true to Scorcese's form, he takes a swipe at Christianity in the form of the priest.  The priest has lost all attachment to his faith and consequently when pressed with the important questions of the day can only resort to psychotherapy as being the ultimate answer.  He fails to provide either a theological or a moral framework for life and is portrayed as a confused and bumbling, but sentimentally concerned, individual.The development of the adulterous affair between Amy Ryan's character and Matthew Broderick's was ridiculously predictable, and predictably pointless. Apparently people who hate each other and don't get along at work just up and throw good families and caution to the wind and go at it in the front seat of a station wagon on frequent occasions in Scorcese's America.To be fair, I did think that Scorcese demonstrated the depth of family ties well, by giving the relationship between the siblings some depth.  The no-good brother is still loved by his sister, despite her knowledge that he really is a base and defiling influence on her son.  This is where the movie did take an unexpected turn and develop some depth and texture in the relationship between - well, anyone.The movie finally concludes with the sister making a false accusation about her brother.  (She fails to condemn his actual failures, and in fact adopts them as her own, but darn it, she's all over him the minute he doesn't fail!)  The brother gets mad and leaves.  The sister stalks him down and apologizes.  The brother comes home for the night but leaves the next morning anyhow.  Which still leaves unanswered my question, why make this movie in the first place? "},{"Title":"Predictable  Lifetime channel plot lacks originality or suspense.","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the interest in disclosure I must state that I saw this movie for the first time ten years after it's release. Therefore, I had the benefit of both the 08' financial crisis and ten thousand more films just like this one having been made (although most appeared on Lifetime)The plot is basically that of working single mother against the world. Thats right, Single mom makes good with Laura Linny as the single mother . She has all the brains and cleverness in the movie, while the male characters are basically there to serve her. Her boss, played by Broderick, is tentative and afraid, and has stupid business ideas as well. Her brother, played with good acting skill by Mark Rufflo, is a sad drifter who works construction. Although he is the one who does the most respectable work as a carpenter, neither him or his trade are given much respect in the film. As the plot unfolds, Linny's character is shown to be very clever as she eventually gets everything that she wants. She gets freedom, power and even the family house.She sleeps with the boss, even though his wife is pregnant, then later extorts the ability to do basically whatever she wants at work or I'M TELLING! She gets her brother to sign his half of the house over to her, without any good explanation of why she deserves his half. Lastly, she dumps the man who wants to marry her , perhaps just to show how omnipotent and in control she is.The film never establishes why Linny's character deserves to get all the good fortune, unless by virtue of being a single mother she deserves it. They never go into why she made a bad choice as to who would father her kids, although perhaps her fling with Broderick was a clue. She is never shown doing much actual work either, come to think of it.After the 08 crises we learned that loan officers , a job without very high skill or educational training, treated themselves to some big cuts of some loans to people with little ability to pay them back. Perhaps Linny's job in the film is viewed a little differently today.Although the film had the feel of the dreaded dreaded message flick, it's message was what? if you do difficult, dangerous work and don't cleverly extort privilege with sex, your a sucker? The public has grown weary of the antics of some mortgage brokers in the past decade; perhaps they will grow weary of this same tired , and by the way unrealistic plot in the next. "},{"Title":"Lollygagging with Lonergan","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a review of You Can Count On Me and Margaret, two excellent films written and directed by playwright Kenneth Lonergan.Released in 2000, You Can Count On Me stars Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo as Sammy and Terry, two siblings whose lives have been affected by a family tragedy. Sammy lives alone with her son Rudy (Rory Culkin), whilst Terry's a drifter who lives on the road. When Terry moves in with the duo, he begins to form a bond with Sammy's kid. Sounds formulaic? It's not. Lonergan dodges clichés like crazy, conveys a certain emotional complexity, and delights in subtly setting up and then overturning expectations. In this regard, Terry is initially portrayed as a delinquent with no gifts, responsibilities or direction. Sammy, meanwhile, is portrayed as a strong, steadfast, stable Mom who has life by the reigns. Cleverly, however, Lonergan questions these narrow assumptions. Terry begins to reveal himself as a perceptive guy, becomes a surrogate father to young Rudy and reveals various talents. Sammy, meanwhile, unravels before our eyes. Both Ruffalo and Linney turn in excellent work. Ruffalo consciously mimics a young Brando, but is more wounded, more inwardly tortured. Like most of Ruffalo's characters, his Terry is a quiet, sexily melancholic guy. Linney, meanwhile, paints Sammy as a bristly, tightly wound woman. Both characters engage in rituals of denial, burying their pain, engaging in flights of fancy and never discussing things directly.More ambitious than You Can Count On Me is Lonergan's Margaret, a deliberately lurid melodrama. The film stars Anna Paquin as Lisa, a precocious teenager who lives a life of privilege in New York City. When Lisa distracts a bus driver (Mark Ruffalo), this leads to a traffic accident and the death of a young woman. From here on, Lisa attempts to get the bus driver incarcerated, pursuing an idea of justice that's designed to expiate her guilt, though unconsciously she desires to draw attention to her own crimes. The film abounds with complex little moments. Lisa appears like a rude idiot in some of her school classes, but like a passionate, intelligent girl in others. She appears sexually mature and confident in some sequences, but hopelessly inexperienced in others. A mercurial force, Lisa purses everything with a sense of vengeance, though her roiling, emerging sense of self is also frequently humbled, as she spends much of the film dealing with her own insecurities, limitations and nagging conscience. Lonergan thus manages a strange juggling act; Lisa the hurricane, Lisa the mouse. He then applies these wild polar shifts to other characters. One kid, for example, played by Kieran Culkin, seems cool as a cucumber, until we learn he's sexually incompetent. School teachers (Matt Damon) and various other adult characters are given similar treatments.Elsewhere the film centres on Lisa's beleaguered single mother, a successful stage actress. Lisa attacks her mother for attending boring Opera productions, in which stupid people just want to prove how loud they can sing, without realising that she herself embraces an operatic vision of life. For Lisa, Lisa is the centre of the universe, Lisa's dilemmas matter, Lisa's trapped in a grandiose web. Lonergan thus has Lisa's daily troubles and emotional catharses &#x96; indeed, the whole aesthetic of his film - echo the operatic form. He then mirrors Lisa's operatic self-centredness with the quieter, more mature world-views of older characters. Reserved, bottled-up and more generous than Lisa, these are characters who have learnt what every teenager eventually learns you are not the centre of the universe. Other people matter. But Lonergan also sympathises with Lisa. Her private operas also matter. From these contradictions then spring various exchanges about anti-Semitism and so forth. In Margaret, everyone has their own opera, they just approach the sound-stage with different levels of jadedness.Incidentally, the film's title refers to the person addressed in Gerard Manley Hopkins' poem, Spring and Fall. That poem was about a girl called Margaret who is shocked to realise that all the beautiful trees around her are experiencing a form of death and decay. As Margaret's innocence crumbles, the poem then mocks her for mourning leaves whilst being ignorant to the plights of human beings. It then argues that as she grows older, Margaret's understanding will grow, until she'll be able to see the death of leaves and things in other worlds as well.The poem thus concisely embodies Lonergan themes how rational minds are prone to irrationality, how emotional storms are both warranted and supremely narcissistic, how moral behaviour is oft made difficult, how private traumas and complications routinely go unnoticed by others, how everyone engages in fantasy projection, how indifference functions as both a kind of maturity and cold-heartedness, how being good and wishing to be seen being good differ, how morality is necessary but seems limited and trite in the face of greater injustices, how suffering seems relative, the difference between intellectually knowing and physically experiencing, the imperfections of people and the world itself etc etc.Aesthetically, You Can Count On Me is the more conventional of the two films. Margaret, meanwhile, is shot with a certain Olympian grandeur, everything big and bombastic, Lonegan's stance magisterial and overcooked by design. The film had a troubled post-production history, spending five years in editing rooms, civil courts and without release. When it finally hit cinema screens, nearly half a decade after it was shot, it was hailed as a masterpiece by several directors, most notably Martin Scorsese. Several cuts of the film exist. Lonergan's preferred cut is roughly three hours long.8.5/10 &#x96; See Everything Must Go, Ghost World, The Yellow Hankerchief and Frozen River. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Who's counting on whom?","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A dense, sometimes awkward, often funny drama concerning two grown siblings trying to iron out the kinks of adulthood. Kenneth Lonergan's film is excellently plotted, with plenty of extra narrative strands and a super script. It also has what I now recognise as his directorial hallmark, economy. Some scenes last just seconds, wordlessly moving the story on. There are also brilliant jump cuts that can be funny or surprising. These techniques add up to a substantial film about how the brother and sister manage a particular juncture in the run-up to middle age. Mark Ruffalo's drop-out Terry is pragmatically unreliable; yet his social irresponsibility points us towards the personal integrity that Laura Linney's Sam finds somewhat muddled. Both are excellent. Rory Culkin is solid as the discreet Rudy Jr and Matthew Broderick plays a beautifully-judged role as Sam's flimsy-pedant boss. Lonergan almost blows his hand by deploying one of the more emotionally extreme numbers from Bach's Matthew Passion under the opening credits but the temperament of the rest of the film remains in this sequence's environs. Impressive. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The film's strengths are the brilliant performances of Linney and Ruffalo and its well-written script by Kenneth Lonergan","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laura Linney stars opposite Mark Ruffalo in a heart-warming light drama as siblings who lost their parents to an accident when they were kids. A mother to an 8-year old boy, Sammy Prescott (Linney) lives an ordinary life as a lending officer in a local bank in Scottsville. She goes to church regularly and dates an affable guy Bob. Everything was going well until Brian (Mathew Broderick), the new bank manager who is married to a 6-month pregnant obnoxious woman, enters Sammy's life. The two started on a wrong foot but eventually worked things out carnally.Mark Ruffalo plays Terry Prescott, the brother who lost his way out of Scottsville. Faced with a financial struggle, Terry went back to Scottsville to ask for Sammy's help. Sammy was all excited to see her brother whom she hadn't heard from in three months. When she found out that Terry was jailed, Sammy got furious but because she loves her brother so much, she asked him to stay for a while to which Terry obliged.The film's strengths are the brilliant performances of Linney and Ruffalo and its well-written script by Kenneth Lonergan.Laura Linney is a pleasure to watch as the woman who tries to put things in order. She gave a natural and real performance whose screen presence is just so powerful that she's able to maintain the connection to the audience throughout the duration of the movie. Best scene-the restaurant.Mark Ruffalo fabulously portrayed his character as a man who's lost his way but still fully connected to his sense of self. Terry is not the ideal uncle who's supposed to be exemplary to children. It was a well-executed performance and by far his best performance. Best scene-the restaurant. "},{"Title":"You Can Count Me Out","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Right out of the box let me say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. The cast was terrific, with special praise for Laura Linney and Matthew Broderick. A little less so for Mark Ruffalo, who always seems to be fidgeting and struggling for a line; some sort of James Dean affliction, I suppose.The story of Sammy (Linney) who is under much pressure from a new martinet (and very married) boss, while trying to raise her 8-year old son, and is then visited by her irresponsible younger brother (Ruffalo). Of course, Sammy plunges into an affair with the boss, complicating things even further, while brother Terry introduces some unwanted adventure into his little nephew's life. Sammy is also fielding a proposal from Bob, a bed friend and nice guy.Everything in this picture is just fine, except for the really mind-boggling anticlimactic ending. None of these plot strings are resolved in any way at all - neither happily or otherwise - giving no closure on any one of them. I am not advocating a happy ending or a sad one, merely some closure on perhaps one aspect of the many conflicts or problems so masterfully presented.What we have here is a great movie with no ending. If it had an ending, ten stars was well within reach. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Opal","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the tender yet very raw story of a troubled young man and his sister who never gives up on him. Laura Linney is like a variegated opal, cool and lovely, offering her brother hope and comfort, offering words true and kind. This is one of those very small movies that calls to mind a few lines from Pastoral by William Carlos WilliamsNo one/ will believe this/ of vast import to the nation.I think it was the most magical movie I saw that year. I can't explain why. Something about watching and listening to these characters moving about inside the wreckage of their family, and seeing the story gently unfold, made this a remarkable experience. "},{"Title":"A disappointing movie to me","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Warning There is a spoiler below.I'm a movie buff and almost always find myself in agreement with consensus opinions on good movies. I found this movie, however, disappointing on two unrelated counts The more serious one was plot and character development. I didn't feel that Laura Linney's behavior in particular made sense. Obviously movies can and should contain surprises. However, the surprises should be in terms of events; or if they involve behavior, the surprise behavior should in hindsight make sense in terms of character development. When she had the affair with her boss, it made no sense in terms of their relationship or what she thought of him, even in hindsight.Secondly, I didn't think that the role of her son was either well conceived or well performed (I'm not sure which was the real problem.) In the context of the movie he should have been a sympathetic character, and to me he just wasn't. The best character in the movie by far was Mark Ruffalo's character, both in terms of the character in the movie and his performance.Finally, I had a real problem with the music. Bach's cello suites are one of my all-time favorite pieces of classical music; but to use them in this movie (and at ear-splitting volume) made no sense in terms of the context of the movie. Obviously the writer-director liked them also. I can almost hear him thinking I'm going to use them, even though they are totally wrong for the setting and context of this film. It felt like he was on an ego trip. Oh well, if using them turned anyone on to that fantastic body of music, it wasn't a total waste. "},{"Title":"Great movie, 8 1/2 stars","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I did so reluctantly, keeping in mind the many over-hyped, critically acclaimed indie films that have left me wondering what all the fuss was about to begin with. Firstly, to anyone who is not too familiar with this picture, or is only mildly interested in seeing it, I suggest that you ignore the negative reviews it has received on this board, rent it and decide for yourself.The quality of this movie is achieved in its subtlety. No, you will not encounter blatant philosophical questions about the uncertainty of life, the yearnings of the soul, or the demon within. What you will find is a wonderfully realistic representation of the complexities of human relationships. Both Linney and Culkin are brilliant, while Ruffalo and Broderick give very good supporting performances and provide a little comic relief. Really though, the charm of this movie lies in Terry and Sammy's steadfast loyalty and love for on another.As far as character development goes, again this is achieved through subtlety. Not to say that we witness Terry or Sammy's complete metamorphosis before our very eyes, but they do manage to break free of any stock characterization that might have been implied earlier on (ie Terry, the ne'er-do-well, rootless younger brother). Most of the character growth comes in very small doses, as we see Terry and Sammy's hidden sides being revealed through their conversations with one another, a local minister, and more importantly, Sammy's son. By the time the movie concludes, the characters have come full circle, except this time around the viewer gets the sense that these people have actually learned something. That is a rare commodity in movie making these days. "}{"Title":"A perfect movie that should've swept the Oscars. Laura Linney!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A PERFECT movie. I wish I lived in a world where this movie would have swept the Oscars like It Happened One Night, or One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Laura Linney got ROBBED of her much deserved Oscar, as did Kenneth Lonnergan. You must see this movie if you appreciate character driven plots. "},{"Title":"A triumph of craft","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  2000 was not exactly a highlight year for American movies, and perhaps for that reason You Can Count On Me stands out even more.  Written and directed by Kenneth Lonergan, a first-time director but veteran screenwriter and playwright, the film is vibrant proof of the importance of three-dimensional characters and down-to-earth acting. At the center of the film is Sammy, a beleaguered but determined single mother trying her best with Rudy, her eight-year-old son.  Her ne'er-do-well younger brother, Terry, re-enters her life after a long period of absence, and from there the story takes off.  It's hard to imagine a better portrayal of the frequently ambivalent relationships between siblings, or of the constant struggle faced by parents in raising a child.  To be sure, these themes have been handled ad infinitum by other films; however, even the best examples of family dramas typically suffer from some amount of anvil-dropping, forced humor, and too-clever plotlines.  You Can Count On Me, on the other hand, is the cinematic equivalent of an intelligent conversation between friends subtle, knowing, never condescending.  No character is quite the way you expect him or her to be, but each is entirely believable and compelling.  Like American Beauty, the story asks you to look beyond appearances and examine every side of life.  At first glance, Sammy appears to be the very model of a single mother, working hard to support her son without depriving him of attention, but as the film progresses we begin to view his upbringing as overly sheltered, even stifling.  Conversely, Terry seems in the beginning to be just the father figure Rudy needs; however, the same problems that have led him to run to Sammy may well cause him to run again.Finally, given that You Can Count On Me is adapted from a play, it's a pleasant surprise how well Lonergan utilizes setting and scenery.  Not having seen the play, it's impossible for me to imagine this story without the grass, trees, and country roads of rural upstate New York.  The small but vibrant town of Scottsville is the perfect locale for the small yet complicated story of You Can Count On Me. "},{"Title":"Lonergan - Look for this name","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My favorite drama from 2000. An orphaned brother and sister grow up and apart. When itinerate brother Terry (Mark Ruffalo - excellent) drifts into town to stay with his sister Sammy (Laura Linney) and her son, the loving entanglements of family life conspire to keep Terry from drifting out the back door. Sammy's son gets a father, Sammy gets her brother, and Terry gets the family he never had, right? Not so fast.Writer/director Ken Lonergan steers WAY clear of the weepy bathos meted out in Terms of Endearment-style blubber parties. The results grace, warmth, and lots of comedy. The actors and script are so natural, so honest, you'll wonder where the Oscars went.Heartwarming, heartbreaking, this impressive debut is comparable to films by Bruce Beresford (Tender Mercies, Driving Miss Daisy), and Paul Cox (Innocence, Man of Flowers). Matthew Broderick keeps things light as Sammy's tyrant boss. Three cheers for American cinema!  "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled by the trailers","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know the ads for this movie conveyed it to be about mainly marital infidelity. But please overlook that. There is so much more to this film that the trailers forgot about. It's about a punctilious, somewhat prudish single mom whose who life is enhanced when her brother comes for a visit. His intention is to beg for money to help him rectify things after being released from prison and for medical attention for his lugubrious, suicidal girlfriend. But what end up happening is the lives of the sister, her son, and the brother's whole world is ameliorated. And believe me, this is not just a touchy-feely movie. So if you despise films like It's a Wonderful Life, you'll still love this. It's really great for anybody, except maybe little kids, cuz there's some language and sexuality. It's no wonder this movie won an award. "},{"Title":"Truly great","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen. Very well written, very well acted, funny without being silly, heartbreaking without being sentimental.  Laura Linney should have got an Oscar for her performance. "},{"Title":"This movie makes you feel happy...","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in a time where there is practicly a war going on in Israel... Watching this movie gave me a really good feeling when I got out of the cinema. It's a relationship story that looks and acted very well. It starts a bit slow, and you might find the beginning a bit boring, but 20 minutes into the movie you start liking what you see...8 out of 10 in my opinion, cute and touching movie. "},{"Title":"Proper film making","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie excelled in storytelling, acting and successfully avoiding the Hollywood traps that can destroy these first two elements.The storytelling isn't notable for being particularly skillful or unique, rather, it's a solid tale that doesn't get twisted in some lame producer's desire to sell tickets by making everyone happy as a pig in s**t. For this alone, the screenwriter and director deserve some credit.The acting is outstanding. Mark Ruffalo steals the show by effectively portraying a pained young man on the brink of implosion. Laura Linney stood up well to Ruffalo's festering wound and Matthew Broderick was detestable as a detestable Bank Branch Manager.In addition to these achievements, You Can Count On Me succeeds with a fine soundtrack that could oh so easily have been horrendously lame, instead, it provided background w/out dictating how the audience should... feel...right...now. Additionally, the setting and costuming all did justice to real small towns as opposed to small towns that have been built in those same small minds of aforementioned Hollywood producers.A notable achievement that ranks among the best films that I've seen. "},{"Title":"A pleasure to watch!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How could anyone call this film the worst they've seen in years?  The acting wooden, the characters uninteresting???? You can count on me is storytelling at its finest.  It should've won best screenplay because Lonergan's writing and directing is pure, honest and engaging.  Ruffalo's acting was superb as was Linney's.  Definitely a pleasure to watch.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful - a movie with a great script, convincing actors and deft direction","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I may be preaching to the choir here, but finally caught You Can Count On Me on video last night and was utterly taken with it. After having recently seen Planet Of the Apes, where I suspected that the producers saved money by persuading a precocious ten-year-old to write the dialogue, You Can Count On Me came as a wonderful, surprising gem. It has now settled my stomach after the indigestible fodder that was Apes.You Can Count On Me is a gentle, realistic character study of two estranged siblings, played perfectly by Ruffalo and the always-brilliant Linney. I found the characters to be convincingly three dimensional. Ruffalo's Terry is an unreliable ne'er-do-well with an ultimately gentle character. Linney's Sammy is a tautly-stretched single mother trying to be perfect for everyone, and her bright, deliberate smile is painful to watch. Even Matthew Broderick's prissy little bank manager came across as a man of weak character shaped by disappointment, and I found the tiny little jokes he dropped when he was less guarded to be pathetic, in the true sense of the word. Watching Sammy gain more self awareness and inner strength at the end of the film is a pleasure, as her change is not borne of some dramatic epiphany. My favorite scene is the one with the minister (played by Lonergan), in which she exhorts him to give her a dose of old-fashioned fire and brimstone rather than sensitive therapy. Lonergan understands human conversation, and directed to allow for natural pauses between phrases. He also seems to understand awkward silences, and how many were likely to exist in these relationships. I related to each and every one of the characters, even the ones I disliked. I was also pleased to note that the words you can count on me were never uttered once in the movie, although they were alluded to. Having them spoken would have rung false and theatrical in my ears.Some of the (few) negative reviews here seem to take issue with the fact that nothing really happens in You Can Count On Me. I strongly take issue with that. Nothing gets blown up, nobody ends up happily ever after, the siblings don't turn to each other tearfully and admit that golly, we all learned something that day. Well, let's be frank when was the last time that happened to you? We all get spoonfed so much pablum in mainstream film - which is fine, as long as you're aware that it's not real food. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this film, unfortunately this film never came to a theater near me, so I only saw this on my television. This film has everything I need in a film a script, great - or should I say amazing, yes amazing - actors and a director who did the film he wanted to and didn't let the studio make a lesser film. Laura Linney deserved the Oscar! But I have no doubt that she'll get one soon. Mark Ruffalo is the next Marlon Brando, Dustin Hoffman, whatever you want to call it, he's got it. "}{"Title":"it was good","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie with my parents, they hated it and I secretly liked it. Although I liked it, everytime I saw Matthew Broderick I wanted to kill him, he was so annoying. I basically liked the movie because there was a clear point that everyone should realize and that is no one is perfect. I love one line of the movie it was at the end when Terry was talking to Rudy. "},{"Title":"A quiet masterpiece","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Laura Linney's performance is wonderful and worth every minute of this minor masterpeice melodrama set in upstate New York.With her immature brother on one side and her over-eager, sexually dominant boss on the other, Sammy Prescott has a lot on her plate in life.  For desert we can all enjoy her little boy, Rudy.  Rory Caulkin and director Lonergan deserve special kudo's for bringing in best performance by a child-actor in years!  Caulkin underplayed his role as the eight-year old caught in the windstorm of his uncle's return to his small hometown, making the character very beleivable and a child's role not designed for the pity applause meter. Uncle Terry and little Rudy's interactions are a movie all in itself.It is a bit melodramatic and at moments I was expecting commercial breaks. Somewhat akin to an afternoon soap.  However, the story is never predictable and the actors co-exist in almost perfect tune.I rated 7/10 and it would have been higher but the plot has lags in it. Most notably, Sammy and Terry's parents demise at the begining of the film appears to have little bearing on the rest of the piece.  I had questions in my mind watching and waiting, wondering how these two had grown up.  The other was Terry's ability to find employment and how this issue was never addressed.  Both of these goofs (perhaps)should not keep anyone from enjoying this little masterpiece.I look forward to more of Lonergan's work as well as Linney and Caulkin.  "},{"Title":"Quality performances and script","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A quality movie with great performances. Don't get put off by the seemingly bland storyline (a brother and sister, bereaved of their parents, grow up very differently; havoc ensues when the brother comes to stay with his single-mother-sister and her son). Laura Linney turns in a well-deserved Oscar-nominated performance and the script distinguishes itself throughout - mostly for what is left unsaid rather than actually spoken. Characterisation is not only convincing but draws us in because of the very lack of perfection of the characters - these are people with their faults trying to do their best - in very different ways. "},{"Title":"People you care about","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a lovely film, as well written as anything in the last several years. This low budget sleeper deserves five stars and then some. Gee, it doesn't take $200 million bucks to make a great movie, just honest, real characters, that are perfectly written, superbly acted, and brilliantly directed. This film is such a treat. Ken Lonergan... way to go! "},{"Title":"touching, funny, excellent movie","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Linney has been one of my favorite actresses since she did Congo, and thoroughly stupid and thoroughly entertaining movie. In that movie she plays an action role, and does a fine job, but manages to also bring a kind of sweetness to the role that is charming. Unfortunately, she seems to get cast as an icy blond most of the time, so we don't see much of her range (she was really good in The Truman Show, but she played a bitch there, as usual). However, in this movie she gets to play a real person, and she is terrific.The movie is about an adult brother and sister, whose parents were killed in a traffic accident when they were kids, and who really have only each other, but the brother is a rootless type who is just barely too nice and smart to be a complete loser. When the movie opens he is coming back to see his sister, and his return perturbs her life enough that pieces of it start to fall off. The supporting cast is excellent, but Linney gives a funny, heartbreaking performance of a woman that has only herself to count on, and who longs to let loose but is (justifiably) afraid to do so. However, she is also unwilling to box herself in to achieve security. One of the great things about the movie is that it doesn't try to explain everything neatly, or even to resolve much of anything. This is a really good date movie, by the way... "},{"Title":"A beautiful, wistful slice-of-life; a triumph for writer-director Kenneth Lonergan","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laura Linney gives a terrific performance as a single working mom in upstate New York who welcomes home her estranged, ne'er-do-well brother; he's only visiting because he needs to borrow money, but brother and sister end up spending a lot of time together while she contemplates different personal choices she has to make in life. Screenwriter and filmmaker Kenneth Lonergan (who also has a small, somewhat baffling role as a non-committal minister) is a bit clumsy initially in setting up his story, and the first scene between Linney and Mark Ruffalo in a restaurant is badly staged and overwritten; however, after the introductions are out of the way (and the characters take shape), the film becomes a lovely, heart-rending look at the struggling human condition. The script may seem plain or simple at the outset, but layer upon layer of conflict, need, raw feelings, emotions, and frailties are revealed, and the actors are nearly flawless (not just the leads, but every supporting and two-line player as well). Lonergan shows an incredible talent working with actors as a director, he's both sensitive and sharp, focused and quirky, tentative and galvanizing. This is a real actors' showpiece, executive produced by Martin Scorsese, and everyone here is shown to his or her finest advantage. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Ties between Brother and Sister, Beautifully Executed","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Lonergan's script is so poignantly observant that I couldn't help but be impressed by this relatively quiet drama, one that focuses on a mostly overlooked relationship in movies, the delicate connection between brother and sister during their adult years. The story begins abruptly with the auto accident deaths of the main characters' parents, a life-altering incident that serves as the catalyst for all the failures both children experience later in their lives. Of course, the siblings become a study in contrasts. The brother Terry is a drifting ne'er-do-well who refuses to be entangled in anything resembling responsibility since it means he needs to make an emotional investment. His sister Sammy is the polar opposite, a controlling perfectionist who stayed on in their hometown to make an orderly life for herself and her son. It's the only means she knows to insulate them from complications that would force her to question her existence. She holds down a respectable but dull job as a lending officer at a bank, keeps a well-intentioned suitor at arm's length and continues to hope for a male role model for her lonely son. When Terry comes to town for a visit, the fulcrum of emotions felt by both characters seems so real that it makes the episodic nature of the film seem all the more cohesive and touching. It's a remarkable achievement for Lonergan, who makes his feature film directorial debut with this film. He even plays a small role as the deadpan local minister who seems to be satisfied dispensing advice in a vacuum.The acting by the leads is superb. In his first major role, Mark Ruffalo captures the ramshackle nature of Terry with an effective mix of child-like innocence and restless bravado. Ruffalo provides heart to a basically unsympathetic character without compromising the emotional inertia that drains everyone around him. But I have to hand the picture to Laura Linney, who is letter perfect as Sammy. Her porcelain looks and pinched demeanor provide a veneer for an emotionally fragile woman who is conflicted about not only her brother but her entire existence as she starts to feel it unravel. The scenes between these two actors are consistently wonderful. Best among them are the lunch scene where her excitement in seeing him quickly turns to disappointment when she realizes the true purpose of his visit; the amusing pot-smoking scene on the porch when she confesses the adulterous affair she's having with her boss; and the heartbreaking goodbye when she realizes how much she needs him in her life regardless of the pain he inflicts. Rory Culkin plays Sammy's son Rudy with quiet maturity, and the interplay between Culkin and Ruffalo is well handled as it becomes apparent that the death of Terry's parents has actually made him the same emotional age as Rudy. In a supporting role, Matthew Broderick plays Sammy's boss with the smarmy, honey-toned pretension at which he has become a master, and he is the impetus behind the hilarious scenes at the bank, which take on a Dilbert-esquire flavor with pinpoint accuracy. Twangy country songs provide a comic counterpoint to the illicit scenes between him and Sammy.I really like this film and look forward to seeing what Lonergan will do next. The DVD includes a short documentary, which includes interviews with Lonergan, Linney and Ruffalo. Strongly recommended especially for those who have danced precipitously between love and anger with their families. "},{"Title":"Strong indie, up to a point","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A long time ago, Hollywood used to make the occasional slice of life movie. Maybe the best example was Marty, the tale of an overweight Brooklyn butcher who falls for a plain-Jane school teacher.Hollywood has long ago abandoned this kind of film, although American independent filmmakers and Europeans continue to turn them out regularly. You can count on me is that kind of film.The movie takes place in a small town in upstate New York where Sammy, played by Laura Linney, is an unwed mom working as a loan officer in a bank. Her life is pretty calm until her drifter brother Terry shows up looking for a handout and winds up moving in with her.Terry, played by Mark Ruffalo, takes over the job of live-in child care worker and soon Sammy's son, Rudy, played by Rory Caulkin,finally has a male in his life. Before long, Rory and Terry are breaking the rules together, but in a nice sort of way. Meanwhile, Sammy gets a marriage proposal from her nice, but boring boyfriend, played by Jon Tenney. More importantly, she starts an affair with her new boss at the bank, played with an orderly nastiness, by Matthew Brodrick.So, what happens? Actually, not too much. The love affairs turns sour and Terry proves that the reason he gets on well with an eight year old is that he's about as responsible as one. Actually, he may be a little less responsible than the one he's looking after.One of the features of slice of live movies is that they often don't include the kind of big, catastrophic events that Hollywood loves to depict. That holds true for this movie. The incident in which Terry reveals himself as the irresponsible looser that he is isn't the kind of traumatic event we expect to find in Hollywood films. It is, however, the kind of thing that happens to many working class guys who don't have a good grip on their tempers and aren't as happy with their independence as they pretend to be.But it's this film's lack of a big payoff which may be its biggest failing. While in real life most of us don't learn all these life lessons we find at the movies, somehow movies seem a little more important when we at least get a glimpse of one.You can count on me fails to deliver a final punch or even much of a tap.But it's worth seeing anyway for some uniformly good acting and for the fine direction from Ken Lonergan. It's also interesting because of a storyline that at least makes us question whether the charismatic loners about whom so many films are made are really the charming guys they appear. It also points out that blood can really be thicker than water, although sometimes its not a good idea to bridge those waters.You can count on me is actually worth seeing -- a lot more so than most of what has come out of Hollywood this year. "},{"Title":"Refreshing and not afraid to be melancholy","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you spend your movie days watching great films, indie films, in short, a variety of films and not just the run-of-the-mill easily-accessible Hollywood films, you'll still probably like this movie. But if you haven't seen anything fresh and unique for awhile, you'll really, really like this movie.I saw it because 1)I've loved Laura Linney since Primal Fear, never a false step in her acting, imo; and 2)Mark Ruffalo,I saw Mark in 13 going on 30(I was babysitting, gimme a break)and I realized he was good enough to make the film likable, so I figured he must be a pretty good actor.Anyway, what I got out of this film is you need to know and appreciate who you lean on when you're in trouble. Whether it's for money or spiritually, or something you hold onto. ***SPOILER!!!!!!***Like in the end, when LL's character is at the restaurant and in the car, and she finally looks at her boyfriend in a different way. She realized two things that she does need him and what she needs him for. I think all the characters to some extent felt this in the end, and maybe that made them more honest with themselves. Even the little boy, who saw his dad, now understands his mother a little more now and why she kept him a secret. He always says I don't care because he doesn't want his feelings hurt, but now maybe he will care because he knows about his father and he knows that at least someone, his uncle, stuck up for him on it.I think Uncle Terry realized that his sister is the way she is toward him-not because she's so different, controlled and reserved because of the town, etc-but because she sincerely worries about his well-being. And he realized that he needed that and it was one of the things that kept him going on.It's hardest to read Sammy, imo., but I think it was an awareness of herself and a coercion to being more honest with herself. The open endedness with the way this ended didn't make it cheerful , but it made you realize that sometimes things have to be the way they are and you have to look at them for the way they are, and maybe that will lead you more to a positive outlook.Peace, ~Septembre  "},{"Title":"Poignant Drama From Ken Lonergan","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Relationships and the problems faced by people just trying to get through the day and make some sense of their lives is explored in `You Can Count On Me,' written and directed by Ken Lonergan.  The story focuses on Samantha `Sammy' Prescott (Laura Linney), a single mother living in a small town in New York State, who has worked at the same bank for seven years while raising her son, Rudy (Rory Culkin), on her own.  Then one day her brother, Terry (Mark Ruffalo), whom she has not seen for sometime, shows up.  He moves in with Sammy and Rudy, and for awhile provides Sammy with some help, especially with Rudy; it's a welcome respite from juggling her work schedule and trying to do it all herself.  And it takes some of the pressure off, as her new boss, Brian Everett (Matthew Broderick), is a stickler who takes exception to Sammy having to leave early every day to pick up her son from school.  At about this same time, however, an on-again-off-again relationship Sammy has had with a man named Bob Stegerson (Jon Tenney) begins to get complicated, while the situation at home starts to tweak in the wake of some questionable decisions made by Terry that involve Rudy.  And-- as if all that weren't enough-- inexplicably, at work sparks suddenly begin to fly between Sammy and Brian.	Lonergan does an excellent job of bringing his story to life.  The Screenplay is well written and intelligent, and offers some real insight into the human condition by embracing the very flaws and foibles of which we are all endowed, and which we all must deal with in one way or another in our own lives.  It's an engrossing, emotionally gripping film that presents very real characters and situations, and one of it's strengths is in the honesty, of not only the actions, but the `reactions' of the people playing out the drama.  And it's that genuine sincerity at the core of the story that makes this film so effective and believable.  Well directed and acted, it's quite simply an affecting and memorable film.	Laura Linney has never been better than she is here, and deservedly received an Oscar nomination for her performance as Sammy.  She has a thorough grasp of the character that makes her real-- this imperfect woman and mother coping with the stress in her life and just trying to do the best she can and what she thinks is right.  Her portrayal acknowledges Sammy's strengths and vulnerability, as well as the fact that people change and relationships evolve; that what may have been right for her a year ago isn't necessarily what she needs today.  Sammy is a complex character, and Linney convincingly takes her through a wide range of emotional levels that evokes empathy for her and makes her someone you care about.	Terry is a complex character as well, a young man with a good heart, lacking perhaps some personal direction, but whose biggest fault may be that he cares too much and feels too deeply.  And Ruffalo plays him perfectly.  Like a young Brando, he hits every note just right in bringing Terry to life.  He has a natural, charismatic and extremely engaging screen presence, and he is absolutely terrific in this role.  He's a gifted actor from whom we can expect great things in the future.	Also giving a solid performance is the always reliable Broderick, who admirably continues to take some career chances with roles such as this one, as he did with the part of the teacher, Jim McAllister, in `Election.'  In both cases, they are ordinary yet flawed characters who are not necessarily ingratiating in any way, but as played by Broderick they are at least people to whom one can definitely relate.	The supporting cast includes Ken Lonergan (Ron), Gaby Hoffman (Sheila), Kim Parker (Rudy Sr.'s Girlfriend) and Josh Lucas (Rudy Sr.).  With `You Can Count On Me,' Lonergan delivers a tender and poignant story with something of a wistful ending, the impact of which is enhanced by the very reality of it's characters and situations.  And there are humorous moments, as well, that evolve naturally from the story, just as they do in real life.  In the end, this is transporting drama with which many will be able to identify, for the roads it travels are the same ones many of those who see it will have been down themselves.  I rate this one 9/10.	   "}{"Title":"Lack of focus makes this drama less than the sum of its parts","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERSFirst, a gripe about the soundtrack.  Like the movie as a whole, it has some good ideas, but they are not put together properly.  The (amended) Bach cello prelude seems to be playing whenever there is nothing else going on in the soundtrack, rather than to set a particular mood.  I got more and more irritated by it as the movie went on.  To hear how effective Bach's cello music can be in a film, get Bergman's Through a Glass Darkly.  Tellingly, that movie uses the cello sparingly and has silence when it is not playing.  My more important complaint is that J.S.BACH AND COUNTRY MUSIC DO NOT MIX!!!  Please!I found the acting and cinematography good, but the screenplay badly unfocused.  I was never sure who the principal character was supposed to be.  That can sometimes be a sign of a good movie, if it is because many characters are well-developed and compelling.  Unfortunately, here the ambiguity existed because *none* of the characters was ultimately compelling.  There were several interesting relationships which could have been developed (mother/son, brother/sister, uncle/nephew, worker/boss, boyfriend/girlfriend), yet, for me, none of them generated any emotional intensity.  I have the feeling that this movie would have been better had it cut down on the number of important characters and focused more intensely on two or three of them.  As it is, the end of the film leaves the viewer holding several loose ends What does Rudy Jr. feel about Sammy leaving?  Does Sammy keep her job at the bank?  If so, how does she deal with Brian?  What happens to Bob?  etc. etc.This movie has potential, but it is not realized.  I give it 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"4/10 the overrated film of 2000","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry folks, but I just don't see what was so great about this film.  What you have here is a made for TV movie, that some how managed to make itself into theaters, and it some how managed to find itself an audience.  The film has nice acting, but repetitive dialogue and a storyline that has been seen many, many times.Mark Ruffalo is not nearly as good as everyone says he is in this overrated dreck. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen in years","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know where to begin to describe how much this movie stinks.  The soundtrack was intrusive, the acting wooden, the characters uninteresting, and the plot -- where it existed -- unbelievable.  The guy at the video store said we'd love it but I can't believe he saw the same movie. "},{"Title":"A good bet","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is certainly in the upper echelons for a nice watch without laying anything too heavy on the viewer.  It's one of the more refreshing examples of a portrayal of imperfect people with believable defects.  Every once in a while, the acting or the script jumps a cog, but all in all, its a film that almost any viewer will watch and say Well, that was a rather nice little film. "},{"Title":"No morals","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  None of the characters in this story had any morals.  What's wrong with people in movies nowadays?!?!  Well, this movie wasn't boring but wasn't spectacular either.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone as a must-see, but I guess I've seen worse. "},{"Title":"trivial and annoying family drama","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is about as predictable and annoying a family drama as  I've seen. The central characters are unsympathetic and uninteresting, the situation they find themselves in is one we've seen at least a dozen times before, the locale is trivial at best, but mostly boring - just what we need, another film set in small town America, a regionalism of less and less interest as the American population continues to become metropolitanized  - and the filmmaker has gone to extremes to manipulate the audience through gratuitously dominating musical selections - I mean are we stupid or something, does the filmmaker not realize the audience gets it, that the pathos of a character visiting his mother's grave does not have  to be hammered home with  a grave selection by J.S. Bach, or does a scene in which an unmarried woman on the way to an assignation with a married man have be trivialized by a c&w selection. Irony  this is not, heavyhanded it is. The structure of the film is flaccid at best, as scenes sort of stumble along . I wish I couId say the actors' performances were wasted, but I can't. I do feel I wasted both my time and money here. "},{"Title":"I want 110 minutes of my life back","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was 30 minutes into this slow-moving, plotless epic before the identity of the two main characters was confirmed.  This was a hopeless film that never went anywhere. The next day I went on IMDB to see how it was rated and I was shocked to see the viewers high evaluation and read the glowing comments.  Maybe someone at the video rental place slipped in another tape?  "},{"Title":"You Can Count on Linney!","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You Can Count on Me (2000) Dir Kenneth Lonergan / Cast Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo, Matthew Broderick, Rory Culkin, Josh Lucas Effective yet overrated independent film. It regards the bond between grown siblings who are left to no other devices other than to rely on each other. Laura Linney plays a single mother who has worked at the bank for several years until her new manager badgers her about picking up her son after school. She learns that her brother is coming home. He was in Alaska and spent time in jail in Florida. Her son inquirers about his absentee father whom neither sibling cares for. Film handles her affair with her manager with misplaced humour. Story begins well but becomes predictable with drab locations and uneven directing by Kenneth Lonergan. Linney is excellent as a woman who isn't as well together as she projects to be. Mark Ruffalo is terrific as her troubled brother who is gradually becoming responsible. Matthew Broderick plays the cynical bank manager in a predictable yet satisfying role. Rory Culkin plays Linney's son whose curiosity about his real father bares scars. Josh Lucas makes a cameo as Culkin's real father whom Ruffalo issues the encounter to before bringing a confrontation. While the film's look and feel could have been much better there is a strong theme regarding sibling bonding and the strength therein. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"great sibling characters","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sammy Prescott (Laura Linney) is the lending officer of the small local bank in Scottville, New York. Terry Prescott (Mark Ruffalo) is the irresponsible one who comes to town looking for money. They lost their parents at a young age and Sammy has always taken care of Terry. She has a son Rudy (Rory Culkin). She hates his father but she's coy about it to him. Bob Steegerson (Jon Tenney) is her boyfriend and Brian Everett (Matthew Broderick) is the new demanding bank manager. With Brian looking over her shoulders, Sammy is forced to let Terry take care of Rudy.This movie works because Linney and Ruffalo can project their sibling relationship right from the start. The script brings it out of the actors from the first moment they meet. Then the movie allows these two characters to expand and show different layers. They are infinitely fascinating and compelling to the last frame. "},{"Title":"Bring on the Ruffalo!","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A single mother (Laura Linney)'s life is thrown into turmoil after her struggling, rarely-seen younger brother (Mark Ruffalo) returns to town.This is a pretty simple story grounded by some solid acting. Mark Ruffalo never fails, and is one of the best actors working today. Sooner or later everyone will recognize him for the genius he is. Laura Linney, likewise, is incredible, and far bigger than she is generally given credit for. We also get Rory Culkin, and that is not a bad thing.Unfortunately, the casting of Matthew Broderick just kills this picture and drops it down a notch. Broderick works well in certain roles, but this is not one of them. He just comes off as too chipper, too nice and it does not line up well with the character he is portraying. "}{"Title":"family","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A prodigal brother returns to his small hometown and bonds with his nephew. Meanwhile, his sister is having trouble with her new boss.The uncle who drives us all crazy but it the centre of endless wonderful anecdotes. Every family has one, I'm sure. Mine decided to climb in our open window one night because he didn't want to wake the house. He fell through the Christmas tree and our dog attacked him, which woke the whole neighbourhood. Mark Ruffalo as uncle Terry is darkly manic, providing the man of the house role for nephew Rudy (a broody Rory Culkin) though without the necessary sense of boundaries. When Rudy sinks the winning ball in a pool game, you know it is a moment that will live with him forever. And also that he shouldn't be there in the first place.Sammy (an impressive Laura Linney) focuses on the latter while being painfully aware of the former. She tears into her brother while also being aware that she has her own difficult to exorcise demons. Her solution to asserting herself with a prickly new boss is to seduce him. She has a nice boyfriend, who gives her what she wants but without the violins and chills. But she is old enough to know you can't always have violins and chills, but young enough to grab them when the opportunity arises.The script authentically portrays a parade of small-town characters the boss who is a socially limited jobsworth. The clergyman who is weary but morally centered. The estranged Dad. With every new character you find yourself thinking I know someone like that. The tensions and exchanges between characters are realistic and resonate with our own experiences. And just like our own experiences, there are no pat solutions. Should Sammy marry Bob? Is Terry going to be OK? Is Rudy Snr really the biological father of Rudy Jnr? The film raises the questions, not to answer them, but to hold up a mirror to the minutiae of everyday life.This is a well-written, finely acted relationships drama that hits on a few home truths. "},{"Title":"Good acting if you like laura linney","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, I would like to say that i like ruffalo and everyone else in the movie except for laura linney... I do not like her. it might be just because i feel that she always plays the neurotic bitch, but she really off-puts me when it comes to movies. she never adds anything. She only subtracts from a movie for me, even though the academy likes her i think she is utterly useless. I feel that Ruffalo really gives a good performance. I am a fan of his, so that does not really say anything, but I would like to say that his performances are usually equally great, with drinking buddies and avengers as topping performances! Still, an utterly disappointing movie, except for Ruffalo! "},{"Title":"Superb Presentation","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You Can Count on Me is a great contemporary art work, with an incredibly astute script by the director, Kenneth Lonergen. The acting is flawless, headed by Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo and Rory Culkin, with kudos also for Matthew Broderick.The film deserves all of its awards, which include those from the Sundance and the New York Film Critics.I've watched this film several times and each viewing offers new and fresh insights. Small details emerge with each viewing that weren't apparent before, including character development, production design and its classic (Bach) and contemporary score.It's a sharp commentary on modern values and dilemmas. I'd say Mr. Lonergen has created a brilliant piece of contemporary artwork, and the film deserves all the accolades it has received and continues to receive. Bravo to all participants in this commendable achievement. "},{"Title":"You Sure Can Count on This ***1/2","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I disagree with the premise that Laura Linney's life turns to turmoil with the arrival of her brother in town. Not at all as far as I'm concerned. This is a powerful study of human relations and how a brother and sister get to know each other better, and how this shall affect their respective lives.Both Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo, the latter portraying her brother, are quite good in the leads. The Matthew Broderick part is conflicted. He plays a reasonable bank manager with stern views and he is at once at odds with the Linney character. The only thing is that despite having a pregnant wife, he soon winds up in bed with Linney.There becomes a wonderfully bonded relationship between the Ruffalo character and the young Rory Culkin. Don't all the Culkin's appear to look alike? "},{"Title":"Brava, Laura Linney!","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laura Linney is perhaps our finest, most under-the-radar actress of the past 20 years. She never seems to be acting; rather, she seems to inhabit the characters she plays. Such is the case here. She's just brilliant. What a lovely movie! Watching her interact with her brother and son is a lesson in acting worthy of Uta Hagen or other great acting coaches of the non-method school. Perhaps the only reason her career never reached the heights of a Meryl Streep or Ingrid Bergman is that she is a true character actress and has never been viewed as a true leading lady or romantic lead. But, she really can play anything, witness her Abigail Adams on television. Brava, Laura! "},{"Title":"Breaking Through","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It has happened to big-screen actresses for decades She will appear in a dozen films--sometimes, dozens--in relative obscurity, before finally appearing in a picture that makes the audience really sit up and take notice; her so-called breakthrough role. For example, it happened for Jean Arthur in 1935's The Whole Town's Talking, for Ava Gardner in 1946's The Killers, for Susan Hayward in 1947's Smash-up The Story of a Woman, for Marilyn Monroe in 1953's Niagara, for Brigitte Bardot in 1956's ...And God Created Woman. And for modern-day actress Laura Linney, it happened in writer/director Kenneth Lonergan's 2000 film You Can Count On Me. In the role that put Linney on the radar of the greater public, the actress plays a young single mother of an 8-year-old boy. Samantha Sammy Prescott, when we first meet her, is going through a rough patch in her small (fictitious) town of Scottsville, in upstate New York. Her new boss at the bank (Matthew Broderick) has turned out to be an officious, micromanaging prig; she soon enters into a fairly torrid affair with this unhappily married man (a man with a baby on the way, to boot!) even though an old boyfriend has just proposed to her! And perhaps most distracting and distressing of all, her shiftless, wandering, ne'er-do-well younger brother, Terry (finely played by Mark Ruffalo), has just moved into her house for an extended visit. The unfolding relationships between brother and sister, Terry and his nephew Rudy (Rory Culkin; yes, Macaulay's younger brother), and employee and employer make up the bulk of this sweet, sad picture.Warm and touching, sentimental yet startlingly realistic, the film boasts any number of wonderful scenes. Among my favorites the restaurant reunion between Sammy and Terry, after a hiatus of two years; Terry takes his young nephew to a local dive bar to teach him to play pool; Sammy has her pastor (played by Lonergan himself) do an intervention for Terry; and, perhaps best of all, Sammy bids a tearful farewell to her brother at a bus stop. Lonergan's script is wise and astute, and his characters are all recognizable. You've met these people before; they are very much the stuff of real life; flawed people, one and all, trying to do good and scrape some happiness out of life. Lonergan's script rings painfully true, and his (first-time) direction is sensitive. The picture, filmed in summertime Margaretville and Phoenicia, NY, in the Catskills, beautifully evokes small-town life, and a mournful score for cello and oboe--seemingly more appropriate for a 1960s Bergman film--works wonders at creating a wistful atmosphere. And while all four of the film's principals are excellent, it is Laura Linney who really does own this picture. She is simply outstanding here, remarkably in control of every nuance of her performance; already a highly skilled actress, despite having only appeared in 11 films before this one (not counting five television films). For this role, Linney was deservedly nominated for an Academy Award, ultimately losing to Julia Roberts' turn in Erin Brockovich. As a consolation, she DID win the National Society of Film Critics Award, the New York Film Critics Award, and the Toronto Film Critics Association Award for her truly memorable work in this film. (I should also mention that Lonergan's script garnered more non-Oscar awards than I can conveniently mention here.) Today, of course, Linney is regarded as one of the top actresses of her generation; in my opinion, the best combination of looks and talent that we've got right now, especially since Michelle Pfeiffer doesn't seem to be working much these days. (I, uh, expect that you've got your own, necessarily highly subjective opinion on this subject!) Seeing Linney's fearless performance this past fall in the Broadway production of Time Stands Still was especially satisfying; how nice, then, for this viewer, to realize that even 10 years before this stage triumph, Linney was in total command of her medium. Think I'm going overboard? I don't usually gush over modern-day actresses, being a fan of more classic Hollywood performers, so when I say Linney is simply outstanding here, to quote the film's title...well, you know.... "},{"Title":"simply memorable and wonderful","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can count on me is a film starring Mark Ruffalo and Laura Linney and was made in 2000. This is one of those movies that is what they call a hidden gem. It is the story of a brother and sister who lose their parents in a car crash at a very young age. The story begins when they are older and the character played by Mark Ruffalo comes back home. One of the things that I loved about this movie is a key component, namely the tragic loss of their parents. You always get a sense that it is there and has shaped who these two characters have become as adults, but is never overplayed. Rory Culkin (yes Maculays brother) has a great first role as Laura's eight year old son. This movie is very well written and cerebral without trying to be over anyone's head. This is one of those movies that I think most people have never heard of, but if they would take the time to check out, I think they would find memorable. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Ruffalo and Linney show the strains and bonds of family","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a heart-warming depiction of a group of people in a small town whose lives come together and change. Mark Ruffalo and Laura Linney are excellent in this story that starts with a very sad meeting between the two siblings but rebounds with the twists of fate that make for a complicated family adventure. Through it all, there is humor and dialogue that enliven this film, set in a small town in New York state where the two grew up and lost both parents. At one point Linney tries to navigate the waves created by her boss, brother, boyfriend, ex-husband and child. Both she and her brother are flawed human beings but they make the effort to live up to their family commitments. Matthew Broderick plays a rather unusual role among a cast of unusual characters. The other actors, Rory Culkin as the son and Jon Tenney as Bob, the boyfriend, round out the main cast. The film does not bring a complete resolution to the problems but we feel that a hopeful chapter in their lives has been told. "},{"Title":"Reverent performances...","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" American playwright, screenwriter and director Kenneth Lonergan's feature film debut tells the story of sibling couple Terry and Sammy who lost their parents in a car accident when they were children. Twenty years later, Sammy still lives in their childhood home in Scottsville, New York and is a single mum working at the local bank. She has not heard from Terry in months, but when he suddenly shows up in town telling her that he has no money and no place to go, she invites him to stay with her and introduced him to her son Rudy.This gratifying and compassionate family drama about an estranged brother and sister who are reunited at their home town two decades after a life altering incident, is hands down one of the most wonderful American independent films i've ever seen. You Can Count on Me, which was shot in Margaretville, New York, executive produced by Martin Scorsese and honored with numerous film awards during the turn of the millennium, deals with existentialistic themes in a more humane than theoretical way and is a dialog-driven study of character strengthened by it's authentic milieu depictions.The film is wittingly written and acutely directed by Kenneth Lonergan who gives an uncommonly realistic portrayal of a devoting and deeply affectionate relationship between a brother and sister who has chosen opposite paths in life. Mark Ruffalo and Laura Linney interprets Terry and Sammy with striking conviction and their reverent performances, which i would place on any list over the best performances given in the last decade, is alone reason enough to see this humorous and thoughtful film which also contains great scenes between Mark Ruffalo and Rory Culkin and between Laura Linney and Matthew Broderick. The varied and mood-setting music works well, and this is the kind of film that reaches our hearts and conveys something pivotal about basic life values. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece.","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What happens a lot of times in movies is that the acting brings a movie together. Kind of like director Kenneth Lonergan's You can count on me. If it wasn't for the acting, the film would only be good, not as great as it is. But I have a feeling it would be great anyways.Laura Linney plays Sammy. Mark Ruffalo plays Terry, her brother. The two have had a strong bond ever since their parents passed away years earlier. Sammy, now a grown woman, is a single mother who works at a bank. Terry, now a grown man, has a drug problem and is a low life.When he walks back into her life, he stays with her. And him and her son Rudy(Rory Kulkin) form a bond. And he disappoints, and it proves that he isn't perfect. But the truth is, neither is she. Because she is having an affair with her boss(Matthew Broderick), who has a wife that is pregnant.You can count on me is easily one of the best films about family ever made. The acting from Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo is so real. The film is real. It makes you wonder... what if you never saw your brother again? What if the last time you see him, it ends on a bad note. The regret you'd feel.One of the many things that I love is that there are scenes where the two are arguing and they sound just like kids. There is a scene where Terry is angry and doesn't want to take her son fishing, and Sammy saysYou suck! It's just funny.Overall, I felt that the film was unscripted. The acting, and the film itself, is so realistic. Both Sammy and Terry are lovable characters, and you really do care about what happens to them. Overall, this film was a big surprise. It shows how talented some of these actors really are. I loved this film so much... I wanted to hug it. Truly, this film is a masterpiece.A "}{"Title":"Introduced Me to Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A laid back character study about a single mom who ends up having another child to take care of when her wayward younger brother pops back unexpectedly into her life.You Can Count on Me is the film that made me take notice of Laura Linney for the first time (I'd already seen her in The Truman Show and Primal Fear but hadn't given her much thought). And it introduced me to Mark Ruffalo. Both are terrific actors who do terrific work here, and have gone on to become favorites of mine. Matthew Broderick also appears in the film as Linney's boss and tentative love interest.Playwright Kenneth Lonergan wrote and directed, and received an Oscar nomination for his screenplay, as did Linney for her performance.Grade A "},{"Title":"The greatest of all brother-sister movie dramas","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here's the set-up. Brother Terry (Mark Ruffalo) and sister Sammy (Laura Linney) were orphaned in childhood when their parents were killed in a car accident. Because of this, they developed a powerful bond. But they drifted apart in adulthood. Now, he's a roughneck vagabond. She's a single mom working as a loan officer in a bank in upstate New York.The movie begins with their reunion. He turns up out of nowhere in her town. She is thrilled to see him. He just wants to borrow money.Their meeting in a restaurant is a classic piece of cinema. He confesses he's been in jail, breaking the spell, and she is appalled. Still, the bond is not broken. He sticks around.She has a son, 8, who immediately bonds with his uncle. But this uncle's unreliable, which infuriates his mom.Matthew Broderick has a role as the bank manager who's having an affair with Linney. This was not really necessary to the story. But it gives her the great line, You know, if I were you, I'd be a little nervous about firing somebody I'd just had an affair with, okay? Being a vagabond, Terry's gotta leave. Laura Linney's bus station bench performance begging him not to leave is so perfect that it's ... well, perfect. I choked up.Kudos to writer-director Kenneth Lonergan. Few movies bespeak family ties like this one. "},{"Title":"Incisive Drama","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A single mom's life is disrupted when her wayward brother comes to stay for a while. This is a remarkable directorial debut for Lonergan, who also wrote the incisive script. Surprisingly, he has only directed one unreleased film in the subsequent ten years. Linney gives a wonderfully natural performance in conveying the hardships, vulnerabilities, and passions of a single parent. Ruffalo is fine as the irresponsible brother, as is Culkin as the Linney's little boy. There is an amusing subplot involving Broderick as Linney's rigid boss. The film is basically a character study and one could do worse than spend some time with these interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Laura Linney is totally watchable as always.","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was very pleasantly surprised by this film. I went in with no expectations, and I found the writing and the acting (especially by the brilliant Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo) to be exquisite. The feel and tempo of the film was very real, as were the language, behavior, and emotional responses of the characters to their situations. The only real disappointment (and I hate to say this because I really like the guy) was the performance by Matthew Broderick. I found it to be flat and stilted. In fact, I credit Laura Linney all the more for carrying their shared scenes. It's nice to experience the range of human emotion in a film without being hit over the head. The film doesn't overdramatize the issues, nor does it engage in unnecessary psychoanalysis. It just IS. (Sort of reminded me of a toned down version of The Sweet Hereafter.) "},{"Title":"Gives a good view of life","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nothing in this movie is far-fetched. It gives a perfect example about issues everybody's dealing with. Life as a single mother, getting around without any cash or motivation or trying to establish yourself as new member of the community. All of these things need time and when the time comes, like this movie shows us, we can all help each other.We see the lovely Laura Linney in another spectacular role as the single mother of and eight year old child. This boy played by the little brother of early '90 favorite Macaulay, Rory Culkin. Next in the cast is Mark Ruffalo. He plays Linney's brother. His character is broke, unemployed and has no real direction in life. Due to the early death of their parents Sammy(Linney) and Terry (Ruffalo) had a great bound as they grew up.Now Terry comes back to the place where he doesn't wants to be, Scottsville, the place he grew up. Sammy and his nephew Rudy are still living there. First his only motivation was to go to his sister for just a short visit and a handful of cash. After some self exploitation Terry stays longer than he had planned for. Here he begins to bound with Rudy and along the way trying to find peace with himself and trying to do the right thing, although it doesn't always go the way he toughed.The return of Terry gives Sammy the change to give more attention to here job. She just got a new boss who is the kind of control-freak who doesn't tolerate much of his employees. The boss played by Matthew Broderick gets into an argue more than ones with Sammy when it comes to here personal life. Apart from this Sammy is living an empty love life with a man she actually pity's and when the tension gets high she eventually gets involved with her boss.This movie has a lot to go for. It's interesting for a lot of people. You can see things in it from your own brother/sister relationship, raising a child on your own or just not knowing where to stand in this life. It's rare for a movie to touch you on so many levels, but i guess this one does. Great job to director Kenneth Lonergan and his fine assembled cast. "},{"Title":"Great acting itself can make a great movie","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just like You can count on me - simple, straight-forward, down-to-earth, but simply stands out. Partly due to the wonderful cast that really really deliver and bring home the emotions that build up all the tensions and struggles. Laura Linney is an expert in displaying emotions in a way you can never tell whether she is acting or not. Mark Ruffalo also did a great job in bringing to life the brother who does not achieve great things in his life.Through the great work of these superb members of the cast, the strain and dilemma between the need to sustain one's own family and finance, to cope with personal crisis of oneself and to help one's troubled sibling to carry on his life are brought to life right before the audience. I like the ending too. Life goes on even if you love your troubled brother and you need to let go and let him shape his own life and path. A very moving and genuine movie that can stir up your emotions and set you thinking. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is about a single mother trying to cope with her turbulent life after her brother arrives back in town.The plot is realistic and refreshing. Laura Linney does an excellent job at portraying the various emotions she has to go through in the film, including being lost, happy, disappointment, guilt, worried. basically any emotion that you can name. The tension between Sammy and Terry is well highlighted throughout the film, as seen from the differences in both behaviour, beliefs and morality. And yet, the bond between them is convincingly portrayed to be strong. The resulting ending is so touching and effective. You have to watch it to believe it! "},{"Title":"Beautifully scripted and acted","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the best indie films of the young 21st century. Laura Linney (Breach) had the unfortunate luck to go up against Julia Roberts for the Best Actress Oscar, but her portrayal of a woman whose life was turned upside down - largely though her own actions - was riveting and emotional. Many film critics agreed and gave her several awards for this stunning performance.Writer/Director Kenneth Lonergan (Gangs of New York) was also honored for his work in crafting a story of relationships amid change and turmoil. His first directorial effort gave us a story that smoothly moved through 2 and a half hours.Mark Ruffalo (Zodiac) put in a terrific performance as the younger brother who was drifting through life and hadn't a clue where he was going.That was clearly the funniest part of the film. Linney trying to help Ruffalo find a direction when she didn't seem to have one herself. That aside, this film had me on the edge of my seat the entire time. "},{"Title":"It works...Linney is","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" very good, once again showing us her diversity. I have also reviewed her in The Life of David Gale and Wild Iris. She is a multi-faceted actress deserving of more recognition.This is a sort of comedy/drama in that it is not light fluff; the Ruffalo character as her troubled brother, visiting her in upstate NY. They are siblings who have lost their parents in a tragic car accident, at a young age. This makes for an interesting dynamic not often addressed in film.Rory Culkin is Linney's son, who develops a liking for his transient uncle. Linney is pleased as she refuses to let her son meet his n'er do well father (well portrayed by Josh Lucas). The story encompasses loss, family, (who DO we count on, as we get older?). Matthew Broderick is Linney's obsessive boss at the small town bank. He provides some comic relief as he obsesses over the staff changing colors on their computer screen, and panics over his wife's pregnancy.Overall, a nice human story which shows us the meaning of family, how fragile that dynamic is, and how people try to hold it together. Highly recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Endearing flake meets responsible sister in winning drama","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Samantha Sammy is a loan officer in a small bank in upstate New York; she is a single mom raising her eight-year-old son Rudy. You might think that such a person would not be an ideal candidate for a slice of life drama, but I think this movie proves that thought wrong. Things get interesting when Sammy's brother Terry shows up at her house after a year's absence. Terry fully appreciates the truth of Robert Frost's comment, Home is the place where, when you have to go there, They have to take you in. Though there is a strong bond between the siblings forged by their parents having been killed in a car crash while they were young, Sammy's enthusiasm over Terry's return is checked when she learns that Terry is at loose ends and just wants money. Terry is Sammy's opposite - direction-less, jobless, spontaneous, confused - but he is not without great personal charm. The heart of the movie deals with how two such different personalities interact in a brief interval in their lives. The relationship that develops between Terry and young Rudy is captivating and is developed with non-Hollywood believability. Sammy's faith plays an important part in her life while Terry thinks the faith business is all a fairy tale and he will have nothing to do with it. In one of the most affecting scenes Sammy arranges a meeting between Terry and her priest, Father Ron (played by director Lonegan no less). Ron is not played stereotypically but rather as sincere, forthright, and questioning. He blunts Terry's cynicism with the question, Do you think your life is important? And for a moment we see that Terry is engaged, and it is at that moment that we have hope for his future.The appeal of this movie in general is its honesty - all conflicts are not resolved happily, just as in real life. But, in the end, each of the siblings has edged just slightly towards the other - Sammy becoming a bit more free spirited and Terry a bit more appreciative of family and stability. Small changes from a brief encounter is more than what can usually be expected.Others have compared Mark Ruffalo to a young Brando. I found his performance almost imitative of Brando - same speech patterns, same head turns, same eye movements. But I found Ruffalo's performance compelling - you can do worse than a successful Brando imitation. In fact all the performances are excellent, particularly the young Culkin.Sammy's relationship with her boss struck me as unbelievable at first, but when I thought of the number of unusual couplings I have seen over the years, this one did not seem so far-fetched after all.The themes in this movie, of the influence of one's past, of love and alienation between siblings, of failures realized and imagined, of the refusal to grow up, are essentially the same as those dealt with in Five Easy Pieces. You Can Count on Me has a lighter touch than Pieces, and leaves you with a bit more optimism regarding the fates of its characters, but I would strongly recommend Five Easy Pieces for a different and more sober take on the themes, or for just being an excellent movie as far as that goes. "}{"Title":"Fantastic performances by Linney and Ruffalo","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I worked in a movie theater when this was released, and so I saw a lot of films I'd never really heard advertised much just because I was there. You can find gems that way, and I'm so glad I found this one. It starts Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo, and Rory Culin with a small role played by Matthew Broderick and they all do fantastic work. In fact, I think it's Mark Ruffalo's best work to date. The film is about family and how much and how hard you can love them and how vastly you can still hurt each other. Linney is a single mother raising Culkin(whose father is played by Josh Lucas). Ruffalo is her brother, who is something of a nomad. In his opening scene, he has gotten his girlfriend(played by Gaby Hoffman) pregnant and has to go to his sister for some cash. His sister, meanwhile, is just so excited he's coming to visit and his hoping he'll stay awhile. In a flashback sequence, you find out their parents died when they were kids, making them who they are now, and solidifying their bond. You should definitely watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Four **** Movie","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the best 'small' movies that I ever had the happy pleasure to watch. The story is simple, not overly complicated. Just regular folk living their lives in small town New England. Laura Linney is great but I really think Ruffalo's performance is the one that has that extra special something. Ruffalo is able to play tender without losing his masculinity which so many actors have difficulty doing, while he also has a great sense of humor yet when he shows anger you really feel the power behind it as well.So many reviews have already been written that I won't go into the plot details of the film just suffice it to say that the plot is simple, with just enough touches of comedy to keep the movie from becoming depressing while the more dramatic parts are played without the typical blow-out scene...just the messy everyday kind of loose ends & slow to resolve issues.This is a film you should definitely buy to add to your movie collection! "},{"Title":"Sweet Slice of Life Grown-up Family Film","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You Can Count On Me is a sweet little family movie about grown-ups.Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo do a very natural, very believable two-hander as brother and sister. I did enjoy every time Linney told off Matthew Broderick (who went to high school with the writer/director, Ken Lonergan) as her annoying boss, representing what we'd all like to do. The youngest Culkin actor is not as annoying as some child actors, but sure looks like his brother.It did drag a bit about three-quarters through, such that my mind wandered and I got bit confused as the climax neared. So the responsible one is not so responsible and the irresponsible one is in fact caring and responsible? Was that the point?At least there's not a predictable, sappy ending. More like a slice of real life as we all just keep muddling through, making mistakes in our daily lives. These characters deal with depression by facing their mistakes and living with them.It well uses the small-town upstate New York town feel. (originally written 11/26/2000) "},{"Title":"Terrific film","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I noticed one reviewer who loved this flick seemed bewildered by their own response because because the story (they said) is slight.Actually, it's the plot that is slight (this isn't a whodunit). But the story is profound and rings oh-so-human and true.The scripting and dialogue are both superb. That writer/director Lonergan could write both Gangs of New York and this script shows the man has a broad range; I'm eager to see what he does next.Both Linney and Ruffalo give brilliant performances, Academy Award level work if the Academy awards were . . . well, you catch my drift.Do see this film. "},{"Title":"i love it","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best movie i've ever seen. Good job! Keep doing it! At the beginning of the movie, i was kind of lost, but in time i realize what was all about. A movie that has everything it needs to have for its kind. The actors are extraordinary playing their characters. It's all about inter human relationships and nobody could make it better than The Great Scorsese ). It really makes you feel you are part of it by not having anything fake in it. All their actions, their thoughts and feelings are absolutely natural. It's something we see everyday in our lives or our community that we live in. I just wish that there should be more movies like this one that we must see. Once again GREAT MOVIE !!! "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo shine in this human drama with good production values. The film has some things to say too, in terms of adultery, communicating with young children, and brother-sister relationships, but the film feels like it is oversimplifying its issues at times. There is nothing too complex about the film, which makes it feel ordinary and empty at times too. And it is rather slow. But for some good characters, some interesting issues and above all top quality acting, it is a worthwhile watch. It deservedly was nominated for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actress at the Academy Awards and the Golden Globes. "},{"Title":"kind of a good song for the movie","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a kind of good song for the movie is William Shatner's that's me trying off his new cd has been it's about a dad's neglect to his grown up daughter but the mood is very similar to you can count on me, i guess. (I have to write more so I can post this so I'm just going to say) Ben folds five and Aimee Mann are both on the song. It features Shatner reading lyrics that Nick Hornby wrote (Hornby High Fidelity, other stuff). It's really really good and kind of cheesy but good. I thought the movie wastoo short, although a sequel would seem sort of ridiculous but I wouldn't mind watching it if they actually made one. Anyone know who is on the soundtrack? I would interested in finding out. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Had it not been a Julia Roberts year, Laura Linney would have taken home the Oscar for best actress. She is fantastic in the role of Sammy. What is so good about this movie is it's trueness and portrayal of life and how certain things don't get resolved in a nice 2 hour format. I found the relationships to be extremely credible and heartfelt. The love that Sammy has for her brother is evident, despite his screw ups. She wants so desperately for him to get his act together, but ultimately she knows she can't change him and loves him for him.I had wanted to see this movie for a year and I finally watched this movie on a very emotional day for me and it really did bring tears to my eyes. I just found it to be a rare gem into human love and understanding. Bravo!  "},{"Title":"A really great indie film","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What other movies that you can think of focus on issues of morality, responsibility and integrity?Both the main characters in this film, Sammie and Terry, have to face these issues and make decisions about how they're going to live their lives. Yet the plot of the film doesn't resolve these issues neatly for the audience. It requires us to think about them without knowing if Sammie ends up marrying Bob or about how her son, Rudy, deals with the truth about his father; we never know how or if Terry deals with all of his many issues. All of which makes this a better movie than if it resolved everything. I guess the idea is that this is a movie about life. And, in life, you don't really know how things end until you look back on them. "},{"Title":"playwrights doing films","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie got tons of hype.  Nice little feature.  Set in upstate NewYork.  Good cast.  Especially that dynamite Culkin kid.But, it still comes off like a play.  And, most of the dramatic partswould've been better suited for the stage.  Nevertheless, David Mamet's HEIST is a far more poignantexample of a playwright attempting to make a film and failingmiserably.     "}{"Title":"Lasting Effect","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count on Me, is definitely an effective movie and fulfills its purpose beautifully. Spoilers. It portrays the trials and tribulations of two orphaned siblings, and the consequences of their adulthood, growing up with an inconstant childhood. The movie is set in a slow paced small town where Sammy, a single mother tries to raise her rule-abiding child, Rudy. The movie's main plot is the appearance of her unruly and misguided brother Jessie whose character is by far the most intriguing in awhile.Jessie genuinely wants to find some peace, but has to overcome a great amount of inner turmoil and cynicism. He sees himself in his oblivious nephew Rudy, played by Rory Culkin and feels it is his responsibility to introduce his nephew to the real world, opposed to the sheltered one his mother insists on. On one hand teaching him how to hammer a nail correctly and the other, taking him to see his estranged father. In actuality Jessie's negative influence has the opposing effect on his nephew, who desperately seeks the company and influence of a male.Sammy maintains a squeaky-clean image as a mother, but her love life is lacking. She initiates an affair with her married boss, Brian, played by Matthew Broaderick, in order to avoid any real relationships.Sammy ends the affair and eventually asks her brother to leave, unless he stops behaving destructively. Jessie finds it hard to change but easier to be offended and decides he no longer has a place at home. After a sad goodbye he heads off, uncertain of the future. Both the screenplay and acting were brutally realistic and have a lasting effect. "},{"Title":"Quietly Interesting","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mark Ruffalo is outstanding as a drifter who returns to his small New England hometown to spend some time with his sister (Laura Linney) and her young son in writer Kenneth Lonergan's good directorial debut. Ruffalo plays a man whose being orphaned at an early age has caused him to resist growing up, but it doesn't stop him from exposing his eight-year-old nephew (Rory Culkin) to the harsh realities of adulthood. Alternately cold and affecting, he's someone you've known at some point in your life and you can't help but be touched by his simple views on living--and then devastated by his wicked comic timing. He also serves as the perfect foil for the sister who expects him to conform to her attempts at a pious lifestyle but ends up being exposed at every turn as a hypocrite. Fortunately, Linney has the good sense to underplay this role so as to make her realizations all the more powerful. Lonergan has an engaging style as a novice director his camera placement is designed to eavesdrop, not intrude, and his sly observations keep this quiet, unassuming film interesting and likable.   "},{"Title":"Forget the soppy title...","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The synopsis of &#145;You Can Count on Me' sounds like one of those daytime made-for-TV movies, but thanks to Kenneth Lonergan's wonderful script the result is a thoughtful, engaging and moving family drama.The film opens with a car crash, which establishes the orphaning of brother and sister, Terry and Sammy.  The siblings, twenty or so years on, are to be the films central characters Sammy (Laura Linney) is a struggling single mother who has never left her parents' old house in Scotsville, somewhere in small-town America.  Terry (Mark Ruffalo) is the returning prodigal son, seeking money from his estranged sister in order to finance his irresponsible, nomadic sensibilities.When Terry decides to stay in Scotsville for longer than expected the drama starts to unfold and essentially the film is a study of the relationships between Terry, Sammy and her son Rudy (played by one of the Culkin clan, Rory).  They are all very convenient for eac other in some ways, for all the happiness they bring to each other's lives there is an equal amount of vexation.The winning turn however, comes from Matthew Broderick, an actor becoming more and more aware of his limitations and choosing great parts that lie within them.  He's not really leading man material and staying away from the likes of &#145;Inspector Gadget' and &#145;Godzilla' would undoubtedly be a good move.  His role as Sammy's adulterous lover and neurotic, overpowering but ultimately wimpish boss is impeccably observed, and makes for some truly funny moments.There is nothing spectacular about this film.  Its strengths lie in its characters and relationships, its everyday themes of belonging and disillusionment, its rich attention to detail and its steady, contemplative pace.&#145;You Can Count on Me' is a great slice of small-town American life; think &#145;Sling Blade' without the sinister undertones.  Don't expect to be blown away, because you won't be.  Do expect however, to be quietly satisfied by a wonderful piece of dramatic filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"a wonderful film that could have been better","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie. I saw it twice in the theatre and just finished watching it on DVD at home. The performances of Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo were terrific. Linney deserved at least an Oscar nomination. The score, the summer scenery, the humor and quiet tone were all fine qualities. The emotional tension between Sammy and Terry made the story engaging and I cared about the characters.  The scene in which the pastor was trying to counsel a resistant Terry in Sammy's living room was well done. But... there's a characteristic of the film that was disappointing to me on a whole different level. Like too many films it used a negative father stereotype to portray dads in the worst light.  The film would have been so much more appealing to me if had exercised some political courage. Just possibly it could have suggested that Sammy's failed marriage and Rudy Sr's absence from his son's life might have been the result of the selfishness of both spouses, rather than just the dad. Life is like that -- sometimes there's enough blame to go around. A sympathetic depiction of the woman would be mandatory in a story in which a mother abandoned her infant, put her child up for adoption or walked out on her husband and child (Kramer vs. Kramer). Outside of the implicit dad-bashing, this movie was a gem. "},{"Title":"Iranian film making comes to New York","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised to see that this film was so well received despite the story not going anywhere very exciting, explosive, nor very sexy.Not much like Hollywood and not likely to win Oscars despite almost universally good acting.  (Those just aren't the characters who have their actors win Oscars.)  YCCOM is much more like Iranian films by Kiarostami such as 'Through the Olive Trees', or low-key Chinese films.  If you like this one, you might also like 'Mr Zhao' or 'Ermo', which would probably not be spoiled by transferring to video (but I think you really need a big screen to see the marvellous photography in Kiarostami's work.A very good choice of music.  Lovers of 'cello and steel guitar get a great earful in the same movie.  I just had to wait to hear the end of the Pilgrim song at the end, but most city slicker were out the door of the cinema before the introduction finished.  My only quibble was with the building site that everyone in the story seemed to know about but we don't know where it was in relation to the rest of the story.  Something must have been cut out of the print I saw.... "},{"Title":"my comments are great.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This had to be one of the most refreshing movies i've seen in a long time. The characters are so well crafted and this movie hosts one of my new favorite screen moments. When Mark Ruffalo and the little CUlkin are on the stairs, it was unbelievable how realistic it was. if you've seen it you know what i mean. if you havent i think you should. "},{"Title":"Simple, but SPECTACULAR!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Laura Linney well deserved the Oscar nomination.  Her role as a single mother - still struggling between her teenage life and adult life was beautifully written. The movie makes you be thankful for what you have, and learn to understand and relate to people that are different.  Mark Ruffaldo is also excellent, as is Rory Culkin and Matthew Broderick in supporting roles.  Broderick is hysterical.  The movie gets you from start to finish. ****/***** "},{"Title":"True Drama","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How rare it is to see a realistic drama with realistic dialogue.  Most of the dramas today exist only to please audiences; to give them a simple story with one-dimensional characters and a conflict and deliver a happy ending with all conflicts wrapped up.  You Can Count on Me is a rare cinematic experience that allows you to feel like you're watching everyday events for the characters as they happen.To talk about the plot is an injustice to the film and to those who haven't seen it.  I can only complement the performances of Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo, and the rest of the cast, but, with such an excellent screenplay, its no wonder they were all so convincing.O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O 1/2 "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Real","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A disarmingly simple character study that keeps getting deeper and deeper under your skin. Not only did I know all of the characters in this film, but I have been most of them. And Lonergan nailed it perfectly...in dialogue, in fitting them into their environment, in their actions. It rang true, from start to end. Excellent soundtrack as well.  "},{"Title":"Subtle","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen all the major blockbusters that the studios put upon us every American summer, but none have stayed with me the way this film has.I saw it about four weeks ago and when I walked out of the theatre I knew that I had seen a good film.  However, in the ensuing weeks I have just not been able to shake certain moments from this film, that have elevated it to a great film in my mind.In particular the scene where the priest questions Mark Ruffalo's character about the whether his life is important or not, has stuck.  It is played with the understatement that only great films can muster.  A less skilled director would have added the strings and manipulated us into feeling what he thinks we should have (think every Spielberg film), but in this case Lonegran allows us to make up our minds and bring our own emotions and past to the moment.There are moments like this throughout the film.  Ruffalo and Linney are actually a brother and sister and every scene between them is note perfect. Personally I can't believe that neither won an Oscar.Overall, this film - along with modern classics as State and Main, Nurse Betty and every Coen Brothers movie - demonstrates that the word is far mightier than CGI.  "}{"Title":"A great film","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count On Meis a great film,because it doesnt concentrate on the plot as much as of the characters.The film has real conversations between the characters,and we care about them by the end,and most people may credit laura linney's performance,which is terrific,i found the brothers character,played by mark ruffalo,most memorable.His tone,and verbal expressions,were outstanding,and like Billy Crudup,he can really transend into the role.The director treats all the characters with motives,and personalities,and knows their real people in real situations,and at the end of the movie we wonder what happens to these people,instead of a happy,knock-off hollywood ending.Grade = A "},{"Title":"A refreshing, genuine film","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a superb film.  The fine cast made me feel as if I were watching a real family go through real situations.  I could feel Sara's (Laura Linney) emotions as if they were my own.  Mark Ruffalo's portrayal of Terry, Sara's brother, was beautifully ordinary.  I could sense the love between this brother and sister.  The ending wasn't all tied up in a happy little bow, which I appreciated for once.If Hollywood would start making pictures like this the norm instead of the exception, it would gain a lot more credibility and respect from moviegoers. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great film. It wasn't flashy or sensationalistic, like so many of its peers are when they need to get a point across. Instead it was intelligently written, and superbly acted.There is a quality about this film in which the viewer feels compelled to relate to the characters, and what they are going through, even if the viewer has never shared any of those feelings.Laura Linney, gave a great performance. She should have been given the Oscar runner up (behind Ellen Burstyn of course). To me she was a good person, trying to be a great role model for two kids that she needed to be. Her dedication in parenting her son, and in some regards her wayward brother compel her to lose grip on other elements around her (her work and love life). Mark Ruffalo was also brilliant. He brought about the sense of lack of direction that so many of us feel, better than anyone that I can remember. When on screen at the same time, Linney and Ruffalo were great. I love to see it when two great actors complement each other, instead of one out shining the other. The scene that the two share in the restaurant near the beginning of the film is an absolute gem.I would recommend this film to anyone. I found it to be a very worthwhile and rewarding film. I give it a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Very good, no frills take on two siblings in middle age.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You could compare this film to many Map of the World, Horse Whisperer, Ordinary People, Where the Heart Is, etc.  The theme being a depiction of families (or nuclear families) living their lives and dealing with some sort of tragedy.  And, not necessarily surviving the tragedy, but, coming out of it with acceptance that life is basically a lot of Monday mornings. Or, more clearly, the realization that we are on our own and there is no blueprint for life, so you better get started creating a world that you and the people you care about can coexist.  There are no flaws in this film. However, I enjoyed Ordinary People better.  But, that is not totally fair, because Robert Redford was able to use his name and reputation to get that incredible cast for Ordinary People. "},{"Title":"11/10--The most compelling movie of the year","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was hesitant about this movie because of the description on the back of the box.  Don't be fooled by any descriptions of the plot.  This movie is so well written, such a fascinating portrait of very real characters, so pleasing on every level.  I'd almost given up on nice little indy movies after sludging through dreary, depressing films like Boys Don't Cry, but You Can Count on Me gives me hope that you can thrill without slow-motion explosions.  A great movie.  Engrossing.  "},{"Title":"Brother and sister as adults help each other grow up.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS - You Can Count On Me is an indirect reference to how the main character, Sammy (Laura Linney) views herself. Having been the older sister when their parents were tragically killed in an auto/truck  accident, she undoubtedly had to be the surrogate parent to little brother, Terry (Mark Ruffalo), although there is no character development which showed anything about their intermediate years. So, this film is a snapshot in time of their adult years, both of them somewhat screwed up, and how their 3 weeks together helps lead each of them into, hopefully, better directions. Writer/director Lonergan played the priest in the movie.The central story is Terry's visiting Sammy in their family hometown, and original home, to get a loan.  He had just gotten out of jail in Florida, had just gotten a young girl pregnant, and he needed help. He only intended to stay a day, but Sammy convinced him to visit a while. He ended up staying about 3 weeks.Terry just seems to be made for trouble. He sneaks young nephew Rudy (Rory Culkin) out to the pool hall, takes him to see his estranged father, brings him out to a deck construction site - some positive, some negative. But overall Sammy sees how Terry is having a good impact on Rudy.  However, his fighting and getting arrested, plus other unpredictable behavior, cause Sammy to order him out.Meanwhile Sammy is turning down her boyfriend's marriage proposal, takes pity on her boss Matthew Broderick) whose wife hates him, and has an extramarital fling. She feels guilty, searches for the right answers, but in the process quits feeling she has to be perfect all the time. She becomes more assertive at work. She loves her wayward brother, fears she will never see him again, he assures her he will. He doesn't exactly know what he will do, but he realizes his life is worth something and he will probably live it better.This is a film that benefits greatly from the director's commentary on the DVD. As he explains, he was not out to make a they lived happily ever after movie. It is unreasonable that 2 people could spend 3 weeks together and all problems would be solved. However, they each learned something, and it is left open as to what they will do with that.Overall a fine movie.  One thing didn't add up very well. Linney was 36 and Ruffalo was 32 when this film was made, and their parents died in 1982, which would have made them 18 and 14. However, it is obvious that they were about 6 and 10. I wonder why they didn't have the tombstones show a 1974 year of death??The background music was beautiful and appropriately understated. At several points a solo cello was used to underscore both the aloneness and the movement of the key characters. "},{"Title":"Hard Truths, Unexpected Twists, and Emotional Punch","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There has been a deserved chorus of approval from nearly all quarters for this  focussed, elegant small-town homecoming film which is full of twists andunexpected turns and emotional punch. And here comes another positive,glowing review. There are some films which can lay claim to universal appealand You Can Count On Me ranks as a defining example. Its appealing mainlybecause of its vividly rendered characters - and the talented performers whobring them to cinematic life - whose joys, pains and struggles resonate andignite  this tale about two siblings. Sammy and Terry remain haunted by achildhood  struck violently by tragedy. Their lives have since remained glued in  the shadowy web of what ifs  and various processes of denial andconfrontation brought about from their being orphaned young. None of this ismade blatant in the film but you feel it in Laura Linney's determined, outwardly  confident but emotionally-wounded Sammy and in Mark Ruffalo's intenselyunpredictable but wonderfully honest creation of Terry. Both these performers hit  the right notes with subtlety and immense belief in the characters and the script.  And the supporting cast back them up with panache and unshowy class -especially the newest Culkin child  star to hit the screen - Rory - as Sammy's  young son, Rudy. His wide-eyed, bright but understated performance is abrilliant debut. The film charts Terry's journey back home to visit his sister and  the repercussions of two opposing forces - a rootless, uncertain drifter and a  relentlessly stable, small town dweller. Unexpectedly nothing is as it seems and early indications are quickly undoneand surfaces reveal unapparent depths. Director Kenneth Lonergan weaves theeffect wrought by childhood trauma in the most clever and plot-driven mannerwithout sacrificing the integrity or balance of the characters. It lays just beneath  the surface of events mirroring the startling unspoken manner of real life where  people's lives are foundations built upon sometimes unfortuante ground. And of  course, the way to deal with this is to move on or rectify the problems beneath.  You Can Count On Me offers a meditation on the way people cope and fail tocope with life. Its a complex, painful love story between siblings whose strongest  bond of love was wrenched from them  - and who have to rebuild the passion,guidance and trust lost from their lives. There's no simple upbeat message or  ready-to-wear answers - but there are hard truths present in this film which are  not easy to digest but worth chewing over. A moving, triumphant piece of quality  filmmaking missed at your own risk. "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  you can count on me is definitely one of the best films i've seen in a long time. of course, it also barely got any attention whatsoever, apart from the oscar nomination for laura linney. the film is about two siblings, sammy and terry, who are basically just trying to get through the daily routines of their lives without screwing everything up beyond repair. it sounds simple but it's a lot more complicated than it seems. linney was excellent as sammy, and mark ruffalo was truly amazing in his role as terry. terry is the ultimate screw-up, but like most screw-ups, you have to see his situation from his point of view and eventually you just end up falling in love with him. all the performances are brilliant, and it also makes you think about the people you care about in your own life. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Acting Throughout","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haven't seen a film with as many perfect portrayals in quite some time. Linney, Broderick, Culkin, and especially Ruffalo turn in first rate performances. Ruffalo's drifting Gen-X loner is particulary impressive, and even writer/director Kenneth Lonnergan impresses as a low-key, down-to-earth priest.Highly recommended 4/5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Movies at their greatest","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't see this film until a few months after it lost the 2 Oscars it was nominated for, and after seeing it, I was appalled it didn't win.  This is one of the top 5 movies of 2000, and with its stellar cast and brilliant screenplay and direction, its one of my personal favorites.  The story is so real and the characters are so complex that it's hard to believe these aren't actual people and the story isn't actually real.  Laura Linney stars in the role of her career as Sammy Prescott, a single mother whose brother, played exceptionally by Mark Ruffalo, re-enters her life causing controversy, happiness, sadness, and many emotions on behalf of the major characters.  The script is absolutely amazing and the actors were all award-worthy, this movie has no flaws. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Wonderful Plot, Characters and Acting","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my kind of movie.  The character development is extremely-well done.  The movie revolves around these well-defined, but not cliche, people and their relationships.  There are a lot of scenes where the characters interact in very poignant and sometimes humorous ways.These seem like very real people in very real situations. "},{"Title":"Nothing But Net","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In basketball, there is no sweeter sound than a ball hitting nothing but net--especially if its from three points out. You Can Count On Me is like that. Simple perfection.While watching this movie, I was just reminded again of how awful Hollywood has become. I can't wait for the day when these corporations get sick of being in the movie biz and get back to building widgits and giving everyone cancer. Maybe then we can get more movies like this one forthright, entertaining and honest, and be free of this sickening glut of product that currently pollutes the multiplexes. I say enough already with this onslaught of overproduced, overhyped trash. "},{"Title":"Thick texture, beautifully woven story with realcharacters","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my first post and this film was really the motivation behind it. The story was woven beautifully from start to finish.  It emotionally sucked me in right away and I could not only relate fully to certain aspects simply on the level of the pure chemistry, but also to the believability of the characters.  I never thought this is a movie and I was immediately impressed with how strongly acted, directed and fully constructed this was for me.  If I were to make a movie, this is the level that would definitely cause pride and satisfaction.  Beautiful.  I would really give this a strong thumbs up and 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Laura Linney in Top Form","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you are the sort of person who needs action and plot twists to remain interested, then You Can Count on Me is not probably the film for you. Conversely, if you enjoy character driven movies that take the time to fully develop round, complicated characters, then you will absolutely love this film. Whether you categorize yourself as the former or latter film buff, I think you should give this film a chance. Laura Linney gives an amazing performance as a single mother who has always been reliable. Her life, and the life of her son played by Rory Culkin, is turned upside down when her nomad-like brother, Mark Ruffalo, re-enters the picture. This film deals primarily with the sibling relationship and how an early tragedy in their lives has profoundly shaped the brother and sister in profoundly different ways. This film examine how Linney's need to be a stable force meets and, at times, clashes with her brother Ruffalo's distrust of life as a cruel thing.Don't expect any major happenings or plot twists. Just expect to see several characters develop and grow in a meaningful way. This movie is not driven by plot, but this movie certainly went somewhere that most movies never approach. "},{"Title":"Realistic and good","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Take a good script, based on a story about peoples you can relate to. Add some very good acting from everyone involve and you have a believable movie which deals with real people and based more on characters study than special effects. The characters are vulnerable and therefore you can identify with them. They don't pretend to know everything and they try to survive that complex thing called life. Now and than we need a film that will remind us that we are human beings who have problems and we overcome them on a daily basis. This is such a film and its down to earth attitude is refreshing and worth watching. Just go and see. "},{"Title":"Low budget film is well worth seeing!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very good storyline, with great characters throughout the picture.Broderick is awesome in his role as a bank manager.  (You wonder how can he make that role &#145;awesome'??  He does!).It's about a brother/sister who lose their parents at an early age, and try to help one another later on as adults, even though they both are pretty f'd up in their own rights. The sister (Linney) is a single mom living in her dead parents' home in a small Massachusetts town, struggling with her own life, and her brother comes back to visit, looking for money, but stays around and gets to know/love her son, and create more problems/issues for Linney.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"An excellent character study of the relationship between two people.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent character study of the relationship between a sister and brother who lost their parents at an early age.  Although Matthew Broderick is the marquee name, it is the fine performances by Laura Linney as the sister (who is a single mom) and Mark Ruffalo as the itinerant brother that make the movie a winner.  Rory Culkin, as the son, and the others in the cast also provide realistic and interesting portrayals of small town characters. Although the language is too rough for this to be classified as a family movie, the absence of any gun violence, along with the well told story and fine characterizations,  puts this high up on my list of recommended films.  "},{"Title":"Crude Compliment","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sorry if this sounds a bit crude, but the biggest compliment I could make to You Can Count On Me is that I sat through the entire length of the movie, utterly enthralled, even though my bladder was near bursting point from the beginning of the movie.  That's how good it is.  I guess the reason that so many IMDB reviewers wrote so favorably about YCCOM is that it is a truthful, straight forward movie, neither main stream nor art house, something which Hollywood these days seems unable to deliver. "},{"Title":"A little trust goes a long way","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very rewarding and satisfying movie.  Don't expect it to be tremendouly moving or groundbreaking at all, but if you're looking for a good character-driven story that's grounded in the drama of human relations, this is a movie for you.  Sammy is a single mother, dealing with her anal-retentive new boss and her on-again off-again boyfriend.  She is excited when her younger brother, Terry, returns to the small town where they grew up as children.  However, her excitement is soon tempered when Terry finally arrives.  She finds that he is still as directionless and untrustworthy as ever.  What I liked most about this movie was the way director Ken Lonergan used the medium of cinema to its full advantage.  He is a skilled visual storyteller, oftentimes cutting out of a scene before key dialogue is spoken, or even leaving out dialogue entirely.  This method involves a great deal of trust from a director--a trust in your actors, that they are capable of delivering a truthful performance  through body language; a trust in the audience's intelligence, that they really don't need everything spelled out for them; and a trust in the medium, that it is fully capable of handling an intimate, complex story without using dialogue as a crutch.  This trust in others can only result in one thing  a deep respect for the filmmakers and the work they've produced.Grade  B+ "},{"Title":"A not so simple, simple tale.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Loved, loved, loved this film.  What a joy to sit back, relax, and enjoy an exquisite character driven quiet drama and that avoids every obvious cliche in film writing.  Lonergan always keeps us off balance just enough to keep the story and inner lives of the characters interesting.  It also goes to show that casting is all important.  Not a single error here.  Laura Linney perfect, Ruffalo a fine new actor on the horizon and Rory Culkin very affecting in an unusually complex child role.  Lonergan writes so well and effortlessly he allows us to imagine the past that Linney and Ruffalo shared as children without having to go there literally in the script. As a Bach fanatic, his divine music seemed a perfect companion to these people and their journey. "}{"Title":"wandering","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off, the movie was great. The acting, scenery, script, and interaction were all unique and well-done, but it was the characterization of Terry that was most engrossing for me. As a confused, 20-year old I immediately associated myself with the wondering and wandering, rebellious Terry. Also, the interaction of his philosophies with the more conservative ones of his sister made this movie quite thought provoking. Even moreso were the conversations about life between Terry and little Culkin. It may sound corny and cliche, but this is a movie about life, and I can't wait to see it again. 10 of 10 "},{"Title":"flawless acting","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the type of refreshingly character-driven movie that comes around just when you think that there are no good movies being made. Everything about this movie was fabulous, though there were times when it almost went down the road of sop. The story was totally unsensational but totally absorbing. It was also wonderful to have non-mtv-like camera work. The actors were uniformly brilliant - including little rory culkin. "},{"Title":"great character piece","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  wow, i just saw this film yesterday and i absolutely fell in love with it. first, the performances are specracular. just sitting back and watching the three main characters be themselves is just goddamn great. the character are just so damn unspectacular and just very real. damn. the script was just really really great. there really isn't much story here since this is a character driven movie. so many great exchanges in this film. i dunno, i just really wish people would see films like this rather than all that hollywood schlock. damn i love it. it's not perfect. people complain that its not very cinematic. so what. Ken Lonergan is a writer and it's his first time out of the box. nobody complains about david mamet's lack of camerawork. i dunno, im really rambling here, but the fact is this is a fine acheivement. its funny, its touching, its about families. i really don't know what to say, just see this please.  "},{"Title":"Best motion picture in many years","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is a movie with a great story, a simple, human story by a great writer and director.  Laura Linney and Ruffalo give outstanding performances.  The movie did not play in many locations in the Orange County area.  I wonder when it will come out on video, would like to see it again. "},{"Title":"No explosions, guns or car chases - thank God","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really loved this film, which I've just got back from seeing.  I've looked through some of the comments here, and echo most of them; I would take exception with the contributor who said it suffered from not having a point, or words to that effect.  To me, any film that has this much going for it, in terms of dialogue, characterisation and acting can be as pointless as it wants.  To me, its point was its portrayal of a set of people who are all recognisably members of the human race, in recognisable situations - and making it funny, sad, thought-provoking and dramatic.  It had a beginning, a middle and an end, and indeed, for what it's worth, I thought the structure was pretty strong.Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo are both superb, and, as others have noted, the supporting cast are all great; I particularly liked the director's wry portrayal of the priest and the woman who played Mabel, who managed to steal most of her scenes with the most subtle expressions.This is a film to cherish, and while it didn't win any Oscars, let's be grateful that it got shown at all, in a world where a serial killer can be turned into a pantomime dame.  Having seen this and the Tao of Steve in the space of a week gives me hope that witty, heartfelt, low-key dramas can be successful at the box office.  I'll raise a glass to that. "},{"Title":"The Oscar Alternative","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Last night when most people were sitting at home watching Gladiator  win awards, I went out and saw You Can Count On Me.  This is the movie for those of us who would never want to see Gladiator or any of the other mundane, special effect laden, films coming out of Hollywood.  This movie is about people, their faults, their relationships, and how they cope with their frailties the ones they love.  This is a film about things that matter.  This movie was obviously made by people who really cared about making a work of art and making people think about themselves and their relationships.  All in all, a wonderful alternative to the Oscar winning movies. "},{"Title":"Families!","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was great to see a film about a family that didn't get overly stereotyped.  The brother/sister relationship is rarely seen (if ever) as the key storyline.  Mark Ruffalo is an actor to watch, he will grow to become an American Icon.  Laura Linney is deserving of the Best Actress Oscar nomination, although, her competition may be more worthy of the win. What a fabulously subtle performance by Rory Caulkin! The honesty of the movie is what really hooks you in! "},{"Title":"Hollywood Sucks,...THIS movie DOESN'T","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yay. With the PATHETIC Oscar backlash against independent films this year, I'm SO relieved this one squeaked into the nominations. It is THE BEST FILM I've seen this year. It is absolutely BEAUTIFUL. Mark Ruffalo is SO FUNNY that I was CRYING. Dude,...WHY is this movie not nominated for more Oscars??? The writing is absolute genius and it's so beautifully acted that I get tingles just thinking about it. This is a slice-of-life movie of the HIGHEST QUALITY. It's so real and sad that I KNOW that it's going to end up on my favorites list for a REALLY long time. "},{"Title":"One of my new favorite movies","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie on a whim yesterday, not knowing what to expect.  I saw a preview/trailer a couple of months ago and I thought this plot looked like it could fall victim to Hollywoodization.  But after the movie, I felt pleasantly surprised.  I rarely cry to movies (not even Ghost, Forest Gump, or Saving Private Ryan made me cry... gosh I'm such a bloody insensitive fool!), but this particular movie drove me to tears especially when Terry and Sammy ask each other rhetorically at the end Do you remember what we used to say to each other when we were kids? This is one enduring simple movie that I'll never forget. "},{"Title":"Simple Tale Puts Hollywood Stories to Shame","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brother and a sister, orphaned at an early age, provide the emotional backdrop to this very realistic story.  Its a story that is distinctly not Hollywood, as it tells itself naturally, without insisting on simplifying every story point.Samantha (Laura Linney) is ecstatic that brother Terry (Mark Ruffalo) is coming back to the old homestead for a visit.  She is raising a son Rudy (Rory Culkin) in the absence of an ex-husband she doesn't want to tell anyone about, especially young Rudy.The thirtyish Sammy is a loan officer at a local branch of a regional bank.  She and her colleagues are breaking in a new Branch Manager Brian (Matthew Broderick) and he is the worst manager in the Banks history.Sammy has been taking off work every day to pick up Rudy, but Brian doesn't want her leaving the bank for such a frivolous reason.  Terry is enlisted to pick up Rudy instead.  Only he doesn't always, and Terry's presence in the house causes other family disturbances.Enter Bob, a not very interesting boyfriend of Sammy's who manages to call maybe once a year.  Sammy calls Bob for a little sexual get-together.  Somehow Bob feels called upon to propose.  Sammy isn't very interested but she promises to think about it.Meanwhile, Terry takes young Rudy on a late night excursion to a local pool hall, while Sammy goes to dinner with Boss Brian to attempt tosmooth over the office snafu. Instead, the two colleagues wind up in a sexual adventure at a local motel.The interplay between Sammy, her brother Terry, Rudy, Bob and Brian produces a surprisingly interesting story.  Terry tries to fix the plumbing to save money, Sammy is so conflicted about love, she visits the local priest for advice on how to proceed only to learn he is a clueless liberal with little advice to impart.  Then Terry takes little Rudy for a visit which turns into a police matter.  Sammy leaves work to deal with this, and Brian, their affair over, fires her.  Bob, it goes without saying, remains clueless.It all ends with a series of emotional scenes between Sammy and Terry, in which the two siblings try to clear the air.  In the end, Terry has gone back on the road and Sammy is once again raising her son alone in the small town.Except the audience has been reintroduced to the small town values that have supposedly disappeared from American Life.  Ken Lonergan plays the clueless priest in the film and also wrote and directed with Martin Scorcese serving as executive producer.  It seems possible this is Lonergan's own story.  Whatever the case, the performances by Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo are remarkable and the film is one of the Best of the Year. "}{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the three or four best movies of the year.  The performances and chemistry between all four of the main characters is just superb.  This is one of those movies that sticks in your heart and stays there long after you've seen it.  Wow. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Calling this movie a gem almost trivializes its achievement.  Rarely do we see films get it right in the way this one does, so accurately portraying ordinary life as the resplendent thing it is.  A masterful screenplay, incredible acting, filled with wonderful moments and lovely touches.  It reminded me of a good Anne Tyler novel.  Its one misstep (the immediate aftermath of Sammy's dinner with her boss) was redeemed by the quality of the acting and, later, we can wonder about Sammy's motivations.  Regardless this film is very funny and touching, and the almost-last scene which so many posters have referred to is as lovingly wrenching as can be.  I won't accuse anyone with dry eyes that they have no humanity, but I would be tempted to check for a pulse.I haven't gone into details of the plot because there isn't much of a plot, per se, so much as life inexorably unfolding.  But there's nothing shambling about it.  Also, I went to see it knowing nothing about it with a full house when it opened; I had probably the second-worst seat in the theater and couldn't care less.  This is one of the great sleepers to date, right up there with DINER -- the sort of movie with no buzz whatsoever during production that comes in under the radar and blows everyone away.  A triumph.  "},{"Title":"Lonergan is a genius","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most brilliant screenplay since Good Will Hunting and American Beauty.  Lonergan exhibits tremendous wits, intelligence and refinement while creating characters that are so realistic.  Not melodramatic, the film still manages to make us feel for the characters not by the magnitude of the situations presented, but because the characters and their reactions feel genuine.  Every detail, every reaction hit me as something that I or someone I know would do.  No overexaggeration, no oversimplification, just a perfect re-creation of human interaction.  I especially applaud Lonergan for the authenticity of his eight-year-old character Rudy.  I have a fairly good experience with kids and I was amazed by how everything the kid did or thought was right on the dot (It could not have been more true). Terry, the brother, was also a perfect mixture of intelligence and rebellious alternative lifestyle.  He understood his shortcomings, but still felt he had something to offer to the world (regardless of what he told the priest).  I could go on and on about how every scene had something to bring, something to show and that it was portrayed in a most truthful account of real life interactions, but I'd have to tell you the whole movie.Talking about telling, the actors tell this story wonderfully.  Laura Linney obviously steals the show because she goes through such emotional depth and plays the part even better than perfection.  Mark Ruffalo gives such credibility and insight to his character and is able to make us laugh with one look.  He is warm, friendly, but confused.  He shows the candor of his character so nonchalantly and plays off very well opposite Laura and Rory.  Rory Culkin was well cast and is able to show us the child's perspective mostly through his silence.  His facial expressions subtly betraying what he might be thinking, but unable to articulate because he is just a kid in an adult's world.  Even Ken Lonergan himself plays to high standards his brief but crucial appearance as the priest, trying to really help people and not stoically recite the implications of his religious creed.  With characters this well developed and extraordinarily gifted individuals to portray them, you cannot do otherwise than wonder what will happen to them after the movie, because at that point you forgot it was a movie.The director was efficient mostly in the good use of his resources.  Lonergan made sure to get the most out of his potent actors.  The editing gave a good pace to the movie and well cut scenes often made us laugh.  All this only accentuated the underlying brilliant screenplay.  It is an insightful exploration of family and human relations.  It is funny, smart, and touching at the same time.  It is definitely real and is not trying to be something that it is not.  It does not judge, nor have painfully obvious moral implications.  It does not end all neat and tidy, because what really does in everyday life?  It is just a story, a very interesting one.  You can make your own conclusion, you can learn from it... just like you do in life.  "},{"Title":"Full of heart","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I truly wish Hollywood would make more films like this touching, real, full of heart.  The story itself is simple, focusing on the relationship between a brother and single mother sister, but the film oozes with character, life, and never becomes boring. Kenneth Lonergan will hopefully continue to stick to his roots, with films like this, even though he has earned so much recognition for this small indie hit.  The screenplay, nominated for an Academy Award, though not an elaborate story, by far contains the best dialogue, and the realest characters out of all 2000. Also, though Linney has earned most of the acclaim for her acting, receiving an Academy Award nomination, the true star of this film will remain Mark Ruffalo, a bum of a brother just looking for some help... again.  Though by the end of the film it seems the story has gone nowhere, like the characters have just endured more hardship than they began with, just wait for that last scene where brother and sister sit on a bench together, afraid of the future, but hopeful as well.  It will remain in my memory forever, probably being one of the most poignant and touching conclusions to any film I have ever seen.  With all of my heart, swelling after watching this touching work of art, I ask you, for your sake, go and see one of the best films of this year and all time. "},{"Title":"Interesting Little Drama","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING  POSSIBLE SPOILERFor the most part, You Can Count On Me is a quiet, well-observed film about the relationship of an adult brother and sister who's lives after adolesence take widely divergent paths.  The brother is a rootless drifter, while the sister lives in the same house she grew up in and is a single parent ekeing out a living for her and her son as a loan manager at the local bank.  After keeping in touch with each other sporadically over several years, the brother returns home.  At first, all he intends to do is hit up his sister for some money and then take off again.  However, he develops a bond with the kid and ends up staying a bit longer, and his tenuous relationship with his sister takes some surprising turns.The acting is top-drawer all around.  Kenneth Lonergan is a veteran playwright and stage director and his first feature film proves he works extremely well with actors (he even takes a small but crucial role himself as a priest).  His script has just the right ring of truth, with ONE big exception.  There's a subplot in the last half of the film involving the sister having an affair with her married boss that just doesn't seem to fit.  After establishing her character as a fairly sensible, no-nonsense type (who actually cannot STAND her boss), the movie asks us to believe that she would  fall into bed with him after a few beers one night after work.  I didn't buy that, and it distracted from an otherwise smart story.That flaw aside, however, a very good little film.  I will look forward to seeing Lonergan get behind the camera again in the near future. "},{"Title":"Keep it real","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most true to life screenplay i've seen in a very long time. The story takes each scene just far enough, never pushing it beyond the realms of reality, it could well be the story of you and your sibling but i believe its the story of my sister and i, its that universal.       The acting is superb. Laura Linney finally gets a role that fulfills the promise she has shown in lesser parts for years now, and Mark Ruffalo emerges as an actor with a great future. Also of note is Matthew Broderick, who gives the film even more creedence by simply accepting a smaller role and playing it as perfectly real as the story requires.       This film is a small miracle. Kenneth Lonergan has created a world that could easily be anyones own memories. It makes my anticipation of his next film a must see. Bravo Mr. Lonergan! "},{"Title":"Keep it real","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most true to life screenplay i've seen in a very long time. The story takes each scene just far enough, never pushing it beyond the realms of reality, it could well be the story of you and your sibling but i believe its the story of my sister and i, its that universal.       The acting is superb. Laura Linney finally gets a role that fulfills the promise she has shown in lesser parts for years now, and Mark Ruffalo emerges as an actor with a great future. Also of note is Matthew Broderick, who gives the film even more creedence by simply accepting a smaller role and playing it as perfectly real as the story requires.       This film is a small miracle. Kenneth Lonergan has created a world that could easily be anyones own memories. It makes my anticipation of his next film a must see. Bravo Mr. Lonergan! "},{"Title":"There's more to truth than what can be told.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"                    Mon Feb 19 084239 2001You Can Count on Me A brother and sister in upstate New York are orphaned at a young age, and we pick up with them as adults in their late twenties. The sister is maybe 30, divorced from a ne'er do well, and has an eight-year old boy. Her brother is a couple of years younger, a feckless drifter with both strengths and weaknesses.The story goes almost nowhere with respect to bringing about visible changes in the characters, and its emphasis is divided among the three main characters--the sister, the brother, and the sister's son. It violates almost every principle of good story-telling except for the one Henry James held as essential, i.e., it must be interesting. And interesting it is. And engrossing. Amusing. Touching.The title must be ironic. Or perhaps it means you can count on me to be me.What is it about? Pressed for an answer, I would say it is about what goes on between the lines in these people's lives. The characters and their words approach each other obliquely, and therein lies the interest, because the dialogue is so well-written, the scenes so well-edited, and the characters so well-cast and acted, that you are led into the silences and the subtext, where the action really takes place.Laura Linney brings the whole of the sister's life into every moment we see her on screen. She is a loan officer at the bank, and her new boss is played by Matthew Broderick. The scenes between them are, to risk a cliché, pure gold. Mark Ruffalo embodies the brother's strengths and weaknesses in his voice and body language and in a face that owns the screen. Rory Culkin follows in the Culkin family tradition of fine child actors. He plays the silences perfectly, and it is in the silences that we see him, little by little, trying to crack the secrets and mysteries of grown-up life.Written and directed by Ken Lonergan. An amazing piece of filmmaking in the way that it handles the stuff of ordinary life. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Linney/Lonergan Should Win the Oscar","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie in a matinee and it is certainly one of my favorite movies of this year and definitely of all time.  Such a wonderfully realistic story by Mr. Lonergan and an excellent job directing this movie.  The story is so real, dialogue so real.  Nothing is forced, the characters so deep.  The comments I have read about this movie pretty much hit the nail on the head but I would like to praise some performances.  Linney - unbelievable, she should win an Oscar but unfortunately this has been deemed Julia's year.  That is too bad because her performance is a break out (I was not a big fan of Truman Show).  She conveys so much with her words but also with her reactions, so much pain and emotion is put forth via her face. She also has some very humorous moments as well which she also pulls off not only with her dialogue but with her movements.  Her acting is right on the money.  Ruffalo - he also amazed me, I thought we were in store for another messed up sibling character with who would be one dimensional. But no, his character (thanks to Lonergan's script) becomes so much more so deep, so humorous, Ruffalo isn't as messed up as we think he is and it is a wonderful realization.  Ruffalo makes this so believable.  Broderick - I read comments saying that his performance was somewhat flat - I must say that yeah Broderick's performance is flat but I think it is by design.  His character is a flat boring guy trying to make a small town bank more efficient.  I think Broderick plays him just right (and remember he is a supporting player in this movie) the focus is right where it should be on Linney and Ruffalo.  Lastly, I want to give high praise to Lonergan,not only for his direction and script but for his perfomance in the film as the town's local priest.  So many times we see the Tarantinos and the Spike Lees of the world in their movies and it detracts from the film.  Here, Lobergan's appearance is just right because he can act and he is the film's voice of reason bringing forth some interesting moral insight but also giving his take on how religion does fit in, in today's society.  Go see this movie and if you are not brought to tears by the film's last scene you have no heart.  I have never seen such a 'real' moment from life caught on camera so well.  BRAVO!!!! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of 2000 &#150; a delightful and moving experience.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My favorite movie of 2000 &#150; a delightful and moving experience.You Can Count On Me is a small but precious gem of a movie and one of only two films I returned to the cinema to see for a second time during the 2000 year.Brilliantly written and directed by Mr. Lonergan, this little jewel features outstanding performances by Ms. Linney and Mr. Ruffalo in rarely explored territory -- a heartbreakingly real and very adult brother-sister relationship.Intense but highly naturalistic, entertaining but thought provoking, comedic and dramatic in almost equal measure &#150; what a refreshing delight this movie is!  No special effects, no heroes -- just genuine human emotions and great intelligence spilling off the screen.Depending upon what looks for in a movie, this is a nearly perfect film experience.  "}{"Title":"The most intelligent film of the year, and the best of 2000.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I want you to see this film, so I won't write too many details.  Simply put, this is the most intelligently written film of last year (2000).  Ken Lonegran wrote a touching, but more importantly truthful account of a relationship.  In this case it's between a brother and sister.  He avoided all sentimentalities in favor of real events.  There are no saccharin moments in this movie, but I'll guarantee you'll come out one hundred times more satisfied than you will at any of those hallmark-esk films.  Laura Linney gave the best performance of any actress this year as a strong, vulnerable, and smart single mother, and has now received an Oscar nomination in a category which Julia Roberts will win for a good performance but a character with less depth.  Mark Ruffalo gives one of the strongest performances this year as well, a role which has led many to compare him to Brando, using himself as his own best acting instrument.  Matthew Broderick comes through in his supporting role as usual, once again as a flawed character much as in election, only more nueorotic, if you can believe that.  Ken Lonegran has created a movie which has characters saying brilliant things, not because their geniuses but because they are what you and I would say if we were in their shoes, there is no dumbing down here, yet the story is fresh and as engaging as anything you'll see this year or maybe for a while.  Enjoy it and savor it, because these are far and few in between, or you can watch Gladiator again.   "},{"Title":"Reminds me how good a well-written movie can be.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count On Me is a small, beautifully written, acted and directed movie.  Not a word of the script rings false.  It's so real and so honest, I was riveted from the opening scenes and really cared about these people.  It's the part Laura Linney has deserved for a long, long time and a revelation of what Mark Ruffalo can do.  He's an actor to watch.  As an aside, it was refreshing to see a Protestant church represented in a real, non-dogmatic way--the kind of United Methodist church many of us still attend.   "},{"Title":"superb play between Sammy and Terry","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The relationship between Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo rang true for two damaged souls striving to find a way to accommodate each other. I think Ms. Linney gets better and better as time passes. Mark Ruffalo showed all of the ragged edges of someone who remains in motion to avoid finding out what he is really about. Rory Culkin showed how effective the advice Don't just do something, sit there can be. A chewy film with characters I really cared about. I've been in love with Ms.Linney since Tales of the City. "},{"Title":"Real people and real situations","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. It deals with its characters' life situations in a very direct, honest, and unblinking way. Terry and Sammy are a brother and sister who may simply have never gotten over the early deaths of their parents. (Then again, a lot of people without such tragedy have just as much difficulty running their lives.) Sammy is coping with her situation as a single mom, but there's a desperation about her her new boss is driving her nuts, she has unresolved anger toward her son's father, and when her brother Terry shows up, well, it's not the kind of reunion she had hoped for. Terry on the other hand doesn't even try to make sense of his life; his aimlessness is like the raw material of his character.  But the fact is that they are connected, and this is what drives the movie they care about each other, and it makes you care about them.Outstanding performances by Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo, and while I think Matthew Broderick may have played the same character before (Election), he was good here too. It was also good to see Jon Tenney as Sammy's kinda dopey on-again-off-again boyfriend...did anyone besides me see him as the obnoxious professor in Lovelife a few years ago? He was great!  "},{"Title":"Standard fare","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Adultery, drifting, child neglect and small town life have all been seen before.  'You Can Count on Me' is a nice, well put together film but is standard fare.  It's no classic.  Laura Linney's performance as a single mother with an eight year old son is good but could have been done by a number of actresses.  Mark Ruffalo is probably the best member of the cast as Linney's drifting never-do-well brother and Rory Culkin as the child is a typical Culkin with a typical series of Culkin facial expressions.  Matthew Broderick is wasted as Linney's bank manager boss who has an affair with her.  Ken Lonergan has written and directed a good film but his talents are better suited to the live stage at this point and this film was executively produced by Martin Scorsese.  At least he's giving new talent a chance to break through.  It may still happen! "},{"Title":"I am one of those who did not like the film.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite having read many favourable reviews of this movie and therefore expecting to enjoy the movie, I did not find it interesting. I could not identify with the characters and I did not find them sympathetic.An early scene was very contrived.  In the restaurant, when sister learns that brother has been in jail, she raises her voice hysterically.  The other patrons in the restaurant look over at them.  It was unrealistic reaction by the sister.  The whole commotion seemed to have no point.To be generous, I'd give the movie a 5 out 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Thrilled","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes...for the first time in a while, I was thrilled when walking out of the theater after seeing this movie. For the first time in my life, I opted to miss the Super Bowl and went to see You Can Count On Me, and I couldn't be more satisfied with my decision. It is thoroughly refreshing to see that a movie without a High Concept and without a big budget or special effect or gimmicks...that a movie based on a simple story line and three dimensional characters can get the recognition it deserves. The performances are WONDERFUL and quite deep. You understand what is going on in these characters minds when they are not speaking, which to me is a sign of fantastic writing. You are almost overwhelmed with each characters position in life and the complications, sorrow, and frustration that comes with it. I do not want to get to deep on this, but all I can say is if you are looking for perfectly executed simplicity in regards to the human spirit, then go see this movie. ANYONE in this world who is not necessarily satisfied in with elements in their lives and who relies on their family members to keep them standing should appreciate this move. We need more of these on the big screen. And for all of us aspiring screenwriters out there who want to write the low budget, character driven scripts but are afraid that if they do not focus on High concept scripts, that they will not get any notoriety, you must see what has been accomplished here. "},{"Title":"The best movie of 2000","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hands down the very best film off 2000. No other came close to capturing such true human emotion and wonderful acting within the framework of such a sharp and consistently engaging screenplay. Linney, Ruffalo, and Longerman all definitely deserve oscar recognition. 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"My kinda film!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing over 50 movies from the year 2000 I feel very hard-pressed to find a better, more genuine performance than Mark Ruffalo's performance here.  I regret having smirked when I heard critics calling Ruffalo the next Brando.  After seeing this movie, I now feel that such praise is deserved.  He really does a superlative job of getting into his character's skin and making it appear effortless.  Not once in the movie does it ever seem like he is giving a performance.  That is what good acting is all about.  Mark Ruffalo in You Can Count on Me is the real thing!The same goes for Laura Linney, who I have liked ever since viewing Tales of the City.  She gives an incredibly nuanced performance as Sammy Prescott.  Some people have complained that they didn't understand her character's motivation for having an affair with her boss.  But I felt like I was with her every step of the way because of the fine details Linney gives to her conflicted character.  She and Ruffalo play off each other incredibly well.  It is a real joy to see them shine in this film.It saddens me that, although Linney and Ruffalo have good chances for Oscar nominations, they will probably lose the coveted award to the likes of Hollywood favorites like Julia Roberts (in the over-rated Erin Brockovich) and Michael Douglas (in the even more over-rated Wonder Boys).   "},{"Title":"There is Hope","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had no idea what You Can Count On Me was about before stepping foot inside the theater and all I could say is thank goodness someone can still make a good movie with a wonderful, human quality and not a gazillion dollar special ffects budget. This movie was one of those pleasant little gems that you are happy to have stumbled upon because whatever starring (enter blockbuster name here) was sold out. The acting was brilliant and I honestly feel that both Linney and Ruffalo deserve nominations for their performances. Especially Ruffalo. He played the vagabond, aimless brother to a tee but at the same time made the character someone you could relate to and admire. Wonderful story and message. A must see indeed! "}{"Title":"A Real treat.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For some deep psychological reason, I resisted seeing this film in reaction to its trailer, which I had seen half dozen times before other films. I laughed at the trailer each time, but there was something irksome there. It's the Real thing, I think. I am often wary of films that look Real in the trailer. So often they are not. This is a story that got under my skin. Gently, relentlessly and with clumsy charm. Sort of like Samantha's boyfriend Bob in the film. The performances are excellent and well fitted. I had moments of insecurity with Matthew Broderick's portrayal of his character. I thought he might slip into Ferris B. (again), but I realized that the character was a guy who probably secretly wished he had been Ferris B. in high school but never had the guts. Laura Linney was great. Mark Ruffalo went really deep with his character, whose personality was complex under his loser facade. I really like the script. The dialogue rang very true. I highly recommend this film. It reminded me in some ways of Wonder Boys in its ability to be funny, sad and very Real, all at once.     "},{"Title":"Human drama at its best","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw You Can Count on Me earlier today and I'm still replaying scenes in my mind. I thought that I would enjoy it just from the reviews I had read, besides the fact that I'm a big Laura Linney fan, but this movie is excellent. This is exactly the kind of movie I yearn for multi-dimensional characters that you feel like you know at the end of the movie. All the performances were excellent, but especially Ms. Linney. She carried the movie and reminded me of Meryl Streep with ability to portray so many emotions subtly. She wasn't just acting, but thinking as the character. A brilliant screenplay too, revealing the human frailties and foibles inherent in all of us. This movie deserves all the accolades it receives. "},{"Title":"This film could be titled `Secrets and Lies, American Style'","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This a terrific little story.   The `functional family myth ended when NBC cancelled Leave It To Beaver.  Dysfunctional has become the norm, which is fine with me since it spins a far more entertaining tale.  This film could as easily be titled `Secrets and Lies, American Style'.  Every minute draws you closer to the main characters, each one more enjoyable than the last. A quarter century passes before we re-meet Sammy and Terry, whose parents were killed in an auto accident when S and T were around 7 years old.  Now 30-something, their lives are small-town stereotypical, yet effectively served as a mirror into my own life.  Terry seems to be the gypsy, irresponsible brother; and Sammy the reliable, hometown girl with roots and integrity.  As we dig a little deeper, it's not all that cut and dried.  It never is.Life is rarely so simple.  `Stuff happens,' paraphrasing Ollie North.  This story is a playful romp through lives where regular folks are just trying to play the hand they've been dealt as best they can.  Losing your parents when you're very young cannot be easy.  We are spared the psychotherapist nonsense done to death in every other movie.  This story deals with problems tête-à-tête . . . mainly between brother and sister . .  just two people doing what comes naturally and figuring it out as they go.  It's real.  I found pieces of myself in the main characters.  There's an honesty to them that made me smile.  A lot.Matthew Broderick plays a devilish catalyst.  His character embodies every idiot manager I've ever worked for.  `I like paperwork,' he says deadpan to Sammy Prescott as she asks him to reconsider a daily timekeeping task in lieu of doing it weekly.  It is peppered with such gemstones throughout.  The dialog is in fact its strongest feature, though the entire cast from Laura Linney (Sammy), Mark Ruffalo (Terry) and Rory Culkin (Rory) work their lines like the pros they are.  I came to care about every one of them.Independent films have lightened my wallet considerably over the last decade.  I will go willingly bankrupt to invest time with features like this one.  8 out of 10 is my score.  See it soon.  "},{"Title":"One of the Year's Best","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to say that I expected a lot more from this movie, but I was still not disappointed at all when leaving the film You Can Count on Me. The acting was phenomenal and the story was very real and touching.  Although there was no Umpfh to the film, I still found it to be a great story of unconditional love in families.  I believe that there should have been more said about the death of the main characters' parents.  This is a touching idea and it should have been developed further.  Thumbs up for newcomer Rory Culkin.  He makes his brothers look like amateurs.  If your looking for a real story with real people, real acting, and without all of the Hype (like Cast Away), go see this film. "},{"Title":"All about hitting the right tone.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you ever looked for the perfect definition of a movie that hits the right tone, then You Can Count On Me is definitely for you.The plot is simple, and could have led to a melodrama of the worst sugar-coated kind, but this movie totally avoids that pitfall. As in most great films, there are no characters in this movie, but actual human beings. The cast has a huge responsibility in that success, the actors are simply perfect (special mention to the director himself who plays the supporting role of Ron, and who manages to be both funny and puzzling at the same time). Direction and dialogs are equally outstanding and funny (Do you wanna... smoke some pot? - NO!!!!... why, d'you have some?) yielding a movie that always oscillates between raising important questions about children's education, and having the audience crack a smile, or even laugh. Once again, Sundance people knew what they were doing when they awarded You Can Count On Me one of the top prizes of the festival. A definitive 10, certainly in my top 5 movies I've seen in recent years. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My friends dragged me to this on New Year's Day.  They mentioned Matthew Broderick and I started to protest, as he isn't my favorite actor in the world by any stretch of the imagination.  But this film softened my opinion of him just a little.  The movie was well-written, well-casted and well-done.  I recommend it to anyone and as a parent, I can say that it's suitable for middle school on up. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE YEAR'S BEST","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  YOU CAN COUNT ON ME this years Sundance Film Festival winner shows what can be done with a small budget, a good screenplay and smart casting choices. Several of my New York readers wrote to ask if I had seen this one a month or so ago.  It has taken that long for it to reach us here in the hinder lands of Florida and it was well worth the wait.  This film is a little jewel. A triumph for excellent acting and writing.  It stars Laura Linney, best know for her performance as Jim Carey's wife in the TRUMAN SHOW and she is simply brilliant.  If Oscar ignores this performance it will be a travesty of justice.YOU CAN COUNT ON ME is the story of a grown sister and brother who were orphaned as children when their parents are struck head on by a truck.  They live in a small rural town.  The brother grows up and is a wanderer, while the sister stays in the town in the family house.  She has a job of responsibility with the bank and struggles to raise her son as a single parent.  The brother comes back into their lives because he is broke and has no where else to go.This film is about all of the love between these two people as well as the guilt.YOU CAN COUNT ON ME is one of the years very best films. "},{"Title":"Best Film of 2000","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count On Me is the best film I have seen in 2000.  I think the subject of sibling relationships is one of the most ignored subjects in cinema, and I am glad to finally see a film that not only focuses on the subject, but also treats it with utter seriousness and gentleness.  The humour and drama are perfectly-balanced that it is not overly dramatic, yet it maintains poignancy.  The performances of Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo, and Rory Culkin are superb -- subtle, yet powerful.  The dialogue is sharp and realistic.  This film is funny, thoughtful, and heartwarming; it is graceful throughout.  This film is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"You Can Count On Great Acting","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wanted to see something different.  I wasn't in the mood for anything too mainstream, so I thought about this little movie that I'd read some good things about and decided to go see it.You Can Count On Me is different....different in a good way.  It's very unpredictable and carries some of the best acting this year.  It's a simple, realistic story brought to life by great performances.  Linney and Ruffalo were terrific as two siblings who go at it all in the name of love.  Broderick plays those needy, I hate my life characters to the best of his ability and never falls short....remember him in Election?  And Culkin was as good as his older more famous brother...what's his name?Linney's comedic timing also made the film spunkier.Great film, Good story.   "},{"Title":"The best writing of the year!  hands down....","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a terrific little film with a totally original and satirical script!  The performances are all amazing and entertaining...It's just wonderful...The characters were so well written and developed, you felt like you knew theirs personalities from the first minutes you meet them...then the story unfolds and shocks and tears and laughs are just around the corner.The ending left something unexplained(or missing, or off-putting), but still you couldn't ask for a more realistic story (and such a well written one) this year!YOU CAN COUNT ON ME * * * 1/2 "}{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie when I agreed to see it.  It only figures that the best movie of the year receives little public attention.  This movie embraces realism and does so with perfection.  I found myself a little disappointed at the end as nothing was solved but recognize that a purpose of the film is to recognize the way dysfunctional sibling relationships cycle.  With that disappointment, the movie is still exceptionally touching and rewarding.  Acting performances were superb of course with one the most realistic script I've ever witnessed.  In my opinion, there are several deserved Oscars here. 9/10 (and I don't give good scores easily!)  "},{"Title":"Captures Something Universal","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You just don't see the kind of emotional intensity there exists between screen siblings Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo very often. It's partially due to the amazingly realistic, bullseye dialogue which writer/director Ken Lonergan has supplied, but there has to be more to it than that. I'd be curious to find out what sort of preparations they went through for their roles, because the results are stunning.In its deceptive simplicity, the film really captures something intangible, universal. No glorified TV movie as a few detractors have called it, the characters and situations have too much depth and complexity. There is a refreshingly spontaneous scene (among many) where Ruffalo (in an amazing performance as the sort of charming loser everyone has known) goes on a profanity-ridden, rambling tirade in front of his 8 year old nephew about how terrible the world is and the kid just listens receptively enough then fires back skeptically What are you talking about? and Ruffalo shrugs and admits I don't know. And I love the way Linney keeps sharply asking WHAT? and What are you TALKING about? every time there is some new unbelievable (to her) family or workplace development. She's trembling with the awareness that people, loved ones, even she herself can seldom be what she wants them to be. The final quiet scene between she and her brother is nothing short of miraculous.I attribute some of the early negative comments I've read to The Matrix Factor. That is, the suspicion that a disproportionate number of comments are posted by people who believe that The Matrix is the yardstick by which all movies must be measured. The subtlety and intelligence of You Can Count on Me is no doubt surprising to a segment of the audience that has been conditioned by a hundred average films to expect certain things to happen at certain points in every film. And when they don't they feel cheated; they believe any departure from the majority of what Hollywood has been spoonfeeding them for years is a screw-up, something to be pounced upon and derided. How tragic.You Can Count on Me is one of those films where you're constantly enthusing Yes! That's how it is! That's the way life is! Too bad films like these don't come along more often.  "},{"Title":"Top Notch","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was reading some of the other comments on here and its really hard to believe that some people didnt like this movie or should I say, Didnt Get this movie. What a wonderful film with touching moments and great dialoge and...Acting! People seem to think from their comments that everyone gets over death in the same way and they go on with their life. Convenient plot device in most movies maybe but its not as simple as that. Not many movies made today are that thought provoking and most leave you as you leave the theatre. This did not! My thoughts and opinions are still swirling around in my mind. Laura Linneys character reminded me of someone much the same as Holly Hunters Character in Broadcast news. Someone who is controlling of others but has her own faults. A person who seems together to others but her own life is a bit messy. She judges her brother but is as screwed up as he is but in a different way. The scenes between Brother and Sister are wonderful as they try and relate to each other and as we do too. Matthew Broderick is boss that I'm sure will ring true with allot of people. The Big Jerk boss who comes in the office and tries to change everything and alienates everyone i the process. Ive had had plenty of bosses who dont know how to be a person much less a boss and he plays it well. If you are looking for a funny sometimes sad film about...People and youre tired of Big Budget gross out humor like Little Nicky and Big Mammas House, check this out. I dont think you will be sorry. "},{"Title":"A Slice of the Sibling Life","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With so many rave reviews to its credit, I was expecting just a little bit more from Director Ken Lonergan's You Can Count on Me. Even so, it's an impressive effort for a first-time director and a well made, engaging film that succeeds solely on the strengths of its narrative material and structure. Also to its credit are fine performances from Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo. The entire setting for the story is a small town where Linney lives as a single mother, still inhabiting the house where she and her brother (Ruffalo) grew up. Early on, we understand her brother to be the rebellious wanderer type, having apparently spent most of his adult life in the big city. And just like all bad pennies, the time has come for him to return to his roots. Predictably, some cages are rattled after he shows up, most notably Linney's, as she copes with unsatisfying attempts at dating and angst over her son's total alienation from his bad father. Matthew Broderick does a nice turn as Linney's married, but sex-starved boss, with whom she has some very impulsive encounters. The whole thing moves along nicely, and Linney is always a pleasure to watch. In this and virtually every role I've seen her perform, she proves herself to be a very talented, natural and unpretentious actor. Opposite Linney, Ruffalo is also very believable as the problem child. He seems to embody the type of trouble-making misfit most of us have known or encountered at some time in our lives.  So, with all these positive observations, why should I find anything lacking? To be honest, I can't quite put my finger on it. Maybe the best way to sum it up would be a comment made by the person I was with when I saw the film. It was like a really good TV movie, she said. And I immediately agreed with her. One thing's for certain It's refreshing to see a film that's enjoyable on a number of levels without the need for special effects, exotic locations and the excesses of vulgarity that Hollywood so frequently uses.       "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable, Realistic and Perceptive","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  YOU CAN COUNT ON ME   * * * 1/2   Very enjoyable and unpredictable comedy/drama about an orderly single mom in upstate New York who is visited by her wayward, irresponsible younger brother. Not for those who demand melodrama and an A to Z plot, but for those who can appreciate one of the most realistic and perceptive portraits of siblings ever seen in a movie. Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo turn in two of the year's best performances, and almost as good in smaller roles are Matthew Broderick as Linney's anal bank manager boss and Rory Culkin (dead ringer for older brother Macauley) as her son.  "},{"Title":"Realistic, moving & entertaining story of small-town USA.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that engulfs us in its characters from the start, and keeps us riveted. It's the story of the travails of a brother and sister, each embodying the full range of human traits. Laura Linney as the sister is a single mom, raising her son and working in a bank for an unsympathetic boss, Matthew Broderick. Her brother, Mark Ruffalo, is a troubled young man who comes to visit her in small-town USA. Laura is in almost every scene, with her brother, son, boss, or boyfriend. The events are as unpredictable as the day's headlines, and the people, including those in supporting roles, as human as our neighbors. I valued this film as much for what it did not include violence, a contrived romance and a neat ending.I've rarely been touched as much by a movie, especially the scene near the end at the bus stop. The issues addressed are key to our lives. How do we value a life? Is there a G-d? How do we balance our personal and business lives? Can we turn our lives around in a more productive direction, and if so, how? How do we deal with adversity? Why was a marriage proposal and response handled as shown? Why was an affair begun and ended in a particular way? The movie provides ample room for further discussion among viewers about the choices the principles made.  It encourages us to examine these issues in our own lives.The film's value is in the details of how issues are explored, and the characters' talents in making us care deeply about them. The editing is crisp, and the acting of, and chemistry between, the brother and sister, exceptional. The film brings to mind Walk on the Moon, which also focuses a magnifying glass on a tight-knit family and the dynamics of their inter-relationships. This is a gem not to be missed when special effects, big budgets and violence prevail on our screens.  "},{"Title":"You Can Count on Watching the Same Story Over and Over","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film came to me with the great recommendation of having tied Sundance with the fantastic Girlfight. But it turned out to be a disappointment. It's an all right film, not offensive to the palate and the intelligence, but not special either. The story, of siblings meeting again after a childhood trauma has marked their lives (in what way, though? the movie doesn't tell us anything about that, other than they miss their dead parents. No kidding) is really unoriginal. Just at this time, there is at least another movie that deals EXACTLY with the same premise, Vertical Limit. While the genres these two movies operate in are wildly different, and one would be tempted to say that You Can Count on Me analyses the adult sibling relationship in more intimate terms (isn't that what indie movies of the drama/comedy variety are supposed to do?), it seems to me that Vertical Limits has the advantage of actually not being boring. Okay, I'm too harsh perhaps. But have people really not seen adult sibling relationships depicted/explored in movies before??!!! It seems to me that's just about all we see in movies. Randomly Rain Man, The Brothers McMullen, Hanging Up, The Godfather (yes?), Sister My Sister (YES?)... it's all over the place! If you want to see really DEEP explorations of sibling relationships, I propose you turn to Ingmar Bergman or Margaret Von Trotta. Hey, and why not? Girlfight! It does it pretty well (though maybe one would say they are not adults. Who cares, says I).Having said that I find the premise trite, I'm going to add that I found the development trite as well. Like, these two people love each other very very much but they lead very very different lives, and one of the two is troubled while the other one is stable, and the troubled one asks the stable one for money... It depicts the situation of just about any pair of siblings I know. Seriously. And the schmaltziness, oh the schmaltziness. We are supposed to UNDERSTAND that Sam and Terry love each other very much even though we are never told why and how, and the way we understand it is by 1) watching Sam welcome Terry home with unbounded happiness and 2) watching Terry say goodbye to Sam with unbounded sadness/fortitude/optimism/whatever. Other than that, it's all about Terry going through the rituals of male bonding with Sam's little son late-night pool playing, fishing, construction, fistfighting. You would think by now filmmakers would have come up with something more original. And why isn't Terry bonding with his sister instead? Or is he bonding with the sister by bonding with her son? 'Cause if that is the case, we have such a major problem of dysfunctional lack of communication on our hands, it's not even funny. The bonding of uncle and nephew in fact pivots on CUTTING OFF the sister/mother, as is the case with most male bonding.**SPOILER ALERT*** What the film does well, it seems to me, is show how Samantha GETS RID of all the loser men (brother included) that populate her life by deciding at some point to shed them, one by one. Well done, Sam! She even gets rid of the budding loser-boy mentality of her son by telling him to shape up and stop pining after his uncle.Laura Linney is terrific and breathes all the life into this otherwise supremely forgettable film. And she looks terrific in those glasses.BTW, I like her better as the good guy than as the bad guy. "},{"Title":"A slice of Americana","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count on Me is the metaphoric film title about commitments one can never be sure of.  It is a perfect slice of Americana in this new millennium, involving a staid community of 'dull and narrow' people forging onward to an uncertain tomorrow.  Laura Linney as Samantha appears to be the rock-solid sister that a troubled brother, Terry, played by Mark Ruffalo can turn to.  Since their parents' untimely death when they were young, there is a shaky bound between the two that revolves around their homely town of Scottsville, a place Terry detests and Samantha is destined to live.  Then there is the seven year old son, Rudy Jr. (Rory Culkin) who wonders about his missing father and wonders even more about this vagabond uncle who has come to stay.   Dialogue and superb acting (especially Linney and Ruffalo) drive this film and keep us focused on a very troubled brother and sister relationship which has little hope of resolving.  Their initial reunion in a quiet, pedestrian restaurant starts out with a whimper and ends in a bang, with the sullen, ne'er do Terry asking for favors from a hurt sister wondering why she has to put up with someone she has not heard from in months.  The tussle between Samantha and boss Brian is an interesting escalation of who is really in charge with an added twist of office romance.  Then there is Samantha, herself, the stable and saintly one, who gives in to men she feels sorry for and worse, commits the very hypocrisy she would never tolerate from anyone else.  When she can no longer stand this 'fornication and adultery', she confides in a parish priest who disappoints her by not dispensing her brand of torture and damnation.  Through it all, commitments are all Samantha is about - the commitment to pick up her son on time from school, the commitment to hide the truth about Rudy Sr., and the commitment to stay in the same town her parents lived and died.  And as Terry wanders in and out of her life, there is this commitment too, that she will always be waiting for him.    "},{"Title":"Good acting and some real feelings","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked Mark Ruffalo a lot and both siblings' roles were well done.  I just don't understand people who make choices like that and why they make them. The unexamined life is not worth living. But Terry's predicament seemed more credible to me.  Sammy is hardly the model of verisimilitude.  And I agree with the reviewer who said Bryan the bank manager was over the top! Still, i've seen people like both of them in many parts of the world.  Not just floating but not yet drowning either.  What will happen to that poor boy?  That's the real cliff-hanger.  I don't know if he'll grow up to be a great pool-player.  What a goal! "},{"Title":"Count on this dark, depressing, and meandering.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My friend won a contest on the radio two free tickets to see YOU CAN COUNT ON ME.  Good thing the tickets were free  now we're only out the cost of gas to get to the theater.You Can Count On Me is a too-long, darkly filmed story about two diverse adult siblings colliding in mid-life.Poorly cast as brother and sister, Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo bear not the slightest resemblance to each other. Laura -- blond, fair, almost perky but intelligent; Mark -- dark, brooding, and not too bright. You'd think Hollywood was actually short on talented people who look alike.We're never sure why ''Terry'' comes back into ''Sammy's'' life at this particular time. Their parents are long-dead, and there's no major life event occurring at this point in their lives. ''Rudy'', underplayed by MacCauley Culkin's baby brother Rory, is nearly invisible throughout the film.  He almost never initiates a conversation, and what he lacks in initiative he also lacks in personality, assertiveness, and charisma. He exists only as a pawn in Sammy's dreary life.Terry at first appears to be an habitual drug user, but gets almost clean and sober just a few minutes after he hits home. Score zero points for realism.Allegedly, Sammy has lived in this isolated village for virtually her entire life. She has an ex-husband, a brother, a boyfriend and a lover, but NOT ONE GIRL FRIEND. Score more zeroes for realism.Director Ken Lonergan doesn't seem to think much of women, at least as they're portrayed in this film. The main character is an adulteress. The bosses wife is frigid, the co-worker at the bank is crazy and vindictive, Terry's girlfriend is suicidal, and Sammy's ex-husband's girlfriend is portrayed as pissed-off trailer park trash.Actually, men don't fare too well, either, under Lonergan's direction. They are, in no particular order, needy, needy, needy, needy and immature.The direction and dialogue are uneven and choppy. Events unfold in no discernible order. Cinematically speaking, the movie is dark; as a metaphor the darkness is overdone. It's so dark that you may find yourself staring into the theater's exit signs for some visual relief.There are some mildly humorous scenes, like the ones involving the minister, and Lonergan makes good use of music as a humorous vehicle, but these moments are too few and far between to redeem the film.I can't, in good conscience, recommend this film. I learned nothing from it, wasn't entertained by it, and took nothing away with me. The subject matter -- the relationships between adult siblings -- is far too complex and intense to be dealt with in a flippant film like this. File this one under ''J'' for Juvenile -- by that I mean, this movie wants to be a film when it grows up.  #30 "}{"Title":"A directorial debut that isn't going unnoticed","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Acclaimed at the Sundance Film Festival, Ken Lonergan's directorial debut You Can Count on Me is a masterly crafted and a well-narrated story. Excellent acting from a carefully assembled cast that includes Laura Linney, Matthew Broderick, and Rory Culkin, as well as a convincing and poignant performance by Mark Ruffalo. Impeccable photography, a scriptwriter who can write, a director who knows how to get the best of his actors and create scenes that consistently ring true. It would be misleading to summarize the film as a characterization of the unique relationship that can unite (or divide) siblings. It is that, but much more, and in particular a touching portrayal of an ADD protagonist, struggling not to sink in an impatient world, discreetly looking for help that cannot come because of the storms he unleashes and discord he unwittingly sows. A must see, and if Hollywood ever gave meaningful awards, this film should be on the short list. "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great little film for people who love movies.  I like so many things about it excellent writing, directing, acting, photography and editing.  But probably the best thing about it is the reality real life, real people and real events.  It's the opposite of standard Hollywood fare with it's contrived characters and formulaic plots.  Throughout the movie almost nothing about any character or action is predictable.Beyond that, the movie has beautiful craftsmanship.  The pacing, the visual compositions, the transitions - you never want to take your eyes off the screen.  It's wonderful when writing, direction, performance, cinematography and editing all work in concert like this.  And I should mention, it's funny!The movie this most reminds me of is Moonstruck.  Although it's not quite as marvelously crafted as Moonstruck, it's the director's first time out. Thank you for this wonderfully entertaining little film.  "},{"Title":"You Can Count on a Great Film","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes a movie comes out of nowhere to knock people's socks off.  Such is the case with `You Can Count on Me.'Consider This is Kenneth Lonergan's first time out as director.  He gets outstanding performances out of Laura Linney (who did good work but got little notice for supporting roles in `Primal Fear' and `The Truman Show') and Mark Ruffalo, who has been a journeyman movie actor since 1993 (I dare you to name one of his previous films).  He even gives a good performance himself as a minister who gives life-changing advice to both Linney's and Ruffalo's characters.Every scene in the movie is played perfectly, and the end of the film-while not particularly upbeat-is appropriate and offers some glimmer of hope.This is a film not to miss. "},{"Title":"A moving but slightly flawed film","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the same reaction as a lot of reviewers the film moved me very much, and I think it's generaly a fine piece of work, though a flawed one. I'd be curious to hear how other viewers reacted to certain scenes. The major mistake occurs when Sammy, the Laura Linney character, asks her priest's help in getting her brother to, well, redirect his life. Up to that point the film gave no clue that her brother was a loser, in fact just the opposite. He acts as a wonderful substitute father for her son-teaching him how to drive a nail, how to fish, how to shoot pool. Or are we to understand that her missionary zeal toward her brother is a cover-up for her guilt-ridden affair with her boss? The direction the film took at this point mystified me.In retrospect I find the Sammy character unbelievable, in other words, much too smart and knowing for someone who was born and continues to live in a small town in the Catskills. When she talks to the priest about their church's stand on adultery, she takes an unexpected stand for orthodoxy, as opposed to a more lenient, merciful admonishment. It's a funny scene, but Sammy also betrays a  sophisticated ability to raise a core issue of pastoral theology. (In real life, Laura LInney comes from New York City, and to a certain extent, it shows in her portrayal.)It's scenes like this one that I believe make Lonergan's film look better than it actually is. All his tete-a-tete scenes are brilliantly written and brilliantly played. The first one, in the restaurant where Sammy becomes angry with her brother is memorable, and I just hope that Mark Ruffalo and Laura Linney are NOT offered a TV contract to segue their roles into a sit-com. It's undeniable that Director Lonergan has brought out the magic that exists between these two fine performers. "},{"Title":"A richly familiar work by Mr. Longergan","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first fifteen minutes of Ken Lonergan's You Can Count On Me, although thematically important to the film, seem significantly out of place in the film. This has to due with the fact that the scenes have little visual urgency and seem inappropriately out of tune with the rest of film's quieter tone. Sammy and her younger brother Terry quietly watch television as their parents are run over by a truck. After a cursory moment that shows the young Sammy and Terry grieving at a funeral, Lonergan's film delves into a wonderfully observed tale of how the deadly accident retarded the lives of the older Sammy (Laura Linney) and Terry (Mark Ruffalo).Terry, down on his luck and living with a loser girlfriend, sweeps into town and starts living with Sammy. Instantly, the brother and sister are forced to deal with their relationship in a new light. The greatest praise I can give Lonergan is that he exercises a lot of control in never mentioning the death of Sammy and Terry's parents. Everything that the two characters strive for in this film is a direct result of the pain and lost that greeted them upon their parents' death but nary a comment is made about the incident.Sammy lives alone with her son Rudy (Rory Culkin), sheltering him from the reality of how much of a loser his real father is. Terry becomes very close to his nephew and assumes the role of surrogate father. He takes this instinctual need to be a role model to Rudy a little to far by introducing Rudy to his deadbeat father (Josh Lucas). It's a noble deed that is painfully and quietly rooted in the fact that Terry had his own relationship with his father truncated the day that he died in the car accident.It's funny to see how much Terry thinks he knows about the world, ridiculing the small-time life that Sammy has decided to live. Although her life is obviously boring, his drifter mentality is about as scatterbrained as his sister's quiet existence, whose emotions are always threatening to boil over.Sammy lives a painfully drab life that consists of nothing more than driving her son to school and going to work at a small bank. Such a peaceful existence is off-putting to the big-city man that Terry fancies himself to be and the problem isn't necessarily that Sammy is living small but that she isn't living at all. She is dating a man that she doesn't love, nor wants to marry, and soon gets sexually involved with her new boss Brian (Matthew Broderick). There isn't a particularly strong aesthetic sensibility running throughout You Can Count on Me but the strength of the movie is the way that Lonergan's dialogue is so painfully familiar. Lonergan explores such simple truths that one can't help but relate to the lives of his characters. One great scene toward the end of the film finds Terry being forced to embrace religion by his sister. Here is a woman who is having an affair with a married man, forcing God onto a man who is far from perfect but a man who, nonetheless, has shown a more receptive need to get out and change his life and the life of the people around him. She is not being malicious, but merely continuing to play the role of mother figure to her brother; a role she learned to play with little training.Linney, in an impressively nuanced performance, plays Sammy as an emotionally insecure woman who makes many a wrong decision. A woman that would otherwise shun adultery chooses comfort in the arms of a married man whenever she feels she is being pressured into marriage by a boyfriend she doesn't know if she wants to marry. The film ends with the two siblings fighting but ultimately coming to terms with the fact that even though they can no longer live together, the familiarity of their emotionally stilted lives will always keep them at arms link. No one speaks the titular platitude in the film aloud but the viewer is always aware of how the two characters' lives are emotionally and inextricably bound.  "},{"Title":"A brave film","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A long time ago, Hollywood used to make the occasional slice of life movie.  Maybe the best example was Marty, the tale of an overweight Brooklyn butcher who falls for a plain-Jane school teacher.Hollywood has long ago abandoned this kind of film, although American independent filmmakers and Europeans continue to turn them out regularly. You can count on me is that kind of film.The movie takes place in a small town in upstate New York where Sammy, played by Laura Linney, is an unwed mom working as a loan officer in a bank.  Her life is pretty calm until her drifter brother Terry shows up looking for a handout and winds up moving in with her.Terry, played by Mark Ruffalo, takes over the job of live-in child care worker and soon Sammy's son, Rudy, played by Rory Caulkin,finally has a male in his life.  Before long, Rory and Terry are breaking the rules together, but in a nice sort of way.  Meanwhile, Sammy gets a marriage proposal from her nice, but boring boyfriend, played by Jon Tenney. More importantly, she starts an affair with her new boss at the bank, played with an orderly nastiness, by Matthew Brodrick.So, what happens?  Actually, not too much.  The love affairs turns sour and Terry proves that the reason he gets on well with an eight year old is that he's about as responsible as one.  Actually, he may be a little less responsible than the one he's looking after.One of the features of slice of live movies is that they often don't include the kind of big, catastrophic events that Hollywood loves to depict.  That holds true for this movie.  The incident in which Terry reveals himself as the irresponsible looser that he is isn't the kind of traumatic event we expect to find in Hollywood films. It is, however, the kind of thing that happens to many working class guys who don't have a good grip on their tempers and aren't as happy with their independence as they pretend to be.But it's this film's lack of a big payoff which may be its biggest failing.  While in real life most of us don't learn all these life lessons we find at the movies, somehow movies seem a little more important when we at least get a glimpse of one.You can count on me fails to deliver a final punch or even much of a tap.But it's worth seeing anyway for some uniformly good acting and for the fine direction from Ken Lonergan. It's also interesting because of a storyline that at least makes us question whether the charismatic loners about whom so many films are made are really the charming guys they appear.  It also points out that blood can really be thicker than water, although sometimes its not a good idea to bridge those waters.You can count on me is actually worth seeing -- a lot more so than most of what has come out of Hollywood this year. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film of the Year","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie broke my heart in places. I can't even begin to describe what an encouraging, funny, and hopeful story this was for me. The amazing performances, directing, and writing have already been lauded, but I want to praise the absolute lack of pretention and complete honesty of every scene. This didn't feel like a movie, it felt like life. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought You Can Count on Me was a wonderful film and really funny. It showed what normal people many times have to deal with instead of a government agency corrupting the world or an asteroid coming the destroy mankind. This movie showed that you don't have to have great special effects to have a great movie. It was simple and down to earth. I thought it was one of the best I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Make some room on your top ten list.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ask any of my friends and they'll describe me as a movie junkie.  Having been deprived of a fix during my recent vacation, I went on a viewing blitz upon my return.  As I sat through one movie after another, a common thread was readily apparent - although very different, they were all poorly made whether they suffered from flat characters, bad scripts or meandering plots, they were at best, only remotely entertaining.   With hope waning, I dragged myself to the press screening for a film I knew nothing about.  I may never rely on a Marquee again.   Only children when their parents were killed in a car accident, Terry and Sammy Prescott grew up depending on one another.  Upon reaching adulthood, they opt for different lifestyles while Sammy lives in the family home, has a stable job, goes to church every Sunday and devotes herself to her son, Terry drifts from state to state, doing odd jobs, and concentrates on avoiding commitment in any form.  Unable to face the first problem he can't run from, Terry returns home to ask for Sammy's help.  Although the reunion is initially bittersweet, they begin to evaluate their lives and realize that - although they would never admit it - they can learn from each other.Unlike most films that focus on family dynamics (both Indie and mainstream), Kenneth Lonergan's (who also wrote, Analyze This) latest effort does not rely on gimmicks or Jerry Springeresque style dark secrets to tell his story.  You Can Count On Me is one of those rare films that is simultaneously real and entertaining the characters could be anyone you know, the dialogue, conversations you've probably had, the feelings, universal and the small-town setting so charming you never think Hollywood.  The is bolstered by an amply talented cast  Laura Linney is captivating as Sammy, the tightly wound single mom, who is always coming to her brother's rescue.   She is both strong and confused, fearful of what will happen if she steps out of her ordered life. Mark Ruffalo is brilliant as Terry the somewhat simpleminded black sheep brother, who always manages to run afoul of life.  The fluidity of their exchanges made me wonder how much time they had spent together, and if they improvved any of the dialogue as they gelled so effectively.  Rory Culkin, the youngest of the Culkin clan, turns in a deliberately understated performance - no screaming or hands cupped over ears - as Sammy's son.  His relationship with Terry is both touching and troublesome, as he shows Terry that maturity isn't something to be feared.  Everyone will enjoy Matthew Broderick's take as the anti-Ferris - a character who is so uptight that he forbids employees from using any strange background colors on their computer screens - in one of his best performances of late.  Finally, Lonergan's cameo as the non-judgmental, balanced priest reveals that he is capable of fleshing out the characters he creates, a rare gift for a writer/director.The film is funny, serious, touching, and intelligent and brilliantly executed, which means it will get nowhere near the press it deserves.   Count on it.  "},{"Title":"What's the big deal????!!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You're calling this the best movie of the year?  What--freakin'-ever. But what was it really? Was it a drama?Here we had this cute little kid and he didn't see one deadperson during the whole movie. Sure, Laura Linney is agood actress and she had some mildly funny moments  like when she was laughing at herself in the car afterhaving sex with her boss, but Cameron Diaz with the  sperm making her hair all spikey----now that's comedy. Andthis new guy that everyone's comparing to a young Brando,or Jack Nicholson---he didn't grab his butt cheeks onetime! And he had no catchy Alllll---righty then, line that wecan remember him by. What's that all about?  It seems that Mr. Lonergan has never learned, or  mysteriously forgotten, what movie magic is all about. (PS----thank God.) "}{"Title":"Understated and Brilliant","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count on Me is a refreshing change from both the dreadful Hollywood blockbuster and the dreaded arty independent film.  This film honestly portrays adult sibling relationships in a sensitive and realistic manner.The acting is top-notch if the Academy has any sense, then it will nominate Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo in the leading actor categories.  Likewise, the direction is strong.  Director Kenneth Lonergan carries the plot through masterfully without ever hitting you over the head with its message.  However, the best praise for You Can Count on Me lies in Lonergan's script.  It is real, vital, emotional and dramatic, without ever getting sappy or cliched. I also appreciated its fair portrayal of spirituality/religious issues, without being dismissive or patronizing toward them.  This is all the more interesting in light of the fact that Mr. Lonergan has gone on the record that he is not religious at all.This film is great--go see it now!  And make sure to take your brother or sister with you! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ken Lonergan's You Can Count on Me is a great film; one of the most emotional filmgoing experiences I've ever had. The film broke my heart in places and had me roaring with laughter in others. The laughter was genuine and very satisfying; like laughing at a friend's incorrigible habits rather than a funny one-liner. Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo are extraordinary...there isn't a second when you don't think they are brother and sister.  The screenplay is beautiful and is full of amazing observations, not just about brothers and sisters but people in general.  You Can Count on Me is a must-see film; wise, funny, perceptive, and deeply moving. It deserves to be a classic. "},{"Title":"Fine writing, directing, acting","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At last an ADULT American film that doesn't rely on sex to be catergorized as such!  Kenneth Lonergan is to be congratulated on this thoughtful, honest portrayal of all the characters in this fine brother-sister drama. It's careful, intelligent pacing is exactly right and the unresolved twists and developments are artfully and unsentimentally handled to give the audience the pleasure of surprise and believability.  A very rare and satisfying film experience! "},{"Title":"Great acting yet uneven film","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe it's because of this small film's rave reviews, that my expectations were rather high. I enjoyed it, some great acting, a few perfect scenes, but also uneven and all over the place. I don't need everything wrapped up in a pretty package (far from it)but I felt there was a stretch once the brother returns where it just rambled along instead of continuing the story. Linney is amazing, but I really felt the small boy (another Culkin!!!) who played her son was incredible. Ruffalo has a tough role because heis so human and so screwed up, but there was a lot to his mumbling and looking down that didn't add any dimension to the character, just seemed like lazy acting tricks. So, I guess 3 stars out of five. "},{"Title":"Avoids every cliche","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A marvelously unpredictable screenplay and extraordinary direction of the actors are both the work of Kenneth Lonergan, a superbly talented man.  The family comedy-drama is a difficult genre to revivify in these self-consciously ironic and postmodern times, but this movie does it in spades.  Every twist and turn of the plot is surprising and yet never contrived.  It's funny, touching, and realistic.  And the acting is great. A must. "},{"Title":"Simple, straightforward, true, deeply moving.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count On Me is easily one of the best films of 2000, a simple, straightforward story of family. The movie is notable for steering clear of easy sentiment in favor of emotional honesty. Laura Linney and Michael Raffalo register award-calibre performances as a brother and sister getting reacquainted as adults, while Matthew Broderick, Kieran Culkin and Jon Tenney offer skilled support. Great script and supple direction from Kenneth Lonergan. If you are tired of cinematic excesses at the multiplex, seek this one out.  "},{"Title":"Siblings never change, even if your life circumstances do","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For those of us blessed with the opportunity to see this film at Sundance 2000, no viewer was shocked when it tied for the Grand Jury prize.  An exemplary combination of fantastic writing, directing and acting for the virgin directing effort of Kenneth Lonergan.  You Can Count on Me centers on an area not usually focused on, an adult brother-sister relationship. You get to see Sammy (Laura Linney) as a single mother, as a friend, as a girlfriend, a mistress and an employee.  When her younger, unfocused brother Terry (a wonderful Mark Ruffalo)wanders back in her life, their relationship is the one that draws your attention.  The chemistry of the writing permits you to see the manner that remains constant in any sibling relationship an immaturity and familiarity that exists with no one else but someone you grew up with.  "},{"Title":"Quite good.","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A person would have to really have to sit down and watch this movie to realize it's very good. This movie is like watching an edited version of a single mom's life in Nowhere, U.S.A Mark Ruffalo's performance made me regard him as a potentially great actor and Laura Linney was good, as she always is.I'll put it in terms that people who really watch movies would understand; compared to America's Sweethearts, this movie was gold. The story is simple and the plot isn't all that great, but the acting is explosive and the results are satisfying. Plus, the music, the cello masterpiece sets the tone for this movie and I really think it's quite good, I really do. "},{"Title":"One of my top ten of the last decade.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  &#145;You Can Count on Me' is a rare find and one of the best movies in recent memory. It is a mostly sad but sometimes funny look at the family binds that can infuriate us yet often nurture as well. Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo and Rory Culkin were perfectly cast. Linney particularly was Oscar worthy. The story is simple - Linney and Ruffalo play siblings whose parents died when they were children. The movie skips immediately to adulthood and you have no real idea how they were raised after this tradegy. Laura plays Sammy, a single mother with an 8 year old boy (Culkin), who tries to balance her work and personal lives. She still resides in the house she was raised as opposed to Terry, played by Ruffalo, who is a troubled, pot-smoking wanderer. Terry comes to visit and ask for money, but he decides to stay for a while. Soon, he rekindles the ties with his nephew and sister. The addition of Terry allows Sammy to focus on her own life which has become troubled lately due to the pressure of marriage from her on/off boyfriend as well as her tough new boss played by Matthew Broderick. The relationship between Sammy and Terry becomes strained when his &#145;honest' nature with Culkin leads to trouble. &#145;You Can Count on Me' is the most genuine observation on family I have ever seen. How Lonergan has not directed another movie is beyond me. He struck absolute gold with this work. The ending is completely moving (and I'm not easily moved) 9/10 &#150; the only weak link was Broderick. His acting, at times, was not up to par with the rest of the cast. "},{"Title":"Count on This One","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having just read Kenneth Logernan's play THIS IS OUR YOUTH, I felt compelled to rent YOU CAN COUNT ON ME, which he wrote and directed and in which and plays a small but memorable role.  What other writers and directors tend to exploit, Logernan explores. He knows when to hold back and when to go ahead. Many books, plays and movies nowadays seem to set the audience up for something demoralizing, and while YOU CAN COUNT ON ME has moments of pain, it is not a clinical study of such moments. I did not notice any background music. There's a lot of music, but it is heard through radios or TV sets. Maybe one key to YOU CAN COUNT ON ME is a scene near the beginning showing Laura Linney's character driving to work. She has a country station on the radio and a song comes on. You sense she's finding it distracting and just when you think she's going to shut it off she actually turns it up. She doesn't sing to the song or hum, so we don't know if she's enjoying the music or just trying to drown out her thoughts. Maybe the one thing she can control is her car radio.   "}{"Title":"Difficult to watch, except for the great acting and screenplay","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I admire this movie for its superb acting, great dialog, and purity of effort.  I'm not sure I learned anything in the 110 minute exercise, however.  Also, matching Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo as sister and brother begs biology too much...not a chance they came from the same parents! That said, I still gave this 8/10 because it was so well done.  Given how painful this was to watch at times, I'd just wish they'd done something else.  "},{"Title":"It's just like life (only with better dialogue)","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How many times in your life have you found yourself in thissituation?  You care deeply for someone.  You're entire body achesto be with them.  Yet, at the same time, you are disgusted by thembecause you disagree with just about every choice they make.  Youare entangled in this confusion to the point that the conflict isresolved by extrenuating circumstances.And so it goes with YOU CAN COUNT ON ME.  One of the mostbeautiful and touching films I have ever seen.  When I don't havetime to watch the whole movie, I watch the trailer.  I dream ofsomeday making a film this real.I miss Mark Ruffalo when he's not around. "},{"Title":"Flows like a River","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An excellent slice of life film. Beautifully acted, directed, and a perfect musical score for the mood of the film. Although some have noted that this film appears to have no plot, it is very engaging nonetheless. I was drawn into the characters, and I think viewers can identify with them more so than in most 110 minute films. This had Academy Award for best actress (Laura Linny) written all over it.9/10  "},{"Title":"Impressive ... you can count on enjoying it","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie many times, including the DVD with the audio commentary (much recommended), and I continue to be impressed. All of the leads are excellent ... Laura Linney should have won an Academy Award; Rory Culkin is quite a find; and even Broderick does great in a somewhat thankless, but touching role. The writer/director also has a nice couple of cameos as the minister. For such a liberal minded film, it is notable that religion is given a special place. As with the comedy The Favor, religion at times is respected in some surprising places. This alone is admirable.The movie also feels perfect ... it has a great tone, sense of place, and there were some very good music choices. The special nature of the film -- let me say that I'm not saying it is the greatest movie of all time or anything, but it surely is one of the top movies I saw in the last few years -- is seen in the openning scenes. They pack a wallop, but in a special way. We care about these people from the beginning.The movie has some deep themes that reflects the playwright background of the director and cast (ironically, he is also a screenwriter of such Hollywood trifles as Analyze This), and at times the weight of the film might be seen as a bit much. But, it doesn't overwhelm because it holds true to its characters, shows their faults, and has a sense of fun as well. The complexity of the film is sadly not seen that often these days in any consistent way.Sometimes, we want movies like this ... deep, adult movies, that are still pretty fun and pleasant to watch. When you are in the movie for such a film, I'd suggest you take a look at this one. Besides, Laura Linney is pretty cute in this film! ;) "},{"Title":"A great bit of film","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I'm not going to delve into the plot or the story (you can read that elsewhere), I will say that if you want a film that is brilliantly written and performed, touching in parts and genuinely funny in others, you cannot go wrong with this movie. Movies that in so many ways reflect our own lives so accurately are few and far between. There is no formulaic Hollywood swill here, so simpletons wanting the cheap thrill should go elsewhere. The story is presented for what it is; a short glimpse into a series of relationships, a lost brother and burdened sister at the heart of it all. There is no resolution to problems faced and no happy ending. The story is told to the audience, we care about the characters and we are left wondering about them. I cannot begin to say enough about this movie. Go watch it, it's truly exceptional. "},{"Title":"Fresh Delight","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You Can Count On Me embodies the best of the indie film while remaining exempt from the self indulgence and pretentiousness that many films of the genre fall prey to. It has a delightful freshness about it.  Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo will be new faces to many. Both have their characters perfectly nailed, with Linney in particular delivering a well rounded, beautifully nuanced performance. The subject matter too is fresh since adult sibling relationships, particularly between brother and sister, have not been widely explored in film.  Being orphans from an early age, this  relationship has an added intensity. There's some fine acting too from yet another young Culkin as well as Matthew Broderick  as the somewhat unhinged bank manager.Beautifully photographed, my only minor quibble is the trivialized usage of Bach's Cello Suite. Apart from that minor blemish, this one's a real joy. "},{"Title":"Quite reliable","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many reviewers have stressed ( quite rightly ) the excellency of Ken Lonergan's work both as writer and director of this film. Most of them too have praised ( equally rightly ) the quality of the performances of its main three actors( I should like to add that the fourth one, far less known, Jon Tenney, is rather good as Laura Linney's former lover, whom she invariably turns to in periods of need ), in fact of the whole cast. However, part of the cast's praise should rightfully be credited to Lonergan. It must be pointed out that the best performances  by casts often occur when the director is  also  a part-time good actor ( Sidney Pollack, for instance ), or an actor turned  director  ( Clint Eastwood, Sean Penn, Mel Gibson... ). And Lonergan gives a totally wonderful performance as Ron, the Minister.Another acting gem must be credited to J. Smith-Cameron   ( Mrs Ken Lonergan ),as Emma, the dour-faced colleague of Sammy 's (Linney. *******SPOILER There is a short  mute marvelous scene where  Emma has  her eyes riveted on her lurid-colored computer-screen, while gnawing something; and then comes Sammy, entrusted by her boss        ( Matthew Broderick ) with the task of having the screens changed to less aggressive colors. A look of Sammy at Emma, and she decides       to postpone her uneasy ( and potential source of trouble) query and withdraw...  "},{"Title":"Too slow for words...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After hearing all the buzz swelling around this film, I was quite shocked when I actually watched it.  The film is modest and simple, two elements that I like and two things that are rare in films today.  However, the relationship between Linney and Ruffalo is not anything exceptional.  I rarely felt compelled to follow their endless conversations and their drama was not clearly drawn.  Good performances from the two leads though, plus a great job by Rory Culkin. (C-)    "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yeah, I didn't laugh or cry or crack a smile or question anything about life, but I did come out of it thinking that Rory Culkin is a pretty good actor.  Laura Linney's not too bad either.  I am a bit sick of unnecessary humping scenes though.  That didn't need to be in it.  I was happy when the sex was implied and understood.  I don't need to see any part of it. There's just no way to make that tasteful. "},{"Title":"At least the acting was good...","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you want to make a slice of life film, you should start off with asking yourself, Why make this movie?  Why show this specific slice of someone's life?  I found no answers to these questions in You Can Count On Me. Though it was extremely well made and the acting was superb, there was really no point to the film at all.  No theme was explored, no lesson was learned, and really no interesting story was told.  I didn't see anything that hasn't been done before and the plot was too boring to interest me in the emotional conflicts.Thumbs up to a promising performance by Rory Culkin and a breakout acting job by Mark Ruffalo.  My $8 wasn't completely wasted. "}{"Title":"Please Don't Count on Me","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe it was because the Laemmle's Theater on this date in West Los Angeles opened 30-minutes late because the manager forgot to arrive to open the theater with electricity or warm the celluloid film cans a bit, but I thought the movie too cold and too slow in development, too under-nourished in content, forced to position awkward clues about its story development in awkward places, and too typical of Hollywood melodrama in a standard template method of story telling.I reacted to BEST PICTURE, BEST SCREENPLAY, BEST ACTOR banners in the Los Angeles Times on this opening day and made a spontaneous decision to Go To A Movie.The story had potential, it was about...well...this lady with a son, the mother worked in this bank in a small woodsy town with small woodsy police force.  The lady...well..has a brother..and the son does not particularly like his uncle and does not know too much about his...well..father...and...and... Gosh I am exhausted in the telling and trying to make an Academy Award out of this mess.There were simply too many inconsistent leaps of faith in how people relate to each other to the point where the audience (me) was confused on where the writing would provide its power-punch theme and merging and conclusion.At the conclusion of the film (i.e. physical end of editing), the non-comp'd paying folks exited and were offered a chance to fill out a survey...and a free teeny pencil included.  I overheard someone expressing my opinion Hey, you fill it out!! as they kept walking to their car on the upper deck of the Westside Pavilion.I did complete the little card, and returned the little pencil with my comments for this little scripted/directed movie which matches my vote herein.  "},{"Title":"Flawless Masterpiece","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's simply the best film of 2000! Even though we can safely say that 2000 was not a good year for film, there were several films that were absolutely unforgettable. You Can Count on Me is the best of the bunch. It is so remarkably well written and acted. This is the sort of indie film that we've been sorely lacking ever since Pulp Fiction attempted to make everything hipper. I'm somewhat surprised that it ever got off the ground since its sentiments are so out of style. But I imagine that when Martin Scorsese saw it, or whoever actually discovered it, it was just impossible to say no. 10/10 "},{"Title":"What happens when you take the chick out of the chick flick?","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You Can Count on Me is not unlike a typical Hollywood classic chick flick with the sappy, schmaltzy, melodramatic goo removed. The result of this much lauded and critically acclaimed light-drama sans goo is a wonderful tribute to the foibles of life and the imperfectness of us all. Not to be mistaken for reality, You Can Count... has all the usual Hollywood trappings. However, what makes it unique is Lonergan's restraint in milking the easy tear from the dry eye while challenging the audience to chuckle the us which is in just about every scene. Kudos to the director and principals of this refreshing genre-defining film. "},{"Title":"ignore any negative reviews here--see the movie","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     I don't remember this movie getting any negative reviews when it came out.  There seem to be some here, but I don't know why.  This movie is special because it is a believable story about a brother and a sister and their relationships with the world and each other.  It is often funny, often moving and, hopefully, often recognizable from one's own life experiences. It was for me.    Ruffalo's character should strike a chord with independent-minded men. Linney is vivacious and attractive and interesting.  All of the performances are outstanding.  This movie actually has more real things to say than Fight Club on some issues that Fight Club supposedly addresses.  The difference is, this movie has a heart and a brain.        "},{"Title":"Gentle story slow to start, reluctant to end","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie raised my hopes tremendously, with the brilliant starting scene. A couple in a car. The woman asks herself out loud, why girls need braces just at the time of their life when appearance means the most to them. Then, wham, a car crash.That's a brilliant opening. Almost too good, because it's a tough act to follow. The film fails, losing its charge quite quickly, by settling in a far too recognizable presentation. Not until half way into it, does it get on track again - but never to the extent that it matches the intro.During far too many minutes, it's simply hard to care, since everything is just too ordinary. It goes on being very ordinary, but about an hour into the film, there is at least some twist to it. Some good moments, though rare. The best one is when Sammy, the female lead, drives her car home after a secret rendez-vous with an unlikely lover, and bursts into sudden laughter. A wonderful laughter, saying such a lot.There are other scenes, where silence speaks fluently, through very skilled acting and a good sense of timing. There are some good actors in it. Matthew Broderick is very precise as a slightly repulsive boss worthy of a Freudian analysis, and still neither a monster nor a parody. Laura Linney also balances on the border between sympathetic and neurotic. And the boy, the younger Culcin, again makes me marvel at the Hollywood ability to make child actors perform so splendidly. I don't know how they do it, I'm not even sure I want to know.The weak one is Mark Ruffalo, playing the slightly Bohemian brother, but staying far too safely in the Prince Charming spectrum, whatever he does. It's really disturbing. If he could, at all, he should have allowed his character to be less agreeable, less safe. That was what the story seemed to call for.Well, the story is not that strong, either. It's pretty much a scramble of the usual drama cliches. Only at short moments does it stand out, like in how the Ruffalo character deals with the little boy's fantasy image of his absent father, or in the dialogue where the local priest tries to give him some spiritual guidance. That's a masterly dialogue, where both are allowed to say wise and reasonable things. An argument on such a high level, though brief, that there can be no winner of it.Otherwise, the film makes little impact. And the far too slow ending - naah, it is just a way of surrendering to the lack of a really good story. "},{"Title":"Makes The Royal Tenenbaums look good","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Reminiscent of Five Easy Pieces (1970) only with less well-defined characters and motivations, this is nevertheless an important film to cite as an example of what passes for relationship drama in a modern movie industry otherwise dominated by special effects and predictable plots. What's truly revealing is director-writer Kenneth Lonergan's articulate commentary track in which he describes a really great film --unfortunately, it doesn't happen to be the one he actually made. You Can Count on Me is a meandering, soft-centered, unfocused project that -- and here's why it's instructional -- nevertheless addresses critical issues about commitment, self-image, and morality that audiences clearly want to see on screen. This just isn't the film that shows them to us effectively.  "},{"Title":"beautiful real life drama","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `You Can Count on Me' is a film made, miraculously, without a single false step.  In fact, more than any American movie of recent times, this film captures the feel and essence of life as we really live it.  Heartfelt kudos go out to writer/director Kenneth Lonergan for fashioning an intimate family drama that is totally devoid of both cheap sensationalism and phony melodramatics &#150; a drama in which no character is a hero or a villain but simply an ordinary human being struggling to come to grips with this messy thing we call life.  Set in a bucolic small town in rural New England, the film stars the luminous Laura Linney as Sammy Prescott, a single mother trying to instill in her eight-year old son a sense of decency and values.  Having lost their parents in a car crash at a very early age, Sammy and her siblings have obviously had to overcome any number of psychological and emotional obstacles on their way to adulthood &#150; and no one seems to have been as adversely affected by the tragedy as Sammy's younger brother, Terry, who, as an adult, has found himself drifting aimlessly from one location, job and relationship to another, completely lacking, as Sammy puts it, the `anchor' that holds most of our lives in place.  Sammy has found that anchor in the form of her son, her home, her church and her bank job, but when Terry suddenly returns for a visit and the bank hires a new, less-than-understanding manager (with whom she ends up having an affair), even Sammy discovers that the threads holding her own life together may be more tenuous and tangled than she originally imagined (she even discovers that her religion has begun to soft pedal sin at a time when she feels what she really needs is some good old-fashioned fire-and-brimstone exhortation).The beauty of Lonergan's screenplay is that, while it throws any number of curve balls our way and never lets us know for sure where the story is headed, at the same time, it achieves that most remarkable feat of never forcing us to question its credibility.  Every action and reaction on the part of the characters is completely in-line with life as we know it. In fact, each character in the film is a true-to-life, recognizable human figure, neither villainous nor saintly.  Sammy is an obviously well-intentioned young woman, a hardworking churchgoer who is just trying to raise her son to be the best person possible given the often trying circumstances brought on by single motherhood.  Sammy is also deeply devoted to her wayward brother, struggling to find a way to offer him the love and encouragement she feels he needs without jeopardizing the physical and psychological well-being of herself and her son, Rudy.  Yet, despite the innate goodness at the core of her being, Sammy, like all us mere mortals, stumbles morally from time to time &#150; most noticeably, in the unexpected affair she finds herself having with her new married boss (Matthew Broderick).  Suddenly, Sammy now has to cope with the paradoxical dilemma of trying to provide moral guidance for both her brother and her son, while she, herself, is violating the very foundation of her own code of ethics. Even more intriguing, perhaps, is the contradictory nature of Terry (played by Mark Ruffalo, who, I swear, sounds as if he had been dubbed by none other than John Travolta).  Here is a character who could so easily have slid over into the role of easy villain.  Instead, Lonergan has chosen to see him in three-dimensional terms, showing how many of his actions that wound and hurt those around him are the result far more of immaturity and a stunted emotional development than of outright greed, viciousness or malice.  Like a child, Terry seems unable to confront the root causes of his bitterness and anger, so he often takes out his frustration on people like Sammy and Rudy without thinking about the consequences until after he has performed the action.  Yet, there are any number of moments when Terry reaches out in a genuine way for love, forgiveness and understanding.  Because of the subtle duality of his nature, Terry is one of the most impressively realized characters I've seen in any film in a long, long time.Even the minor characters are expertly drawn.  As the philandering boss, Matthew Broderick makes us believe that much of his petty tyranny is really an attempt to hide the insecurity and unhappiness that is at the core of his personal life and being.  Even the almost comically tawdry affair that ensues between him and Sammy speaks volumes about the emptiness and confusion both of them feel deep inside.  Sammy's sometime boyfriend, Bob, seems almost too good to be true at times, but even he is struggling with his own demons of indecisiveness and insecurity.  The ultimate message of `You Can Count on Me' seems to be that, no matter how messed up our lives become, all we really have in the end is each other and that it is the duty of those of us who are coping the best to help bring along those near and dear to us who seem to be struggling the most.  In this instance, Kenneth Lonergan, by resisting the temptation to judge his characters or preach to his audience, has managed to create a film of great wisdom, perceptiveness and compassion.  It is truly a rare gem to be treasured. "},{"Title":"Nice scenery, ordinary people, ordinary lives.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So naturalistic there's almost no plot, this film is cunningly framed to make you think there is one. The fulcrum of the film is the relationship between brother and sister, orphaned when children by a car crash in which both their parents were killed. Older sister Sammy (Laura Linney) grows up in their small town in country New York and becomes a solid citizen working in the local bank. Younger brother Terry (Mark Ruffalo) leaves town to drift and comes back after a short spell in jail to bludge off sis. Sammy has an eight year old son by a man she is trying to forget and an episodic relationship with another she probably should forget too. Also in town is a new manager at the bank who wants to stir things up. Put like that there's not a lot of potential for high drama but there's plenty of incident as bro is one of those people who just can't stay out of trouble. Terry is basically a good-looking semi-charming feckless waster with a strong line in self-justification. Somewhat straight-laced Sammy is actually a bit of a risk-taker beneath the demure surface &#150; she certainly takes some risks with her boss &#150; but she is a responsible mother who realises that bro, much as she loves him, cannot be trusted with just about anything. The acting is pretty low-key, and Kenneth Lonergan, the writer-director, who has a supporting part as the local Methodist minister, doesn't seem to be acting at all. Rory Culkin as the boy isn't bad at looking solemn for long periods of time. Mark Ruffalo doesn't look like Laura Linney's brother, nor does he sound like he grew up with her. Mathew Broderick as Sammy's incompetent boss fits in well, and reminded me of Christopher Eigeman's Lt (j/g) Fred Boynton in 'Barcelona' &#150; another incompetent abroad.The scenery (the Catskills in summer) is great but scenery doth not a movie make. Derived, it seems from a one-act play, the movie feels over-extended, what dramatic tension there is spread too thin. There are some amusing bits (eg the screw with the boss in his not exactly soundproofed office) and some tender moments. It's an anti-Hollywood movie which would probably go over fine on TV &#150; but as a moviegoer I felt a little short-changed. "},{"Title":"Well acted - look for my favorite scene...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this tremendously and thought the interaction between the characters was very real, but my favorite scene involved a minor character (who I just discovered while watching an extra on the dvd was the director of the film).  I liked the character of the Methodist Minister!  Without giving plot points away, his quiet grace and witness in the film is pivotal in one scene with Laura Linney's character.  I kept expecting the typical hollywood take on minister/church member rapport and was pleasantly surprised by this film's refreshing approach.In short, the minister in his white collar is understanding in the film and deals very realistically with the concerns the main character and her brother have.  Having a fraternal twin sister and heading back to Divinity School probably biased me some...but I invite you to watch this film and to especially enjoy the character's moral center (she goes to church and actually sees a minister when things begin to be a challenge for her!).  I think you'll agree it makes a remarkable film that much memorable.This should have won best picture last year and Linney was robbed of an oscar! "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is an example of what a really good movie is.  The characters were very convincing and extremely likable.  Both Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo did an excellent job and deserve more recognition than they received.  It is Linney's best performance to date and a career making role for Ruffalo.  Also, Mathew Broderick deserves to be recognized for his good performance and willingness to make real moviesFortunately, there are actors who still care about making quality films. "}{"Title":"Orphaned survivors are not cuddly and functional !","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am happy to finally get to see this on video -- it was in competition earlier this year in the categories of Best Actress and Best Original Screenplay at the Hollywood Oscar ceremony.  As a little movie, it has more surprises and actually squeamish moments that seem realistic than the overall winner (GLADIATOR) could pull out of its weapons cache.  Kenneth Lonergan -- director, screenplay writer, actor (Father Ron) -- places us in a situation fraught with conflicts that echo much of modern American pathos.  Lousy work environments, kids who get the short end of the stick as far as adults who treat them in a manner that is responsible, religious leadership that abuses and submits to being used by those with ulterior motives -- I see this pattern of connecting in midwestern America of the early 21st century. Some of the movie is strange to me in my realm of experience.  The return home is not easily analyzed.  Terry's world of rootlessness is invisible to those of us who unrealistically want everyone to be fitted and functional for all the cross-generational relating.  Instead, he is violent, erratic (mentally ill?), and dishonest.  Even so, as a prodigal come home we want Terry to be improving (yet he resists our simplistic categorizing).             I will be thinking about the characters in this movie for a long time. Therefore, in several senses, the film's message got under my skin.  However, the story's originality is not quite as satisfactory as an Oscar-winner that beat out this good nominee (ALMOST FAMOUS, also by a writer-director).  If you want to be taken on an uncomfortable peeping joy-ride through the world of realistic orphaned surviving children in adult bodies, then rent this domestic updating of the Madame Bovary-like saga.  See for yourself how YOU CAN CALL ON ME brings to the single mom with child her needy, prodigal brother who helps her get in touch with her varied dissatisfactions, sort of.  A lot less dying than in the Flaubert story line but some wacky sex scenes involving the YOU CAN CALL ON ME heroine.  I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A BEAUTIFUL MOVIE","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie definitely worth buying.  The characters are just amazing in the script and the music is great!  Truly a movie that gets right to the heart of people. Real life issues that make us beautiful people.  The music is something else I will buy! "},{"Title":"Family Relations, No Matter How Tenuous--Matter!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this film, the script, the music, the interaction amongst the characters, and especially the performances of Laura Linney as Sammy and Mark Rufulo as Terry.One of the two main characters, Sammy, has an apparently idyllic life in a small town in upstate New York.   She's a single mother with a small son living in the house left to her by her dead parents--parents who tragically died in an automobile accident--has a good job at the town bank, and is ALMOST engaged to a nice guy,  This peaceful, on-the-surface placidity is jolted by the return to town of her younger brother, Terry, a charming but self-destructive drug addict.The relationships are truly drawn, never exploitive, and very moving.  I couldn't help liking the loser brother wonderfully played by Rufalo.It's a movie well worth seeing and seeing again.  "},{"Title":"Whenever I watch films, I realize how little I'm missing...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eh, whatever.  This film was nominated for 2 Academy Awards?  This is independent cinema?  I guess I just don't care.  There are a few nice relational exchanges in here between Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo's (who plays a big meany) characters.  And, there is a great Baroque (Bach) musical piece that gives some of the film (with its lush green visuals) a beautiful melancholic quality.  Because of the Bach (and the film's rural/suburban east coast setting), it sort of reminded me of Judy Berlin.  But overall, I just thought the movie wasn't that good.  And Mark Ruffalo's Uncle Terry hurt my feelings (I'm serious).  Sheesh, Uncle Terry, nice job triangulating with little Rory Culkin.  And I guess we're all wimps if we don't hold the hammer on the long end and buckle up at eight years old to jarringly face the trauma of our father who abandoned us at birth.  All in all, I would have rather taken a bike ride or a swim in the ocean than watched this film.   "},{"Title":"This is cinema!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has restored my faith in American cinema. Involving, funny, touching ... real. These are real people, warts and all, and we care. Because they are us - they share our doubts, our frustrations, our difficulty in seeing the point of it all. And the whole thing is handled with such sublime understatement by Kenneth Lonergan. A gem of a film in all respects. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Very impressive","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Lonergan's masterpiece about the relationship between a brother and sister is quite possibly one of the best films of last year. Laura Linney, Rory Culkin, Matthew Broderick and especially Mark Ruffalo give amazing performances that seem believable and inspriring. Lonergan's script is tip-top and never misses a beat. "},{"Title":"Yes you can","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's such a rarity and so intensely satisfying to have a movie surpass your high expectations.  Instant favorite.I'm being told I need to use four lines to say what I can in two, so I guess I'll run on a bit.  Linney and Ruffalo are true naturals.  I'm not used to seeing real people on film.  Nor am I used to hearing real dialogue.  Kudos to Kenneth Lonergan. "},{"Title":"the car crash","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Interpretation, SpoilersA car crash mercilessly leaves two young children orphaned, and is never spoken of again during the film. This scene adds nothing new to the plot, so what's the point? It adds to the emotional side of the film, but it is not gratuitous emotion. 'You Can Count on Me' is like a modern version of the book Fathers and Sons. The issue at hand in these two works is tension between generations. Young and old generations are drawn together by familial bonds, and drawn apart by differing life philosophies. Which force will prove to be the stronger? That is the question of these works.Yet with 'You Can Count on Me,' the tension is not inter-generational, it is intra-generational. Thus, this movie is taking a stand in making the familial bond even stronger. This is where the car crash comes into play. The brother/sister bond is strengthened greatly more because they lived together with a shared tragedy which also left them without parents - with no one to depend on, to count on, except eachother. Given this premise on the strength of this bond, any differences from morality to religion to child-rearing, the family bond always prevails. Although a separation occurs at the end, Terry assures Sammy, that she can count on him no matter what. The car crash serves as a powerful support for a great film.    "},{"Title":"LAID BACK GEM","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Films such as these don't come along very often. A real laid back treat. Character is allowed to dominate. there's very little plot, and certainly no action.The main 3 protagonists are all very good, and the film never goes for the sentimental cop-out. Perhaps in our contemporary world we downgrade the importance of family. This film perhaps reminds us of it's importance and benefits. "},{"Title":"Fabulous independent film","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If there is one thing that is striking about this film it is the sheer believability of it.  This is an extremely human story stripped down to everyday realities in the lives of ordinary people.  This is certainly one of the best and most compelling films of 2000.  Writer/director Ken Lonergan, who as a writer has given us such deep and subtle works as `Analyze This' and `The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle' has outdone himself by light years with this moving story of regular folks dealing with common problems.Lonergan's direction of the actors is superb.  He always seems to strike just the right emotional note without the need for flashy technical tricks or stylized cuts and camera angles.  He lets the actors and their story dominate the screen, and he doesn't attempt to insert his directorial ego into the frame.  More and more I am coming to appreciate directors who know how to stay out of the way.  The character development is deep and sensitively done.  We learn to care about Sammy (Laura Linney) for her level headed strength and for Terry (Mark Ruffalo) despite his temperamental arrogance and loser mentality.  Throughout the film, the viewer is tempted to exhort Sammy to slam the door on her brother, though we know she can't do and shouldn't do it.  In the end, the bond between them is so touching and noble that it transcends the adversity through which they put one another.  Schmaltzy?  Yes, but an all too real portrayal of how people often do what they must instead of what they should.Laura Linney delivers a career performance in this film garnering a Best Actress nomination from the Academy.  It was an honor that was well deserved.  Linney makes Sammy a character that is admirable and lovable despite her human foibles.  It is a performance that runs broad and deep, examining the many facets and emotions of this middle class woman struggling to maintain her dignity and confer strong values to her son.  Mark Ruffalo is also outstanding as the embittered brother suffering from deep seated insecurities.  Ruffalo delivers a powerful portrayal of young man whose disappointments in life have gotten the better of him.  Yet despite the hardness of the character, he is able to show a gentle vulnerability and sincere affection with Sammy that makes many of the scenes so poignant.  The brother-sister chemistry between Linney and Ruffalo is perfect, at times nasty and resentful in its familiarity, yet with an underlying bond of love that is indestructible.Matthew Broderick is effective as Sammy's supercilious boss, who is more concerned with arbitrary rules than with the people that work for him.  Broderick, who is accustomed to playing quirky but likeable characters, does surprisingly well as the jerk.  His clueless insensitivity is a good imitation of the many people who let a little authority go to their heads.This film shows that an independent film with a microscopic budget can outdo the major studios armed only with an honest, simple story and an insightful director.  I rated it a 10/10.  It is one of the best character studies I have seen in some time.  It is a treat for the refined viewer. "}{"Title":"Good story","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You can count on me was a thoroughly enjoyable film.  The characters had depth.  You weren't watching some one dimensional cliche but you thought there was more going on then what was portrayed.  Laura Linney's character seemed as self destructive as Mark Ruffalo's but I think her life was tempered and structured by the responsibility of raising a son.  Rory Culkin as the son was very believable.  One could speculate on the character's motivations and their past lives because they were so nicely wrought.  I enjoyed Father Ron's input.   "},{"Title":"Reality in the movies and the in user reviews","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've just read all the reviews and I want to introduce some reality into them. Reading of other user reviews is a pre-requisite for this review.The movie You can count on me is being described as a gem, one of the best movies of 2000, etc. It's not. It's a very non-Hollywood plot giving an ordinary description of ordinary life of ordinary people going around their ordinary business. The realism of this plot is extra-ordinary; I felt as if I was watching my next-door neighbor window.Given all that glory, I had a nagging question in the back of my mind -- so what? This movie had no point nor morale. You may argue that Hollywood movies try too hard to make a statement, going into gross simplifications and extremes. This movie is a fine demonstration that a movie cannot be made without a point, without some morale. It makes it bland and boring... just like spying on your neighbor.In Soviet Union, there was a genre called socialist realism. That was a genre of a camera man going to a factory or a mine and filming ordinary everyday work. Sometimes, it was documentary, sometimes, it was fiction. In either case, those movies were dead boring because there was nothing special about them to justify going to a movie theater.This movie fits well within socialist realism genre. You can go to the movie theater to watch this (albeit unusual for the movie theater) plot about your neighbors, or you can stay at home watching your neighbors window. You will find both activities equally rewarding. "},{"Title":"Count On This One Being One Of The Best Of The Year!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You can count on this- `You Can Count On Me' is one of the best films of the year. The movie is about a drifter brother who reunites with his overprotective sister and her young son. I just wish academy voters could count enough votes to award Laura Linney the Best Actress Oscar this year. Yes! You read right! That is the truth man! Also, I hope academy voters don't get too rough and award newcomer Mark Ruffalo with a Best Actor nomination. I also support the election of Matthew Broderick for a Best Supporting Actor nod. Even though the acting was spectacular, the true heart of the film was the realistic and tender screenplay by Kenneth Lonegran. You can count that you will have a pleasurable movie experience if you go see this wonderful film. ***** Excellent   "},{"Title":"Nice film but overrated","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Good things first...It's certainly great to see Laura Linney in a role that she can sink her teeth into. She is a fine actress.  Now the rest. I keep hearing that the film epitomizes Indie filmmaking at its best but the film also epitomizes some of the worst things about indie film; predictable music used way too pointedly with no subtlety and sloppiness that includes the editing of the film (not to mention a BIG BOOM SHOT IN A MAJOR SCENE!) And, to be honest, I found myself looking at my watch one too many times. It wasn't a film that I would remotely want to sit through again and that, for me, is not a sign of a great film (which seems to be the general consensus). And everyone seems to be patting themselves on the back (and the film) about how non-Hollywood it is but, in truth , the film has much more in common with Hollywood films (or Lifetime Movies) than not.  I always thought indie films were there to take risks with content and structure, to push the envelope instead of playing it safe. To take you somewhere new. This film definitely plays it safe. It's a nice film which I don't think is a huge compliment. In conclusion, while I liked parts of it, I was pretty disappointed overall. PS - While I thought Mark Ruffalo was good in his role, I also think that he does the same exact thing every time I see him in something. He was good in this but not great so again,I don't understand the praise here. On the other hand,  Laura L was great as was Matthew Broderick as her boss.  "},{"Title":"Well intentioned failure","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I give it a six for sincerity. It doesn't really work. This film is based on a play, always a tricky transition. Theatre people tend to underestimate the level of verisimilitude required for a film to be truly affective. Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo are not convincing as siblings. They couldn't reasonably have the same parents. Yes, I know siblings don't always look alike, in real life; but this is not real life, and Lonergan should not have depended on the such a generous suspension of disbelief. Film is not the intellectual medium theatre is, at its most affective, it is ingenuous, and visceral.(BTW, Linney reveals on the DVD that she doesn't have a brother.) "},{"Title":"A down-to-earth and natural story that is well written and well acted","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When their parents are killed in a car accident, teenage Samantha is left to look after her younger brother Terry. Decades pass and Sammy has remained in the family home and is now a single mother with an 8 year old, Rudy, while Terry is long gone, drifting with only the occasional postcard to prove to his sister that he is still alive. Terry returns to visit his sister for a while and is taken into her home where he settles in as a friend to Rudy. While he tries to hold himself together, Sammy finds herself with a marriage proposal from a f**k buddy and unwelcome hassle from her petty new boss Brian.Although I know it got awards in the US, I must confess that this film passed me by when it came to the UK as indeed it seemed to do for much of the cinema audience here. I stumbled upon it on a late slot on Film Four recently and decided to give it a go on the basis of what little I knew of it. I am glad I did because it is a quite superior little drama which easily rises above the weaknesses that this type of thing often has. After a slow start the film settles down into the characters really well and draws its strength from there, which is just as well because some of the narrative developments are better than others. Lonergan does well to balance his delivery so he is fair to his characters and doesn't pick on any one of them and never lets comic moments be at the expense of them but more to their enhancement as people on the screen. This is not to say it is perfect and it won't grip those raised on bang-a-minute multiplex action movies but it is effective for what it does.The cast take well to this approach and give good returns on the script. Linney is spot on with a character that could easily have been too forced or conversely been weakly formed. She deals well with the bits that are difficult to swallow and excels with the strengths in her character on the page. She is matched by Ruffalo who never loses sight of the person within his drifter character. Neither of them are totally right or totally wrong and, when they are right it is not always rewarded and when they are wrong it doesn't mean they don't get their way &#150; the script is smart like that. Broderick's is a supporting role and as such has less meat on his bones than the others but he does hit the right notes with his smug, petty manager with problems at home. Culkin is impressive and again delivers a convincing kid rather than the overly cute sh1t that we are often served up with &#150; he gets it right and works really well with Ruffalo as they develop a bigger brother relationship in a convincing manner.Overall then a superior drama that is well written and well acted to deliver an engaging human story that works by avoiding the pitfalls, clichés and weaknesses of other stories within the same sort of vein. Credit to writer and director Lonergan for doing an intelligent job with the story and preventing the narrative weaknesses to become problems. Well worth a look if you like a solid story without aspirations to be anything other than down to earth and natural. "},{"Title":"Film well done but couldn't get past hatred of Terry","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me 1st say I feel this film was well done and the actors did a good job portraying their characters (and their lack of character).  I hated watching this movie because the brother was such a jerk to his sister and nephew.Though I could understand where Terry's problems originated, I really didn't care.  Terry had some good points, but his bad points outweighed everything else.  He belittles and humiliates the boy, swears in front of him on a regular basis, breaks promises, (when he changes his mind about going fishing-deciding to take his nephew after all-the sister looks at him as though he's an angel sent from above!), shoves his nephew in the face of the father he's never met, and then grinds his poor little face in the fact that his real father is a total loser.  I call this abusive.If I were the sister, I would have thrown him out (with NO REGRETS) the night he took the boy to the bar.  And would have HAD to physically assault him over the father incident, at least putting him in the hospital for awhile.  The mom was irresponsible toward her son.  She knew her brother was unstable but still allowed him to babysit and influence her son.  Just because they're screwed up doesn't mean the little boy should join the crowd.FINALLY the mom gently asks idiot brother to leave.  Love my brother or not, he'd've had to go much sooner!!  At the end of the movie Terry tells sis she's an important person in his life, and she tells him he's the MOST important person in her life.  Woops - she forgot about her son.  In many ways the mom was responsible toward her son, but not in this big way.I guess this means this was a good film because I was so emotionally affected by the characters.  I just wonder if anyone else felt this rage toward the Terry character... unfortunately this film is like real life in many ways.  If it's not a brother, it's a boyfriend, or an abusive husband who's not her son's real father, etc. "},{"Title":"Matthew Broderick is excellent.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'You Can Count on me' is the indie movie equivalent of 'Friends', where prickly situations about families and relationships waft in a feel-good haze.  A case in point is the climactic bout of violence.  The films of Shane Meadows usually feature such a scene, which have a tendency to break the fragile nature of the home or society in which it is played out.  It's either bleakly final (247) or desperately covered up ('A Room For Romeo Brass').  Director Lonergen doesn't quite have the courage of this scene, and neuters it with tears, big smiles and hugs.  This is symptomatic of the film as a whole, where even the mumbling are prodigiously articulate.  And yet, deep down, the film's circular pattern, where a couple representing Happy Family die in a car, and a couple representing Family That Can't Live Together drive apart, suggests more searching themes.  if the excellent Matthew Broderick had been central, you'd have had a more troubling film. "},{"Title":"One of the year's best and a real winner of a sleeper indie gem.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" YOU CAN COUNT ON ME (2000) ***1/2 Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo, Matthew Broderick, Jon Tenney, Rory Culkin, Gaby Hoffman, J. Smith-Cameron, Josh Lucas, Adam LeFevre, Amy Ryan, Michael Countryman. Directorial debut of screenwriter Kenneth Lonergan (who wrote the screenplay and has a cameo) makes an impressive debut as an auteur with this winning and emotional to the core comedy/drama about two close yet far apart siblings (Linney and Ruffalo, both complimenting the other with outstanding, low-key performances) who are reunited when the ne-er do well brother returns to their hometown in Upstate New York to add balance (and shake things up a bit) with his older yet overly fretful sister, who is trying to find suitable balance with two men in her life, her beau Tenney and obnoxious boss Broderick while trying to single parent raise her son Culkin (a chip off the old Macauley) without losing her composure. Exquisitely beautiful scenes that feel so real and loose feeling all around in regards to the direction. One of the year's best and a real winner of a sleeper indie gem. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film almost ruined by Matthew Broderick.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not kidding, everyone is doing very wonderful realistic acting,beautifully serving the script, and along comes Ferris Beuller doing hisquasi Jackie Gleason I'll getta laugh on this line! schtick.Thankfully, his role is brief, and soon we get back to the real actors.Linney and Ruffalo shine and Culkin is wonderful and touching. Thewriting is superb, and apparently the writer/director also played thepriest- and steals the scene he's in! This is a wonderful throwback tothe character driven dramas of the early 70's, it's not filmed in aparticularly interesting way, but the script and the actors- well, mostof them- elevate it to heights that few movies achieved last year. Wellworth seeing.       "}]