[{"Title":"An inspirational story with some shortcomings","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Military training films are becoming so common that they are becoming a genre unto themselves.  Among the more prominent we have, `Officer and a Gentleman', `Top Gun', `GI Jane', and now `Men of Honor'.  The fact that this one happened to be true doesn't change the fact that the formula is the same.  This film is probably most like `GI Jane' since it focuses on the desegregation angle.The story is actually quite inspirational and is probably the best human-interest story among those mentioned above.  Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) is unquestionably a man of great courage and principle, and his strength of character shines through brightly in this film.  Unfortunately, director George Tillman has tunnel vision in presenting the characters and eschews character development of various characters other than Brashear in favor of showing Brashear in a constant state of adversity.  Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro) is a central figure, and except for the initial scene, the fistfight and a couple of scenes with his wife, we don't know much about him.  For instance, Brashear sees the scars on Sunday's palms and we are to assume that he worked a plow, but there is no follow-up on that point.  Mr. Pappy (Hal Holbrook) gets only one short scene by which we can judge him.  The rest of his screen time shows him pacing around and ranting.  If a director is going to make a human-interest story, he needs to humanize the characters.Cuba Gooding Jr. gives an outstanding performance as Brashear.  This is probably the best I've seen him.  This is a role and a character that is far more complete than any part he has played before, and he rises to the occasion.  In `Jerry Maguire', Rod Tidwell was a fascinating, but one-dimensional character with the depth of a rain puddle.  Brashear is much more complex and grounded, and the issues he faces are life crises, making the part far more challenging.  This is an excellent recovery from Gooding's last role in `Chill Factor', a film so dreadful that it was almost an act of professional suicide to take the part.After a stint trying his hand as a comedian (`Analyze This', `The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle', `Meet The Parents'), Robert DeNiro is back to his dramatic roots with an outstanding performance.  DeNiro isn't a bad comedian, he is just such a great dramatic actor that it seems like he shouldn't waste his time doing comedy.  DeNiro endows Billy Sunday with a rock hard personality belying a tortured soul.  It is a pleasure watching him work.  It seems every film I watch lately has Charlize Theron in it.  I saw `The Legend of Bagger Vance', `Men of Honor' and `The Yards' right in a row and I was beginning to wonder if she had a part in every film in 2000 (actually, she only did five).  This was a minor role for Theron, but she carried it off well and managed to stay with DeNiro step for step.  David Keith, who co-starred with Richard Gere in `Officer and a Gentleman', has a cameo hereThe DVD has some interesting special features, including reflections by the real Carl Brashear and some deleted scenes.I enjoyed this film despite the hackneyed plot and the one-dimensional presentation.  I rated it a 7/10.  I'm a sucker for underdog stories and I have a fondness for stories where strength of character is the central theme.  This film is particularly strong in both areas and brings us two memorable acting performances that compensate for some of the director's shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Spectacular acting and fascinating diving scenes","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of honor - true story about a proud and persistent black navy diver (fabulous Cuba Gooding Jr.) is definitely a great movie that both touches and entertains and it's part of the absolute cream of the new millennium cinema. Wonderful acting is the main reason to make this movie something truly special and pretty enjoyable, splendid experience. Charismatic Robert De Niro is marvelous as rough, fierce and pitiless chief Billy Sunday - role is practically written for him. This film alongside with fantastic 15 minutes (2001) are two of the latest proofs that he's still one of the very finest actors of our time. On the other hand Men of honor includes a fine performance from Cuba Gooding Jr. who has been one of the most promising young black actors since Boyz n the hood. Men of honor goes straight into the company of Jerry Maguire, As good as it gets and Instinct. Cuba Gooding Jr. is a skillful and fantastic actor and I'm prepared to get lots of more terrific movies from him. Men of honor has also quite an excellent story-line and probably the most exciting diving sequences of the movie history. This is a great, fascinating movie and I can only recommend it. "},{"Title":"Very good film!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This one is a great one! Robert De Niro and Cuba Gooding have teamed up to make a powerful and very influential film. This is the true story of the first black US Navy diver and the obstacles he faced in attaining his certification at the hands of a racist Master diver. Along the way, he must also face plain old bigotry from all of his classmates, none of whom want him in their class. They move out of the barracks when he arrives. Ultimately, he becomes certified and goes on to have a great career as a US Navy diver. Watch this one! It's a great tale of courage and honor. As the story unfolds, we get to watch racism slowly dissipate and everyone begins to respect men one at a time. "},{"Title":"The movie tells the story of a Professional Navy Man.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is an excellent military movie. It may not be an excellent Hollywood Movie, but that does not matter. Hollywood has a reputation of sacrificing accuracy for good entertainment, but that is not the case with this movie. Other reviewers have found this movie to be too slow for their taste, but &#150; as a retired Soldier &#150; I appreciate the pace the movie crew deliberately took to tell their story as completely as possible given the two hours and nine minutes allotted. The story itself has been told and retold several times over, but it remains for a professional soldier &#150; and an African American at that &#150; to report on the story as presented by the movie crew, and as it presents the US Navy to the world. The story of Brashear's work to become a Navy Diver, and his life as a Navy Diver beyond his graduation, is not the only story that is presented. There I also the story of how Master Chief Petty Officer Sunday defied the illegal order of his Commanding Officer that Petty Officer 2nd Class Brashear not be passed in his test dive no matter how well he did, and paid the price of a loss of one Stripe and a change of assignment. It also told the true story how Brashear found the third Hydrogen Bombs lost in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Spain in the 1950's, and how he saved the life of another seaman who was in the line of the snapped running line that would have snapped him in two if Brashear had not shoved him out of the way and took the shot himself. This was a complex story that was worth telling, and I will admit that two hours and nine minutes was not enough to tell the full story, and I can tell from the deleted scenes on the DVD that the crew tried their best to tell a story as full as possible. As a professional soldier, I was proud to see such a great story told in such a comprehensive manner, and to see the traditions and honor of the navy preserved in such a natural and full manner. "},{"Title":"Story of human dignity","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This well-acted story of the end of segregation in the military is told through the true experiences of Carl  Brashear. Ultimately it is a story of human honor and dignity triumphing over smallmindedness, bureaucracy, and prejudice. Some of the scenes are deliberate attempts at crowd-pleasing, but they are nevertheless effective. "},{"Title":"Men of Honor","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. It is a definite inspirational movie. It fills you with pride. This movie is worth the rental or worth buying. It should be in everyones home. Best movie I have seen in a long time. It will make you mad because everyone is so mean to Carl Brashear, but in the end it gets better. It is a story of romance, drama, action, and plenty of funny lines to keep you tuned in. I love a lot of the quotes. I use them all the time. They help keep me on task of what I want to do. It shows that anyone can achieve their dreams, all they have to do is work for it. It is a long movie, but every time I watch it, I never notice that it is as long as it is. I get so engrossed in it, that it goes so quick. I love this movie. I watch it whenever I can. "},{"Title":"Much like the spirit of films like The Hurricane and Glory, Men of Honor grips us and makes us really feel for a man struggling to make his dream come true.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor stars Cuba Gooding Jr., as real life Navy Diver Carl Brashear who defied a man's Navy to become the first African American Navy Diver. Sometimes by his side and sometimes his adversary there was one man who Carl Brashear really admired. His name was Master Chief Billy Sunday (Robert DeNiro). Sunday in a lot of ways pushed, aggravated and helped Carl become the man he wanted to be. I loved Cuba in this film. His portrayal here is as liberating and as powerful as Denzel Washington was in The Hurricane. Through every scene we can see his passion, motivation and stubbornness to achieve his dream. We can see the struggle within in him as he embarks to make his father proud. I also loved how the director created and brought forth a lot of tension in some of the key diving scenes. Brashear's encounter with a submarine during a salvage mission is heart-stopping and brilliant. The only fault I could see would have to lie in the supporting cast. Cuba and DeNiro's characters are very intricate and exciting to watch. Which does make you a little sad when they have to butt heads with such two-dimensional supporting characters. The evil Lt. Cmdr. Hanks, Sunday's wife (Charlize Theron), the eccentric diving school colonel (Hal Holbrook) and Cuba's love interest are the characters I found to not have very much depth. What could have made these characters more substantial and more effective was a little more time to develop them. Why was that colonel always in his tower? How come Sunday's wife was so bitter and always drunk?Another curious question has to be this. What happened to Carl Brashear's wedding? I mean if this film is chronicling this man's life wouldn't his wedding be an important event? Maybe it's just me. Men of Honor, however, is a perfect example of the triumph and faith that the human spirit envelops. This film will inspire and make you feel for this man's struggle. Which I do believe was the reason this powerful story was told. My hat goes off to you Carl Brashear. I really admire your strength. "},{"Title":"A great film from George Tillman Jr.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" TIllman Jr.'s drama about the first African American Navy Master Diver (Gooding Jr.), who defies all odds and achieves his goals despite a strict embittered trainer. The screenplay is not bad, a bit extreme at times, but the direction and acting is first-rate, and this film is inspiring and achieves what its supposed to do. I liked DeNiro in the lead, although its not on par with his masterful works (taxi driver, godfather and all the others) it is as good as his other good performances such as in King of Comedy or Angel Heart. DeNiro is always convincing and believable here, very good performance, Gooding Jr. is not bad, definitely one of his better performances. --- IMDb Rating 6.6, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Man Who Wouldn't Quit","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The inspiring story of Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), a black man who grew up in poverty in Kentucky and then joined the US Navy, aspiring to be the first black Master Diver in Navy history. We are shown the series of struggles from boyhood on that Brashear has to overcome to make his dream come true (and then to keep it alive.) Not the least of the challenges was Master Diver Bill Sunday (Robert DeNiro), the head trainer at the diving school the Navy sends Brashear to, who is not especially sympathetic to Brashear's goals, but who ultimately becomes an unlikely friend and supporter.This is a good movie; fast paced and with a lot of action, although not an action pic in the normal sense of the word. There's a very human story here as well, and an interesting study of racism and the struggle to overcome it; there's also a sense of the struggle that took place in the 1960's between older and younger naval officers (the old navy vs the new navy.) The performances are quite good - particularly Goodings'. I thought DeNiro was perhaps a bit over the top in his portrayal of Sunday (although, who knows, Sunday might well have been this extreme kind of loose cannon) and the portrayal of Sunday's wife Gwen (by Charlize Theron) also made me question whether these parts were jazzed up to provide entertainment value.A good movie, though.  I never once wondered if it was worth tuning into.7/10 "},{"Title":"very honorable","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Familiar but triumphant true story set in the 1950s about a man and his determination to defy the odds. Gooding gives a rock solid performance as an ambitious Navy diver whose iron will leads him to fight discrimination and try to become the first ever colored master diver. Along the way he matches wits with&#x97;and eventually gains the respect of&#x97;his belligerent, hard-nosed superior (De Niro). Considering the film's definite Rocky formula you'll probably be a step ahead of the story at every turn, but it's well-directed, acted with such great conviction, and has a finale so powerful and moving that you almost have to go along for the ride. A compelling and gripping story of will and determination. *** "}{"Title":"a very inspiring movie","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  this is one of the most inspiring movies i've ever seen........ it is based on the real life of Carl Brashear...the first African-American and amputee diver.......it's real good and the fact that's based on real incidents gives it more impact as you can see all the stuff this guy went through in his life.........The acting is very good as well......Cuba Gooding Jr gives a very inspiring performance as Carl Brashear.....and Robert DeNiro gives a very powerful performance as Billy Sunday....who is a fictional character......but he's supposed to be the mix of three guys that real Carl Brashear met in his life...... This movie also contains a very inspiring musical score by Mark Isham....a composer who isn't very well known in movie music......and he does a very good work in this one....... so this one is definetely worth watching......very inspiring!!! **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Most inspiring when looking beyond the film.","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If I had not known this was a true story, I would have thought it to be  too unbelievable - another overblown Hollywood movie.  After researching Carl Brashears true story, he is even more amazing than portrayed in the movie. Hollywood actually down-played his accomplishments!  Carl is one of the most amazing and inspiring individuals I have ever learned about.  Men of Honor is worth watching if only to get people to learn more about this incredible person.    "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a 10 out 10.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am truly surprised to see that this movie only has a 6. 8 on IMDb Users Rating. In my view it deserves a whole lot more. It is a truly inspirational movie. It had my husband and I applauding and cheering for Carl Brashear, played by Oscar winner  Cuba Gooding Jr.(Jerry Maguire. As Good as it Gets). It is so true to life, specially in the States that everything is about race. I witnessed  the hell that Carl had to go through to achieve his goal and become a  success as a person many times. Some people may think that Affirmative Action helps people to succeed, I do not follow that view.  All it does is allow people entrance to universities and other institutions, but they can be given hell and  the system will do anything to make  them quit, and then turn around and say that is how they are. In the movie when Leslie W. Billy Sunday  Robert De Niro (Awakenings, The Deer Hunter) rips Carl's tool bag that has all the necessary instruments that Carl needs to assemble the flange in order to pass the test, it accurately depicts some of what I have seen people going through.The movie stuck a cord with me also because is my husband was a Navy Ship Salvage Diving Officer and had to endure that same kind of testing. It gave me a better understanding of his underwater pictures where he has his colleges assembling parts underwater where the visibility is actually zero.  Everything is dark, the work is usually done under or in mud, and it is pitch black.  Everything is done by feel as in the scene where the divers are topside assembling a flange blindfolded.  Of course they needed somewhat clear water in the movie to make the film! My husband sure has some of tales to tell, such as when he actually saw his air hose and in scared him to death.  Usually he could not see anything and the shadow of the hose passing in front of him frightened him.  Needless to say he got his VA benefits and went to graduate school, and found something else to do with himself. I am glad because his job was excessively dangerous in the navy when we first met.As far as the military goes, the attitude of the instructors during training (accurately shown in the movie), is from what I am told, very similar as well to my experience in law school. They will kill you before they will let you graduate. This movie deserves a 10 out 10.  I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Spectacular. It should win an Oscar.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor. A spectacular movie. It's Schindler's List 2000. It's a great dramatic movie that will keep you watching, waiting for the plot to unravel. The plot is not complex, but not simple either.The story is about Carl (Cuba Gooding Jr.), who joins the Navy as a cook. He becomes a diver, and takes a glance at Master Diver Billy Sunday (Robert DeNiro). The Master Chief is demoted, and sent to train a bunch of would be-divers into professional. Carl, a black man who grew up on a farm and loved diving, wants to become the first black Master Chief Diver.That says it all. It's a true story. It's not perfect, and like many good movies, it was short. A mere two hours and a few minutes wouldn't satisfy our craving for more.Nonetheless, Cuba Gooding Jr. and DeNiro give great performances, with a few chuckles along the way to give it soul and being lighthearted.It may not be a perfect movie, but it's honorable, and the best drama this year. With great honor, it's a 9.8/10, which is equal to the rank of Master Chief.   "},{"Title":"Now it's over... no, wait.  Now it's over...  no wait...","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  (This review has spoilers- but just avoid the whole movie altogether!)Ouch! This was left me angry.  Not at the way Cub Gooding Jr.'s character was treated, but at the fact that I could have spend those precious few hours on a much better film... or at least folded some clean towels.  At least the towels would have left me more content with my time.I sorry... so sorry.  But this film is just a refried G.I. Jane with the same cardboard characters and same cornball plot  Person tries to get into elite group of the Armed Forces, person is of a different sex/race than the norm, person gets pushed around by commanding officer, person overcomes the odds, and in the end... the lead character and the former cruel officer are best friends!  WHAT?  Wouldn't you be a little sore at the guy who refused to let you do the same crappy job they do just because you're different?Yes, in this over-zealous movie we see Cuba Gooding Jr. (a likable actor, yet seems to shake his face too much) and the scenery-chewing Hollywood big-man Robert DeNiro squaring off in a race to become the Navy's first black diver.  It seems to be a poster-film from our government to be a strong, brave man and join the Navy.  But, if this film was to be believed, the Navy is run by a bunch of old, racist, and mean white-guys.  Hal Holbrook's character is somehow placed in command of an entire naval-training camp eventhough he is extremely cruel to his men and is a tad insane.  Although the film may lead you to believe that Holbrook is the reason for it allDeNiro delivers all the mean remarks and teasings.  (You may be reminded of his role in Cape Fear.)  Yet, at the end, we find DeNero and Gooding to be the closest of friends.Oh, and speaking of the end, it seems to have a hard time getting there.  Just when Gooding lands the job he's been trying so hard to get, he loses part of his leg and the movie is forced to drag on for about another good forty minutes.  This left me wondering if the producers suddenly demanded more film stock for tax purposes.  The injury does allow gooding's character to overcome a few new odds... which include tearing off the remainder of his leg and scaring off his wife and small child just to prove that he's a better man than... uh, that one guy.Yes, and speaking also of his wife, that is the one part of the movie that is sped along.  The first time we see her they meet.  The second time he proposes.  The third she's pregnant.  The fourth they have a large boy! They should probably fell through her original plan of leaving him, seeing how he may be somewhat of a masochist.The sad thing is the fact that, historically, African-Americans were denied the chance to serve in groups of the military for decades and this is taken from true events.  But the truth must have been smashed and molded into a trite and cornball script.  If you must see this movi, I may suggest you check out the HBO film The Tuskegee Airmen.  Although not as highly-budgeted as Men of Honor, it's focuses more on true black-oppression in the military and not trying to just move us.  Plus this also stars Cuba Gooding Jr. whose more at home here.  At least in the HBO film, we don't have to see the racist white-guy suddenly taking the main character to grab a beer together at the end.    "},{"Title":"A Salute Is Warranted","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I was curious to know how critics responded to this rousing, inspiring film, so I went to Rotten Tomatoes and was dismayed to discover that the pompous peanut gallery that is our nation's film critics had given the film an average 43% (or Rotten) rating.All I can say is, if this movie doesn't move you, you have no heart. (It's interesting to note that the same film on the same website got a 74% rating from viewers).Not that the opinion of critics is all THAT important to me. After all, I can't think of a more useless, overpaid profession. Some schmo gets paid to go to the movies (what a tough life) and does the same thing everyone else on the planet does forms an opinion. But these chumps have a way of coming across like their opinion somehow matters more than yours, and even worse, they love to hate.I'll grant you that this movie is old fashioned (well, except for the f-bombs), syrupy, and a little predictable... after all, you know right from the beginning that Cuba Gooding Jr., portraying real-life Navy hero Carl Brashear, is going to triumph (eventually) at every turn simply by the way he comes across determined and plucky; strong-willed and optimistic.But his performance and that of De Niro (as Billy Sunday, a composite character of several real-life people) are so strong, so inspiring, that you'll be on your feet cheering many of the film's scenes, especially the courtroom climax. You'd have to be a real stick in the mud not to be moved by these scenes. Like our nation's film critics. Michael Rappaport is excellent as well as a sweet-natured, stuttering diving student that befriends Gooding's Brashear. If anyone has seen Higher Learning, this character totally redeems that character.Anyway, this confirms what I've always felt don't listen to critics. See this movie and get inspired. "},{"Title":"Laudably Inspirational, But Falls Short on Details","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Robert De Niro, Cuba Gooding Jr., Hal Holbrook, and all the rest of the actors and actresses in Men of Honour have combined to make this a fine movie. Mark Isham wrote the filmscore, so you know the music is truly fine, too.But After noticing a slew of goofs, loopholes, and over-dramatic heart-string pluckings right from the start, I had to make a vow to ignore them and sit back to enjoy the film. If you can do that, it _really_is_ good.The story of Carl Brashear, a true-to-life hero, is inspirational enough to last a lifetime. Look him up on the internet... The entire story is more amazing than the film, as the Director admitted in his comments. There were only three African-American U.S. Navy divers in World War II. However, none reached the status of U.S. Navy Master Diver. Carl Brashear was THE first African-American U.S. Navy Master Diver. AND he was the first amputee diver to ever be certified or recertified as a U.S. Navy diver. (Resounding Applause).On the negative side of the movie's ledger Should I tell you of only one of the many loopholes? Yeah, I'll mark this comment as containing spoilers and do so... The early, pivotal scene where the helicopter hits the radio mast and sinks into the sea They'd never have had the time to suit up a full Mark V diver, even if he were the legendary Master Chief Billy Sunday, in time to be only ... a couple of minutes late saving the pilot.So, for loopholes, goofs, and over-dramatization, I derated Men of Honor from a perfect 10 down to a 7.Will Hollywood EVER realize that the unalloyed truth is so much better that their over-dramatic approach to story-telling? I doubt it. Too bad! "},{"Title":"Forget the Titans","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.One of the most interesting features of films is how they can ferret out the touchstones of culture and leverage them to great effect. Usually, it is the superficial Spielberg type of manipulation that makes you feel a little dirty on leaving the theater, for having had strings pulled for such cheap, mercenary purpose. But sometimes the touchstones are so deep you welcome them in. I felt this way with `Men.' I think that's because the values in this story are so unequivacally, well, honorable. Rarely would I recommend a film on these terms, but I do so here.Another fascinating element of the film experience is that it is a community experience. Other performances are as well, but this is the only non-live medium that collects people in a dark room for a shared experience all across the country. Most films produce a peripheral awareness of the collective response, often at an emotional level.I live in the Norfolk Virginia area, home of the largest concentration of military bases in the world. The audiences are always full of military and their family, no matter what. So when the films are about Navy fliers or submarines and such, this audience is special. First, they spot every technical goof. Second, they take to heart the notions of honor and duty these films often project.I'm no jingoist. But it is special seeing this in Carl Brashear's home town in a theater only a couple miles from where he lives -- from where the Hoist is stationed. (I understand there is always a ship of that name.) Although the Sunday character is a composite, everyone here knows the story. Everyone appreciates that the challenges were racist, but that the response was one of personal courage not victimhood. Stands a far cry from `Remember the Titans,' also a true story, but more an apology for urban black culture, along the lines of a dozen films just this year. I'll take this any day. "},{"Title":"Movie Summary","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" SPOILER ALERTThis film is based on a true story and is about Carl Brashear, played by Cuba Gooding Jr., who tries to overcome racism to become the first African American Navy diver. Carl grew up on a farm and after being a crew member on the salvage ship USS Hoist, is finally selected to join Diving and Salvage School. There are many obstacles he must overcome, and a lot of them are put into place by Master Chief Petty Officer Leslie William Sunday or Billy, played by Robert De Niro. This film uncovers a man's bravery to overcome racism and his determination to receive opportunity and honor. When Carl enters Diving school he has little to offer except his desires, and nearly fails on educational shortcomings. With the help of his future wife, Jo played by Aunjanue Ellis, he rises to the expectations and passes the exams. Carl also proves himself on the field by rescuing a fellow diver from drowning after he was abandoned by another diver. Carl's bravery metal goes to the diver who fled the scene because they did not want to give it to Carl because of his skin color.Billy is the head instructor at this diving school and is ordered by the commanding officer to fail Carl because of strong race issues. Carl wins his fellow divers and Billy over by displaying determination when completing the graduating task. All the divers are expected to assemble a flange underwater and cannot come up until it is finished or they do no pass. Carl is set up to fail because his bag of parts, which consist of bolts, nuts, and small pieces, is cut open before it is thrown to him and all the pieces scatter on the ocean floor. Carl refuses to give up and after many hours later, finishes the task to graduate. The commanding officer is furious that Billy allows Carl to complete the requirements to graduate and demotes him from master chief to senior chief. Carl and Billy part ways for a while, and Carl rises through the ranks and ultimately wants to become a master diver. This goal is thrown off track when Carl sustains a leg injury during a dive to retrieve an atomic bomb. Carl decides to have his leg removed and replaced with a prosthetic because this will increase his chances to dive again. Billy finds out about this injury and wants to help Carl fight against the US Navy bureaucracy and Navy captain to return to full duty. With Billy's help, Carl proves once again that he has the determination and capabilities to continue to dive and eventually fulfill his dream as a master diver. Similar to Jackie Robinson in the movie 42, it was important that Carl overcome racist obstacles and prove his worth. This movie takes place in the late 40s, so this movie was a period piece. It is important that the costume support this time period in order for the film to be believable. The sailors' outfits are appropriate for that frame, as well as the vehicles and props. The costume piece that stands out the most is the diving gear that they wear. It is very dated and nothing like the diving gear that is worn today. The oxygen tank is not even attached to the diver, but is fed down to the diver in a hose from the dock. This shows that this was back when diving was at its beginning stages, and the diving gear had its debilitating features. This supports a time when African Americans would have a difficult time obtaining these types of careers.Lighting also played a big role in this film at setting the emotions. One example is when Carl is underwater for his graduating task, the lighting is very dim and heavy. This makes this scene more dramatic and adds concern for Carl's life. In contrast, when Carl wins his ability to serve again in court, it is very cheerful. This added to the accomplished feeling that Carl gets to indulge in once he can continue to work towards his ultimate goal. "},{"Title":"The Leads Are Honorable.","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men of Honor (2000) Dir George Tillman Jr. / Cast Cuba Gooding Jr., Robert De Niro, Charlize Theron, Michael Rapaport, Hal Holbrook A film about traction between two men from different backgrounds and how unity brings about peace. Based on a true story of the first black diver to graduate from the Navy. He is played by Cuba Gooding Jr. and seen by Master Chief Billy Sunday as the best diver on board. Sunday abuses those around him and has been discharged many times. Gooding succeeds and is tutored with the academic elements by his future wife. There are obvious issues involving race but the screenplay becomes distracted with Gooding's romance, and the introduction of Sunday's wife who is constantly drunk. Fine setup follows regrettable clichés and a conventional ending that isn't totally on par with Sunday's change of heart. Directed by George Tillman Jr., who previously made Soul Food. Gooding is superb as a guy who beats the odds even at the cost of losing a leg. De Niro steals his scenes as Sunday. Charlize Theron and Michael Rapaport are featured in flat roles that seem written as plot conveniences as oppose to personalities. While the film proves that a person can beat the odds, it also proves that any subject with potential can be brought down with clichés and unnecessary footage that could have deemed the material no honor. Score 6 / 10 "}{"Title":"Good historical military drama","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Good historical military drama.The true story of Carl Brashear, the first African-American master diver in the US Navy, and the first amputee diver. Shows his training, and the opposition he faced.Interesting movie. Shows the courage and determination it took for Brashear to make it as a diver. Feels a bit flat otherwise, though the story is told in fairly join-the-dots fashion and there is very little emotional attachment to the characters. Character development is reasonably shallow.Solid performances from Cuba Gooding Jr and Robert De Niro in the lead roles. "},{"Title":"Based on the true story about the first African American subsequently also the first amputee Navy Diver and his training instructor Master Chief Sunday.","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men Of Honor Cast Robert De Niro (Master Chief Sunday), Cuba Gooding Jr. (Carl Brashear), Charlize Theron (Gwen Sunday), Aunjanue Ellis (Jo Brashear) Director George Tillman Writer Scott Marshall Smith Synopsis This movie based on the true story about Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding Jr) the first African American subsequently also the first amputee Navy Diver and his training instructor Master Chief Sunday (Robert De Niro). The theme revolves around the struggles of Carl Brashear becoming the first African American Navy Diver. After overcoming this because of an accident he then has to struggle to become the first amputee diver in the US Navy. There are several sub plots that keep you entertained in this movie, first you have Master Chief Sunday constantly disobeying orders or just getting into trouble. Another subplot involving Master Chief Sunday is his alcoholic wife Gwen and their complicated marriage. You also relationship issues between Carl Brashear and his wife Jo, she feels that he is putting his military career before their family. The camera angles in the movie were subjective and focused on Carl Brashear and his facial expressions. In the scene where Cuba Gooding Jr. comes out of the freezing water after being there for over 9 hours his facial reaction made me shiver. With that scene alone he won the respect of his fellow divers and instructor. The scene where Cuba Gooding Jr. is forced to put on a 290 pound dive suit and take 12 steps with his amputated leg you could feel the pain and determination on his step with every step. When he reached his final step the whole room applauded him for his actions. In the movie Men Of Honor the theme started with the struggle that Carl went through growing up on the farm (poor and uneducated). It then switched to the struggles of racism in the Navy. Finally after being accepted by his peers he is praised for finding a nuclear bomb on the sea floor that a Russians submarines is looking for. While the bomb is being hoisted to the ship Carl notices that the chains are about to snap he knocks two shipmates out of this way. By saving them he almost looses his foot, but decides to cut off some of his leg so that he could return to duty even with his new handicap. "},{"Title":"A man who was born to dive","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A wise man once said  You were born to win,but to be a winner you must plan to win,prepare to win and expect to win.Well,Carl Brashear was a man who fulfilled all these requirements.A man with a strong heart and a burning desire who followed his father's advice to don't come back in his little village and who built a career in a field which a man in his condition would had been hard to reach.On the other side De Niro's role,revealed his truly manhood,as a commandant in the U.S Navy through the director managed to show us the rise and fall of a man,but finally,somehow he succeed to rise up again and to plead for Brashear's cause.This movie is a great story about honor,strength,desire and recognition of value.Cuba Gooding Jr.had a good acting and Robert De Niro's performance as always,was at the level of expectations. "},{"Title":"faith in triumph over adversity","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" wow a great film for my 34 review this film is amazingly told from a underdog point of view when color of your skin meant that you were treated differently and it meant that you could not do what you wanted to do in the 60s one man did do he never gave up or gave in this was Karl Brashear his father told him never give in and fight against all those who said no you cant in this film Cuba Gooding junior does portray his character very well his fighting spirit and when he joins the navy he puts up with a racist old man in a general and a chief navy diving officer in Robert DI niro he puts Karl through hell these protagonist face off each other over time becoming all obstacles including a amputee to become what he dreamed of and plus becoming his friend and helping him beat the odds and faith in adversity to and courage and determination when all other people throw everything at him he broke down barriers I gave this film 8/10 great directing and acting so portray this true story amazing "},{"Title":"True story of the first black man to become a navy diver amongst other navy firsts","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's the story of the first black man to become a navy diver as we'll as many other firsts it's we'll cast and it's pretty entertaining for a true story drama at the same time I won't lie to you it is a little bit slow and at points boring. There's some movies that you start watching them and your so into the picture that before you know it it's over, not so much the case here. In this movie I found myself getting a little bit restless at times, but all in all it's a pretty good flick which is why I rated it at a 6. I do think that the movie was we'll researched in the real life events depicted here, and the actors also played the parts very we'll; a lot times I've seen with different past period movies, that the actors just look like they don't fit the times or the person or group there representing I think for the most part the actors in this did a Fairly good job of making it believable. "},{"Title":"Well worth the watch!","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Love it! Love it! Love it!This is a great movie! I've just finished watching it (I'm a bit slow, I know...), but this is worth the time and effort.DeNiro yet again, plays his part so well. He plays the meanest, most unfair SOB you'd never want to cross in such a situation, but as with nearly all his movies, he's pulled it off beautifully!As for Cuba, wow! Again, another actor who has really gone up a notch in my books with this effort- he too layer his part so well.Think you're facing tough times in your life. Watch this movie.... "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" George Tillman Jr's Men of Honor is an inspirational naval movie with the perfect cast to prove it. The movie stars Cuba Gooding Jr. as Carl Brashear a black man who really wanted to become a US navy diver but didn't get to the job that easily, and Robert De Niro as Captain Leslie Sunday the captain who trained him how to become a diver. Cuba Gooding Jr. gibes the best performance of his career that made the character of Carl Brashear come to life. In this movie there was equally wonderful work from Hal Holbrook as the racist Commander in chief, and Charlize Theron as Sunday's wife. Director George Tillman Jr. made a masterpiece out of this movie because of how well this movie was put together. There was another thing I noticed about the naval commander and the redneck chief Sunday is that at first Sunday hated Brashear, and Holbrook's character hated him all along. "},{"Title":"Lesson of bravery and dedication to the goal!","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men of honor is a movie that it will fascinate you and I am sure of it... First of all it's a true story about Carl Brashear, the first African American, US Navy Diver and then also the first amputee US Navy Diver.I liked very much this movie because it's a true story, it has a very good cast and the performances of this cast are really great. Cuba Gooding Jr. as Chief Carl Brashear, Robert De Niro as Master Chief Billy Sunday and Charlize Theron as Gwen Sunday (alcoholic wife of Master Chief Billy Sunday). I think that they chose the best actor (Cuba Gooding Jr.) to interpret a such a demanding role.I recommend this movie because it is a life lesson and we all have to get and learn something from this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Over the years, I have grown to enjoy military films reflecting all branches of the armed services. Many can be out there, and have little truth to what the training or missions are really like. Recently I viewed Men of Honor. Starring Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert De Niro. Both actors I enjoy watching and think they both have a great deal to offer any character they become. This movie did not disappoint and I felt lived up to the times it portrayed. However, there were a couple of scenes where modern amenities did show up. During the film, it depicted the coming of age for a young man having to deal with segregation of the Deep South, and the constant struggle to provide for a family, to assist his father with the daily chores. A key growing period in the film is when Gooding gets on the bus for the United States Navy, and his father gave him the radio and told him never come back. Leave this world behind. That radio would play a couple key roles later in the film as Gooding faces challenges in life. During this period, there were few jobs African Americans could actually hold in the service, and Gooding became a cook, but never let the barriers stand in his way. In his first meeting with Master Chief Sunday, you saw the admiration not for the man, but for the job, he did regardless of the hazards. Gooding's character in the film showed great inner strength and courage, and never once let the rules in place apply to his wants. A show that can prove no matter what you want in life you can attain, with a positive attitude and drive that is unstoppable. We learned so much about Brashares life growing up and dealing with the pressures of military training, and ultimately the knowing of how to perform when the times arises. The first of this is the saving of his fellow diver from drowning, and the award was given to someone who bailed at a critical time in the operation. The second show of strength is of course proving that with 1 bad leg you can continue service in a hazardous field and eventually as we see at the very beginning and the end of the film. His goal of becoming a U.S. Navy Master Diver is achieved and became the first African American to earn this rank.We know much about main character, since the film is based off his life. The other main character known to us as Sunday is very remote. We do know he drinks, fights and has little regard for rank, as we saw between Sunday and the officer at the all ranks ball earlier in the film. The one thing I know is he has the unique ability to motivate and driver others to perform at their best, as it showed in the courtroom seen, and the article he sent to Brasharees while he was recovering from the injury. Sunday's was quite correct during this time in the service. Many service members drank, fought and other actions that would in today's military have them discharged under less than honorable conditions. Over all I enjoyed the film and comparing this film to the previous ones both of these actors have done puts this film above most. Gooding has a great way of going from character to another, but feel this may have been a challenge in having to understand what the real Brashares must have gone through as a young man. De Niro on the other hand has always been a great actor and enjoyed most of his films. The ability to stretch his skills to work all aspects of the character he must become. Sunday I feel was a tough role to work, and not sure if he was able to know Sunday or if he was even alive before the film was made. Great film and would recommend this film to anyone, and would rate this film an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One you either love or hate","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This one seems to be a movie that viewers either hate or love. You can put me in the latter category. It was certainly not shown at my local multiplex back in 2000 or 2001 (you can list the proprietors amongst hate or indifferent) and it was not until recently that I caught up with Fox's superb DVD version. A very moving account of one man's struggle to realize what seems at first both a hopeless and totally oddball mission, namely to be admitted to the U.S. Navy's diving school, the film becomes more and more powerful as it progresses. Against all the odds, the viewer becomes really absorbed in the dedication and determination of a hero (superbly played by Cuba Gooding, Jr) who simply will not throw in the towel no matter what the Fates and the combined power of the United States Navy throw at him. Robert DeNiro has the difficult role of a late convert (which he enacts with total conviction), while Charlize Theron makes quite an impression as Sunday's wife. All the players, in fact, from small roles to large, are not only totally convincing but look their parts &#x96; a credit to both the casting managers and director George Tillman, Jr. "}{"Title":"Masterpiece of a man overcoming.","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Talk about a story as magnificent as Men of Honor is something that would to write many paragraphs. We can start from the beginning and analyze the great character played by Cuba Gooding Jr.Speaking of what the film as such, but has come under fire for many people, I still see a very well run, with an amazing script, with an amazing story to tell, with a perfect fit and an ability to convey feelings and emotions to the viewer as probably very few films in cinema history have ever achieved, and that's pretty hard to do.Not only is this. It is also the fact that the film is very realistic military level (as expected) in certain little things that appear in the film. Recuerdo Heartbreak Ridge for example, where, despite not having a military assistant to the action scenes, and frankly being the most important failure of the film, yet the film made ​​clear the difference today in day and always among the troops, NCOs and officers, which has always been, but in a sense Heartbreak Ridge was the first to play and show what is really an officer in most occasions at light Infantry, a soldier born and raised in an academy that when it reaches its destination and is in charge of a section has very little experience in this area and believes that the best solution is to control soldier to soldier to the entire section, when reality is hampering the work of Sergeant in most occasions. But this is a very long deal where we will not engage.In Men of Honor this difference is the mainstay of the film along with the human spirit of a man who has worked as hard as anyone and has been forced to move on despite all the difficulties and obstacles that life put all his life. The story of Carl Brashear is a story of overcoming incredibly played by what for me is the best role of Cuba Gooding Jr. and decorated to perfection in a difficult time in the history of mankind.Robert De Niro made ​​a perfect role, so perfect that some of the phrases I have heard of authentic sergeants in my years of education - and the occasional phrase keeps repeating today - with the only difference that I am soldier light infantry and this film is about sailors. Still, both roles are perfect IMHO, both papers show opposite yet parallel life, both do their work, one that has already suffered at the time, and the other, supporting what is ordered meet every day to survive. A masterpiece of the genre certainly, in my opinion and experience, the movie of my life and the human capacity to overcome pushed to the limits most unexpected. No one should miss this movie ever. Thanks George Tillman Jr. And above all, thanks Carl Brashear, sorry I never got to meet you in person. "},{"Title":"Men of Honour- Highly Inspirational True Storry","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An awesome true story of of Carl Brashear showing us unlimited possibilities of human efforts only by person's firm determination. I really have seen many of movies which is inspirational,motivational and it is among one of best of them , another are A Beautiful Mind and The pursuit of Happiness. I appreciate them very special because they are true stories (first 2).The 3rd one-possibly fictional but is definitely very real story of most of us people. I was quite shocked seeing how much awards it got(only nominations).It was very less than it truly deserves.I see all World's Film Awards Industry really incompetent and funny....I am sure they have become the laughing stock in front of the intellectuals of whole world...Undoubtly, it deserved the highest award (which is Oscars in today's world).I think Oscars committee failed and missed the opportunity to acclaim its respectful worth for this particular movie.It is very Underrated both by the users of IMDb and World's Movie Awards Committee. But in no-way it effects the awesomeness of the movie.Its a Must-Must-Watch Movie for Everybody.Highly Inspirational.... "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Cuba Gooding, Jr. gives what might be the best performance of his career as a Navy diver with Robert DeNiro as his diving instructor/ranking NCO.Gooding plays a real person that being Carl Brashear and gets a chance to play a far better and well rounded role then he normally gets to play. Robert DeNiro plays his first serious role in a few years after appearing in a series of comedies like Meet the Parents, Rocky & Bullwinkle and so on.Brashear has to overcome a lot of racism to become the first Navy diver and eventually the first African American to earn the rank of Master Chief which is the highest Non Commissioned rank a person in the Navy can attain.Charlize Theron does well portraying DeNiro's wife. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a really good movie I really liked it. It accurately portrays the mentality of the 1950's culture & about people who were of African descendants or other were treated lower class than those who were not.I really liked the character development of the main character and at times felt his pain from those who were racist towards him.I really liked the ending the way it came out was really good and shows that those who pursue at it can do anything they want regardless of race, color, religion, etc.I'd recommend this movie for anyone who like's military/navy movies in general. "},{"Title":"This story mainly revolves around two men","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This story mainly revolves around two men; their own and their joint failures and victories. Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding Jr.) is bound and determined, against all odds, to become the first African American Navy Diver, during a period of time where racism was the norm. Leslie Billy Sunday (Robert DeNiro) is a racist, grouchy Navy trainer; he is set on seeing Carl fail. Ultimately, Navy life will bring these two men together in a story of life's troubles and life's rewards. Men of Honor elaborates on racial discrimination as one of the major themes. Carl's dream to become a Navy diver had nothing to do with being a black man. However, as it comes to be, Carl will be the first black man to succeed. The road that takes him from a cook to a diver will consist of many hurdles he will have to overcome. With the help of his wife, Jo (Aunjanue Ellis) Carl will pass his classes. However, Carl will also have to overcome the hurdles from the Navy men he trains with and the top Navy officials who do not want Carl as a Navy diver. We will also watch Billy Sunday struggle through Navy life, alcoholism and his own internal voices, struggling with what is right and wrong with passing Carl through diving school. Both Carl and Bill understand to be the very best, they may have to break a few rules. Regardless, these two men never give up on what they believe in, they are 'men of honor'.The technique of the camera angles allows the viewers to feel the motion of the ship and water. The camera often gives the viewers the feeling that they are directly in the scene, part of the scene. Broad views show the viewers the scenery as they change; from the open dirt fields of the farm, to the oceans so blue, into the Navy training camp. Several motifs come to mind. First were the blisters on Mac Brashear's (Carl Lumbly) hands, from plowing the fields. Again the significance of hand blisters comes to light when Carl stands outside the dive school gates waiting for permission to go inside. Carl sees the scars on Billy Sundays hands and reminds the chief that he is a Navy man and there are no Oceans were he comes from only dirt farms and that no respecting Navy man makes his living driving mules. Another significant object is Mac's radio, given to Carl with a promise to do his very best, even when it gets hard. Billy Sunday breaks the radio trying to convince Carl to drop out of the Navy finals.Later, the radio fixed by Billy, and the words written 'A Son Never Forgotten' draws these two men ever closer. The men still face challenges in their lives they will have to overcome. Life will bring these men back together for a final victory proving they are 'men of honor'. "},{"Title":"an honor to see this film","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this was one of the greatest movies ever made. in this movie it had everything. it had drama romance action comedy and it was a true story which made it more interesting. very strong performances by Robert deniro (which he gives in every film) and Cuba gooding Jr. it was very hard for Robert deniro to do this part i bet. with him being cruel to Cuba gooding Jr's character. being the nice guy Deniro is. anyway it got very sad because no one wanted him (Cuba gooding Jr's character) there and sometimes they acted like they were in high school by picking on him. I'm very surprised that both deniro and especially Cuba didn't get nominated for Oscars. the strongest scene in my opinion was when deniro and Cuba had a confrontation about deniro telling Cuba not to show up for the final test to become a seal. he warns him that he will fail anyway because the person higher than deniro doesn't want him there either. Cuba tries to tell deniro he doesn't care that he will prove himself. then deniro insults him. in return Cuba insults him and then deniro grabs Cuba radio and hits it on the floor. that was a radio that his dead father gave him. Cuba then gets close to crying and deniro realizes it was his fathers and deniro says what did he say to you to make you keep going. Cuba responses be the best. deniro replied well you are. just don't show up tomorrow cause you will fail. deniro walks away and as he walks away Cuba asks what about you sir. and then goes to the test. great scene with great acting. after that the next hour of the movie is so memorizing to watch. so interesting and so powerful, no doubt. see it "},{"Title":"Collision of some honorable performances","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men of Honor directed by George Tillman Jr brings to us some terrific performances.We all know what De Niro is capable of with memorable roles in Awakenings,Heat and the list goes on.Again De Niro delivers with a performance to remember.But then to face him,just to take up the challenge comes another terrific performance from Cuba Gooding Jr. His acting is totally top notched.Excellence in acting i can say.Some scenes where he shows such courage just brings De Niro under pressure.And that suit of Navy Diver suits him so well.Rest of the casting is also good.But the focus is on these two men.The ending is again good with both De Niro & Cuba showing their prowess.Last scene where De Niro delivers a speech to Cuba and he needs to walk those 12 steps of Navy Diver is very much encouraging & quite memorable.This is very well directed with some very good navy diving scenes.Everything looked so real.De Niro & Cuba both have done a wonderful job here.Though i feel movie is underrated.Men of Honor is nothing but the collision of truly honorable performances from some great actors. "},{"Title":"Inspirational and filled with courage. Gooding Jr. and De Niro are fabulous.","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men Of Honor was an inspirational watch that really lifted up my spirits and I need that in my life. Cuba seems to have made a career out of making heartwarming films around this time, but that's OK with me because they were all great to watch. I really don't have much interest in diving, so I was a little skeptical to see how it would capture my interest, but due to the moving story and the stunning performances, I had a wonderful time with it. I think the main theme from Men Of Honor is despite what color you are, despite what disadvantages you have against you, you gotta fight for what you want in life and once you see what you want, never give that up and keep on fighting. The chemistry between De Niro and Gooding Jr. is the main reason this movie works so well, and while De Niro goes into dangerous territory of going over the top with the accent he's doing, he managed to do it with near perfection. My favorite scene is when De Niro smashes Gooding Jr's beloved Radio he got from his Dad.Performances. Cuba Gooding Jr. has the ability to be one of the best, as he's shown his Oscar was no fluke, he just needs the right scripts. Here he is a believable hero and one we can relate to perfectly. His courageous performance should inspire people. Robert De Niro is at his best here. For most of the movie he plays the perfect antagonist, but he does a great turn near the end that is very touching to the viewer. Charlize Theron plays her role well as De Niro's wife, but didn't have a whole lot to do. Aunjanue Ellis is solid as Gooding's love interest. Hal Holbrook adds a bit of class to his role, even if he was hard to like. David Conrad plays a great dick. Michael Rapaport, Powers Boothe, David Keith do well in their roles.Bottom line. This is just a wonderful inspirational movie to watch if your feeling down about your life. I loved every minute of the heartwarming story and officially rank it as one of my favorites. A must see.9/10 "},{"Title":"Honor these men","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men of honor made me realise about the conditions that had prevailed in early 50's and 60's where color was considered crucial regardless of the nativity or being born a human.........This film made me cry,laugh and has encouraged me.....The performance of Cuba Gooding Jr. and De Niro(as Always) were stunning..........This film also helps us understand the difficulties faced by men who undergo training to dive and makes us realise that the real persons who deserve to criticise,train and write reports are those who achieved it and not those heartless ones behind the desk who knows nothing else other than position...........I can give this 10/10 without even blinking or thinking because I just loved the movie........... "},{"Title":"Nice story but...","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I gave this movie a 4 star rating. If the real Master Chief Carl Brashear, who was the technical adviser, wasn't sleeping on post or possibly UA (the abbreviation for Unauthorized Absence, which is the term used instead of AWOL) from the studio, Men Of Honor would've rated an easy 10 star rating. Some of the flaws were so flagrant that a team of life-long civilians armed with an old Bluejackets Manual could've achieved a more realism. The many uniform flaws noted by viewers are only the symptoms. Obviously, those involved in the production failed to do their homework, which is a shame, not so much because of the production expenses, but because this could've been a great movie. "}{"Title":"Triumph of the will","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The real story of the first ever colored diver in navy, his attempts to face the obstacles of his color, his strength to gain the respect and a personal fight against prejudice of the racist society in 50's. This movie is also very familiar to the military formula of other films in recent history (from An Officer and a Gentleman to the horrible G.I. Jane) and has a very powerful Hollywood meaning about morality, honesty and the dreams that all come true only because of our will. Cuba is good (even though I disliked his character when he decided to cut his leg only to continue diving!), Theron has a limited screen appearance (and she doesn't match at all as Chief Sunday's wife) and of course De Niro (in a role seems to exist only for him) delivers a stellar performance as the southern trainer and master diver (maybe his last great performance till now) "},{"Title":"On the Importance of Values","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best military films ever made. And it is great because of its focus on values. It's a great human interest story that turns on a commitment to honor, loyalty, love, and determination.Gooding and DeNiro are superb in the lead roles. It's wonderful to see the Master Chief's racism evolve toward respect and love through Carl Brashear's determination, drive,and yes, sense of honor. The title indicates the source of their bond. I never noticed until this last time watching it how brilliant Carl Lumbly's portrayal of Carl's father, Mac Brashear, was. In a way, it's a cornerstone of the film in that it's Carl's memory of his father that helps carry him through hard times.I am selective about what films I purchase. This is one of those rare ones that I want on my shelf. It will be seen many times in the future, I'm sure. "},{"Title":"Spirit","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I hadn't heard about Brashear before I watched this. This is the story of him and the man who trained him, helping him to become the first African-American US Navy Diver. A tale of will-power. The plot is well-written, and develops nicely throughout. This is what it seems, the typical underdog thing, and it doesn't hold too many surprises. It's also quite Hollywood, but hey, I don't know the actual man, maybe it's close to how it actually happened. Nevertheless, it gets the job done, with dramatic scenes and adversity along the way, and this is inspirational for anyone who's ever heard the words no, you can't be spoken about their life-long dream. The acting performances are all excellent. DeNiro and Gooding Jr. both shine whenever they're on-screen. Rapaport is marvelous, as well. The characters are well-written, credible and consistent. This is well-edited, and features good cinematography. The production values are high, and this does a fairly convincing job of transporting us back to the 50's. This is the only film I've seen by this director and the writer, though I may now consider looking into more they're responsible for. There is a moderate amount of strong language, otherwise no offensive material. I recommend this to anyone who finds the subject interesting, and/or fans of those who made it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Film!","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I think that this film is a good movie. There are some boring parts and some really good parts. Most of the time, I was attached to this movie. Everyone in this movie did a really good job.This film is based on the life of Carl Brashear. He was going to be first at two things. He was going to be the first black Navy diver and the first diver to dive with a prosthetic leg.The acting is really good. I liked Robert De Niro so much. He is a truly deserving actor and he showed what a great actor he is. I liked Cuba Gooding Jr. as Brashear. He gave a memorable performance.Overall, this film is a good movie. Some parts even moved me somewhat especially some scenes towards the end. This is a nice biographical movie. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Inspiring story of courage, duty, and honor.","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Time passed quickly and without notice as the movie carried with it a sense of wonder and pride. No matter how insufferable the commercials, I couldn't take my eyes of the television as I waited to see what would happen next in Carl's courageous story.The previously mentioned lines were just a few of the feelings I experienced when I first saw Men of Honor. I did not notice the movie in theaters, yet it was passing through my parents living room when this film grabbed hold of my attention through the simple television set. Though slightly narrow in supporting character development, Men of Honor was still able to work its way into the hearts and minds of it's viewers. I figure if the time was taken to add more back story to several characters, then feeling would be lost on Carl, and his image of honor and duty would dwindle unconsciously in the eyes of the audience, as his climb through racism begins to seem unimportant, and the actions of hatred from others appears more justifiable.I rated this movie a 10 out of 10 because even though I've seen it more than 5 times now, it still makes me so curious that I can't look away. After all this time, Men of Honor still has that awe-inspiring effect on me that makes me want to prove that I can be the best, and that I will not quit no matter how difficult the challenge. When a movie gives you a feeling like that, how can you let it go or disrespect it? The answer is; you can't, it sticks with you as one of your favorites. This true, inspiring story of courage, duty and honor, has rightfully earned a solid 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Feel so moved by the film.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched this film many year ago,which my mom borrowed it from her colleague. But for that chance,I would have no chance to watch such touching and impressive movie.Although I watched it over many years ago.I still can remember the details of it clearly. It is so lucky I found this film on internet today afternoon.I had no hesitation download for CD.The poster of the it remind me of the whole story of the film,which is about a Black Young Man how to become a general at last.I am not clear what the exact time when that happened.But in that period.There is still exist the discrimination of the skin color.As a black young man,he went take part in the Navy.During the train,the trainer ,who is a white man looked upon him and did not believe he will be able to become qualified solider. Each time of train he well be derided by the other people who trained him or who were taking training like him.He never lost his belief of success.The most impressive scene among the movie is one training competition which become the turn-point of his life.To what extent it is impressive ,you have to watch it and judge by yourself) At that time,I was moved by his firm and indomitable character,when I finished watching when i really felt what is the meaning of the title of the filmMan Of Honour.He deserves that kind of respect.Although his leg was broken in an accident and become a disability for saving a young sailor.He never lost his own confidence of his own life.That's what we should learn from him.From that time,I began to like the Black Actor. "},{"Title":"De-Niro Dieing!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't know whether anybody here had seen it so i put it as a spoiler. But at the end of my version of Men of Honor i have special features and it has deleted scenes. Now these may be on the DVD version or they may not. But one of my deleted scenes was at the end after chief Sunday had left Carl he was driving down the road with his wife when these two kids stopped him because there mate had fell into the river and he couldn't swim. So Sunday ran and dived off the bridge and swam under water to help the kid, he then died saving the kids life and then it went to his funeral and they lowered his coffin down and said a few words then everybody left and it was left with car there. He approached the whole and said Square that rig you crazy sun bitch The he wiped the tears from his eyes and placed his dads radio on top of chief Sunday's coffin and he stood up and placed his hat on and saluted and then he walked away while the camera zoomed in on the radio stating A Son Never Forgets.Now whether any of you saw that i don't know but i found it a great ending as it borough the tears to my eyes. This is a great film and is under rated! "},{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is, by far, one of the best movies that I have ever seen and ranks in the top 3 of my favorites list. I don't know what it is about the movie that makes me love it so much, but I can take a wild swing at it. What I am thinking is that maybe, just maybe, it has to do with the fact that the movie shows that Human Will, when enough of it is applied, can triumph over just about anything. Also, if I may say, this is the best acting I have seen done by Cuba Gooding Jr. to date. There are moments when I saw Cuba's character, and it just made me proud to be a human being, proud to know that someone could arise to the ordeals that he was being put through. I hope more movies like this are made. "},{"Title":"Excellent Portrayal of a Real Life Hero","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of Carl Brashear, but the movie was so well-done with fine acting from DeNiro and Gooding. I have watched the movie 3 times in the last 3 days and would sit down and watch it again. I am not an avid movie goer, but this movie made me love (and hate) watching the real life events of Carl Brashear. The women who played Billy's wife and Carl's wife were both beautiful and incredibly talented. Real life characters of Mr. Pappy and Banks were well acted and I will be looking them up as a result of watching this true story. This movie is an essential one for those interested in an historical perspective of African Americans in the 50's and 60's. I lived through that time as a suburban middle class student. I would be ashamed to have been part of the people who would have people such as Mr. Brashear treated as they were. Carl Brashear is and always will be my hero. "},{"Title":"Stackful of Motivation","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie is a real life story of Carl Brashear. Some of the scenes just want to make u leap and cry with happiness. Carl is a black who faces lot of hardships but never gives up his dream of becoming a deep sea diver. He had to face many higher officials and had worst of nightmares in fulfilling his dream. It would be great if u would read about him before u watch the movie. That will make you more involved and also make things clear. Robert De Niro's role was the perfect with the fire of a true naval officer and encourages Carl a lot in his career. Actually in Carl's real life it was not one officer who helped him .. but many officers but for the documentary , to make the movie good Robert De Niro was shown in all the scenes. It proves that naval officers will do anything for there honor from where the name of the movie is derived. One more thing worth mentioning is i read the interview of Carl and he clearly mentioned that all the scenes (important ones) were true which makes me go blank as all the things he did can be done only by a superhero. If people believe that Forest Gump is a fictitious character and there can be no one like him .. they better watch this movie. I am not telling that both the movies are similar .. i am just pointing out that Carl's activities are unbelievable and his achievements outstanding. Hats off to the great naval and a great individual. "}{"Title":"Honorable, great and an excellent portrait..........","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I could not figure out how some people used the phrase not great on commenting about this movie. This movie is totally great and just the idea of fighting for a dream this way and with this much persistence makes this movie worth a lot more than people may perceive it to be actually worth....This movie is not all about the biography of a man. It is more about what we should all be, cause inside every human being there should be this man of honor, the son who never forgets and in every teacher in every field there should be men of honor, who believe in their students' potentials and if this movie is not a portrait of all that then what is? This movie is a portrait of human relationships and persuasions of one's dreams. it is simply about never quitting the way people usually do when they lose hope.... This movie is a lesson worth learning and I give it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not perfect. But I think it's underrated.","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  (spoilers)In one of the deleted scene's, the insane commander in the tower tells someone to wash the dog with Lye (which I assume is very bad for skin) after Cuba had touched it. (he's black obviously) out of all the deleted scenes, I felt that should have stayed in. That way we know without much doubt the sheer evil of the jack*** up in that tower. The same guy who got rid of Robert's character when Cuba finished the underwater project and Robert declared perfect assembly.The character of this movie was one helluva guy. I'd love to meet him. The hell he went through. Holy cow! I do recommend this movie by a long ways. The movie does have it's problems, mainly the pace in the movie is quite poor. There's very little sense of time going on here. Cuba doesn't seem to age between 17 yrs and 40 yrs.The alternate ending, while informative, isn't the best ending for a movie. At least with the given ending, it ends on our hero's best. The alternate ending shows what happens to Sunday after the trial. (9/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10  "},{"Title":"reasonable true story of a man who wants to be a navy diver in the 1950's","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  the critics in Ireland didn't like this one but I thought it reasonably entertaining. It tells a true story of the hardships the US navy's first black diver went through. Nothing brilliant, Cuba Gooding jr and Robert de Niro play their roles well, the characters have their ups and downs and there is a happy ending. If you don't like the military, hard men or diving this ain't for you, on the other hand an inspiring story of struggle against the odds is difficult to fault. Production is good, story is a bit cliched now and a bit sudden in its chop and change, especially the introduction of Charlize Theron's character, out of the blue and drunk as well, to confuse the situation, it isn't credible but by in large the story rings true, the music is suitably soaring when it needs to be, there is some incredible feats notably when the diver encounters the submarine, but the politics of the US navy was a little hard to comprehend; could it be that petty, chief petty officer?  "},{"Title":"A story about the power of life!","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I was lucky I could see it, mainly cause I always follow De Niro's work; and as usual, he didn't disappoint me.It has been a long time since a movie moved my guts like this one did. It's a very strong story, and its strength does not come from the screen but from inside it. They made it with no special visual effects or explosions, but it certainly makes your heart feel them more than once.Something very powerful is felt. The guy just can't give up to a dream, and he will give anything from him to achieve it. It's an inspiring story, at least it did inspire me. If you don't give everything for what you want most, then what are you?. And that's no other thing than the power of life. "},{"Title":"WORTHY WORK FROM 2 WORTHY ACTORS","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While I think George Tillman did a great job directing this masterpiece of a true life story, credit has to be given to his two lead actors for an incredible job between the two of them.  De Niro & Gooding Jnr play out a powerful drama between them without any of them overshadowing the theme,the movie or themselves.  I watched this movie with a knot in my throat as Carl Brashear came to life thru Cuba Gooding Jnr and struggled to make history and break racism and prejudice through sheer determination by becoming the first Black Diver in the Navy.I also smiled as Chief Sunday's cynicism and knuckleheadedness was worn down by persistence and doggedness of character of another man. It takes a truly great man to truly admire another man and go the length with him at the risk of his name, career and life and I would say Chief Sunday deserved an award(probably NAACP) himself for being such an inspiration to Brashear.De Niro can almost do no wrong and Gooding is goody goody as Brashear, but the truth about Men Of Honor is that everything about it is a masterpiece, the directing, the scriptwriting, the casting, I mean only Charlize Theron would play supporting to the great De Niro and still sizzle in her own right, she did a great job as De Niro's boozy long suffering wife who decides to clean and tells him to clean up as well or ship out. I left this movie eyes truly wet and with great respect for Mr Brashear for being a groundbreaker.  Men Of Honor is truly Honorable and Uplifting 5/5.  "},{"Title":"an exemple for everyone","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"   This film relates a true history the first black man who became an officer in the U.S. Navy despite a lot of traps he is a black man from a poor family in the Missouri State, then he was despised by the others men who wants to be a diver. The chief of the school is a racist man. De Niro, his officer has an ambivalent relationship with this nigger. At last, after a dangerous mission, he loses his leg. Despite this and the officers, helped by De Niro,like a father, He wins. It is a lesson for everybody. "},{"Title":"Watchable enough I guess","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men Of Honor/ ** 1/2 stars.First off, DeNiro was one of the actors that made this movie a little better. I would have to say that without him in the movie, it would not have been as good. It must have been his years of acting because I don't recall any movie with DeNiro that I hated. I would put him on the higher end of the best actor list.Another actor that did really well in the movie was Cuba Gooding Jr. I was really surprised with how well he did in this movie, it's definitely one of his better movies, better than that idiotic Rat Race film.Men Of Honor is about a cook on board a Marine ship who tries out for being a deep sea diver. But while being better than everyone else, he still can't be told so by anyone else, due to the racism that he has to deal with in order to become the Navy S.E.A.L that he wants to be.This is watchable enough I guess, but nothing I would want to see very often because some of the scenes aren't as interesting as others and it kind of brings down the movie in a way. But I definitely would watch it at least once because of the great acting that comes from DeNiro. "},{"Title":"Average, Average, Average","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There seams to be quite a debate regarding the merits of this film. There's absolutely nothing wrong with this film neither is there nothing right.Take out Gooding and De Niro and you've got a run of the mill Hallmark Family movie. "},{"Title":"morale be true to true stories and don't make a *hollywood* flic out of it","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  So this movie is based on a true story of the hardship of one man trying to become a rescue diver in the US Navy but due to the color of his skin this proves to be impossible. It shows what still is true, prejudice and racism are well alive worldwide.I have no complaints about the story but I do think that the script lacks quality. It has way too much pathos for my taste and does the conflict it tries do depict no justice. It doesn't want to tell us about the oppression of ethnic groups, we should be well aware of that anyhow, it is happening all the time. It tries to depict the fate of an individual and as such it utterly fails.DeNiro and Cuba do not work too well together, either. There's no chemistry. It always feels like Scene 08, Take 15. I do like DeNiro and Cuba usually and regard them as being fine actors but maybe they should read the script a little closer next time before hopping aboard...Just because the story is true and just because the issue depicted is still a problem today - not only in the states but worldwide - still does not merit any higher rating than a 5 and that mostly due to the craftsmanship of the 2 main actors. "},{"Title":"Well balanced","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Themes based on value conflicts is not new to Hollywood. Given the fact that the movie is based on a true-life incident(s), the movie per se is acceptable.The most remarkable factor about the movie is the two shades of heroism persented with equal conviction. At one end we have the lead chracter (Gooding) and then his antogonist turing into his supporter (played by De Niro).Some contend that the climax was not delivered effectively. For this my answer is, the movie was a complete (start to finish) drama and what is shown as climax is one of the colorful incidents in the life of the navy diver. It need not have been more dramatized than what it was.In all, a great movie. Feast on the dialogues. Simply great.  "}{"Title":"Hard Work Pays Off","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  George Tillman, Jr.'s, film Men of Honor (2000) is based on racism.  Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) is a poor African American boy without an education.  He is the son of a sharecropper.  With the encouragement of his father, he decides he wants to be a diver in the Navy, but there is one problem.  The problem is that no African American had ever become a Navy diver.The movie follows Brashear's life through his training camp and his hard times dealing with people like Chief Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro).  Sunday holds prejudice against Brashear at first, then eventually likes him.Brashear is portrayed as a confident, proud man.  No matter what hardship comes along, he gets through it.  He always remembers his father believes in him, which makes him work harder to accomplish what he wants.In this film, the Navy is racist.  Everybody, except one person, has a problem sharing a bunkhouse with Brashear.  The Chiefs do not want an African American man to become a diver, either.  Brashear is also insulted, humiliated, and ignored on a regular basis.  He does not let this racism bother him.This movie is based on a true story and may seem impossible in the beginning.  But with hard work and determination, Brashear makes it work.  I t is a great movie for people to learn motivation.  It shows if someone has his or her mind set, anything is possible.Men of Honor has an approach many people dislike.  A few scenes lack intensity.  I did not get the feel of the movie while I was watching parts of it, such as the part when Brashear was taking the final examination for the training school.  It would have been a much better movie if it was more intense.  "},{"Title":"Very dramatic, very good","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story for the movie is a very good one, and the movie does its best to live up to it.  It doesnt fail. Very good acting by Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert DeNiro. B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Honor these men; watch this film","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If anyone wanted to know the definition of academy award performances; they can look no further than those given by Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. If someone wanted the definition of an academy award film; they can look no further than Men of Honor. I was honored to be a witness to one of the greatest films ever made.Words cannot describe the way I felt while watching Men of Honor because it is one of the most courageous, emotional and touching films I've seen since Saving Private Ryan. Along with The Perfect Storm and Pay It Forward, Men of Honor is an example of a film which made me feel good on the inside as well as the outside. Furthermore, this film is true testament to the courage and bravery men and women like Carl Brashear show in the line of duty.Men of Honor is one of the finest films I've seen in the past year because it has two of the best actors and the best ensemble cast since The Perfect Storm. Men of Honor CANNOT be missed under any circumstances because it is a testament to the human spirit and one man's unrelenting quest to accomplish his dream.Men of Honor profiles the life of the first black navy diver and his inspirational, courageous, and unrelenting quest in becoming the best navy diver in the United States by achieving the status of master diver. Carl Brashear is the true definition of an American hero because he embodies unwillingness to give up in the face of hard times. It was a true pleasure and inspiration to watch Men of Honor because it afforded me the opportunity to learn a valuable history lesson; the knowledge I gained from this film will stay with me for life.Men of Honor is a film that boasts one of the greatest compellation of talent in Hollywood. Hollywood's intimidator Robert DeNiro leads this all-star cast that includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Charlize Theron, Anjunue Ellis, David Keith, Michael Rappaport and Hal Holbrook. It didn't take long to draw my first conclusion from Men of Honor; the ensemble cast brought home the true spirit and essence of one man's fight to be respected and treated as an equal. For this reason, Men of Honor has the BEST ensembles of the year.Only one outcome can come when DeNiro stars in a film; only one outcome supercedes all others when DeNiro film hits theaters. Excitement and success are the outcomes that make my heart skip a beat with anticipation. When I hear the Robert DeNiro's name being mentioned as part of a cast, I will be the first person in line to buy tickets because I know exactly what the outcome will be. His film credentials include some of the best films ever made. DeNiro brings so much to each role he takes including intensity, intelligence, honesty and character. Without a shadow of doubt, DeNiro's greatest quality that he brings to Men of Honor is character. His performance as Billy Sunday is his best in his career because he puts hiswhole heart and soul into this film.Gooding seems to get better with each film he is in, from What Dreams May Come to As Good As It Gets his repertoire seems to grow and his star is still rising. With his stage presence, talent, class, honesty and sophistication, Gooding rises to the top of his class and becomes one of the most bankable stars in Hollywood. Gooding's role as Carl Brashear is one of the most inspiring and uplifting performances I have ever come across on film. His screen presence, honesty and class add credibility to this film and to the portrayal of Carl Brashear. Utilizing incredible sensitivity, Gooding captures the spirit of his character with little effort and great success. It is with roles like Carl Brashear that will win him many academy awards and a bright future in film.Men of Honor is a beautifully crafted, well-acted masterpiece that will leave everyone with smiles on their faces. DeNiro and Gooding come together as one to make a movie, which is a true testament to the human spirit and courage. I'm very honored to have been in audience when viewing Men of Honor because it pays tribute to a true American hero. Most of the credit must be given to the writers for creating a screenplay with rich quality and adding depth to the characters. It is great to watch a film that allows the viewer to see each character in the film developed to the fullest as Men of Honor did.This film is most likely the single greatest 'based on a true story' film that has been made in America. It ranks right up on top with The Hurricane, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and U-571. This is a masterpiece that should not be overlooked by anyone. I urge everyone to see Men of Honor because it truly is a remarkable film. I urge everyone to see Men of Honor because it is one of the most inspirational films boasting an ensemble cast responsible for its success.  "},{"Title":"Brashear's story inspires, Gooding Jr. is excellent, but . . .","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If not for Cuba Gooding Jr., this film would sink to the bottom of the sea.  Gooding's stellar performance alone carries Brashear's ordeals.  DeNiro turns in a good performance, but it seems he's playing in the wrong movie.  He appears to be a big-city gangster with a southern accent dressed in a Navy uniform.  Charlize Theron is totally miscast and she plays her role with the glazed-eye look of confusion.Except for Gooding's Brashear, all the characters are underdeveloped.  The script is disjointed, flopping around from vignette to vignette.  The director does well given the quality of the script.  Many of the vignettes can stand alone as high-quality drama.  The technical aspects of the film, i.e., the Navy culture, dogma, interactions and diving scenes are excellent and accurate.  I give this film a 7 because Brashear's story inspires, Gooding is excellent. "},{"Title":"No surprises, but a good example of the genre.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am a complete sucker for military movies. I'm sure this has a lot to do with my upbringing, what with father who's worked in or with the military in one way or another for most of my life. But I think that there is something more fundamental about it to me. The basic precepts appeal to me. Honor, respect, loyalty.This movie was pretty much what one would expect. Cuba Gooding, Jr. plays Carl Brashear, a young black man who wants nothing more than to be a Navy diver. But, well, he's a young black man. Did I mention that this is in the 40s? Against all odds (a required element in this sort of things), he manages to get to dive school, where he is faced with Billy Sunday (played by Robert DeNiro). Sunday has no interest in passing this upstart young black man, but is slowly won over by Brashear's determination. With the help of Sunday (who was demoted for his trouble), Brashear passes, and begins the slow climb to the rank of Master Diver. As one would expect, Something Major happens, and Our Hero is faced with Mighty Adversity, and his Former Nemesis comes to his aid.Seriously, though, there are no surprises in this movie. It's all very formulaic. You have all the right elements. The bad guy turned good. The legions of people who learn to overcome their racism, inspired by the young hero. The hero builds up to a pinnacle, then is broken, only to be built up again. The stern, smarmy, unpleasant persons in positions of power. The loving wife.However, the fact that this movie follows the rote doesn't necessarily make it a bad movie. I think it's a pretty good example of the genre, actually. And it pains me to say this, since I generally don't care for Cuba Gooding, Jr., and he really made the movie. He played his role to a T. Of course, you can't overlook DeNiro. He's getting to be rather good at this sort of role. Maybe it's the gray hair.All in all, if you're fan of the patently sentimental military movies, this is a good one to watch. If you're not... you probably won't miss anything if you don't see it. "},{"Title":"watch this movie, but be warned, redeming qualities are few and far between","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Cookie cutter....I have already seen this movie fifty times over before even seeing it, but it is watchable (at best).  In other words, The plot is tired and boring but the acting is fairly good.  I mean you can't go wrong with De Niro and Gooding Jr.  I know it is a true story, but come on, how many cliches and lame predictable plot lines can you have before the audience just laughes at the film.I truly tried to get into this film, but when the hero is just so perfect and everything he does is so heroic I almost was forced to terminate viewing.  I did stick around though and watched in stoned faced contention as the movie muddled along.  If you are at the video store and are looking to watch a film with your girl and are only going to be half paying attention anyways, then this film is perfect.  But if you want to watch a film with artistic qualities and some intruiging factors, then don't bother. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Dramas","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Cuba Gooding Jr. should do more movies like these. This was the best movie he was in. I loved this film, and I loved how contributed Cuba Gooding Jr.'s character was for diving. The guy who is in charge of the naval sea divers was really mean to Carl Brashear (Gooding). All of the actors did a fabulous job playing their roles, and I can't wait to see another movie like this one.  "},{"Title":"Excellent plot!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought that Men of Honor had an inspiring plot about never giving up.  I was extremely impressed with the story line, but was disappointed about the language.  If the writer would have left out the cussing, it would have been a 10 for me.   "},{"Title":"A word regarding profesional zeal...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  (Spoiler ahead)I don't know how much of this is fact (after finding out just how much of The Hurricane is bull$%&#, I can't bring myself to believe anything out of Hollywood), at least it seams Carl really existed and had a hard time becoming Master Chief (don't blame me for not believing, blame Hollywood), so I'll take the core story as real. During the movie Carl is portrayed as one stubborn selfish s.o.b., almost fanatic (if he were white, would make a great S.S. soldier, get my drift?) and his family suffer because of it. But at least he aknowledges it in the end. And as bad and selfish and stubborn his actitude may seem, remember that those men are the ones who fight (and win) wars, not girlies from Dawson's Creek. Thank God for them!!!  "},{"Title":"surprisingly great movie","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Robert De Niro and Cuba Gooding, Jr. deliver oscar caliber performances in this triumphant film. Gooding is captivating as the ambitious diver, while De Niro is cruelly compelling as the instructor who changes his life. A powerful and moving drama about how we accomplish the goals we set for ourselves. 3/4 "}{"Title":"A Must See Movie","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  From start to finish, Men of Honor left me feeling inspired.  The cast (Cuba Gooding Jr., Robert DeNiro and Charlize Theron) was stellar, the performances brilliant, in all, the movie could not have been better.  The fact that this movie of human perseverance and bravery was based on a true story is amazing.  I'm just surprised the movie did not get an academy award or nomination.  I chalk it up to bad timing of the release.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if only to understand or racist heritage.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing if only for the purpose of understanding the mind-set of those who have greatly suffered from prejudice. Robert DiNiro is a red-neck who is transformed into a semi-rational individual by the character of the role played by Cuba Gooding. The movie's greatest weakness is by DiNiro who over-acts as he has been doing in recent movies. It is as though the directors are over-awed by his excellent early performances, and choose to not rein-in his exaggerated and unbelievable portrayals. "},{"Title":"Inspiring, great performances, a great film","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Most biopics make the mistake of gilding its subject beyond humanity, and rendering the antagonists without any shades of humanity at all.  Men of Honor avoids these two mistakes, and catapults the film from a movie-of-the-week to a true cinematic accomplishment.Cuba Gooding Jr portrays Carl Brashear, the first African-American Navy Diver who joined the service in 1948, when the choices for him were either cook, steward, officer's valet, or to get out.  Robert DeNiro plays Billy Sunday, a racist master diver who wants to force Brashear out of the program... at least at first.  There are quite a few supporting actors who make the most of their screen time, but they are window dressing against which these two master divers (and master actors) play out their conflicts.While I am normally irritated with films about African-Americans that shift their focus to the nearest white guy, Men of Honor uses this approach with a purpose.  While both Brashear and Sunday come from almost identical backgrounds, they are far apart in both status and outlook.  Sunday is in a position of almost total power over Brashear and uses it to his advantage.  However, Brashear, through sheer will and devotion to his dream, begins to rise in spite of the oppression.  And Sunday begins to disintegrate, personally and professionally, until he finally redeems himself and his earlier behavior by helping Brashear out when he needs it the most.  I can think of no other way to make this allegory more powerful, and I hope it is not lost on the audience.And, in a similar vein, you might expect that DeNiro's performance would overwhelm Gooding.  However, Gooding comes through in a big way, not by being showy but by capturing what you have to imagine is the true Carl Brashear, and DeNiro doesn't dial it down a bit as Sunday, a coarse, brutal, racist man who comes to understand that honor is colorblind.  I rented this movie, but you can be sure I'll be buying it soon. "},{"Title":"crowd pleasing film with very good performances","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this was a very good film. It pleased audiences and made you want to cheer. The ending made me clap because it was the type of ending where you want the good guy to win. I thought Cuba was very good in it as Brashear and was convincing. Robert was also good but sounded like popeye and kind of looked like him when he had a pipe in his hand. Overall very good job "},{"Title":"Cuba Gooding, Jr. makes this movie!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  MEN OF HONOR (2000) Rating 7/10I'll admit I was not really enjoying Men of Honor for the first 20 minutes. I thought it was quite boring and I felt like I'd seen it all before. However, as the film starts to progress, it just becomes more and more likeable. The star direction starts to shine through and the story of a courageous man starts to become more and more engaging. The film is too long and sometimes loses focus of who it's honouring, but remains extremely enjoyable and well-written diving flick. I thought the performances were absolutely amazing. Robert DeNiro is an absolute stunner, going through his characters stages and emotions like no other actor good, while Cuba Gooding, Jr. succeeds more than anyone else in the movie. His performance is, quite frankly, a masterpiece. He is this navy man. I believed his determination and no one could've done better. Hats off to the actors! There were some very enthralling sequences like when Gooding, Jr's character stays underwater for 9 hours, 13 minutes just to become a diver and when he tries to beat DeNiro's character in a breath-holding competition. I sure have a lot of good things to say about this film but it has its flaw and will not appeal to every viewer. But I won't spoil this review by giving out bad brochures, so just go and see it and enjoy it. It's worth the money and your time.  "},{"Title":"Moving/Humble...See this movie and you be the judge","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a frequent movie goer, I've realized after predictability that in modern films sometimes the film can't be as honest as some of us would like them to be.  We idealize films and Men of Honor is idealic, moving, humble and ....honorable.Men Of Honor is a wonderful film.The upside is it's a true story that although depicted in a way a movie company would back the story and a man like Carl Brashear who is a hero and a role model could be more than a name in an encyclopedia of African American greatness.The downside of this movie is having to work within those guidelines placed on the director already knows are in place; to not only have the story heard but not have mainstream America avoid seeing it because of the race issues involved.    The director isn't Spiberg who can get away with telling stories of black women mistreated in the South (Color Purple) or jews punished in German (Schlinder's List).  Just like Spielberg, George Tillman's work should be heard and Men of Honor puts him, in my opinion, in a wonderful place in the movies.Men of Honor is moving, even if it's done subtly and not in the fashion most viewers would appreciate or understand.   Anymore accurate and he might have  been cited  a militant bigot, as Spike Lee's  Do The Right Thing (brilliant work) had been.  He didn't make a dumb black film; this movie is warm and gives African Americans something to be proud of and reminds them that everyone in the world isn't a racist.Cuba Gooding, Jr. is phenominal.  Jerry McGuire was a great film for him of course; I'm sure the oscar worthiness of that was like Denzel in Glory which is it;s about time another fine black actor got recognized over non-black actors in less moving roles (non-comedic roles since Eddie Murphy is a genius but will probably never be recognized for it because he's funny and not dramatic ).    Sidney Poitier is also one of the only black male lead Oscar winners (ridiculous in the 21st century).  So, after seeing Shawshank Redemption and The Hurricane), I think Cuba still is in top form in this film and makes me proud to be African American and a fighter of racism in my own right.Robert DeNiro, in his usually wonderful way, goes against the estabishment in this film; the role, very similiar to his strongly characted acted in Cape Fear but less diabolical in that he took a 180 degree turn on himself and realized that even he can't be such a monster to a man who is fighting for what he wants and justfully deserves.I sat shocked during the first hour of this film; I was offended and appalled yet again disgusted about the predictable way the potrayal a racist America would treat a man who just wanted to succeed at something that he dreamed about.   I was further disgusted, although not surprised, by the way his white counterparts and superiors were punished when their belief and faithful friendship still unspoken due to ridicule was revealed.Men of Honor is more than a movie about an African American amputee who goes on to become a Master Diver and make history.    It's a story about the people of this country and the obstacles they face from others who, out of jealousy, envy and spiteful or racist hate want to shoot them down.  The whole story was based on the rules of prejudiced America; to me, the substory was about Carl Brashear; the main story is about the typical racist and unjust behavior that Men Of Honor, black, white, asian, gay, female and other viewed classes/catagories have to face in and outside of the military.The morale of the story to me is more than just about a black man who beat the odds; it's a confident reminder to all of us who set out to achieve something that we can and although some faces look like others that may work against us, are not all out to work against us.Finally, as far as how Cuba's role were depicted, maybe if more black actors were allowed to be in the same class as their white counterparts, freedom of expression like the artist  worked at would be less shadowed in the films like Men Of Honor and we would see more break tradition acting. "},{"Title":"Proves that Cuba Gooding Jr should be given more good roles","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, true story movies aren't always all that good and you never know how much is done for the sake of drama not the true history, but even at it's barest this is the story of an incredibly brave man. Second, you can always count on DeNiro to come in with a fine performance, often even better because of it's subtlety.  But this was no subtle character, he was in a position to show us his usual great acting in a character with a noticable highs and lows and a lot of complexity.  As always, way to go, DeNiro!Now, I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to say and, with this movie give proof, to something I've believed ever since he came on the scene Cuba Gooding Jr. is a fine actor and he just doesn't get enough really meaty roles.  When he gets his teeth into one, what you see here is the result. Who knows why he isn't doing more of the substantive kind of movies I'd like to see him doing, but I hope his advisors steer him in the right directions and those making the choices give him more open doors!  "},{"Title":"9 on a scale of 10","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I like inspirational stories about someone's against-all-odds efforts to accomplish something. When they are true stories, they are certainly better and this movie about Carl Brashear is true. I think of Rudy or October Sky as similar movies. Boy has dream. Boy chases dream. Dream crushes boy. Boy fights back. Boy overcomes every obstacle. Boy gets dream. A formula that has always worked in film and, presumably, always will.This is a story of a black diver who attempted to become the first black deep sea diver in the Navy. Tremendous rejection. Many conflicts and problems. The fact that the movie gave us an initial glimpse of his childhood and his father (brilliantly played) set the stage for a very meaningful understanding of how important this goal was and what courage it took to pursue it. Cuba Gooding was sensational and Robert DiNero was also outstanding.My wife and I watched the movie on video. It ended at 1130PM. I hadn't done my exercises yet that night. But, I was determined to squeeze them in. I did my sit ups and push ups. I had been running 3 laps around the park daily, but was supposed to up it to 4 laps that night (1.6 miles). Since I had only run that far once before in my life (pathetic, I know), I was tempted to say it was too late at night. But, the spirit of the movie hung with me and I ran it - 4 laps. But, when it was time to stop, I kept going, 5 laps. Didn't stop there, 6 laps (2.4 miles) and then I quit. Truly, the inspiration of what Carl Brashear went through inspired me to keep pushing on. This is a movie that is hard to forget. Strongly recommend. "},{"Title":"Gets the job done - for a life that seems like a . . .","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood script from the beginning.   I've always been a sucker for a movie based on true life but this one is a cut above average, due in no small measure to the talent of Gooding and DeNiro.  These two deserve to be recognized as among the best of this generation of stars from Tinseltown.  This movie pushes them to perform at their best, and they shine.  Billy Sunday was himself a military legend, but his contribution to this story was a surprise, given the character of the rest of his service (after loosing his dive status).  The actions he took to help Carl (beginning with passing his final and graduating him) show his conflict; his social understanding on one hand and his sense of Honor on the other.  Honor wins in the end, but gets tested over and over. "},{"Title":"Rookie Writer pulls it off...","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'll keep it short, sweet and true ... Excellent film!  Every plot point rises to a dramatic action.  The first scene knocks you out, a good hook. You can sympathize and empathize with each and every character.  The Best climax I've seen since A Few Good Men.  "}{"Title":"Superb film, superb determination","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film really depicted the racism in the days before civil rights. De Niro did an excellent, if not exhausting job, of playing Sunday, whose racism was disturbing and despicable. Cuba Gooding was outstanding as Brashear who held his ground to become a master diver. His calm perserverance, when most men would have walked away, convinced me that the character, whom he played, was a true man of honor. It was difficult to see Sunday as a man of honor since he brought all of his problems on himself. In the end, he somewhat redeemed himself, but only after becoming a powerless, broken man. The tension, between them, was played off very well.As a woman, I usually don't care for military films. However, this held my interest from the start. It's not just about the struggles of some young man trying to succeed in a dangerous branch of the Navy, but also about overcoming the fact that he was a black man.I would recommend this film for adults and older teens. The only drawback was the strong language which was appropriate for the situation. Too many films, today, just use vile language for no reason.  "},{"Title":"good beginning and middle...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers First, I liked the first half of the story and the Billy/Carl parallel was interesting, but...I watched this movie and it seemed to go from orderliness to sloppiness and contrivedness. Yes, it was based on a true story, but discretion still needs to be used when picking and choosing what is movie worthy.After the nine hour dive, my friends and I actually stood up. We thought, He did it. He overcame all the obstacles - both externally prejudicial and internally courageously - and risked his life in order to reach his goal. It could have easily ended there, but the next scene showing him diving wasn't too bad. Showing him not only diving, but diving as a top in the country and in the war against the commies topped off Carl's struggle.The remainder with the prosthetic struck me as somewhat contrived (Though it turns out to be Carl's real life contrivedness as opposed to the director's). A look of, Now what can we think of that's even more difficult for him to go after? I would have cut off this ending and spent more on the horribly underdevelopment of Jo. First she is shown at the library, then going to save Carl at the bar and saying I can't live like this and proceeding to make out with him, then she is 3 months pregnant, and finally their son is already 10 years old. This disconnectedness could easily be solved with a few montage scenes flashing shots of the two studying and flirting and such.But, the most important reason I didn't like the ending was that Carl Did forget his father. His father simply wanted him to make it out of the farmland drudgery and triumph over the struggles along the way. As Jo pointed at to Carl, he was living for himself now and disregarding both his father's advice and his family's need for him. Overcoming the loss of a leg is a touching story, but not so much when you realize the pointlessness of it. What had once been a desire to excel grew into meaningless obstinacy.Yet I suppose I would be somewhat difficult to scrap the real life ending. It's just that this dual climax muddled the message, especially when the strongest message occurs first and is forgotten during the less pertinent climax. Basically, I feel that just as Carl needlessly added a prosthetic to his person, this movie also adds unnecessary -perhaps damaging - appendages.  "},{"Title":"I Can Hold My Breath For 5 MINUTES!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Don't blink when watching this movie because one minute it is a certified class A thriller and the next minute it resembles some made for TV re-run. An original plot but how much of this movie was real? What, about 15% maybe? Hollywood cheese once again with many scenes traditionally OVERDONE by Mr. Gooding Jr. Conversely, when viewing this movie it is apparent a lot of work in the special effects department was invested. They are first-rate and so is DeNiro's acting, as usual. Although I believe someone younger should have been casted for his role. My biggest problem with this movie was the ENTIRE movie revolved around the characters played by DeNiro and Gooding Jr. The roles of women in this movie were vastly overlooked and underdeveloped. Also this movie was supposedly based on a true story, but what was it based on? I don't think it was based on a book, was it? This movie struck me as a gross exaggeration, which is alright except when it is marketed otherwise as mentioned above. Overall this movie was worth watching if you have nothing better to do with your time, but it is probably worth waiting until 2003 when it airs on network television where it belongs. 5/10    "},{"Title":"**** Exceptional drama","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Exceptionally well-made movie about Carl Brashear, the very first African-American Navy diver. Cuba Gooding, Jr. finally fulfills the promise he made with his Academy Award-winning performance in JERRY MAGUIRE by giving a truly sturdy and unsentimental performance as the man who overcame personal and political obstacles, withstood the tests of many individuals who preferred to shut him out because of his race and endured many setbacks along the way to achieving his dream. The film focuses mainly on the rough relationship between Brashear and the tough-as-nails Master Chief Billy Sunday (Robert deNiro) who does everything he can to stand in the young upstart's way. The film's greatest asset is sturdy direction by sophmore George Tillman, Jr. (Soul Food), who keeps the pace clipping away to the march of a drum and the good screenplay afloat. Normally a film like this would insult its audience by presenting a much nicer America for blacks than actually existed at the time (even Remember The Titans whitewashed it too much), but Tillman never flinches from showing a harsh truth no matter how good Carl was, his teammates never stopped halfway through his training to tell him that NOW they like him and then break out into mouthing Marvin Gaye songs with him. Charlize Theron is absolutely brilliant in her small role as Sunday's wife, an unhappy soul with a beautiful face but a broken heart. Great entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Men of Menure","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most improbable films I have ever seen. To wit**Possible Minor Spoiler**1) During the salvage training accident scene, why would they send an inexperienced trainee diver alone to do the rescue?2) There is no way on earth that Carl (Cuba Gooding Jr.) would walk into a bar in whitie town (shortly followed by his girfriend) during the early '50s. In fact, he probably wouldn't even be allowed in such a place at that time.3) We never really see any relationship develop between Carl & Gwen, but suddenly he's in love with her and desires marriage.Not to mention I kept thinking Max Cady whenever DiNero spoke.You're much better off renting A Soldiers Story if you can find it.I could go on but I've wasted enough of your time. Avoid. "},{"Title":"We Don't Need No Stinking Rules","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Good (not quite the Cape Fear accent) performance by De Niro. Gooding is good also. Carl Breashears is a good role model for anyone, But things in this film disatracted me, such as why did almost everybody in the film back-sass their superiors? ?? No one else but Carl (Gooding) performed any heroic feats?  Why did he get everything he wanted in life?  A great film has got to be on the mark to be a great film.  You'd be busted so fast for back talking it would make your head spin.  There were no good 'white' divers in his class? And why didn't they show some of the things he failed to get to show you how important it is to appreciate it.  I thought the film was a little too 'Rocky' and I never liked 'Rocky'.  Maybe the book is better. "},{"Title":"Based on a real person overcoming adversities","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to some of the other comments, I truly enjoyed this movie.  Carl Brashears story of overcoming prejudice and injury to attain his life goals is something with which we can all identify.   Performances by Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert DeNiro were superb.  Both of them and the movie should have been nominated for Academy awards.  The movie presented the facts of Brashears struggle to overcome racial hatred, poor schooling, and devastating physical injury. This movie may seem cliched in its presentation if it were not true.  That it came across as a cliche to some viewers is a sign of jaded viewers overfeeding on too much action oriented fiction.  This was a true story about a real person who performed heroic acts. "},{"Title":"Based on a real person overcoming adversities","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to some of the other comments, I truly enjoyed this movie.  Carl Brashears story of overcoming prejudice and injury to attain his life goals is something with which we can all identify.   Performances by Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert DeNiro were superb.  Both of them and the movie should have been nominated for Academy awards.  The movie presented the facts of Brashears struggle to overcome racial hatred, poor schooling, and devastating physical injury. This movie may seem cliched in its presentation if it were not true.  That it came across as a cliche to some viewers is a sign of jaded viewers overfeeding on too much action oriented fiction.  This was a true story about a real person who performed heroic acts. "},{"Title":"two great actors","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is the perfect example of a not that great story, saved by the 2 actors. The movie is the life story of Carl Brashear, the first black to enter the diving school.  The script is weak. If you can think of any cliche out there, it's in the movie. The plot isn't too well built and i disliked the fact that it began from a point somewhere in the middle of the movie.All these bad points are covered by the way de Niro and Cuba Gooding act. They are a pair of fabulous actors and, by the way they play, they manage to keep you watching throughout the whole movie.My vote 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good but could have been presented better.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor is a good true story of the first African-American to become Navy a diver.  Cuba Gooding JR is very good as Carl Brashear.  His strength of will is inspiring.  De Niro, as Billy Sunday is also very good.  He plays the part of an experienced Navy diver who is at the top of his game.  However, he is a maverick and is not willing to let Navy rules allow others to die, nor will he let Navy tradition prevent a good diver from getting what he deserves.  Unfortunately, this movie suffers from a poor presentation and this detracts, significantly from the story.  This one could have been a much better movie if it had been presented better.  All in all, this one is worth your while if you can sit through the awkward transitions.  (6 out of 10). "}{"Title":"A feeling of real American inspiration and pride!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw Remember the Titans and cried and cheered. I wished that I would have seen this spectacular film at the theater. I watched in total amazement that black service members were treated that way. I truly am thankful that Hollywood makes these kinds of movies. We could do away with the rest of the empty stories that are portrayed today that really don't do any justice for our thirst of history and inspiration. Mr. Gooding, Jr. and Mr. Deniro portrayed these sailors to the utmost extreme. That is why this is so real and telling. I cried and cheered again. But this time, even louder than before. Seeing this film makes me even more proud of our country's heritage and honor. To see prejudice being overcome and measuring a man by his heart rather than the color of his skin is truly inspiring, indeed. As long as the motion picture industry keeps making these real stories come alive and giving us people something to aspire to be - I'll have a movie to see. Thank you, writers, producers, cast, crew, and Mr. Braschears for telling this story and making us feel good. A.S.N.F. "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a 10 out 10.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am truly surprised to see that this movie only has a 6. 8 on IMDb Users Rating. In my view it deserves a whole lot more. It is a truly inspirational movie. It had my husband and I applauding and cheering for Carl Brashear, played by Oscar winner  Cuba Gooding Jr.(Jerry Maguire. As Good as it Gets). It is so true to life, specially in the States that everything is about race. I witnessed  the hell that Carl had to go through to achieve his goal and become a  success as a person many times. Some people may think that Affirmative Action helps people to succeed, I do not follow that view.  All it does is allow people entrance to universities and other institutions, but they can be given hell and  the system will do anything to make  them quit, and then turn around and say that is how they are. In the movie when Leslie W. Billy Sunday  Robert De Niro (Awakenings, The Deer Hunter) rips Carl's tool bag that has all the necessary instruments that Carl needs to assemble the flange in order to pass the test, it accurately depicts some of what I have seen people going through.The movie stuck a cord with me also because is my husband was a Navy Ship Salvage Diving Officer and had to endure that same kind of testing. It gave me a better understanding of his underwater pictures where he has his colleges assembling parts underwater where the visibility is actually zero.  Everything is dark, the work is usually done under or in mud, and it is pitch black.  Everything is done by feel as in the scene where the divers are topside assembling a flange blindfolded.  Of course they needed somewhat clear water in the movie to make the film! My husband sure has some of tales to tell, such as when he actually saw his air hose and in scared him to death.  Usually he could not see anything and the shadow of the hose passing in front of him frightened him.  Needless to say he got his VA benefits and went to graduate school, and found something else to do with himself. I am glad because his job was excessively dangerous in the navy when we first met.As far as the military goes, the attitude of the instructors during training (accurately shown in the movie), is from what I am told, very similar as well to my experience in law school. They will kill you before they will let you graduate. This movie deserves a 10 out 10.  I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"De Niro & Cuba compliment each other well","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  What can you say? De Niro as always plays his role to the finest extent. Cuba has been coming into his own in his recent films.I thought this movie was good in every way except that it drug on at points.De Niro and Gooding play off each other very well in this one.I give it an eight. "},{"Title":"Film Analysis of Theme","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Carl Brashear lets nothing stand in the way of his dreams.  Carl leaves his Kentucky farm as well as his father and mother behind as he ventures out to seek a better life.  The outlining theme of this film is stated at the beginning of the movie by his father and is relived throughout the film. His words were, Never quit...be the best, and Carl took those words to heart.This film showed incredible courage and determination displayed in what almost seems unreal circumstances.  Based on a true story, the determination and persistance of Carl in the midst of all the cards and people stacked against him, shows true integrity, determination and courage as he sets a goal he vows to fulfill whatever the cost may be.  In the motion picture, Carl is asked by Billy Sunday, Why do you try so hard? and Carl replies, Because they said i couldn't have it.  "},{"Title":"Good... Good... but","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Quite a good true life story but because this is a movie, something has been quite exaggerating at the middle of the movie.At the scene where they compete to hold the breath, i can see both characters have been rarely out of breath and they are not even panting when they are out from the helmet. Someone might be so great that can hold the breath for 4 - 5 minutes and still can talk very calmly. I don't know this is also a true account or not.Totally, a very great make movie with excellent acting by the casts. This story can make people understand what determination are and how to go ahead with it. "},{"Title":"This movie hits and misses","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The character development is rather poor.  The movie lost me towards the end (how many bad things can happen to this guy.....one second he's dragged by a submarine and the next he has his leg wacked off...PLEASE...that was just too much for me).  This is an average movie. "},{"Title":"Okay movie(spoilers ahead)","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The beginning started out pretty good but a bit boring. But after he loses his leg, I thought that it became 1000 times more boring. And it was WAY too long. If they had cut out some useless scenes and made it a little less long, it could have been much more enjoyable. Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"A needlessly offensive review of a bad film.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Films with boot camps in are usually entertaining, aren't they?  Legions of mindless jocks, school bullies and chisel jawed himbos being persecuted by professional uniformed sadists with big sticks.  Magic.  Doing the persecuting in Men of Honor  is Robert DeNiro, whose face was surgically reconstructed from thousands of tiny walnuts especially for the role. DeNiro's undeniably impressive acting consists of a permanent sneer with occasional sweating.  Unfortunately, this film only concentrates on DeNiro's ritual humiliation of people stupid enough to join the navy for the first hour or so.  The rest is spent tracking the rise of one Carl Bruschear, played by Cuba Gooding Jr.  (He isn't quite as good as DeNiro he acts by making his eyes bigger, and, in particular moving scenes, a bit wet.)Carl Bruschear (unbelievably, this is a true story) had a dream.  He grew up on a dirt farm in the middle of nowhere, a poor black kid,  but what he really wanted to do was be a master diver in the unbelievably racist US navy of the time.  So Bruschear joins up, and spends a great deal of time having racist abuse hurled at him, principally, but not exclusively, by DeNiro's foul mouthed washed up diving instructor at boot camp.  Carl overcomes the racists by the novel technique of extreme masochism, enduring silently all manner of tortures until he is grudgingly accepted.  Inevitably Carl climbs the ranks, at which point the film switches from being a bit dull to arse numbingly tedious.  Diving is boring, fundamentally.  The film wallows in a mire of dreariness, punctuated only by unintentionally hilarious emotive speeches about Boyle's law.Things pick up a bit towards the end, when Bruschear loses a leg in an unfortunate accident.  He is offered the chance to retire on a generous pension, and spend time with his sadly neglected wife and child.  Carl Bruschear is clearly a mentalist of some description. He decides against this course of action, and instead is determined to become the first one-legged black master diver.  Assisted by DeNiro, whose admiration he has apparently earned by being a walking spittoon for the first half of the film, Bruschear takes his battle to the courts, where the film climaxes with a moving scene as Carl attempts to prove his worthiness as a diver by strapping on a prosthetic leg and  walking twelve steps in a 250 lb diving suit, depite the agony this causes him.  This act of masochism is so painful and unnecessary that the naval establishment have no choice but to reinstate him.  Well done, Carl. "},{"Title":"Obvious - Yes...but moving too.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  On one level it's hard to deny that this film is another standard Hollywood military biopic in the modern `style' man versus the machine, good versus evil, plenty of adversity to be overcome, plentiful amounts of tugging-at-audience-heartstrings and a rousing will-he?-won't-he? finale.BUT...what undercuts all of that - and thus makes the film well worth seeing - is the fact that however many liberties have been taken the real truth, however many characters have been elided into one and however sanitised this film is you can't avoid the issue of race and the appalling racism that this man faced.As with many such stories one can argue that the men involved are fools, in a sense, to devote themselves, their lives and their families lives (effectively) to such unworthy `causes'. That they're trying to earn the respect of people and institutions that don't deserve them but that's to misunderstand the motives involved. Whose respect IS worth it? You do it for yourself and your own self-respect.Cuba Gooding Jr is fast becoming the equal of Denzel Washington in his ability to convey that mixture of contempt AND determination within a single look. Full credit to him for this performance.I watched the film with a strange mixture of enormous anger and bottomless admiration. If it doesn't both move and appall you, you are hard-hearted indeed. "},{"Title":"Gooding-De Niro just about works","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Based on a true story, De Niro stars as Billy Sunday, a tough Naval veteran entrusted with training would-be divers at a training camp in New Jersey. Carl Brashear (Gooding Jr.) is the first black trainee and despite the racism and prejudice of his fellow trainees and Sunday himself, Brashear is determined to pass.The strength of the film undoubtedly lies with the quality of the acting. Both Oscar winners, De Niro and Gooding Jr. excel in their respective roles, and the scenes with them together light up the screen. De Niro is excellent as the hard-hitting, alcoholic Sunday, making Anne Robinson look as frightening as the Andrex puppy.Cuba Gooding Jr. shows his range of talents also, proving that he can perform a toned down role as well as the loud-mouthed footballer he played in Jerry McGuire. His portrayal as the oppressed but determined Brashear is touching without going too over the top. If this is anything to go by, then Pearl Harbour should be a real treat.The overall plot is a bit too clichéd, and it's difficult to see where the 'true story' ends and the Hollywood sentiment begins. Despite this, Men of Honour is well filmed with some tremendous underwater sequences. You'll guess the end (you probably have already), but the standard of acting is enough to make this worth a viewing anyway.7/10Kerry Wilkinson  "}{"Title":"Honor and All Life...","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's a good film. I think we saw picture about faith in your dream. Black man wants to be military diver; it's his dream. And he makes everything for his dream. This film based on a true story and that's fact makes it very interesting. Many of us will find in the picture amazing thoughts and great ideas. One of main idea is discrimination in the army on those years. We see it from beginning to end picture. Charlize Theron played best role in that film. She looks much better than Robert De Niro and Cuba Gooding, Jr. In my opinion from several years she will win Academy Award for best actress. Robert De Niro is good, too. But his roles in `Raging Bull' and `Taxi Driver' absolutely great.In general, it's a nice movie.  "},{"Title":"I only saw this movie for David Keith","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" ...and he was on screen for less than two minutes in a superfluous background role.  But he was still gorgeous!Here's what I thought of the rest of it a bit overwrought.  I found Cuba Gooding Jnr.'s fanaticism a little distracting, taking something away from the weird world of brass diving helmets and flange assembly (what the hell is a flange anyway?).  Why couldn't we see a more informative view of the mechanics of post-WW2 diving instead of yet another highly-strung man-against-the-odds drama?The female roles in this film were pitiful.  Why should a young black American woman be made to think that starting a career as a doctor in times of racial segregation is letting life pass her by?  Surely marrying a driven man like Gooding's character (and presumably giving up her entire career) is more like letting life pass her by?  Theron's slurry wench was strangely endearing, but why do I get the impression she was only there as de Niro's foil?Will we ever be treated to three-dimensional military characters?  Not here, with a bigoted crackpot in charge (how many stereotypes can they fit into one man?) and the uptight whiner seen so often before in movies like Good Morning, Vietnam.  Scenarios could be improved - a Russian sub dragging a diver by his air hose?  Come on!  (I've been told by a reliable source that it was the wrong type of sub as well.)  I thought the medal presentation scenes were interesting, though - they didn't pan out as I'd thought.All in all, I'd rather see the biography of such an unusual man unfold under its own power, not the fable of one rising star and one falling one.  "},{"Title":"Extremely worthwhile","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor succeeds on many more fronts than it fails. It is, primarily, consummately entertaining, it is also thought provoking and technically accomplished. I found myself in the fairly rare situation of being pleasantly surprised by a movie that I was already looking forward to. As the basis of the plot has already been explained ad infinitum above, I'll just add my own thoughts.Firstly, a lot of the reviews above seem to have missed the point a little. See the thing is, Carl Brashear wasn't a hero. He was a brave man, a resourceful and talented man and an extremely tenacious one, but as his wife pointed out in the movie It was all about him, it was ALWAYS about him. Ego and ambition were stronger incentives for Brashear than the selfless altruism that defines heroism.Secondly, this movie was most certainly not a tribute to the great institution that was or is the American Armed Forces. The entire film shows us an organisation that just 30 years ago denied a man a position solely due to the colour of his skin, an organisation that systematically discriminated at every level against an African American's desire to serve his country, and one that promoted an individual that was prepared to see a man die rather than pass a course.If there is a hero in this movie....this story, then it is Master Chief Leslie W. Billy Sunday. Sunday had nothing whatsoever to benefit from helping Brashear, rather he faced demotion, exclusion, disfavour and disgrace, yet he still made the right choice. Sunday was the hero here, not Brashear.Turning from the characters to the players, Gooding Jr was his steady self and managed intensity and humanity without obvious cliche. De Niro was almost faultless and carried large segments of the movie with his portrayal of Sunday, striving for integrity and respect while haunted by his own, very real demons.The direction was pleasing, if unspectacular and the casting was sound. The climactic 12 paces scene was obviously contrived and, were it not for the conviction of the performances, could have been little more than an insult to viewers that had previously been credited with sufficient intelligence to make up their own minds. Sweaty determination to the tune of ooh's and aah's from a nearby audience are best left to Stallone et al and serve no purpose here. 9 out of 10 for Bob De Niro and an extremely capable 7 for Gooding Jr and Tillman. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Directed by George Tillman, Jr and starring the stunning Carl Brashear as Master Chief Navy Diver and Robert De Niro as a captain Navy Diver.Carl Brashear has a dream to become the first African-American Master Chief Navy Diver. At that time they were racial problems between white people and black people in the USA. He had the ambition to rise above his impoverished roots as a farmer's son.He had the self-respect to defy the racial hatred that challenged him through every rank of the service. He had the ability to prove to his detractors, from his superiors to his family, that his dream could come true.The captain is jealous of Carl because he can do everything fast and perfectly. The captain causes trouble for him.Then, when it is just within reach, a tragic accident becomes the ultimate test of his courage.However Carl never gives up trying to make his dream come true.This is the inspiring true story of one man at war with adversity.I would recommend this as an entertaining film showing the triumph of the human spirit and honor of all humanity.  "},{"Title":"Simply outstanding!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Top of the line performances from DeNiro, Cuba Gooding Jr., and Charlize Theron.  As a 22 year veteran of the military, I can say these characterizations are familiar reflections of many men and women who have populated the military of the United States over the years.  At best, mottled on a personal level and, at the same time, heroic.  Hollywood continues to overpolish some aspects of characters in films, making them seem a bit stiff or slightly less than the flesh and blood people we know them to be, but this time they left all the characters honest and well shown. Well worth any price to see.  I intend to add this one to my DVD collection as soon as it is out.  A film that should be added to any collection of favorite films about the military, such as Das Boot, The Great Escape, and The Longest Day. "},{"Title":"Certainly not the best","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First off, I never knew of Brashears, so this film did do some justice by raising my conscious of a true hero. The movie just seems to have taken a wonderful , uplifting story and turn into what I would say is melodramatic fluff.  It also does it at the cost of insulting some of the finest men and women our country has produced, those who truly have honor and serve in the US military.The other problem is how Cuba Gooding Jr. portrays Brashears.  I love pictures where a hero overcomes all adversity to rise to the top.  This picture is unclear on Brashears motives, however.  Early on I believed it was out of respect for his father, but towards the end, it seems as if Brashears wants to succeed only out of a selfish pride. This may be because Cuba Gooding Jr. never really puts any humility into the character.  He's a great actor, but it is almost an impossible task to effectively portray a hero of Brashears' magnitude in just 150 minutes. Perhaps when the movie comes out on video and dvd, a director's cut edition could be made to show how all the elements of the story fit together. "},{"Title":"Don't Miss this One!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Real life can be so much better than fiction. Realizing that a certain amount of composite characterisation must have taken place this movie still makes for a better than average bio. I can only try to imagine the personal courage this man has and the things he had to overcome. As usual De Niro is awesome. Cuba is getting better with each film. I thought the bits by Hal Holbrook, Michael Rappaport, David Keith and of course the always smooth Miss Theron were also quite good. "},{"Title":"Surprising thriller tinged with racial tension","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I did not know what to expect when I saw this movie, but was pleasantly surprised by the depth of the story.The characters are well developed, which makes one care about what happens (or happened) to them.  Being based on fact makes it even more provocative as plot turns resulting from racial bias are played out. "},{"Title":"A Respectable Offering from 2 Respectable Actors, Goodings and Deniro","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very inspirational movie about honor.  Though the script was predictable, the cast delivered a fine performance.  Cuba Gooding Jr. played the part bigger than anyone else could have.  Only other actor that could have done as well would have been Denzel Washington (but he would be too old for the part).  I was very surprise with Robert Deniro's performance as Sunday with the southern accent.  I thought he would have phone this in but he was energetic and powerful as the disciplinary. Men of honor doesn't aim too high.  It succeeds in being a feel good movie but comes up short as a tear jerker.  Most of the conflict dealt with Carl Brashear breaking the color barrier in the Navy as the first African American diver.  So it goes that it is a man's integrity and courage, not the color of his skin, that warrants the respect from his mates.  To go even further, Carl Brashear made a great sacrifice by risking his own life to save others in the line of duty time and again.  Only for that kind of selfless action, he was deemed a man of honor. "},{"Title":"When Hollywood gets between the honor.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor is a great story. Unfortunately the movie isn't.Why? Hollywood interference to make the story more  appealing to the masses. It looks like a real story  dumbed down to make it cornier and fit into the standardbig studio plot frame. Cuba Gooding Jr. is superb and  credible. No other character in the movie is. The greatfinale of the movie, set in a courtroom, makes a wonderfulstory look phony and staged. Maybe if they tried to attachthis movie more to what really happened instead of tryingto enhance the drama, the characters would've caughtmore depth.Still, the movie worked in lots of ways. It's an inspiring storyof courage in the face of adversity and racism. But so waslast year's The Hurricane, which also included a superbperformance by its main actor. Coincidentally, in that moviethe reality was altered for dramatic purposes as well. Gofigure. "}{"Title":"An admirable one time viewing","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really admired the stillness of this film.  It unfolds and executes itself at many turns like a play.  It has energy but also many sedated moments that could have been directed in a swifter manner.  Robert De Niro is not the best at using a southern accent.  I remember his performance in 'Cape Fear' and felt the same thing here.  His performance is good, however.  Cuba Gooding Jr. is the real star here in an under stated performance to match the way he has always performed, as a charismatic yet distinguished individual.  This film is good but worth only one viewing.  It doesn't have anything to look for after you've seen it once.  Sort of like meeting someone at a party and liking them but considering them and yourself as two ships that pass in the night.  That's the feeling this film generated for me. "},{"Title":"Inspiring but overdramatized story","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I had never heard of Carl Brashear before seeing this movie but in checking his true history I am truly impressed and inspired with his courage and zeal to become a Navy Master Diver.  I would love to see his story in a documentary where I could separate fact from fiction. I'm sure that most of the events depicted in the movie never really happened and are used for dramatic effect. Nevertheless, I'm sure Carl Brashear faced many challenges because of his race and despite this and his physical handicap he still was able to achieve his ultimate goal. Cuba Gooding, Jr. was perfectly cast in this role and carried the movie. DeNiro (Chief Sunday) also gave a great performance as a tough Master Chief. Unfortunately the truth is really stretched in many cases.  Chief Sunday's existence is questionable although his character is necessary to create a focal point for tension and an obstacle for Carl Brashear to overcome. PLOT WARNING I question why the Russian sub was necessary to insert? I believe it is impossible for the sub to have intercepted Carl's line without having to be so close to the tender ship as to cause a collision. Surely this scene could have been left out in the interest of better credibility but I guess the need for some special effects won out! I probably will buy the DVD of this movie just to capture Gooding's and DeNiro's acting.  "},{"Title":"entertaining, inspiring","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If it hadn't been for this film about Carl Brashear, the first african-american to become a master diver in the U.S. Navy, I may never have known who this man was. The only reason he isn't a household name like, say, Jackie Robinson, is that not everyone even knows that there is such a thing as a master diver in the U.S. Navy. I freely admit I did not. A good part of the film's text is dedicated to educating the audience on what it is a navy diver does and why it's important.That aside, we're also shown the life of an extraordinary person. In one great scene after another, we watch Carl (Cuba Gooding Jr.) defy the rules and find the courage to accomplish his goals no matter what stands in his way. His determination is truly inspiring. One exchange between Carl and Master Chief Billy Sunday (Robert DiNiro) sums up the movie. Sunday asks Carl why he wants to become a master diver so badly. Carl's answer is, 'because they said I couldn't have it.' And that is the foundation. There is literally no reason that this man cannot achieve master diver status. He has the drive, the desire and the ability. The only thing that stands in his way is a military that still will not accept change. 'Someday' it says. But 'not now.' 'The country isn't ready yet.' Carl's resounding answer is, 'it's happening right now, whether you like it or not.'Even though this is a true story, don't go in expecting realism. Men of Honor is very much a Hollywood movie. The reason this story is now a film is that it is so unbelievable. You'll keep asking yourself, does anyone have this kind of courage? There are scenes of which you will say, 'it couldn't possibly have happened this way,' and you'll probably be right. It's not that director George Tillman Jr. (Soul Food) wasn't looking for historical accuracy. It's just that in the end, he's got a movie to make. Without changing some of the events, compressing time, misportraying certain characters, it wouldn't have worked. I'd rather they take some liberties in order to tell the story in film narrative form than not tell it at all. The discerning viewer will understand that this is not a documentary. It's 'based on' Brashear's life. Ultimately, it's just entertainment.On February 22 of this year, Brashear addressed the crew of the U.S.S Nimitz. After a second standing ovation for the retired master chief, Captain Stephen Firks told his sailors, If you're not inspired after that, I don't know what we're going to do with you.Grade B "},{"Title":"Great Gooding + Superb De Niro = Excellent Movie","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Cuba Gooding gives his best performance to date in the lead, and De Niro is magnificent as Billy Sunday (not the preacher). The entire supporting cast is excellent, especially the actress playing Gooding's wife.  Costumes, music, cinematography and pacing are all excellently handled.  This is one of best American biographies in quite a few years.  "},{"Title":"TRULY GREAT","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie at a cast and crew show cause my friend, whom is a producer on the movie invited me.  Forget what you have seen in the commercials, forget what you have heard, go see this film for yourself.  I was more than surprised by it.  In a world of The Grinch, Charlies Angels, The 6TH Day, Unbreakable, here comes a film that is worth your hard earned bucks!  Glorious scenes, wonderful cinemtrophy and a cast you want to eat with your heart.  I found this to be one of this years most orchestrated powerhouse films and with reason.  Robert Deniro deserves an oscar nod.  If you could give an oscar to everyone involved as a package, this would be the film. "},{"Title":"Terrific Biopic","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A Classic Hollywood Biopic is the best sense of the genre.  Gooding and DeNiro both give spectacularly heartfelt performances in the two leads roles, and the supporting cast is uniformly excellent, with standout performances by Carl Lumbly and Michael Rapoport.  The only nit I might pick is that Theron's role was unnecessary & distracting (not her performance which was fine, it's just that the film seemed to add two unnecessary scenes to accommodate her role.)Aside from that, the characterizations, dynamics, and action of the real-life story are riveting and unforgettable.  The evolutions of the main characters and how what they experience evolves their beings are uniquely characterized by the performing artists.  Despite the movie's extreme length, the pacing stays intact throughout.  The score is also terrific.Us this a predictable Hollywood film? You bet.  So, Mike Leigh addicts should subtract a star, but everyone else should enjoy mightily. "},{"Title":"could have had more deep diving....","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Although I gave a rating of 9, my expectations were higher than what the film delivered.  I would have been happier had there been more deep diving since I am a diver myself, but it was supposed to portray the life of Carl Brashear and that's what it was about.  This film made me angry in the beginning, but happy in the end.   "},{"Title":"Overdramatized, especially the racism.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought the racism and prejudice against Carl Brashear was grossly overdramatized for Hollywood effect.  I do not believe the U. S. Navy was ever that overtly racist.  I cannot imagine a full Captain, the Commanding Officer, ever telling his Chief to intentionally flunk anyone.  Certainly not at the risk of his life.  And there has never been a Chief Petty Officer as unabashedly prejudice against everybody but WASPs as DeNiro's character. No Chief as slovenly and drunken as he was played would have ever risen to Master Chief in the first place.  Cuba Gooding saved an otherwise badly done movie.  "},{"Title":"Both a touching and heroic movie.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As I watched this movie, and I began to see its' characters develop I could feel this would be an excellent picture. When you get that feeling, and the movie indeed fills those expectations the experience is rare. I had that very feeling throughout this movie. Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Junior played riveting and amazingly strong parts which were both Oscar worthy. The supporting cast was equally as strong creating a winning foundation for the picture to grow on. I can say without any hesitation at all, see this movie it will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Great performances from a stellar cast.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  MEN OF HONOR features Cuba Gooding Jr., in what is probably his best performance to date. He plays Carl Brashear, a man of towering courage and heroism. He's a poor dirt farmer from the South, who wants to become a Navy diver- but has problems because of his race. The head of the diving school, played by Robert DeNiro, is a racist redneck that nonetheless grows to respect Brashear. The film is about how Brashear has to concur the nearly insurmountable odds, not once but twice. The performances are what make this film special. Gooding is great, and DeNiro, the best actor in movie history, gives a towering performance- his best dramatic work in years. Charlize Theron gives another solid performance as DeNiro's much younger wife. The film lays on the patriotism a little too strong (though no where near the level it was in THE PATRIOT), and a few of the characters are just one dimensionally bad (Hal Holbrook's Mr. Pappy is just so evil), but the film is a rarity among films today. It's uplifting and uncynical. A wonderful film. "}{"Title":"Predictable tale of courage in the face of racism.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is clearly a movie meant to be an encouragement to all who fight against injustice. Too bad they paint our hero with such dramatic gusto. Not only does he have to deal with white racism (I know, an oxy-moron), but with a system ready to kill him rather than allow him to reach his goal. We know of course that Cuba Gooding Jr will overcome it all, and that De Niro will become another of Hollywood's bad guys with a heart. But Cuba is too good and DeNiro is too bad for me to really care. The whole thing feels like an NAACP sanitized movie meant to show history as heroic myth.Most of the action takes place above water as it's hard to put much drama into diver's forced (by their heavy suits) to walk like Frankenstein's monster!In the end Cuba gets to use the word honor to describe a system that has shown him nothing but abuse and derision. Give me Jack Nicholson's witness box speech from A few good men any day. "},{"Title":"Very good uplifting movie","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought this move was very good.  There were a few things that were less than perfect, but overall, I was quite surprised.  The courtroom scene in the end seemed a little unrealistic, but was real enough to be entertaining. I found that the movie communicated the hardships of going though military training and the sacrifices that go along with it.  Being a military pilot I could relate to many of these parts. "},{"Title":"Diving for another great Deniro role?","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor has many great aspects to it. Good action sequences, plenty of feel good scenes, a good musical score, but the part that really makes the movie is the great acting. Mostly by Robert Deniro. The story of Men of Honor is focused about Carl Brashear played by Cuba Gooding Jr. who wants to be the first African American deep sea diver in the navy. It chronicles his rough struggle from being a poor farmer to getting into diving school and even further. It is a good story, but it seems like it has been done many times before. A person, against all of the odds, won't give up until they accomplish their goals that they set for some sentimental reason many years ago. It could happen, but a lot of the struggles the Brashear faces in the movie are questionable including the C.O. of the diving school tampering with his final test. However, all of that is made up for the scene when Robert Deniro finally enters the movie. Deniro plays Mater Chief Sunday who is the teacher at the diving school Brashear is attending. As soon as Deniro come in he omits this vibe of extreme arrogance that you can't hate unless you have incredible wilpower. Before the movie ends, Deniro gives off multiple speeches that would have you laughing at how cool he is but you are too stunned at the way he punches them out. In the end you must doubt some of the aspects of the film, but admit it, if it was all the truth, it would have you snoozing it your seat by the first twenty minutes.  "},{"Title":"If you were thinking of seeing it...please do.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While it certainly wasn't the best movie I've ever seen, it was certainly worth the $8 (which can't be said for many movies these days.)This was a pleasant account of a true story, although many of the details of the real story were twisted for the movie, (ie, Billy Sunday's character was three or four people in the real story combined together.)  Robert DeNiro was of course good, and Cuba Gooding, Jr., was also impressive. "},{"Title":"Superb Acting and Inspiring","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is a great example of fine storytelling.  The acting is superb. The story is inspiring without being overly manipulative or fake.  There were a couple points where they probably made people a tad more good or bad than they really were, but considering it is a Hollywood movie, they showed amazing restraint.  There wasn't a single explosion shown in the movie, even though they had one opportunity to.  The film, while having suspenseful parts, was not made into an action movie.  The story is thus made to focus on an extraordinary man in unfortunately ordinary times. Well done! "},{"Title":"Honorable Mention","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Inspirational tales about triumph of the human spirit are usually big turn-offs for me.  The most surprising thing about MEN OF HONOR is how much I enjoyed it in spite of myself.  The movie is as predictable and cliched as it gets, but it works.  Much credit goes to the exhilarating performances by both leads.  It's a perfect role for Cuba Gooding, Jr., who's wonderfully restrained here.  We have come to expect a lot from De Niro, and he doesn't disappoint.  He creates a darkly funny portrait.  Director George Tillman, Jr. set out to make an old-style flick and comes up with a winner.  "},{"Title":"This is what happens when you try too hard to make a movie.","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw an advanced screening of Men of Honor last night for free.  This movie is average at best.  Normally, I'm a fan of Robert DeNiro, but his acting in this movie is overdone.  In DeNiro's defense, he was just trying to keep up with the other acting debacles that presented themselves in this movie.  Although the movie is at times predictable, Cuba Gooding, Jr. does a reasonable job throughout the movie as he is faced with several believable and thought-provoking obstacles due to his race.  However, one scene that brings us back to the reality that this movie is at times nonsensical is a scene that involves DeNiro and Gooding competing to see who can hold their breath the longest.  This scene occurs in a Whites Only bar where Gooding has entered to prove a point.  During the scene, Gooding's girlfriend witnesses the competition and then decides to drop the relationship with Gooding because she's dragged her father out of too many bars.  Her father was an alcoholic.  Gooding was neither drinking nor fighting. He was in a competition with his superior, trying to get a fair shake at the diving school.  My advice is to wait for this movie to reach video and then rent Bedazzled. "},{"Title":"well acted and patriotically emotional.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I gave it an 8 star rating. The story may have fallen short about 3/4 of the way into the picture but the performances remained strong throughout.Men of Honor was changed from Navy Diver understandably so. Anyone who has served in any branch of the armed forces will probably feel that Honor is an appropriate word to use in the title.  "},{"Title":"A Moving and Inspirational Film","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  You think you've had it tough? You should check out this film.  Carl Brashear is the epitome of courage and determination.  What this man had to go through to become a navy diver, should be an inspiration to us all. And significantly, after seeing this film, I learned that what is shown is not even the half of it!  Cuba Gooding, Jr. does some of his best work to date as Brashear.  De Niro, as usual is good as the southern redneck who trains him.  George Tillman in only his second major feature (after Soul Food), has made a quantum leap as a filmmaker.  If you want to be moved and inspired, you definitely need to check out this one. "},{"Title":"Greatest Film Ever!","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The story of the film affected me so deeply. This film is a real example of honor and success. It is based on a true story and is too much realistic to me since there's so much injustice in each part of life, and it is founded of facts of real life. The story tells about a man (Gooding) who struggles with the difficulties in very hard conditions in a time where racism is strife, fighting for his honor and being subjected to injustice, torture, but without compromising from any efforts, his honor and personality. He bows to the pressures and submits to the all judgments. Gooding shows Brashear (Robert De Niro) as a man that will never give up, who made his father a promise to do better than he did and succeeding at achieving his dream. The only aim of him is getting accomplishment in diving school and being accepted from the US Navy as a result of it. Besides, I admire Robert De Niro and he is a really successful actor who entertains the audience in all the films he acts. The special effects are also well used, especially in the underwater scenes. The last thing that I can say is, this is a real example of humanity. "}{"Title":"Another military film about training.","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The inspirational and true tale of one black man who tries his hardest to become a deep sea military diver. Cuba Gooding Jr. is this man and the hard ass who is training him is none other than Robert De Niro.Men of Honor seemed like another boring military film that focuses on one character who must overcome adversity while training to become a part of a special unit in the service. Then of course there will be the officer who trains them, he will be a hard ass who doesn't take any B.S. from anyone. The more he pushes you, the harder you become, the two usually hate each other at the beginning, but then come to terms and respect each other. In some cases they even end up liking each other. The third act of the film usually details the life of the character after he graduates the class. Men of Honor follows this criteria to a capital T. With that being sad, I still found myself interested in the characters and the performance. This is an interesting film that pits two leading men who seem to have had bad luck with roles in this recent generation. Cuba Good Jr. can't seem to find his footing after winning an Oscar for Jerry Maguire, today the poor guy is in the direct to video market. In this performance he tackles it with true pride. His determination to provide the role with some credibility shines through. I usually find his work to be more or less with every film. Men Of Honor is one of his better performances. Robert De Niro has taken a big hit since his heyday. It seems that ever since the one role in Rocky and Bullwinkle, his script choices have been pretty dull. Some people refer to his roles post 2000 to be the sell out years. Men of Honor might be an exception, he brings his usual De Niro self to an otherwise thankless role. We don't know much about his character, other than he has a short temper and refuses a lot of orders. The film has a one dimensional presentation and it hurts the plot and characterization. Despite this, it does hold together well for most of the running time. I always find that after the training sequences of the film are over, they tend to drag on afterwards. This film is no different. The most interesting part of the film is over and yet we are still sitting here watching events unfold that we have little interest in. The romance between Cuba and his gal is thin and Charlize Theron is given so little to do I wondered why she was even in the film.Men Of Honor has everything that an inspirational film that is based on a true story should have. Our man character is black and has to overcome the racism of everyone around him. Nothing new, but knowing that it was based on a true story does lend to some moments where we respect that character for what he accomplished. Some scenes are really well done, specifically one where one character receives a medal of honor, which should have went to Cuba, but because he was black they gave it to the one guy who didn't deserve it. The film is long and drags after the more entertaining parts are finished, but it's not a total loss. I can recommend it for people who are into the military film genre, this one has great performances that overcome a lazy script. "},{"Title":"Some Lead By Example","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm certainly glad that a film was made about Carl Brashear's amazing life story. Coming as it did during the Civil Rights era, Brashear became an inspiration for people of all minority groups not willing to settle for a status expected.Brashear as played by Cuba Gooding, Jr. leads by example in the conduct of the life he has chosen. Very similar to Jackie Robinson who integrated baseball and made it stick by his character and conduct. As Brashear, Gooding knows that he does not want the sharecropper life that his father Carl Lumbly has and Lumbly makes it real clear to get more out of life than he's gotten.But while Harry Truman integrated the Armed Services after World War II, the Navy still has its restrictions. A black man can only be a cook or an officer's valet, the real fighting parts are denied him. That's not good enough for Gooding who applies to become a Navy deep sea diver.Once at the diving school at Bayonne, New Jersey, Gooding gets it all thrown at him, mostly by the Master Chief Petty Officer in charge, Robert DeNiro. DeNiro may have some leftover prejudices, but he's nevertheless a hero and one who can inspire if one can get passed racial divide.The best thing about Men Of Honor is the chemistry between DeNiro and Gooding. They certainly come from different places, but as they get to know each other, both turn out to be Men Of Honor.Other good performances to note are Charlize Theron as DeNiro's wife and Hal Holbrook as the head of the diving school, a guy the Navy just wish would retire for reasons you'll see.Men Of Honor is an inspiring story about people with courage to spare and the ability to change. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary inspirational movie","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Guys, you got to watch this awesome movie. At the end of this movie you will have a strong passion and profundity imbued into yourselves. The acting of the two characters, Billy Sunday and Carl Brashear deeply touches the heart from inside. This movie is about principles, dignity, patriotism and HONOR. You will hear Chief Carl Brashear say, the Navy has greatest tradition of all - Honor - practiced thoroughly by these two characters. Mere glances of these characters during the movie fills you with enthusiasm. Dialogue delivery of this movie is perfect. You can't find any flaws in the dialogues. What the Master Chief Billy says roams in and out of your mind for a long time after watching the movie. Please watch this movie. "},{"Title":"This is a movie to be honored","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Stories like these when people lose valuable things like their health, their life, their body parts, these stories of those people who despite their losses never lose their faith and their hopes even grow bigger, such stories are inspirational, unforgettable and should-keep ones.If you ever find yourself nagging about a tiny minor loss, watch Gooding Jr. and get all the hope that you want. Some people they go down with the ship, others opt to fly high when their ships go down. Those people they grow stronger and more challenging the bigger their loss is.DeNiro, the God of acting, with his facial features and the performance that gets you off the chair and puts you right in the middle of the marine school and the court where the story is taking place.It's a pity that Gooding Jr. is not playing any new roles recently. Such a great actor needs only be in a movie for it to become worthy of watching. "},{"Title":"Movies that Try TOO HARD","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Although I am late in viewing this now nine year old flick, available at Wall Mart for 5 dollars, I felt it tried too hard.The apparent stereotypes, hard wonderfully honorable blacks, shunned by whites and racial bigotry.What a tear jerker this was and so predictable I had to stop watching it.The scene where Cuba Gooding calls to find out how his honorable father is doing was too much. Anyone who knows formula writing for the masses, knew his father had passed away.Then we have the girl friend struggling to be somebody and who became a nurse, or was that a doctor? Whew, even today only 2-3 percent of physicians are African Americans !Well, it really wasn't worth the five dollars, I'm afraid, but many viewers less critical than myself may fall head over heels in love with this old movie. I didn't ! "},{"Title":"The greatness of one man","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" For me,this is one of the best movies i ever saw.Overcoming racism,struggling through life and proving himself he isn't just an ordinary cookie ,Carl Brashear is an amazing character to play ,who puts Cuba in his best light,best performance in his life.De Niro,who is a living legend gives THAT SOMETHING to the movie.Hated his character in movie,but he gives so much good acting to this film,great performance.And appearance of beautiful Charlize was and as always is a big plus for every movie. So if you haven't seen this movie i highly recommended for those who love bravery,greatness who seek inspiration.You must look this great drama. My Vote 9/10. "},{"Title":"Sharecroppers son becomes first black navy diver in history","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) was born to sharecroppers in the deep south. He joins the navy, whereupon he tells his father he will be back. The father gives him an old radio, and Brashear leaves on the navy bus. The Most valuable thing his unemotional father taught him was, Never quit. After a recommendation from a white commander Powers Boothe), who admires his drive and guts, he gets sent to Navy diving school at Bayonne, NJ. He endures harassment from his pals in uniform and from his trainer, Chief Navy Master Diver, Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro), and from the commanding officer, called pappy, (Hal Holbrook, who has almost as many loose screws as an old car. They all want to make him drop out, and the prejudice is quite fierce.The dangers of diving prove a further setback when he loses a leg due to an accident on board ship. Despite this setback, he tells his wife that he will train and achieve his objective, and with the help of Billy Sunday, (now both joined in commiseration in their sufferings), they train and he is able to become the first black Navy diver with his artificial limb despite the skepticism of a highly mocking and doubtful captain at the Navy Department hearing in Washington, DC to determine if he meets the criteria. An inspirational movie, showing that determination can overcome all odds. "},{"Title":"Powerful combination of acting and a moving plot.","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had my doubts before watching Men Of Honor because it didn't receive good reviews when it first came out but I did what should be done watch it and generate my own opinions.I was very impressed with the powerful, spectacular acting by Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert De Niro. They make the perfect duo and should star in more movies but that's just my opinion.The story is based on true events but it also adds some fiction which makes it a more interesting and magical experience.The plot deals with self-recuperation, internal forces, and superb demonstration of will.The action sequences and dialogs are really good and won't disappoint those who watch this movie for it's dramatic and action elements.I don't want to spoil Men Of Honor because it truly deserves an objective view. Don't make the same mistake as I did in the first place and judged it by reading comments.Go watch it, please. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A black man faced discrimination by a white guy, and had to work extra hard to prove himself. In the process the white guy grew to respect the black guy and then they work together for a common goal. This story plot is EXACTLY the same as 'Remember The Titans' starring Denzel Washington.Despite the predictability, the film was not bad. The film created the kind of atmosphere which you would pity the black guy. The audience could almost feel the humiliation experienced by Gooding when he was the victim of racism. In addition, the way that Gooding had to prove himself was extraodinary. Even though the audience know that he would be able to do it in the end doesn't stop the me from cheering when he succeeded.One thing I found annoying is that, Gooding found a girlfriend too easily. I would have had thousands of girlfriends, if I can get one just by staring into a girl's eyes in the library. "},{"Title":"Great movie that deserved an Oscar Nod","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor is George Tillman's Jr's worthy follow up to his critical and crowd pleasing film Soul Food. Tilman script is very good and gives a lot of insight into Brasher's life. Cuba Gooding Jr. gives an Oscar worthy performance as does Deniro. If you haven't seen this film then you don't know what you've missed. "}{"Title":"under-rated","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  After watching this film I was surprised it did not, at the least, receive nominations in the leading award categories for the Oscars.  Not to speak ill of the movies that were nominated during this year, Men of honor is a great movie with with an excellent messege.  Although most viewers see the story as predictable and over-used in similar movies, this should not hinder the enjoyment of this film.  Men of honor doesn't not standout as the great slam bang action thriller with blazing special effects, yet it does show us inspiration to the things we want to achieve in life.  There are better films than Men of Honor, however Honor is still a movie i prefer over some of the garbage that I have seen at the theaters.  I would have gladly paid $6.75 to see this movie in the theater as oppose to MIB2 or Windtalkers. Don't Miss out on this movie because of other people views, watch it and determine yourself what you think. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - A story of courage and determination.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film, well acted and based on the real life of Carl Brashear. If you ever want to know how hard it must have been for a black man in the american armed forces this is one of the movies that will show you. Carl Brashear has to overcome racism, disability, heartache and downright ignorance of the times. What he overcomes will amaze you as it sure did to me, he achieves his sole ambition in life to become a Master Diver.His achievement as I have said is not without suffering greatly at the hands of people determined to see him fail. This film most probably only shows and gets across some of what Carl Brashear had to go through and overcome. One of the nice things about this movie is that Carl Brashear himself is the key military consultant to the movie and that Cuba Gooding Jr actually did some real training to be a navy diver.Envy Carl Brashear the mans achievements and determination to achieve his goals in life as I certainly do............. "},{"Title":"Pappy sentimentalist goo","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  OK so maybe that's a bit harsh, this is an alright movie supposedly based on some kind of true story. De Niro has done this kind of hard-man-with-a-good-heart type role so many times he clearly feels he can do it in his sleep, (though you can't help but wish he'd stop it and get on with some serious roles), and here he hardly seems to be trying at all, putting in a dull, insipid performance that borders on the rubbish. Cuba Gooding was born to play this kind of slushy part, his whole face poised ready to well up into righteous tears at any moment, his cheesy little smile always willing to perk up into a victory smirk. Michael Rappaport does the kind of hammy idiot job that serves him so well in Woody Allen movies but here just seems hammy, and Charlize Theron puts in the best performance in the movie, beautiful and soulful as De Niro's wife, but sadly is only on screen for a few seconds. The whole thing is quite pretty and is shot through with the set pieces of the genre, the poor but honest childhood, the hard but fair father, the cruelty and humiliation of an outsider in the training camp, through to the final victory in the battle for equality and acceptance, all guided by an apparently superhuman talent and willpower. If you like that kind of thing you'll probably like this, but that makes you a fan of cheese I'm afraid.   "},{"Title":"drowns in a sea of nobility","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Nobody in his right mind would disagree with the noble sentiments that inform `Men of Honor.'   Celebrating the virtues of courage, heroism and strength of character, as well as the triumph of the underdog over personal adversity and societal racism &#150; who could argue against such inspiring themes and concepts?   As such, `Men of Honor' has the built-in potential to be a `feel good' triumph.  Unfortunately, the narrative arc that the film travels is so tediously predictable and familiar and the sentiment so heavy-handed and treacly that, much as we may want to like the movie, we find ourselves quickly annoyed and bored by it.  This is no reflection on Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert De Niro, who do their best in two-dimensional, stereotypical roles.  But it IS a reflection on the screenplay by Scott Michael Smith, which, although it is based on the true story of one Carl Brashear, the first African American US Navy diver, nevertheless, plays like a hundred other films with similar scenarios.  `Men of Honor' just always `feels' like a MOVIE because we already know where it is going long before it gets there. So, essentially, we spend most of the time looking at our watches in the hopes that it will not take too long in completing its mission.  The sappy concluding courtroom scene, in particular, has the word HOLLYWOOD stamped all over it &#150; not helped one whit by the saccharine musical score that seems to ooze across the soundtrack from one end of the movie to the other.  The movie does deal in a surprisingly frank way with the blatant racism that pervaded the military in the years immediately following Truman's forced integration of the forces.  But don't we just know that, despite all the hostility he faces, Brashear will prove himself to be the most courageous, most noble and most technically skilled diver around &#150; easily showing up all the Doubting Thomases in the process, including the by-now-inevitable stock military villain who seems to have devoted his career to standing in the way of this one man's success and progress?  Brashear also turns out to be the most generous of spirit among the men in that he easily forgives the trespasses of those who trespass against him.  What can we in the audience do but wile away the time till all this happens?  At first blush, De Niro's Leslie `Billy' Sunday, may seem to be a more complex character.  After all, he defies the military rules so much that even the Navy is forced to demote him to the position of training officer.  Yet, in a way, this is just the typical De Niro role &#150; heavy on bluster, sarcasm and macho posturing, all merely hiding the sweet humanitarian and egalitarian lurking right below the brash surface.Even the underwater diving sequences, which turn out to be the primary reason for watching the film, seem strangely unimpressive.  I guess that a man standing almost perfectly still, encumbered by an awkward, heavy diving outfit, doesn't make for particularly exciting action cinema.It's also interesting that the film paints the Navy as consisting almost exclusively of unenlightened racists &#150; then turns around and expects us to get all dewy-eyed and goosepimply when Brashear makes an impassioned speech defending it.   `Men of Honor' may be a wonderful film for adolescents to see, for those too young to understand fully just how pervasive racism was in our institutions a mere 40 or 50 years ago.  But for those of us who like our dramas a bit less tidy and a trifle more complex in nature, `Men of Honor' doesn't provide us with much to occupy our minds with for the duration of its running time &#150; and precious little to think about after the movie is over.   "},{"Title":"Good, old-fashioned biopic brings little surprises but much enjoyment.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Both Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. have won Oscars. Both of them won as Best Supporting Actor. (Granted, there is 23 years between their wins&#133;) And now both of them star in Men Of Honor, a movie that resembles the old-fashioned biopics of the 50's.The movie begins in 1966. We are in a hospital waiting room. A man (obviously Robert DeNiro), his face  covered in scars and bruises, is watching a television. On it, a bunch of Marines are on the news. In a sappy, misplaced moment, DeNiro's character, Billy Sunday, whimpers `Carl&#133;'We fast-forward to a 1940's field. A black man is ploughing the field. A boy of about 12, introduced as Carl, goes up t the man (his father) and talks to him. Carl makes a promise to help his father and to keep the farm. Fast-forward (again) to a 17-year old Carl, going away for the Marines. His father gives him a homemade radio and tells him not to come back. Carl gets on the bus, away for the Marines.Once aboard the ship, Carl works with the other black marines in the kitchen. One day, the helicopter which brings the mail crashes and people are sent to save the pilot. Here's where Billy Sunday comes in. He's a Navy diver and he's the one that goes to save the pilot. Brashear is inspired or something&#133; The next day, all the white people are swimming and Carl decides to brave all authority and swim. He swims really far an from then on, his dream is to become a diver. He moves to another camp where he meets up again with Sunday, gets a girlfriend that helps him pass his tests, and after some time, gets his leg severed.Men Of Honor follows a tried-and-true formula of filmmaking; take a legend, put him through some hardships and pump the viewers full of sap while still keeping it manly enough and everyone's happy. It actually works here; there aren't many surprises or anything out of the ordinary, but the material is potent and the actors very good.Cuba Gooding Jr. is great as Brashear. I remembered suddenly why he won an Oscar; he's a really good actor. He gives a good, solid performance of the type that we haven't seen in some time. Of course, Robert DeNiro yet again shines in an excellent performance. The character of Billy Sunday is never better than when DeNiro goes into one of his trademark anger scenes. The supporting cast is also great; Charlize Theron shows up in a small and non-flashy performance as Sunday's wife.Men Of Honor is a movie that isn't beloved by critics but gets unanimous praise by the public. And unlike some strange cases (The Mummy), Men Of Honor is totally worth it. There are a couple of problems, however. At times, the characters' attitudes are confusing, especially with Sunday. At first he dislikes Brashear, then he is friendly, then he nearly kills him, he makes up, etc. I hate it when a movie does that. It serves only in confusing the viewer and making us less attentive to the story. Another dubious achievement of this movie is how Brashear is pictured. This is definitely not Gooding's dault, but more the script's. Brashear is depicted as a superman, who never gives up and never breaks down (except in one case). The most fascinating character portraits are those of flawed characters. It is pretty boring when a character is like Brashear's. However, Men Of Honor more than makes up for that in its sheer fun of watching. Technically, Men Of Honor is good. The costumes are nice, the sets are well made but I did have one problem with the underwater photography. Unless the camera is very close to its focus, the screen is just blurry and blue. At first, I thought my VCR had busted. Then I saw an object moving in the background. Egads, it's real camera shot!Men Of Honor could've very well been made in the 50's because of its format. However, because of the strength of its storytelling, Men Of Honor suceeds in appealing to modern audiences. 7/10  "},{"Title":"You must honor these men by going to see this film","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men Of Honor is one film that must not be missed because it is one of the best films of 2000. As soon as I saw the trailer for the first time, I knew this to be a fact.Several words come to mind to describe these Men Of Honor; including inspirational, special, courageous, brave and unrelenting in their quest in becoming the best navy divers in the United States.Men Of Honor profiles the first African-American and his struggles to become the first black diver. Cuba Gooding Jr. is Carl Brashear, a man who promised his father that he would not quit on his dream, which was to become a navy diver.Men Of Honor boasts one of the greatest compelation of talent in Hollywood. Robert De Niro leads an all-star cast that includes Charlize Theron, Anjunue Ellis, David Keith, Michael Rappaport and Hal Holbrook. Each of these actors bring something special to each of their roles.Cuba Gooding Jr. seems to get better with each film he is in, from What Dreams May Come to As Good As It Gets his repertoire seems to grow and his star is still rising. Similarly, Robert De Niro has nowhere to go but up. In Men Of Honor he gives one of the best performances of his career not to mention one worthy of an academy award.Men Of Honor is a film that is rich in plot. From the character development to the emotion and action the audience feels; Men Of Honor delivers one powerful punch. This film does an excellent job of characterizing what this man had to go through to become a respected navy diver. He knew what he had to do and he persevered through the racism and prejudice thrown his way.This is the best  'based on a true story' film ever made I have seen. It ranks right up on top with The Hurricane, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and U-571. This is a masterpiece that should not be overlooked by anyone.I urge everyone to see Men Of Honor because it truly is a remarkable film.  "},{"Title":"routine","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie because Robert DeNiro was in it.  Sure enough, it was fun watching him.  The movie, however, was just a formula Tom Cruise flick with Cuba Gooding Jr. playing the Tom Cruise part.  The worst part of the formula was the tired idea of having the final rousing scene in a courthouse setting so we can see the astounded faces of all the important characters.  How forced and obvious! "},{"Title":"A good film but not great.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The film in General Its easy to watch, bit slow but has some nice bits in it to keep you interested. But it certainly is not anything special, especially for a film with Robert Deniro as cast.The Good Points'Robert De Niro' He does play the most interesting character of the film and without him i don't think i would have bothered to watch it from reading other peoples opinions. The Bad PointsCuba Gooding Jr's chraracter is when the film begins its pitfalls. The racial stuff in the film is fairly strong but not convincing. The acting and character of Cuba Gooding Jr made me not care at all for this character, he just did not respond convincingly enough to this element. His so called honour i thought was well over dramatized and got really boring towards the end of the movie. He just did'not suite the part in my opinion. Which lead me to believe it was the over dramatized directing of the film for the most part. Music and all just was'not convincing enough for me either.ConclusionWorth watching for Robert De Niro's part in the film. He does ham it and is sometimes humorous but on the whole it is an okish movie that does have a moving and interesting story about Naval Divers etc. But the movie title is its major pitfall on Cuba Gooding Jr's part. "},{"Title":"A legend among turkeys","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Having just wasted 2 hours of my life, I felt a strong compulsion to save my fellow couch potatoes from doing the same. Honor? The honorable thing would have been to leave a loaded gun in the edit suite and leave it to the producer's conscience.Surely the unwitting comedy of the decade, everything about this film smacks of Hamlet as directed by Porky the Pig - a fake epic doubly hateful because it portrays a true tale. Every cliche about the Afro American struggle is laid out end to end, as poor Cuba is dragged Python-style through every misfortune and injustice known to man, while even poorer De Niro is forced to ham it up as an unconvincing redneck racist. The final scene can only be watched through a cage of fingers, as cliches fall like bored stalegtites from the courtroom ceiling.Carl Brashear, deserves respect for the odds he overcame but this movie demands all our sympathy for De Niro, who must now live with both this and 'Rocky & Bullwinkle' on his CV. As if to hammer in the final nail, the closing song ('Don't give up' - see, I'm not making this up!) sounds like it escaped from the soundtrack to 'Rockie 6 Brain dead, but still boxing.Oh dear, oh dear.nano "},{"Title":"Men of Honor suffers from it's melodramatic tone. Cuba's Brashear is so optimistic, you start to wonder whether he might be insane.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor is the story of a hero. We learn of Carl Brashear's struggle dealing with racism, poverty, terrible misfortune, etc etc. And although there is no denying Brashear was truly a hero, the problem here is that Cuba Gooding is so incredibly heroic he has ceased to be a person of flesh and blood. The odds are against him, in such a manner that things are blown completely out of proportion. Cuba's Brashear is so optimistic you wonder whether he might be insane. What makes his character so unconvincing is the complete lack of human flaws. It would have been far more interesting to see how even people like Brashear make mistakes. I'd also like to add that Charlize Theron is completely useless in her role as De Niro's wife (even though she is half his age and there is no chemistry between them). "}{"Title":"Training Camp Movie","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Follows the usual formula in putting a new recruit -- this time the first African-American (Cuba Gooding) after President Truman desegregates the Armed Forces -- through the U. S. Navy's deep-sea diver training program that is run by a racist zealot (Robert DeNiro). If the program weren't bad enough, it's got to be located in Bayonne, New Jersey.There's nothing wrong with the performances. Robert De Niro activates his Southern accent and shouts gibberish effectively. Cuba Gooding, raised by a stern father as a poor black farm boy in the South, is the expectable paragon of rectitude. The girls -- one could hardly call them women -- are Charleze Theron and Lonette McKee. They have minor roles and are mostly there to argue that their men should exercise common sense. Other decent performers -- Powers Boothe and Hal Holbrook -- have even more perfunctory roles.That's about it. Almost everything else could have been assembled by a computer. A ship is called a boat. Robert De Niro salutes indoors, uncovered. After a brutal assault on hospital personnel, he's transferred out of his outfit instead of being busted. Somebody shouts I'm outta here in the early 1950s. (Maybe it was a common expression at the time. If so, my bad.) People address each other by rank -- Lieutenant, Boatswain's Mate, Commander, as they do in the Army, whereas in the Navy they are simple Mister (if an officer) or addressed by their last name (if enlisted). I didn't bother to check if there was a rank called Senior Master Chief in 1950.Cuba Gooding has a tough row to hoe. Everyone in the Navy, it seems, hates Negroes except for one guy from Wisconsin. He stutters and is held in contempt by the others in his class. It's like the scene in Animal House, in which the applicant to a tony fraternity is asked to wait in a room with a Sikh, a black man, and a blind kid.Gooding is an enlisted man, a second class petty officer. He manages to marry a beautiful woman who has just graduated from medical school. In one of their arguments she pleads with him. She just wants to be a doctor and he should join her, quit the Navy, and lead a quiet life. And just let life pass you by?, he retorts. Yes. Yes, just be a doctor's spouse and let life pass you by. You can wave to it from the golf course in Boca Raton.These kinds of flicks were common enough in World War II. Bombardier, Airial Gunner, that sort of thing. Cheap as they often were, they had some educational features. You learned something about becoming a bombardier or a gunner. Here, the technical details are skipped over, perhaps because the writer knew nothing about them (except Boyle's law, which we learned in high-school chemistry).I couldn't follow what was happening during some of the emergencies without which a movie like this wouldn't exist. If I got the mechanical problems right, it was because I guessed correctly. The direction is no help either. The movie abounds in close ups, so many that they lose any dramatic impact they might have had. And the emergencies are confusing because they're ill focused.Why go on? Want to see a better example of this kind of movie? Almost any will do -- except maybe G. I. Jane, in which the abused hero is a heroin. Try the training camp scenes in The Young Lions. There the victim is a Jew. Or try From Here to Eternity, in which no easy sympathy buttons are pushed and the victim is a grown man who refuses to bend and who is active in bringing the conflict on, just like Cool Hand Luke. No easy excuses are offered, because easy excuses are too easy.Thoroughly formulaic, and not well done. "},{"Title":"Conduct Unbecoming An Oscar Winner","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Oscars would be much more interestintg if, every year, they made at least one previous winner give back their award. In this case, the revocation could be shared between Oscar winners, Gooding and DeNiro, who should have their trophies revoked first for putting their names on this piece of crap, and then treating it like it were a good movie. It is too bad the rating system doesn't go into negative numbers, because that's where this film belongs.You might get the impression from the above paragraph that I did not enjoy this film, and that may be because not only did I not enjoy this film, I still consider it one of the greatest wastes of two hours that I have ever endured. Being put on hold or stuck in traffic in a car without air conditioning on a hot summer day would have been more productive and enjoyable.Carl Brashear did great things; too bad that those making the movie about him did not. Brashear was a black Navy diver in the 1950s, who encountered racism, overcame it, became a hero while losing a leg saving the world from communism in a rescue mission, and struggled to reclaim his position as a diver.Perhaps one day they will make a movie that does the man justice. This was not it. "},{"Title":"Two great performances in an average movie.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Robert De Niro and Cuba Gooding Jnr are the shining lights in this movie and they make the film what it is,which is a very entertaining flick that could do better. De Niro has been critisised recently for the films he has chosen and even some of his performances. His performance in this is outstanding but i do question the the movie he has picked again.  Men of Honor has the potential to be a great film but it never quite gets there. The script is ok, nothing special,and the story could have told in far more interesting way. The first half of the film is very uninspiring and slow but it does pick up a head of steam and finishes on a high that leaves the viewer satisfied. 8 out of 10 (just) "},{"Title":"melodramatic and Cuba trying too hard","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Carl Brashear grew up in Sonora, Kentucky. His father is a poor tenant farmer. Carl (Cuba Gooding Jr.) joins the Navy and gets stuck in the kitchen. He shows his swimming prowess and Captain Pullman (Powers Boothe) makes him a rescue swimmer. Diver Master Chief Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro) is injured after a heroic rescue. With perseverance, Carl finally gets a shot two years later at diving school. Sunday is his tough racist instructor. The camp commander (Hal Holbrook) is even worst. All the other recruits walk out on him except for Snowhill (Michael Rapaport). He struggles academically since he only finished 7th grade and he gets help from Jo (Aunjanue Ellis). Gwen (Charlize Theron) is Sunday's wild drunken wife.This is a very formulaic inspirational melodramatic biopic. I accept the formula. I just wish it has more pep to it. Cuba is passable but he keeps trying too hard. There is an overt sincerity to his performance that he can't quite corral. De Niro has great intensity but he needs to direct it more surgically at Cuba. There is so much racism being depicted that he needs to be worst than everybody else at least in the beginning. It takes him a little too long to get there and the 1966 incident at the start of the movie really misdirects his character. In the end, the sincerity of the film and its subject triumphs over any problem that it may have. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but feels very rushed","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't have much of an interest in Men of Honor, but sat down and watched it with my family. I loved it! The very opening of the movie is very powerful, mainly because of the father, and the story picks up around ten minutes later. There is a big story packed into this movie, and even though it is a two hour movie, the first hour and a half happen so fast, and the last half hour finally slows down to a good pace, but it's over before you know it.Cuba Gooding Jr. does a good job, almost great. He can be a bit cheesy at times, but 99% of the time his role is done very well. He seems like a real person with an indestructible will to overcome the racism that is keeping from achieving his dreams.I like Robert DeNiro even more. He is always a phenomenal actor, and in a way, his performance reminds of that in Raging Bull. The character is different, but he has his moments that seem similar to Jake LaMotta's. He is a cold hearted and racist man, but does get some sympathy points when you realize that him and Carl Brashear are driven by the same motives and have just gone different paths.I definitely recommend seeing this movie, even if it seems over very quickly. 8.0/10. "},{"Title":"A convincing, sometimes over dramatized story of a determined man","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" **1/2 out of **** stars Based on a true story...let's emphasize 'based'.As a boy in Kentucky, Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding Jr.) is told by his sharecropping father to never grow up to be a man like him plowing fields with bloody hands. When Carl grows up and enlists in the U.S. Navy, his father tells him things will be hard, to change the rules if he has to...and to never return. Seeds of extraordinary, nearly outlandish determination are planted, and Brashear begins his journey to become the man his father wants him to be. While serving as a discontent cook at sea, Brashear is inspired to become a master diver after witnessing a rescue attempt by Master Chief Leslie W. 'Billy' Sunday (Robert De Niro). Sunday is a hard-nosed lifer who is constantly in hot water for insubordination. He becomes Brashear's instructor at diving school and instantaneously singles him out because of his race. Brashear is the first black man to ever go through the training, and the hardships his father warned him about begin.We've seen characters like Sunday before. He uses 'colorful' language, calls his men ladies, and is an egomaniac. R. Lee Ermey comes to mind from Full Metal Jacket, but Sunday's charges aren't in basic training; they've served awhile, so why are they treated like new recruits? In any case...it doesn't take away from De Niro's performance. When he's on the screen he's a scene stealer. Gooding Jr.'s performance is top-notch also. His character continuously showcases the message of the movie determination through racial discrimination.The biggest problem with the film are the female characters. Boozy Gwen Sunday (Charlize Theron) is a role unneeded in the narrative, even though her performance is thoroughly professional. Jo (Aunjanue Ellis) has a little more purpose, yet the consummation of her romance with Carl seemed premature. Also, her scholastic ambitions are eclipsed by Carl's desire, which, at times, makes him seem selfish.Though over-dramatized at times, especially in the final 20 minutes of the movie, Men of Honor is a compelling look at the Navy's painfully slow transition to become desegregated in the eyes of the troops. Cuba Gooding Jr. skillfully carries the film from beginning to end and we don't lose focus of him...but without Robert De Niro, I'm not sure if the movie would have been as effective. "},{"Title":"Another well made film.","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Much can be said for the film being overly melodramatic, but Men of Honor also turns out one of Robert De Niro's and Cuba Gooding's better performances. Their conflict between themselves and each other sustains the movie until a greater opponent comes along. While some of this conflict may feel overlong, Men of Honor is never too much and is an entertaining film.We hear the story of Carl Brashear, a man who overcomes racial boundaries and even losing a leg to continue as a diver for the US Navy.I found Men of Honor to be one of the more interesting Navy stories. I think De Niro's character said it best when he himself couldn't understand why anybody would want to be a Master Diver. But seeing Brashear driven towards succeeding, is an interesting watch in itself. Just when one problem is overcome, he has to overcome even more obstacles. It's a little overlong in some points, maybe a bit too melodramatic at times too, but Men of Honor is a good movie with one of Cuba Gooding's best roles. "},{"Title":"The movie is inspired by a true story of one Carl Brashear (Gooding), a highly decorated black African naval diver of the '50s and '60s for the United States of America","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Cuba Gooding Jr. plays the role of Brashear and turns in an excellent performance. But we were totally blown away with the performance of Robert De Niro as Master Chief Billy Sunday. Sunday is the person who trains Brashear to dive and as such is both a nasty adversary and strong supporter. De Niro's performance at times in this film reminds me a lot of R. Lee Ermey as Sgt. Hartman, the Drill Instructor from Full Metal Jacket. But Ermey really was a D.I., for De Niro to be able to muster up that same level of believable intensity is truly impressive.This is not light viewing, this is very heavy drama. The life of Carl Brashear is amazing because he met challenge after challenge successfully no matter what obstacles were put in his way. If there ever was a human with absolute no quit in him at all, it is this man. Without spoiling the movie, let's just say this makes for some fairly intense viewing. And although this is not a chick flick by any means, if you take a date, don't be surprised if you get some water works. You've been warned.There are a few action sequences as well, but do not expect any gun play, car chases or explosions. Master Chief Sunday explains that divers are not fighting men, but rather they are into rescue, salvage, search, etc. The movie stays true to this and does not compromise the story just by slipping in a couple of good booms just to punch up the trailers.Men of Honor is extremely well done with two very strong performances from Gooding and De Niro. However, it is very intense drama, and it does have a couple of slow spots. On the Movies for Guys scale I give it a solid 7 out of 10 star rating. If you're in the mood for something a bit more serious this holiday season, check it out. "},{"Title":"Comments on The message of Men of Honor","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This story is a tale of inspiration and perseverance. It is a true story though the character played by Robert De Niro didn't exist in real life. This story is a story that inspires a lot of people to do things they have been oppressed and hindered to do. It reaches out the people who have dreams they want to fulfill and have had 'stumbling blocks' on their way and through it all the succeeded and fulfilled the heart's desires.Racism has been a continuous problem in the world. It has hindered a lot of talented people to fulfill greatness. These people are not only black people, but the people named minorities, such as Hispanics, Asians, and a lot more. This movie speaks to a lot of these undermined people telling them to persevere, because even though there are 'stumbling blocks' believe in yourself and not what others tell you. The character, Carl Brashear, played by Cuba Gooding Jr., portrays the behavior of a man who believes in himself, even though he was educationally challenged, because he dropped out of school in the seventh grade to help his family on the farm, he didn't let that stop him from achieving his goal. He worked day and night to prove himself worthy to be a diver and in the process met his future wife. That is what people need to understand, to achieve goals and dreams; one must work very hard to prove that it is truly deserved. Once again, his relentless acts of perseverance, is shown in the scene in the bar where he enters a holding of breath contest with his Master Chief Petty Officer, Billy Sunday, which is the endearing role played by Robert De Niro. He won this contest and set a record for the amount of time of holding breath, which was previously held by Robert De Niro.I was highly impressed and touched by this movie because it is the epitome of 'grass to grace'. It gives hope to those who are in the same classification as the character Carl Brashear. It relates to the real life crises people face and how they overcome them. At the beginning, Cuba Gooding Jr. starts with no friends and no support system. And it comes to a captivating close where he ends with his dream being fulfilled. Carl Brashear is the embodiment of courage and perseverance. Through out the movie he constantly proved himself worthy and came out on top. He saved lives and made history. And though his leg was amputated, he walked in a diving suit that weighed tons, with the support of only his good leg. That last scene of the movie gained my respect for the character and the real man who endured all this hardship.I would rate the directing average because there are certain points in the movie that were never addressed, such as the past life of Billy Sunday. The director didn't do much to make sure the movie's visualization related to the audience.I rate this movie an eight out of ten because the directing could have been a lot better than it was. I enjoyed this movie and I would recommend it to anyone who was going through trials and tribulation. "},{"Title":"An accurate and excellent portrayal of a typical highly-functional alcoholic, who serves as chief obstacle","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Men of Honor is an inspiring story about overcoming obstacles and steel-willed determination. It's also about one of those obstacles, alcoholism-fueled racism, from which redemption becomes possible. The result is one of the great unsung alcoholic movies.Navy dive school instructor Master Chief Billy Sunday, played by Robert DeNiro in a role reminiscent of another alcoholic he played, Tobias Wolff's father in This Boys' Life, is a typical highly functional alcoholic. Behavioral indications of alcoholism such as those mentioned in my book, How to Spot Hidden Alcoholics Using Behavioral Clues to Recognize Addiction in its Early Stages, are evident long before we see or hear about any actual addictive drinking. Early on, Sunday is magnificently abusive and likens himself to God. He's vile, filled with hatred and married to a woman half his age (one way by which some alcoholics inflate their egos Look at the babe I can catch.).Carl Brashear, played by Cuba Gooding, Jr., decides he wants to be a Navy diver, and nothing stops him&#151;not even Sunday or his likely alcoholic boss, Capt. Mr. Pappy, played by Hal Holbrook. Against all odds, including the prejudice endemic to the time and the particularly virulent alcoholism-driven racism at the helm, Brashear succeeds in becoming the first Black Navy Master Diver.Refreshingly, Sunday's alcoholism becomes apparent before the movie ends. After assaulting a superior officer at a function where he is obviously drunk, he is demoted to a position where he is less able to inflate his ego, causing him to slip into late-stage addiction. Sunday's wife Gwen, played by Charlize Theron, is the more obvious drunk but, in recognition of more destructive behaviors, complains about his drinking on their anniversary. He's finally forced into rehab and, while still somewhat cocky and undergoing ego deflation (it doesn't happen overnight), ends up paying a heartfelt amends to Brashear.One review mentions alcoholism When his diving career is cut short, Sunday turns to drink and ends up in rehab. More accurately, When his diving career was cut short, Sunday could no longer effectively inflate his ego, resulting in a spiral down into more obvious late-stage alcoholism. Alcoholism is, in fact, the driving force behind the key obstacles Brashear encounters men who have a need to wield capricious power. Fortunately, Brashear succeeds against all odds. It's a pleasure to recommend Men of Honor not only as an inspiring motion picture with great acting by great actors, but also one that accurately represents alcoholism, a very rare event. "}{"Title":"Hell, I don't know why anybody'd want to be a Navy diver","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After watching this movie, I have to agree with DeNiro's statement.I don't know why anybody would want to strap themselves into a 300lb suit that could easily turn into a coffin, and go into the murky depths. It's claustrophobic's nightmare.My hats off to the Navy divers, past and present, they are a brave bunch of people, and especially Carl Brashear. The movie itself was pretty formulaic, with the exception of the standout performances of Gooding and DeNiro.They made this movie, which otherwise would've been ho hum. I don't know how closely it follows the life of Carl Brashear, though I have no doubt he went thru hell, being the first African American to become a master diver, in ways that only he knows.The Gooding/DeNiro multiracial rivalry turned to respect, reminded me of similar rivalries like Washington/Hackman in Crimson Tide, and Gere/Gossett in Officer and Gentleman, all of them being military films.I always liked Gooding, from his first notable film Gladiator in the early 90's about a boxers, to this, though he's also starred in some bombs. As for DeNiro, heck, he's one of the greatest character actors ever. He goes well with everybody, regardless of who the costar is. Any movie with his name on the marquee is at least worth a looksee, IMO.Good movie, and fascinating to get a peak into the world of the Navy diver. "},{"Title":"The determination of one man can be stronger than anything else","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" First of all I must say that I don't use to see many military movies, especially those about recruiting and training. Why? I don't know, probably because I don't agree with some military rules&#133; But this movie made my attention because it seemed to be more than just another military training movie&#133; It had something else. And what was that? The color of one man and his determination to fight for his dreams against everyone and everything! The plot is mostly in the 50's at the USA, and we all know that by that time it had lots of rules that discriminated black people. The white power was in the core of the American society, especially in the south. (It's hard for me to understand how a country like US that always proclaimed democracy, and even helped the European countries to be freed from the fascist regimes at the WWII, could still having a society so deeply racist in the 50's and the 60's!). The entire film is about this man that wanted to be a specialist diver in the U.S. Navy but he couldn't just because of the color of his skin. All men with that position were white! He will fight for his dream until his last strength, but will he reach that goal? It's a movie about discrimination and racism, by one hand, but it's also about Honor, determination and courage. Just one last detail In my opinion the film is a bit long and it has some parts that are totally unnecessary as they don't bring anything knew to the movie nor to its message&#133; "},{"Title":"DeNiro & Gooding Jr. are truly Men of Honor","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Movies about the armed services sometimes happen to be somewhat stereotypical & told from an amateurish point of view. Men of Honor is a movie more than well made because of its realism & respect for historical facts about the Naval Diver training program. Both lead actors had to endure rigorous training for this film & work with active & retired Navy officers. The hard work paid off with terrifically acted characters & staying true to the attitudes portrayed against Negroes by Whites at that time in history. DeNiro was perfect for his role as Mstr. Chief Billy Sunday, a cantankerous & bitter Navy diver, & Cuba Gooding Jr. was exemplary in his role as Senior Chief Navy diver Carl Brashear, the first black amputee diver in Navy history. Both actors dig into their roles with a passion & drive worthy of recognition & praise for their collective work.Men of Honor is the story of Carl Brashear(Gooding Jr.), a poor country boy who joins the Navy to see the world & escape the poverty of his family's farm. With the love of his mother & cynicism by his father, Carl signs up in the U.S. Navy, completes basic training & is assigned to a ship working as a kitchen hand. Disgusted with his lot & the bigotry shown by white sailors, Boatswain's Mate 2nd Class Brashear goes against policy to take a swim in the ocean with white sailors & lands himself in the brig. Brashear is released form the brig by impressed Captain Pullman(Powers Boothe) & assigned to the Diver Rescue Unit for his efforts. Assisting with a fallen diver, Brashear meets Mstr. Chief Billy Sunday, a brash Navy diver who goes in to save a fallen diver despite a direct order not to by Lt. Hanks. Sunday is hospitalized for a lung embolism & busted down to Senior Chief for insubordination. Brashear, after witnessing Sunday's heroics, is now convinced that becoming a Navy diver is his calling. Brashear asks Captain Pullman to transfer him to the Navy Diver School in N.J. to the Captain's surprise. Brashear gets his wish & goes to Navy Diver School & meets once again Senior Chief Billy Sunday, head diving instructor at the school. During his stay, Brashear is bombarded with overt racism & pitfalls to make him fail. Brashear works hard despite being ostracized by fellow trainees & brutalized by Senior Chief Sunday on a daily basis. Brashear excels at the physical & technical training but does not do well on paper exams. Brashear is told that he must pass his next exam or be reassigned. Facing expulsion from the program for failing written exams, Brashear befriends a local med school student Jo who agrees to help him study. With Jo's help, Brashear passes the written tests & gains a new love. Unbeknowst to Brashear, Senior Chief Sunday is commanded by Captain Papppy to not allow Brashear to pass the diver final exam. Captain Pappy does not want to be responsible for the first Negro diver in the U.S. Navy. Brashear is told by Sunday not to show up for the final but does not give up. Angry for losing seniority & embroiled by Brashear's determination, Senior Chief Sunday challenges Brashear to a breath holding contest at a local bar. Brashear wins the contest, with Sunday broken to soothe his wounded pride with wife Gwen Sunday. At his final exam, Brashear's tools are dumped into the water scattered & hard to find on the sandy bottom. Senior Chief Sunday, scolded at by Cpt. Pappy for letting Brashear attempt the final, waits patiently for Brashear to surface. Brashear, ever determined to succeed, takes 9 hrs. to complete the Diver Assembly test nearly developing hypothermia. Senior Chief Sunday is again busted down for insubordination for going against Captain Pappy & allowing Brashear to pass. On top of this, Sunday gets in trouble again for punching out now Commander Hanks at a Navy Officer's dance. Sunday is now rated as Chief. Brashear marries Jo & moves on to a new assignment as a Navy diver. During a routine mini sub retrieval, a line breaks & the broken metal slices through Brashear's lower leg. Brashear's leg has to be amputated thus ending his Navy & diving career. More determined than ever to prove himself, Brashear risks his marriage & mandatory retirement to return to active duty & continue diving. With help from Chief Sunday, Brashear trains hard & gets a chance to prove he can still dive before a Naval committee hearing. In front of a Navy hearing including now Captain Hanks on the panel & his estranged wife & son sitting in attendance, Brashear states his case for reinstatement & ability to continue his Naval diving career. Brashear is given the opportunity to prove himself despite the panel's discouraging words. With no fear & against all odds, Brashear walks the requested 12 steps to the bench in a new Naval diving suit unassisted. Brashear convinces his critics, is reinstated to active duty as a Navy Diver & Senior Chief, & reunites with his family.Men of Honor is a feel-good film that will make you root for Gooding Jr. & enjoy DeNiro's wise-cracking, smash-mouth, in-your-face performance. A must-see for ex-military or those simply thirsty for good acting & an even better story. Don't miss the boat!!! "},{"Title":"OK crowd-pleaser, based on true events","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" MEN OF HONOR Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSThe true story of Carl Brashear, who overcame adversity during an age of segregation to become the first African-American to train as a Master Diver in the US Navy.Old-fashioned tale of triumph over adversity, which just about manages to avoid being either too maudlin or dispassionate. Cuba Gooding Jr. gives an Oscar-calibre performance as Brashear, matching wits with hard-bitten instructor Robert De Niro, who pushes him beyond the limits of endurance, both personally and professionally. De Niro affects a broad southern accent for the role which compromises his interpretation (De Niro can do many things, but a convincing Georgian drawl isn't one of them), and he's quietly upstaged by Charlize Theron as his white trash spouse, ill-at-ease amongst the opulent trappings of Navy life and driven to distraction by De Niro's alcoholism and self-destructive tendencies. Racism and injury are only two of the obstacles Gooding faces along the way (granted, they're pretty big obstacles!), but the happy ending is never in doubt, even for those unfamiliar with Brashear's considerable achievements. Gooding's fine portrayal is a testament to Brashear's courage, and the movie - directed by George Tillman Jr. - is hugely entertaining in its own way, but Scott Marshall Smith's 'inspirational' screenplay sacrifices historical accuracy for crowd-pleasing theatrics at every turn, and as a consequence, the narrative rings more than a little hollow. An impressive roster of co-stars includes Aunjanue Ellis, Hal Holbrook, David Keith, Carl Lumbly and Powers Boothe. Carl Brashear himself makes an uncredited appearance in a nightclub sequence. "},{"Title":"disrespectful to the Navy and our history","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  i only stayed to see the end of the movie because I wanted to see if either DeNiro or Gooding could rescue. Wrong! As a Navy vet and the son of a diver who attended the school around this period, I was hoping to see something of a historical nature. I was deeply offended that the producers disregarded so much in the way of tradition and history to throw a flick out to the public. YUCK! "},{"Title":"Does one ever give up ? Carl Brashear never did.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Does one ever give up ? If you did, how and when ? These are rhetorical questions for Carl Brashear, he doesn't. Very inspirational movie, especially because it's based on a true story.Powerhouse Robert De Niro delivers his best in my opinion - his very best. I could not have seen Chief Sunday cast better (whether he's fictional is irrelevant).The desegragation in the US Navy by President Truman didn't reach its final destination ! That didn't stop Carl. Determination can indeed make you win people over and gain their respect, even if they (peer pressure or not) are racist.Funny thing is that I see so many parallels between this movie and An Officer and a Gentleman. In that movie the instructor is colored, and the pupil is white. Also many wonderful paradoxes. (David Keith's small role I found to be poorly casted, he deserved a bigger role).The tables are turned on many occasions in this engaging, fast paced movie. This movie has best impact if you have children yourself. Watch it at least twice, if not three times - it gets better again....Cuba Gooding Jr. is excellent, but I think he can go even further.Although cliches are inevitably necessary in Men Of Honor, the Script seems to cleverly dress them up and actually seems to set a standard for future movies to become cliche ridden.Direction is virtually flawless. Continuity seems up to scratch as well.I give it 9.8 out of 10.To describe the many intricate themes and how the plot has the 2 main characters exchange roles, but only to converge at the end in the12 step climax, would spoil this brilliant gem.Have a tissue ready for this one if you're a sensitive person, you'll love it !!!! "},{"Title":"An uninspiring and unsuccessful mess","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIn attempting to tell the true life story of Carl Brashear,the first black and,eventually,amputeed American navy diver,director George Tillman Jr. has,despite his best efforts,crafted a film that,for the most part,tries too hard and is pretty see-through.Had the material been handled with a slight bit more slant creativity and originality by a director with a bit more of an edge,it could have been truly great,inspiring stuff.As it is,it's a shambles that falls apart on the screen like a disintegrating spacecraft.Cuba Gooding Jr. certainly tries very hard and is very eager to please as the aforementioned Brashear,but his efforts go unrewarded with the leaden dialogue and set up he is given to work with,which don't allow him to shine to his full potential.Emotional depth isn't lifted one ioata by Robert De Niro in the supporting role,over acting like crazy as Carl's zanily prejudiced instructor Billy Sunday.Throw into this unfortunate equation a script packed full of cliches and general predictability,and,no,I'm not embarrassed to admit I preffered Cuba's Boat Trip to this.Not even slightly.** "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was truly a great movie. It was both moving and powerful. And it was a faithful retelling of this man's life. And the performances were amazing especially Robert De Niro's performance. Which is probably his best since Casino.3 1/2(***1/2)out of 4(****)stars  "},{"Title":"Better put together than most of its kind, but to what end?","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry, but with the best will in the world, I can't find it inspiring when a man cuts off his leg simply to further his (already sufficiently distinguished) career.  I find it creepy.  Carl Brashear, whatever he may have been like in real life, comes across as a narcissistic, humourless fanatic.  (I get the feeling it's sheer good fortune that his interests and the interests of the nation happen, for the most part, to coincide, or at least not to clash.)  Maybe he acts out of a sense of duty, maybe it's all calculated self-promotion ... it's hard to tell; he scarcely seems human.  But then, similar things could be said of his father, to judge by the way he delivers every line with almost homicidal intensity, and the way his eyes glare angrily at the viewer in even a simple family snapshot.  If this man were my father, perhaps I'd also cut off my leg rather than come home.That's one of three things that ruin this for me.  The second is Robert DeNiro - it's not, perhaps, his fault, but he's been given the thankless task of playing the Composite Character.  (I didn't know at the time that this was a Composite Character, but I did think it a little odd that all the opposition Brashear faced be concentrated in one place, and I did find Billy Sunday's change of heart unconvincing - it was as if the two hearts belonged to two different individuals, and as it turns out, they did.)My third complaint is perhaps unfair.  Am I the only one who thinks that this rah-rah military jingoism has a particularly sour taste when it's found in a story about the AMERICAN military?  I think it's a question of tone rather than subject matter.  If a film about, say, the Portuguese army somehow managed to strike the same chord that these Pentagon-sponsored pictures effortlessly hit time and time again, IT would be creepy, too. "},{"Title":"Puaj!!!!!!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  No much to say about this one. I used to like de Niro's work, but, since this one my idea about him is completely new. I wonder why good actors can make so bad films, this one gives any profit to Robert's career. It doesn't give anything to anybody, it's an empty box where nothing is hidden, everything is what seems to be. It tries to be a racial chronic, but you get nothing clear. You don't even know what the director wants to tell you. I think you mustn't spend your money on this film. Better go to the zoo or any other thing. You'll have more fun if you have cyanide for breakfast.  "}{"Title":"Determination gains honor. A good son never forgets.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A fact based drama telling the story of Carl Brashear(Cuba Gooding Jr.), the first African American deep sea diver of the U.S. Navy. Even after losing a leg, he was reinstated to active duty and became the first amputee to serve in the Navy before retiring in 1977. Robert De Niro plays 'Billy Sunday' who reluctantly trained Brashear in diving school. Sunday originally is the typical bad ass and later is one of the first to come to Brashear's aid in trying to stay in the Navy.This is a feel good movie dealing with determination, fortitude, valor and honor. De Niro is outstanding as usual and Gooding Jr. proves his many accolades are deserved. Charlize Theron makes the best of her screen time. Always impressive is Powers Boothe in a small role and even in a smaller role is David Keith. Hal Holbrook is notable as the senior honcho, Mr. Pappy, that is more than a few cards short of a full deck. Aunjanue Ellis is flawless as Brashear's wife and soul mate. A predictable drama; short on action, with the dialogue setting the pace. A very good watch worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Why Aren't Black Male Heroes Allowed to `Star' in their Own Life Stories?","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Feeling mildly let down by the ending of the otherwise terrific `Men of Honor,' I asked myself `What happened to &#145;Billy Sunday?' the character played by Robert DeNiro.  Then I realized, `Hollywood has done it to me, again.  I'm more interested in what happened to what should have been a peripheral white character than I am with Carl Brashear  (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), a man who found an unexploded US nuclear bomb off the coast of Spain, preventing an even more serious international incident., and became the first black Master Diver in the US Navy, AFTER he'd lost a leg.Being a white southern boy, my `black experience' is rather limited, to say the least.  Even my knowledge of movies about famous black men is rather limited, since I'm not all that interested.  However, let me drag out two other examples that I HAVE seen.  Gayle Sayer's biography becomes `Brian's Song,' and more about Sayer's white team mate Brian Piccolo.  Herman Boone's  biography becomes `Remember the Titans' and more about white team captain Gary Bertier.    Had `Men of Honor' been made fifteen years ago, `Billy Sunday' might have been played by Gene Hackman, an actor incredibly skilled at squeezing himself into a supporting role.  Gifted as he is, Robert DeNiro just isn't as good at doing this as Hackman; even if he were, `Men of Honor' is structured in such a manner as to make DeNiro's character as important as Gooding's.   I found the trite alternate ending (available on the DVD) far more satisfying because it gave us some CLOSURE on the DeNiro character.   The release version should have AT LEAST provided us with a written epilogue which included DeNiro's fate.Perhaps the most offensive aspect of all of this is that I left unconvinced that `Billy Sunday' ever existed. If his character was a composite of individuals, `Billy Sunday' should not have been given such importance in story and casting.Nevertheless, `Men of Honor' is an inspiring movie, with outstanding performances by Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Robert DeNiro and great production values.  See it, if for the performances alone, BUT SEE IT ON DVD.  That way you have the opportunity to watch the terrific performance that might have been by Charlize Thieron, as well as decide for yourself if the alternate ending is the more satisfying.  "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was one movie I couldn't pass up. Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert DeNiro give gritty performances as Charles Brashear and Billy Sunday, respectively. Brashear, the first black Navy deep-sea diver, has his sights set high. Sunday is at first an adversary and later an ally. Even though you pretty much know the outcome, you will find yourself in suspense and cheering for Brashear.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"An old fashioned hero bio-pic","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" And I mean that well. Cuba Gooding depicts Carl Brashear with all his commitment and intensity for his career extremely well.I saw this on DVD and was pleased to see the real Carl Brashear included in the featurette. An amazing, inspiring human being. This should be shown to all high school students. This REAL man overcame enormous odds, his race, the unbelievable prejudice that existed in the 40s and 50s in the states, and then incredibly the amputation of one of his legs after an accident, and became one of the best divers in the world. A first for an African American.I found very little fault with the movie. Di Nero and Gooding and Therize are great though I could not figure out why so much screen time was given to Therize who appeared to be an alcoholic like her husband but this issue was never dealt with and her character had no purpose that I could see.I found the court scene at the end a little hard to take, it seemed forced and untrue. Also the character of Pappy ( did I mishear something but was he a thinly disguised Patton ?)who was crazier than a loon and running the diving centre. He seemed more of a caricature. Outright prejudice without the lunacy would have been more effective.I gave it a 7 out of 10 for the sensitive handling of the material and the superb performances. "},{"Title":"A Moving Story,,But a Not Too Exciting Movie","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"   Men of Honor is the story of Carl Brashear's struggle to become the first black man in the U.S. Navy's diving program. You have to admire the man's grit and determination in achieving that goal. Unfortunately it didn't translate too well to the screen. Cuba Gooding Jr. gives it a good try as Brashear, however, in my opinion, he doesn't look convincing enough in the role. He doesn't convey the pain, suffering and sacrifice that Brashear must have gone through. I suppose that much of the blame for this can be laid on the doorstep of Director George Tillman Jr. Although the prejudice is present, I thought it could have been a stronger element of the screenplay. Robert DeNiro as Master Chief Billy Sunday is classic DeNiro growling, nasty and using his favorite four letter words throughout. Charlize Theron as Sunday's boozy wife Gwen is cast against type and is quite good in a limited role. Where the film fails in my estimation is in the underutilization of its other supporting cast members. First we have Hal Holbrook as the camp Commander, Mr. Pappy who has basically one scene, Michael Rappaport as Snowhill, Brashear's only friend, is quickly shuffled into the background and Powers Boothe and David Keith who are almost totally wasted as two of the ship's captain's Brashear encounters along the way. Still Men of Honor is not a bad film, it just could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Here we go again...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Another Hollywood movie with a la-la land ending. Bloody ridiculous. Mind you, the film is well done and Robert DeNiro gives a memorable performance as the crusty chief. But the film goes from a feel good black picture to one of those infuriating fairy tales in which they all live happily ever after. If the people who did this movie had done Titanic, the ship would have made port in New York. This commercially driven manic preoccupation with happy endings cheapens and weakens an otherwise not bad film.   "},{"Title":"A Very Honorable Film","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor is a good film that steals many techniques from some of the great military-themed films of the 1940s and 1950s. It is based on the true story of Carl Brasher (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), the first African-American U.S. Naval Diver. The film shows his struggles with racism during the post-World War II era. Robert De Niro is super as his alcoholic and somewhat crazed instructor who is upset with the world because of his inability to dive anymore and his discipline problems within the military. De Niro and Gooding, Jr. are truly two great actors who are at the top of their careers in this one. The film would have been a success just because of them. Charlize Theron, Powers Boothe, Michael Rapaport, and Hal Holbrook are all perfect in supporting turns. George Tillman, Jr.'s direction is solid and the screenplay is smart and insightful. A really good movie overall. 4.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"No big deal","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found that movie a little bit too patriotic for my taste. Solid performances by DeNiro, Gooding Jr. and Theron but the story in itself is not very inspiring. It's also predictable. In all, a very «average» movie. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"De Niro does it again!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  De Niro plays a darker character than usual, although of course you can't go through a whole one of his films without at least liking him a bit in the finish.He is a Navy diving instructor, with Cuba Gooding Jr, the first black man to do the course as one of his pupils.  Set in the racially intolerant society that is a lot more recent than we would like to believe still, this is a well acted, written and directed tale -- and the determination of Gooding's character to succeed is a credit to the real life man in this true story.Worth seeing and some fine performances made it excellent. "},{"Title":"A truly remarkable film.An oscar contender for Cuba Gooding,Jr.and Robert DeNiro.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honoris a film that should not be missed.The story and the acting are so superb that I could not ignore it.Truly one of the best films I have ever seen along with the likes of Schindler's List or Rocky.The movie stars Cuba Gooding,Jr. as the first naval sea diver as well as the first amputee to be a part of the military who overcomes prejudice.Robert DeNiro gives his toughest and most enjoyable performance in years.Men of Honor is a great movie which I will see again.See it. "}{"Title":"De Niro, Gooding, Deliver Compelling Drama","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  	A dramatization of the life of Carl Brashear, the first African-American diver in the history of the U.S. Navy, `Men Of Honor,' directed by George Tillman, Jr., is an uncompromising examination of  personal courage, integrity and honor.  Cuba Gooding, Jr. portrays Brashear, a man of unabashed determination who simply would not be deterred from achieving his goal, even in the face of apparently insurmountable obstacles, the most prevalent of which was blatant racial discrimination.  As brutal and incomprehensible as it seems, there were those, including at least one high-ranking officer, who would rather have seen him die than pass diving school.  That he stayed with it, passed and went on, not only to an illustrious career with the Navy, but one in which his achievements were nothing less than remarkable, is a demonstration of heroics tantamount to those for which medals are awarded.  It's men like Brashear that should make veterans everywhere proud of their heritage as members of the Armed Forces. 	Such a story is, of course, a natural for the movies; and, if done properly, has the makings of a great one.  And this one is.  Tillman tells the story of Brashear, the son of a Kentucky share cropper, in a decidedly straightforward manner, without pulling any punches as he illustrates the inane bigotry faced by the young seaman.  The heroics of the man speak for themselves, and Tillman wisely avoids any attempts at superfluous dramatic embellishments, the siren's song to which a lesser director may have succumbed, and which could so quickly have derailed this project.  Tillman's work more than passes muster, and his attention to detail, along with impeccable pace and timing, are a major factor in the success of this film.  It should land him an Oscar nomination. 	Another factor is the incredible talent with which Tillman had to work.  Gooding embodies the qualities that made Brashear a hero, and it is through his outstandingly credible performance that we get to know this man.  There's a subtle pride in his demeanor, a personification of his determination, that brings him so vividly to life on the screen; it's an Oscar worthy piece of work that should be acknowledged by the Academy.  And Gooding had, not only a terrific role, but the best co-star with which an actor could hope to work.  Robert De Niro stars as Master Diver Billy Sunday, the adversary turned ally who ultimately helped Brashear realize his goals.  On the surface, Sunday is tough and pridefully simplistic; but underneath lies a complex individual that De Niro mines to full advantage.  Any time De Niro appears in a film, expectations are high, as well they should be; he is an actor of immeasurable talents.  And here, with his portrayal of Sunday, he scores another triumph.  It's a brilliant performance, for which he must be recognized with an Oscar nomination. 	The outstanding supporting cast includes Charlize Theron (Gwen), Aunjanue Ellis (Jo), Hal Holbrook (Mr. Pappy), Michael Rapaport (Snowhill), Powers Boothe (Capt. Pullman), David Keith (Capt. Hartigan), Holt McCallany (Rourke), Joshua Leonard (Isert), Carl Lumbly (Mac, Carl's Father) and Lonette McKee (Ella, Carl's Mother).  `Men Of Honor' is a superb, memorable film that recognizes the kind of heroics that go largely unsung and too often unheralded.  That Tillman and this fine assemblage of actors have been able to illuminate the life of a man like Carl Brashear so fervently is a tribute to them as well as the Motion Picture Industry.  But more than that, it is a well deserved tribute to a true hero, Carl Brashear.  This is a movie that must not be missed.  I rate this one 10/10.                           "},{"Title":"POWERFUL ACTING AND GREAT STORY","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Robert De Niro continues to fascinate me with his versatility. Cuba Gooding Jr. can seem to do no wrong.  This combination of actors with a great supporting cast makes the little over 2 hours fly by.  Ms Tieron is excellent in her part which completes a beautiful performance by the whole cast.  We need more movies like this one.  Don't miss it!!!!! "},{"Title":"Needs more depth","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness!  Based on the extremely fascinating true story of Navy diver, Carl Brashear, this movie dulls the edge off of what should be a tremendous honor to this man.  Very well acted by the two leads, Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding, Jr., the balance of the cast(excepting brief appearances by Powers Boothe and David Keith) is weak and often cartoonish.  Every scene featuring Gooding and his wife could be cut and the movie would drastically improve.  There is no character development beyond the two leads and many of the scenes appear to be filmed in a manner that slaps the audience upside the head with dramatic importance.  The courage of this man should have carried the story.  The lunatic C.O., played by veteran Hal Holbrook is another waste of screen time.  DeNiro's marriage to Charlize Theron is never explained, thank goodness, because this gave me something to create in my mind while muddling through the sappy scenes.  The climatic courtroom scene is very tense, and probably DeNiro finest moment in the movie.  Gooding deserves recognition because I think he displays an acting depth that causes me to look forward to future roles.  Maybe he has turned the corner.  My tidbit on this one make sure and check out Joshua Leonard from The Blair Witch Project.  It appears he is working towards a real career.  My advice on this film is to wait for the video.  The big screen doesn't really enhance this one. "},{"Title":"Go Cuba, Go Rob; You are the men","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have always been a huge fan of Robert DeNiro, and Cuba Gooding Jr. and I loved this movie too.  It is a very inspiring film, and I feel that there may be a couple of Oscar Nominees here.  Anybody wondering about this film, GO SEE IT.  You won't be disappointed at all.  Two thumbs up people. "},{"Title":"Powerful Film","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Great movie.  I really loved the Characters.  Both DeNiro, and Gooding give great performances.  The life of Carl Brashears can indeed serve as an inspiration to us all.  I found this movie to have a great mix of action, drama, and even a little comedy.  SEE THIS MOVIE!  You will like  it. "},{"Title":"Very underrated movie!","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I don't get it.What's wrong with people.Why is this movie rated so badly.How can Men of honor be rated with 6.7 an Spiderman 2 with 7.7?It's just stupid.This is a great movie.For first the story is great.Yeah i know,many people say that racism theme is over-used in the last couple of year's and it is.That's what makes this movie so good.Because it stand's up from the other movies based on racism.Just like Remember the titan's.It's a great movie too.I think there should be more movies like this one because it don't speaks only about racism but it also speaks of how it was for those who weren't racist's in that time.Like for example when Robert De Niro refused to listen to his commander which costed him his rank as an officer or something.I also must say that the movie is acted great.The direction wasn't bad either.It was good actually but not too good.That's why i think this movie wasn't nominated by the Academy.Anyway i think this movie is great an even if you think that it's not great then at least you must admit that it's worth of watching.I would recommended it to everyone because the movie generally speaks of moral values.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"We have stepped into a new era as for racial relations","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An essential film on the history of the US Navy and the integration of the first blacks &#133; in the kitchens, and then the integration of the first Black as deck personnel and later as US Navy Diver. It was not easy. But we must note that the dedication on the sleeves of the DVD is absurd. It says History is made by those who break the rules. In fact the ostracism against this first Black diver goes against the rules that come from the Commander in Chief, the President of the US who ordered the integration of US armed forces. In fact some officers who are living in their racist traditions can actually give an order to drown the black diver and this black diver is graduated because the training officer decides to disobey the order from this commanding officer because it goes against his code of honor for which all US soldiers, sailors or pilots or whatever are equal in front of the flag, the national duty and the constitution. History in this case is made by those who decide to disobey orders from bigot officers, in other words to abide by the real constitutional rules. The film is slightly romantic in a way when it shows how this Black man is really doing more than his share of good and courageous acts and is often side-tracked and rejected, even for a medal he actually deserves that is yet given to some other white diver. Effective in its emotionality but yet only emphasizing the human side of things and not the political back-side of them. It sure cracks down on the Washington pencil-pushing bureaucrats who write the rules and regulations of US armed forces though they hardly know what real field courage can be because they never had, nor looked for, the opportunity to meet with a death-bringing mission. It is true that today the racial problem is no longer so much to be accepted when Black as to be respected as having the same stamina, courage and spiritual force as the whites or any human being, in other words we are no longer dealing with tolerating them with a smile but with accepting them as being equal, hence as having the possibility to be better. From toleration to possible superiority.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Never quit.....Be the best!","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding Jr.) joins the newly integrated Navy, and when he applies to become a navy diver, he is pushed beyond the bounds of endurance by Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro) in order to make him fail because of the colour of his skin. Brashear's father told him never to quit and to be the best, and the Navy are about to learn how determined he really is.Men of Honour is a heart warming story of a man's struggle against oppression, his search for respect and his driven ambition to succeed in all that he does. Cuba Gooding Jr. is outstanding in this role, he injects all the right elements into the character and makes the audience will him to win. De Niro is typically good, but not truly at his best, and all the support cast deliver what's required.Solid direction, strong script, powerful and compelling story, excellent yet not flashy camera work and a great cast, all come together to make this movie a hit, and a must see for movie lovers everywhere.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Movie About A Man Who Overcame Racism and Tragedy","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Cuba Gooding, Jr. plays a different type of role in this movie. He is not a retarded man or a hateful or crazy guy like he is in most of his other movies. He is Carl Brashear, the first black navy diver and the first amputee to return to active duty in the navy ever. He overcame racism and other dirty tricks to succeed. Robert Deniro played the hateful mean master diver in this movie. He was so crazy! Anjaunae Ellis played Brashear's wife. She did not have enough lines in this movie! This movie was so long that you need to see the DVD to see the scenes that were cut out. That will help you understand the plot better. Carl Brashear recently died in my hometown. "},{"Title":"Heavy on sentiment and quite compelling","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The real-life account of Navy diver CArl Brashear Jr.(Cuba Gooding Jr.)and his ascension as a decorated diver and his subsequent struggle with his leg was nearly destroyed in an work-related accident are spelled out in the usual movie line bravado that one expects out of a Military-themed film. Yet,despite the fairly commonplace elements of this movie,this still is a compelling and easy to watch.The struggles for Brashear,a black man trying to make his way up the freshly-desegregated military in the mid-1950s,is hardly an easy task,WITHOUT being compounded by having a difficult and stubborn MAster-chief in one Billy Sunday(Robert DeNiro) riding him to the point of quitting. Through it all,he perseveres and accomplishes,even as everyone--his love Jo(Aunjaunae Ellis),his peers,his superiors(including Sunday)--and even his own body work against him.Director George Tillman Jr. understands that his audience wants a straightforward underdog story and runs this film accordingly. This film is a great story to tell,so long as the audience is willing to allow itself to be swept up in the story emotionally and fully. A good ,maybe great,cheap rent. "}{"Title":"Men of Honor is definitely a masterpiece","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In my opinion Men of Honor is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. If you haven't seen it, I suggest you go to blockbuster or the nearest Best Buy and pick up a copy. But don't take my word for it see it for yourself. Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Robert De Niro truly deliver a powerful performance! This highly inspirational and courageous tale of an African-American sailor is not just a tale of achieving the impossible; it's a tale of YOU. That's right we all have dreams and we all have visions, but how many of us go out there and get it? The answer is a few select. Many of us have deferred dreams, and this movie has served as a wake up call in my life. I have went from an average student to a Dean's List student. I have went from an average(b-boy) break dancer to a professional NJ Nets Basketball Team performer. These are just a few examples of success in my life if we truly apply ourselves--and so can YOU. I have learned a painter paints, but an artist paints with his hand and mind. A master paints with his hands, mind, and heart! If you want to to achieve the highest degree of success in your field you must be a master. And in this movie Cuba Gooding, Jr. (Carl Brashear) becomes a U.S. Navy MASTER diver. I will pursue my lifelong dream of becoming an actor, hopefully a MASTER actor. What will YOU become a MASTER at? Steven Stylez "},{"Title":"Fine and inspirational story of Carl Brashear, Navy Master diver and hero.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have a special fondness for good films based on real life, and this is one of them, the story of how Carl Brashear, from rural Georgia and with only a 7th grade education, joins the Navy in the late 40s and through his talent and determination becomes the first black American in the special diving division, and a Master Diver by the time he retired in 1978, even becoming re-certified after a shipboard accident which cost him his left lower leg. The film gets its title from a Billy Sunday (Robert DiNiro) line during training when a recruit who indicated on his application form the ability to stay underwater for 4 minutes, but surfacing after only 2, we only have room for men of honor here.Cuba Gooding, Jr is the real star in this film, playing Carl Brashear from the age of 18 to about the age of 40. However, it is the veteran and highly-paid actor, DiNiro, that got top billing. He, of course, does his usual stellar job as the difficult and insubordinate Billy Sunday, who after trying to keep Brashear out, ends up being his supporter. It is not clear whether Sunday was a real, or a composite, character. Since Brashear himself was a consultant during the film, and himself a man of honor, we can only assume that the film is highly factual.While it is always difficult to watch a depiction of the difficult road our black Americans had as recently as 30 to 50 years ago, this story is not so much a black story as it is a story of how anyone can use great faith and perseverence to achieve their goals. Brashear is a great role model, because even today he focuses on what he achieved, not what obstacles he had to overcome.There are lots of fine actors in this film, and Charlize Theron plays the young, beautiful wife of Billy Sunday. The DVD is good, with DD 5.1 sound, and a number of making of extras.  Overall I rate the film 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"A disservice to the US Navy.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure someone has already laid out the plot of this movie, so I will only comment. It takes place in the 50s and 60s, years after the services were integrated but claims severe treatment for Carl Brashear, a black man who wishes to become a Navy diver. As one who served in the military from 1951 to 1955, I have extreme doubts that any such treatment occurred. The services were integrated in 1948, some four years before the time the story. While some of the divers may not have welcomed Brashear with open arms, I cannot believe that he would have been treated as the movie claims. There is also a disservice to the Navy in the way the uniforms are shown. Made of sackcloth might be the perfect description for the way they look. I have never seen a Navy man wearing such bad looking uniforms. One of my pet peeves with those who dress actors is the sloppy way the decorations are put on uniforms. This movie is no different than most of the past. In conclusion, if you want to see a fairy tale about Navy life, go see this flick. If you want a true representation of Navy life, find another film. I gave it a 3 star rating which was very generous considering the actual quality of the film.  "},{"Title":"Should have been a TV-movie &#150; nothing more","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor is one the most boring movies I have seen in a long time. The plot is not very interesting and the acting is poor. Robert De Niro lifts the performance a tad but is not even close to his other movies. And as regards to Cuba Gooding Jr. &#150; you just get tired of seeing his tortured face as he struggles through the movie. It seems he has only one expression &#150; that is it. As I wrote in the beginning this should not have been anything more than a TV-movie. It only gets somewhat interesting because of a large Hollywood budget. "},{"Title":"Too long and poor movie","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  So, my vote was 2 because i was disappointed. I like diving and can judge that from this side. It was OK from technical way. But why I don't like it? Because there are too less diving if it was film about diving. There was to less feelings if it was film about people. Everything was very superficial. Instead of there was very strong american pathos wchich makes me (as non-US) irritated... It can be part of US human history, but it wasn't interesting for me. I not recommend it to non-US people. "},{"Title":"Good, but sometimes over-directed","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"               Medal of Honor was actually a good film with maybe 1 or 2 timeless qualities. Cuba Gooding Jr. did very well in playing his character. I think some men need to prove they are better than others. In some ways, this movie was over-directed. The director tried just maybe a little to hard to make this movie very good and entirely it was kind of fake. You know a 6.6 rating is decent and I can kind of understand why it got that rating. I did like this movie though. It did have some cool scenes like going into the submarine and finding things. Robert DeNiro did alright as the captain or whatever but this is not his one of his greatest film and I think he could do just a little bit better in his performance, but overall a good film.7/10    "},{"Title":"Men of Horror","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Why are two talented actors who should know better starring in a rehash, made-for-TV-plotted film that manages to wallow in cliches and stale scenes from the onset until its thoroughly predictable, melodramatic end?Men of Honor takes the underdog-denied-a-chance-for-greatness-due-to racism-classism-or-other-ism theme and tries to make it seem fresh by incorporating this contrived and overused device in a Navy diving setting.  Cuba Gooding stars as a Navy recruit who can't get a chance cause he's black and goes up against the harsh, callus Robert DeNiro who attempts to stop Gooding from realizing his dream.Cuba Gooding Jr. and Robert DeNiro should have known better than to star in such an eye-rolling premise that offers no suspense or unpredictably.  Will Cuba triumph over evil? Will DeNiro follow the advice of a bigot general in charge? Will Charlize Theron ever stop drinking?  Will Cuba's love interest find herself making him choose between his career and life? Will anyone care? One day Hollywood will attempt to combine all the lackluster and overworked ideas and themes so horribly that it might make an action movie that involves a serial killer trying to reach his dream of killing more people than ever and thereby being the best but being held down by and then coached and trained by a hard-ass retired cop who ends up being a softy.  Until then, the closest we have is Men Of Honor, a contrived, feel-good exercise in unoriginality and hack work.  The film's only attribute is that it wasn't put through MTV-editing.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I actually asked for my money back!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Not often does one come across a film that achieves so little with such fine actors.  in this season of giving all who see this have truly been taken. this movie contains many epic elements a long passage of time, multiple quasi-tragic figures, and conflict between love and duty. unfortunately the result was epic boredom the passage of time was fragmented and nonsensical, the quasi-tragic figures were transparently bovine, and the only realistic conflict was choosing between the comfortable seat in the theater or the cold seat in my car.  overtly contrived situations fueled the film's danger sequences.  it was grossly inaccurate in its military details. all in all, this movie played like a highlight reel from a mini series, in that crucial character progressions throughout the film were left unexplained and ambiguous.  i felt as though this film was the sequel to a movie i had never seen. Charlize Theron and Robert De Niro? what's that!?!i suggest that those who honored this film with their patronage ask for a refund.  "},{"Title":"Can't believe I'm talking about the same movie as other reviewers","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe what I'm reading on this site (and others). I must have seen a different movie than everyone else. I thought this was one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time. DeNiro is one of my favorite actors. For the most part he does a good job with what he's given here, but the story is so lame that not even DeNiro can really carry it. Gooding is another fine actor who has to completely ham his way through this. The rest of the cast is completely one-dimensional and shallow. The plot is based on a true story; but, it has been so hollywood-ized that it has become completely implausible. It's so sappy and overacted, it made we want my money back. Truly awful. Don't waste your time! "},{"Title":"Half of film still on floor, needs a re-edit","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Man, the stuff that must have been cut out of this film would make a mini-series. The jumps you have to make in the first 45 minutes leave you flat until the end when you get a Hollywood crapola ending.I'm not saying that it is all bad, I think there is probably a pretty decent biography somewhere in this mess. But they should have tried to tighten up the script *before* they started shooting rather than in the editing room. You hardly understand the relationship Brashear starts with his future wife - all of a sudden she's pregnant. What? Meet in the library two scenes later she's late. Ever heard of character development? Hal Holbrook - man - all you figure out about him is that he is a cardboard cutout of a bigot. Brashear saves the day early in the film - another dude gets the medal. What? No explanation. All you get is a surreal scene with the bad white dude getting the award and standing alone on the parade ground. What?????The same goes for the relationship between Deniro and Charlize Theron. Charlize shows up in a couple of scenes for a few minutes. I think her total screen time must be 5 minutes. Plus, you don't get the foggiest idea why she's married to Deniro - let alone why she gives him the ultimatum at the end of the film. They looked interesting together, but you could never figure out why they were together or what their problems were. Again, no doubt all of this ended up on the floor instead of the can.This relentless pursuit of pace and 90 minutes drives me nuts. Especially in this case when you can't even understand the main plot line because they have dropped so many of the explanatory scenes which no doubt were scripted and probably filmed. Here we had four GREAT actors and millions of dollars and this is the best that can be done? "}{"Title":"handles sensitive subject matter very well","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" i really liked this movie.i liked the story.i thought it was well developed.if i remember correctly,it takes place during WWII,or close to it.it is based on a true story,so obviously there is some truth to it.How much is Hollywood make believe and how much is true,is hard to say.but beyond the good storyline,there are also some great acting performances.Cuba Gooding Jr.and Robert De Niro are both Brilliant here.this is a hard movie to watch,due to it's subject matter(racism).it's very emotional and may bring a tear or 2 to your eye.i know it did mine.nevertheless,it is also an entertaining movie.it might stick with you awhile after watching it.i give Men of Honour an 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Very Powerful Movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw the movie today on TV, and I got to admit, I nearly cried at certain parts of it. Those scenes that capture all that feeling of injustice are really strong, and they can touch us. On my opinion, this is one of best heroic movies I've ever seen. That's because its story is quite simple and, at the same time, meaningful. There was no need for a big production like those we see on war movies, for example. The story tells us in a simple way that we must fight for our dreams no matter what, and that we must stand up against all kind of injustice that cross our paths. Most of all, it tells us we must stand up for our values. I highly recommend this movie to everyone. I rate it 9/10. It is very powerful movie, and a very good lesson. "},{"Title":"well-made","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If anyone wanted to know the definition of academy award performances; they can look no further than those given by Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. If someone wanted the definition of an academy award film; they can look no further than Men of Honor. I was honored to be a witness to one of the greatest films ever made.Words cannot describe the way I felt while watching Men of Honor because it is one of the most courageous, emotional and touching films I've seen since Saving Private Ryan. Along with The Perfect Storm and Pay It Forward, Men of Honor is an example of a film which made me feel good on the inside as well as the outside. Furthermore, this film is true testament to the courage and bravery men and women like Carl Brashear show in the line of duty.Men of Honor is one of the finest films I've seen in the past year because it has two of the best actors and the best ensemble cast since The Perfect Storm. Men of Honor CANNOT be missed under any circumstances because it is a testament to the human spirit and one man's unrelenting quest to accomplish his dream.Men of Honor profiles the life of the first black navy diver and his inspirational, courageous, and unrelenting quest in becoming the best navy diver in the United States by achieving the status of master diver. Carl Brashear is the true definition of an American hero because he embodies unwillingness to give up in the face of hard times. It was a true pleasure and inspiration to watch Men of Honor because it afforded me the opportunity to learn a valuable history lesson; the knowledge I gained from this film will stay with me for life.Men of Honor is a film that boasts one of the greatest compellation of talent in Hollywood. Hollywood's intimidator Robert DeNiro leads this all-star cast that includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Charlize Theron, Anjunue Ellis, David Keith, Michael Rappaport and Hal Holbrook. It didn't take long to draw my first conclusion from Men of Honor; the ensemble cast brought home the true spirit and essence of one man's fight to be respected and treated as an equal. For this reason, Men of Honor has the BEST ensembles of the year.Only one outcome can come when DeNiro stars in a film; only one outcome supercedes all others when DeNiro film hits theaters. Excitement and success are the outcomes that make my heart skip a beat with anticipation. When I hear the Robert DeNiro's name being mentioned as part of a cast, I will be the first person in line to buy tickets because I know exactly what the outcome will be. His film credentials include some of the best films ever made. DeNiro brings so much to each role including intensity, intelligence, honesty and character. Without a shadow of doubt, DeNiro's greatest quality that he brings to Men of Honor is character. His performance as Billy Sunday is his best in his career because he puts his whole heart and soul into this film.From What Dreams May Come to As Good As It Gets, Gooding's repertoire grows and his star is sure to stay on the rise. With his stage presence, talent, class, honesty and sophistication, Gooding rises to the top of his class and becomes one of the most bankable stars in Hollywood.Gooding's role as Carl Brashear is one of the most inspiring and uplifting performances I have ever come across on film. His screen presence, honesty and class add credibility to this film and to the portrayal of Carl Brashear. Utilizing incredible sensitivity, Gooding captures the spirit of his character with little effort and great success. It is with roles like Carl Brashear that will win him many academy awards and a bright future in film.Men of Honor is a beautifully crafted, well-acted masterpiece that will leave everyone with smiles on their faces. DeNiro and Gooding come together as one to make a movie, which is a true testament to the human spirit and courage. I'm very honored to have been in the audience when viewing Men of Honor and now the owner of the DVD of the film because it pays tribute to a true American hero. Most of the credit must be given to the writers for creating a screenplay with rich quality and adding depth to the characters. It is great to watch a film that allows the viewer to see each character in the film developed to the fullest as Men of Honor did.This film is most likely the greatest 'based on a true story' film that has been made in America. It ranks right up on top with The Hurricane, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and U-571. This is a masterpiece that should not be overlooked. I hope everyone gets the chance to see Men of Honor as it truly is a remarkable film. I hope everyone watches Men of Honor because it is one of the most inspirational films boasting an ensemble cast. "},{"Title":"Honor these men by watching this moviie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If anyone wanted to know the definition of academy award performances; they can look no further than those given by Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. If someone wanted the definition of an academy award film; they can look no further than Men of Honor. I was honored to be a witness to one of the greatest films ever made.Words cannot describe the way I felt while watching Men of Honor because it is one of the most courageous, emotional and touching films I've seen since Saving Private Ryan. Along with The Perfect Storm and Pay It Forward, Men of Honor is an example of a film which made me feel good on the inside as well as the outside. Furthermore, this film is true testament to the courage and bravery men and women like Carl Brashear show in the line of duty.Men of Honor is one of the finest films I've seen in the past year because it has two of the best actors and the best ensemble cast since The Perfect Storm. Men of Honor CANNOT be missed under any circumstances because it is a testament to the human spirit and one man's unrelenting quest to accomplish his dream.Men of Honor profiles the life of the first black navy diver and his inspirational, courageous, and unrelenting quest in becoming the best navy diver in the United States by achieving the status of master diver. Carl Brashear is the true definition of an American hero because he embodies unwillingness to give up in the face of hard times. It was a true pleasure and inspiration to watch Men of Honor because it afforded me the opportunity to learn a valuable history lesson; the knowledge I gained from this film will stay with me for life.Men of Honor is a film that boasts one of the greatest compellation of talent in Hollywood. Hollywood's intimidator Robert DeNiro leads this all-star cast that includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Charlize Theron, Anjunue Ellis, David Keith, Michael Rappaport and Hal Holbrook. It didn't take long to draw my first conclusion from Men of Honor; the ensemble cast brought home the true spirit and essence of one man's fight to be respected and treated as an equal. For this reason, Men of Honor has the BEST ensembles of the year.Only one outcome can come when DeNiro stars in a film; only one outcome supercedes all others when DeNiro film hits theaters. Excitement and success are the outcomes that make my heart skip a beat with anticipation. When I hear the Robert DeNiro's name being mentioned as part of a cast, I will be the first person in line to buy tickets because I know exactly what the outcome will be. His film credentials include some of the best films ever made. DeNiro brings so much to each role including intensity, intelligence, honesty and character. Without a shadow of doubt, DeNiro's greatest quality that he brings to Men of Honor is character. His performance as Billy Sunday is his best in his career because he puts his whole heart and soul into this film.From What Dreams May Come to As Good As It Gets, Gooding's repertoire grows and his star is sure to stay on the rise. With his stage presence, talent, class, honesty and sophistication, Gooding rises to the top of his class and becomes one of the most bankable stars in Hollywood.Gooding's role as Carl Brashear is one of the most inspiring and uplifting performances I have ever come across on film. His screen presence, honesty and class add credibility to this film and to the portrayal of Carl Brashear. Utilizing incredible sensitivity, Gooding captures the spirit of his character with little effort and great success. It is with roles like Carl Brashear that will win him many academy awards and a bright future in film.Men of Honor is a beautifully crafted, well-acted masterpiece that will leave everyone with smiles on their faces. DeNiro and Gooding come together as one to make a movie, which is a true testament to the human spirit and courage. I'm very honored to have been in the audience when viewing Men of Honor and now the owner of the DVD of the film because it pays tribute to a true American hero. Most of the credit must be given to the writers for creating a screenplay with rich quality and adding depth to the characters. It is great to watch a film that allows the viewer to see each character in the film developed to the fullest as Men of Honor did.This film is most likely the greatest 'based on a true story' film that has been made in America. It ranks right up on top with The Hurricane, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and U-571. This is a masterpiece that should not be overlooked. I hope everyone gets the chance to see Men of Honor as it truly is a remarkable film. I hope everyone watches Men of Honor because it is one of the most inspirational films boasting an ensemble cast.  "},{"Title":"An honorable film that deserves everyone's attention","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If anyone wanted to know the definition of academy award performances; they can look no further than those given by Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. If someone wanted the definition of an academy award film; they can look no further than Men of Honor. I was honored to be a witness to one of the greatest films ever made.Words cannot describe the way I felt while watching Men of Honor because it is one of the most courageous, emotional and touching films I've seen since Saving Private Ryan. Along with The Perfect Storm and Pay It Forward, Men of Honor is an example of a film which made me feel good on the inside as well as the outside. Furthermore, this film is true testament to the courage and bravery men and women like Carl Brashear show in the line of duty.Men of Honor is one of the finest films I've seen in the past year because it has two of the best actors and the best ensemble cast since The Perfect Storm. Men of Honor CANNOT be missed under any circumstances because it is a testament to the human spirit and one man's unrelenting quest to accomplish his dream.Men of Honor profiles the life of the first black navy diver and his inspirational, courageous, and unrelenting quest in becoming the best navy diver in the United States by achieving the status of master diver. Carl Brashear is the true definition of an American hero because he embodies unwillingness to give up in the face of hard times. It was a true pleasure and inspiration to watch Men of Honor because it afforded me the opportunity to learn a valuable history lesson; the knowledge I gained from this film will stay with me for life.Men of Honor is a film that boasts one of the greatest compellation of talent in Hollywood. Hollywood's intimidator Robert DeNiro leads this all-star cast that includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Charlize Theron, Anjunue Ellis, David Keith, Michael Rappaport and Hal Holbrook. It didn't take long to draw my first conclusion from Men of Honor; the ensemble cast brought home the true spirit and essence of one man's fight to be respected and treated as an equal. For this reason, Men of Honor has the BEST ensembles of the year.Only one outcome can come when DeNiro stars in a film; only one outcome supercedes all others when DeNiro film hits theaters. Excitement and success are the outcomes that make my heart skip a beat with anticipation. When I hear the Robert DeNiro's name being mentioned as part of a cast, I will be the first person in line to buy tickets because I know exactly what the outcome will be. His film credentials include some of the best films ever made. DeNiro brings so much to each role including intensity, intelligence, honesty and character. Without a shadow of doubt, DeNiro's greatest quality that he brings to Men of Honor is character. His performance as Billy Sunday is his best in his career because he puts his whole heart and soul into this film.Gooding improves with each film he stars. From What Dreams May Come to As Good As It Gets his repertoire grows and his star is on the rise. With his stage presence, talent, class, honesty and sophistication, Gooding rises to the top of his class and becomes one of the most bankable stars in Hollywood. Gooding's role as Carl Brashear is one of the most inspiring and uplifting performances I have ever come across on film. His screen presence, honesty and class add credibility to this film and to the portrayal of Carl Brashear. Utilizing incredible sensitivity, Gooding captures the spirit of his character with little effort and great success. It is with roles like Carl Brashear that will win him many academy awards and a bright future in film.Men of Honor is a beautifully crafted, well-acted masterpiece that will leave everyone with smiles on their faces. DeNiro and Gooding come together as one to make a movie, which is a true testament to the human spirit and courage. I'm very honored to have been in the audience when viewing Men of Honor and now the owner of the DVD of the film because it pays tribute to a true American hero. Most of the credit must be given to the writers for creating a screenplay with rich quality and adding depth to the characters. It is great to watch a film that allows the viewer to see each character in the film developed to the fullest as Men of Honor did.This film is most likely the single greatest 'based on a true story' film that has been made in America. It ranks right up on top with The Hurricane, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and U-571. This is a masterpiece that should not be overlooked. I hope everyone gets the chance to see Men of Honor as it truly is a remarkable film. Furthermore, I hope everyone watches Men of Honor because it is one of the most inspirational films boasting an ensemble cast. "},{"Title":"good idea, bad film","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure if this movie idea was put in different hands it could have been done well. But with Cuba's overacting and the complete lack of character development, I felt this movie failed to accomplish much in over two hours time. There were too many one dimensional cliche characters that followed the same old recycled formulaic road of many movies past. I really didn't care for the characters involved, nor did I for this movie. I give it a 4.  "},{"Title":"Good for Cuba","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The real story is very impressive, but, as usual, leave it up to Hollywood to reduce it to trivia.  This was very similar to GI Jane awhile back.   This should have been about people, not just action.   I will say that Cuba Gooding was much better than I have ever seen him  Usually, I don'think much of his acting. "},{"Title":"Good for Cuba","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The real story is very impressive, but, as usual, leave it up to Hollywood to reduce it to trivia.  This was very similar to GI Jane awhile back.   This should have been about people, not just action.   I will say that Cuba Gooding was much better than I have ever seen him  Usually, I don'think much of his acting. "},{"Title":"Worthy tribute but too long","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A semi-biographical account of how one man (apparently) overcame racial and disability prejudice in the US Navy diving core, the film bites off more than it can chew, going on far too long and laboring its points while self-righteously ignoring the fact that there needs to be a continuous momentum for a film that lasts well over two hours, with rather smaller chunks of time to digest and reflect on a message that has been stated more or less at the outset. Ends up as a tribute rather than just entertainment, although we might have expected more of the latter from the all-star cast. "},{"Title":"Ugly celebration of disrespect","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  (Too) dramatic celebration of hate, disrespect, unjustice and suffering. I should be checking the covers more carefully. This made me sick. There are different ways of showing the history, reality.. This one wasn't the one I could take. Working like 30 times more to get what you deserve while being disrespected 24/7, basically throughout the whole active life ... for what ? This doesn't have anything to do with honor, by my opinion, but a martierism. "}{"Title":"How much did they pay DeNiro to be in this?","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Boring on the verge of embarrassing movie. It's all been done before, better. Way better! I admit to not even watching it all. After the duel between DeNiro and Gooding Jr. I chose a rerun of an old Seinfeld episode... Don't bother. "},{"Title":"heh","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  To quote The Man, himselfBut like they say in the U.S. navy, there IS NO WRONG HOLE!-George Carlin2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A very sick person gets his leg cut off to stay in the Navy","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This pitiful example of the macho man genre leaves no cliche unturned. But as Robert Benchley used to say why leave any turn unstoned. The son of a sharecropper (African-American) joins the US Navy and decides that being a bus boy is not enough for him. His role model is a redneck CPO.(memo Carl Jung . Why?) He suffers bullying, harassment, alienation and just plain prejudice to rise to a position of authority. The usual stereotypes abound, denied a drink in the sailors bar, the rednecks missus is a drunk, his girl is an achiever etc etc. The only consoling thing about this movie is that it was the inflight movie with Qantas, so i didn't have to pay $7.00 up front!! Gets his leg cutoff? Shucks I wouldn't want to spoil the movie for you all!!      "},{"Title":"Sappy","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"     I gave this film a 2, and I watched about half of this sappy film. The Rocky who over comes great obstacles films ie Mask, Karate Kid, and the Jessie Owens story, have been done over and over to the point of over kill.  Like action films which have the reputation of seen it, did it, done it before approach, this film has the originality of Rambo 6.  Maybe, the movie industry should go back to 1970's ending where everyone dies, or things don't work out, for a change.  I love plot twists or a memorable scene I have never witness before, but to do a film where I can predict to the last detail what will happen next is boring.  Maybe, thats why people cheer for the bad guys in wrestling now because of the sake of change, the Hulk Hogans, with their white hats on, is a event of the 80's.  Like heavy metal, and Rambo this film belongs in the 1980's. "},{"Title":"how to change the future...","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  i dont want to talk too much about this film because its an ordinary america-is-great movie... although the story is based on true story, it is clear they have over-dramatiZed it like most american-true-story-army movies, the americans have some kind of need, to change the past and make something that will make them heroes the last scene in the courtroom is really horrible... but the strange thing is that some people like this kind of movies, and they take the movie for fact.. those are the people who will learn another kind of history than the one that has occured, they will learn the american history, where every american was a hero.. i cant hardly wait to see pearl harbor....  "},{"Title":"Honor these men by watching this film","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If anyone wanted to know the definition of academy award performances; they can look no further than those given by Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. If someone wanted the definition of an academy award film; they can look no further than Men of Honor. I was honored to be a witness to one of the greatest films ever made.Men of Honor is one of the most courageous, emotional and touching films I've seen since Saving Private Ryan. Along with The Perfect Storm and Pay It Forward, Men of Honor is an example of a film which made me feel good on the inside as well as the outside. Furthermore, this film is true testament to the courage and bravery men and women like Carl Brashear show in the line of duty.Men of Honor is one of the finest films I've seen in the past year because it has two of the best actors and the best ensemble cast since The Perfect Storm. Men of Honor CANNOT be missed under any circumstances because it is a testament to the human spirit and one man's unrelenting quest to accomplish his dream.Men of Honor profiles the life of the first black navy diver and his inspirational, courageous, and unrelenting quest in becoming the best navy diver in the United States by achieving the status of master diver. Carl Brashear is the true definition of an American hero because he embodies unwillingness to give up in the face of hard times.It was a true pleasure and inspiration to watch Men of Honor because it afforded me the opportunity to learn a valuable history lesson; the knowledge I gained from this film will stay with me for life.Men of Honor is a film that boasts one of the greatest compilation of talent in Hollywood. Hollywood's intimidator Robert DeNiro leads this all-star cast that includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Charlize Theron, Anjunue Ellis, David Keith, Michael Rappaport and Hal Holbrook. It didn't take long to draw my first conclusion from Men of Honor; the ensemble cast brought home the true spirit and essence of one man's fight to be respected and treated as an equal. For this reason, Men of Honor has the BEST ensembles of the year.Only one outcome can come when DeNiro stars in a film; only one outcome supersedes all others when DeNiro film hits theaters. Excitement and success are the outcomes that make my heart skip a beat with anticipation. When I hear the Robert DeNiro's name being mentioned as part of a cast, I will be the first person in line to buy tickets because I know exactly what the outcome will be. His film credentials include some of the best films ever made. DeNiro brings so much to each role including intensity, intelligence, honesty and character. Without a shadow of doubt, DeNiro's greatest quality that he brings to Men of Honor is character. His performance as Billy Sunday is his best in his career because he puts his whole heart and soul into this film.From What Dreams May Come to As Good As It Gets, Gooding's repertoire grows and his star is sure to stay on the rise. With his stage presence, talent, class, honesty and sophistication, Gooding rises to the top of his class and becomes one of the most bankable stars in Hollywood.Gooding's role as Carl Brashear is one of the most inspiring and uplifting performances I have ever come across on film. His screen presence, honesty and class add credibility to this film and to the portrayal of Carl Brashear. Utilizing incredible sensitivity, Gooding captures the spirit of his character with little effort and great success. It is with roles like Carl Brashear that will win him many academy awards and a bright future in film.Men of Honor is a beautifully crafted, well-acted masterpiece that will leave everyone with smiles on their faces. DeNiro and Gooding come together as one to make a movie, which is a true testament to the human spirit and courage.The writers deserve most of the credit for a screenplay with rich quality and adding depth to the characters. It is great to watch a film that allows the viewer to see each character in the film developed to the fullest as Men of Honor did.This film is most likely the greatest 'based on a true story' film that has been made in America. It ranks right up on top with The Hurricane, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and U-571. This is a masterpiece that should not be overlooked.I hope everyone gets the chance to see Men of Honor as it truly is a remarkable film. I hope everyone watches Men of Honor because it is one of the most inspirational films I've seen. "},{"Title":"Men of Honor was a good 'based on a true story' feature for Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Robert De Niro","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In continuing to review African-Americans in film in chronological order, we're now at 2000 with director George Tillman, Jr.'s follow-up to his hit movie from three years before, Soul Food, called Men of Honor. It stars Cuba Gooding, Jr. as real-life Navy diver Carl Brashear and Robert De Niro as his superior Billy Sunday who initially racially harasses him before graduating him to the consternation of Hal Holbrook's Captain 'Pappy'. Gooding is quite inspirational in the role especially after getting his leg nearly ripped completely apart saving some men from a pulley hook. A couple of other black performers worth noting are Carl Lumbly as Carl's father Mac and Aunjanue Ellis as his eventual wife Jo. It was also nice to see Michael Rapaport, Powers Booth, David Keith, and David Conrad in their roles. I was especially touched by the way De Niro and Gooding performed at the courtroom scene at the end. If there was one character that seemed filler here, it's Charlize Theron's as Sunday's wife whose function seems mainly to appear drunk and then act as his support while saying as little as possible. With all that, I highly recommend Men of Honor. By the way, Bill Cosby was one of the executive producers. "},{"Title":"A moving and powerful film...the true definition of a great picture","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A REVIEW on the FILM MEN OF HONOR(2000)(4/5 STARS) by JOHN ULMERStarring ROBERT DENIRO, CUBA GOODING JR, CHARLIZE THERON, AUNJANUE ELLIS, MICHAEL RAPAPORTDirected by GEORGE TILLMAN JR. Written by SCOTT MARSHALL SMITHIn the film Men of Honor, George Tillman Jr. directs Academy Award winners Robert DeNiro and Cuba Gooding Jr. in a story of the life of Carl Brashear, the first African-American diver, and amputee diver. Gooding plays Brashear, who as a boy always loved to swim. In the 60's, he signs up for the navy, and ships out. Eventually 2 years afterwards, Brashear enters diving training school, where the diving veteran Leslie W 'Billy' Sunday trains his men. Faced with more racism than ever before, Brashear gives his all, and tries to be and give, the best he can. Along his journey for respect, he meets a Wisconsin non-racist named Snowhill (Michael Rapaport) and his future wife,  a librarian (Aunjanue Ellis), who supports Brashear all the way.The acting in Men of Honor was superb, DeNiro's character is played out perfectly, and Gooding's with honor. The one thing about this film that makes it great is the characters. They have emotions. They've all got a past that we see resurface during sequences in the film. Another thing that's great about this film, is that we do actually care about the characters on screen. Too many movies are released today that do not let us care about the characters. The screens will roll on, and we are not really permitted to see the characters inner feelings, or emotions. The camera purposely cuts before the characters emotions are shown. Instead we just think to ourselves, 'When will this be over?' However, Men of Honor is the exact opposite. Tillman did a good job of letting us feel all the characters pains, weaknesses, and emotions, as the roll out on the big screen.The character of Billy Sunday is himself a bit of a racist. You can tell by his face, he doesn't always like treating Brashear bad in the film, but in a way must, so he may have the honor of others. If he did act like he had pity, and sympathy towards Brashear, his career would end. On the other hand, much to his insults, slanders, and not having the equal respect of others, Brashear never gives up. From the wise words of his father in the beginning of the film, Brashear takes them to heart and lives them out.Brashear's real life is wonderfully portrayed in this film. I'm not sure how much of it is true, but I guess a pretty good amount is. It doesn't seem like the kind of Hollywood film where the background event is true, but the facts are wrong (i.e. Titanic). Even if so, Men of Honor is still interesting to watch, and is truly great drama. I've seen better drama, but I think this turns out to be one of the best of 2000. It is a powerful and moving film, that is the true definition of a great picture. 4/5 stars.JOHN ULMER   "},{"Title":"Just another desegregation flick.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Men of Honor spins the issue of racial desegregation into the Navy where it takes an exaggerated and cliché look at one sailor's struggle to become the first black Navy hard hat diver. A complete no-brainer, MofH delivers okay Hollywood-style entertainment value but takes obvious liberties with the truth. An okay watch not to be taken seriously. (Footnote The Navy in this film in no way reflects the Navy I knew as an enlisted man from 1959-63) "},{"Title":"unabashed sentimentality and old fashioned inspirational glow","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" MEN OF HONOR (2000) *** Cuba Gooding, Jr., Robert De Niro, Charlize Theron, Aunjanue Ellis, Hal Holbrook, David Keith, Michael Rapaport, Powers Booth. Gooding gives a memorably strong performance as Carl Brashier, the first African-American Naval deep sea diver to break the color barrier who faces many trials, tribulations and hardships thanks to alcoholic bigot master chief/instructor De Niro (equally good) until both men come to a point that the other has changed their life significantly. Told in unabashed sentimentality and old fashioned inspirational glow with a few creaky, hoary cliches for good measure. Solid overall and excellently achieved. (Dir George Tillman, Jr.) "}{"Title":"Tries too hard to be worthy but is enjoyable as a daytime TV sort of movie","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Carl Brashear is a small town farm boy who takes his father's advice and signs up to join the navy. Expecting action and a career, Carl is crestfallen when he is stuck in the kitchen with all the other black sailors. A moment of rebellion brings Carl's swimming ability to the attention of the CO and he finds himself rewarded with a place on the rescue team. Seeing the heroic actions of diver Billy Sunday, Carl decides on his life plan &#150; to become the first black diver and reach the level of Master Chief. However, at every stage Billy hits obstacles, be they romantic, bureaucratic or racial.When this film came out in the cinema it had the look of a TV special type subject (and treatment) and I wasn't sure if I'd bother with it even with the cast attached. Reviews at the time pretty much backed this up, with a raft of average write ups basically sending it through the cinema chains very quickly. On television though, the film seemed to be much more suited to the presentation and, indeed, I felt vindicated by my decision when I watched the film and found it to be a rather heavy film the likes of which you would find on daytime television after a few years. The plot is worthy of this film and the story of one man's efforts to overcome racism and other barriers but the problem is that the film wears this 'worthiness' on its sleeve. Too many scenes are filled with sentimental looks of determination, honour and inner strength &#150; rather than just letting the material talk for itself all those involved really push it.Despite this the film is still quite enjoyable as it tells its story. Large sections of it are simplified for the sake of the film but these will only annoy those who come to this film expecting it to be 100% accurate &#150; and few people will watch this film and be surprised to learn that sections have been dramatised or that Sunday was a composite character. However the simplification of the story helps the solid pace and, even if most of it is dialogue driven, the film is enjoyable and quite engaging. Of course the problem is that it is all delivered as if it was the most important story ever told or that Brashear was the most heroic man in the world; neither of these is true but the story is inspiring and the man is worthy, but surely we should have been allowed to come to this conclusion by ourselves without having it rammed down our throats.The cast themselves are guilty of this; Gooding Jr is not a great actor but he is an OK one and is suited to this type of film &#150; professional TV specials. He has a great 'determined' look and is full of 'honour' throughout but he can't get to the heart of the man any more than these superficial touches. Still an OK performance that fits with the 'worthy' feel of the film. De Niro is slumming it and he isn't as good as what he can be. The clichéd 'drill sergeant' character is an easy role to play but De Niro isn't really very convincing but does manage to keep the 'worthy' tone in his scenes. Theron is rubbish but, in fairness there is no reason for her character to be in this film and her scenes are boring and aimless. Ellis is much better and has a couple of good scenes towards the final stages of the film. Holbrook plays a lazy racist cook &#150; neither he nor the film tries to even present him as a person, only a cook. The support cast may not have a lot to do but people like Booth, Rapaport and others all help make the film feel more professional and, ultimately, more worthy.Overall this is not a great film but, viewed on TV it will easily pass a few hours even if it doesn't amount to a great deal. The material is very interesting and inspiring but the film overdoes it by instilling a sense of 'worthiness' in every aspect &#150; from the performances to the direction to the score. This makes the film feel like it was made for the television even if the cast suggest it will be a really good story of courage and drive in the face of adversity. Worth watching once but it is all very simplistic and superficial.  "},{"Title":"Strong performances in corny desert","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  George Tillman Jr's Men of Honor has strong moments of drama in really bad corniness.  The story follows the life of Carl Braushear (Cuba Gooding Jr.), who made his own goal at the age of 22- he would become a master cheif in the navy.  Unfortunately, being black in that time, it would be difficult. The story also follows (barely) Master Cheif Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro in exceptional form) as his life goes downhill.  Despite some incredibly strong performances by the two leads (especially De Niro) and some good insight into the world of deep sea diving, the overall corniness and racist play through wear the film out in dramatic effect.  C+ "},{"Title":"Make Less Films Bob","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  MEN OF HONOR could have been a remarkable tribute to a remarkable man , and to a certain degree it is . Unfortunately there is one massive distraction to the film and that is De Niro`s performance . It`s not like he`s playing the role of Sunday but more like he`s reprised his performance as Max Cady from CAPE FEAR . He has the same Southern drawl in both films , the same mannerisms and with lines like  You think you`re better than me  he even has the same dialogue . Honestly he threatens to sink the whole film with his presence and it`s about time he took a break from acting , or at least swap quantity with quality . But seeing every performance he`s given for the last few years seems to be a parody of Bob De Niro maybe he`s no longer capable of method acting any more . I hope I`m proved very wrongDe Niro aside much of the film is fairly good but perhaps the reason it didn`t pick up too many awards or nominations is because it tries too hard . Carl Brashear struggles against racism and later a horrific injury . It`s almost as if the whole film has been produced to appeal to the Oscar voters. Luckily De Niro wasn`t nominated as best supporting actor and for that we should be greatful  "},{"Title":"Men of Honor","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on the true story, this is a good naval drama tackling the issues of segregation, racism and disability, with three very good actors. Basically, African American Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding Jr.) grew up on a farm, and wanted to make his father proud, so he joined the Navy, and after jumping in the water (which was against the rules for black people), he proves himself a fast swimmer, and now wants to become the first African American Naval diver. So now she is being trained by demoted ex-diver Chief 'Billy' Sunday (Robert De Niro), going through tasks (made harder mostly for him), Sunday along with the commander are set on seeing Brashear fail. He does manage to succeed in his first diving mission, but his success is short lived when his left leg is near severed by an accident. His wife Jo (Aunjanue Ellis) doesn't see much hope, but Carl decides to have the part of the leg damaged removed, and replaced by an artificial leg, and restart training to go back to diving. It turns into a bit of short courtroom drama when he has to fight for his right to dive, more because of the leg than being black, but Sunday eventually wants him also to succeed, which he does. Also starring Charlize Theron as Gwen Sunday, Hal Holbrook as 'Mr. Pappy', David Keith as Captain Hartigan, Michael Rapaport as GM1 Snowhill and Powers Boothe as Captain Pullman. De Niro puts on a slightly different voice to accompany his good performance, Gooding Jr. proves himself a good leading black actor, and the compelling story has many surprising moments (mainly lots of accidents). Good! "}]