[{"Title":"Possibly my new favorite film...","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"90 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this film on an import DVD (it hasn't been released on DVD here in the states yet) after missing its small theatrical run here a couple of years ago. I think perhaps Ingmar Bergman is right about Moodyson. He is a young master. Though I have yet see Moodyson's other films, I was overwhelmed by the power of this film.The film is about a group of counterculture types who live in a collective household called Together in 1975 Stockholm, Sweden. But they often struggle to get along because they have trouble finding and living with shared values and in some cases just don't like each other. Goran, the de facto head of the household, wants to please everyone. He wishes everyone would just get along. Any obstacle to group harmony is any obstacle to him as well. Elisabeth, the working class sister of Goran, one day is forced to move in to the household with her two children, Eva and Stefan, due to the breakdown of her marriage. Meanwhile, Rolf, her hard-drinking, abusive husband, struggles to overcome his devastation and loneliness over their leaving. Moreover, a boy who lives in a proper middle-class home next door to Together becomes attracted to Eva. This is the setup of a simple story with complex interactions. The story unfolds simply too, but in ways you don't expect because it is so unforced and natural. Like most great works of art, literature or filmmaking, it progresses and unfolds with a feeling of simplicity -- organic and lifelike.Don't be fooled by the specifics on the surface. On the surface this film seems to be little more than a survey of the amusing antics of hippies from the 1970s. But this film is so much more than that for many reasons.First of all, this film is a commentary on the adults of today as much as it is of the adults 1975. The reason I say this is because the emotional center of the story is with the two children of Elisabeth and Rolf Eva and Stefan. By allowing us, the audience, to see most of the action through the eyes of two impressionable children suffering through the break-up of their parents' marriage in 1975, and struggling to adjust to their new environment of a collective, it soon becomes clear that this film is about us -- the children of the 1970s -- who are now in their late 20s up through the early 40s. The film is a look back through the eyes of a then child, now adult director of a time where nearly every value held by middle-class, western society and culture was challenged if not, in some settings, entirely uprooted. We are the children who grew up in this age of fantastic turmoil and upheaval -- which in Europe by the mid 1970s was probably even more tumultuous and radicalized than in the U.S. But of course it is also about the older generations who were young adults when all of this was happening.Perhaps most importantly, however, it is for the younger generations who weren't even born at that time. I say this because the direction the world seems to be headed for today seems to demand a response of a sense of some type community that began to disappear in the late 70s and 1980s. Many kids and young people only know about a couple kinds of communities and families gangs and step-families. A film like this provides a very modest hope, but at least some kind of hope.The main characters who are children, Evan and Stefan, are looking for love, security and comfort at home, as all children do, but really can't find any of it save love, because the security and comfort of bourgeois, middle-class life was under this continual assault during the time period in which the film is set -- and continues to be assaulted to this day (though today often for different reasons). But meanwhile, next door, another child (I can't remember the character's name) must undergo a struggle of a different kind. He must endure the hypocrisy of his parents' loveless marriage, which carries on possibly out of habit, or possibly for the sake of appearances, or possibly a fear of loneliness -- or possibly all of these. The boy next door is aware and intrigued by the energy and liveliness of his strange next door, hippie neighbors, but he is mainly drawn to Eva, who is as much a misfit in her environment as he is alienated in his.If Eva's struggle is to find a new identity away from the failure of her parents' marriage, her brother Stefan's is to find a new way to reconnect to his mother and his father -- especially his mother, Elisabeth. She is now free to live again away from her hard drinking, abusive husband; but this new experimentation with a new life is, at least initially, a threat to Stefan, who early on fears that his mother may be on the verge of abandoning him, and his sister whom he is not very close with, for this new lifestyle. Moodyson has a remarkable talent of rendering characters who on are the verge of losing everything -- who are suffering devastating ruptures in their lives but somehow find the strength to adjust, adapt and move on. The emotional core of these themes of great change, struggle and moving on are with the children in this film. But all of the adults struggle with major changes too. Moodyson focuses the camera most on the most heart-wrenched of the group of adults Elisabeth and Rolf, and also Elisabeth's brother Goran, whose girlfriend is recklessly and desperately promiscuous. Thus the emotional core of the film is basic to human emotional desires and needs the desire and need for love, and the fallout of loneliness, anguish and craziness when love goes awry and loved ones becomes irresponsible, reckless, or even dangerous.But from the perspective of the collective, this film takes on another ambitious theme the interests of the individual(s) versus the interests of the group. We see this almost immediately in the film when we are introduced to the characters who inhabit Together, and this is where much of the comedy in the film comes from. Early on all of the housemates squabble not only about whose turn it is to do the dishes, but also whether doing dishes is even too bourgeois to bother with. Also, the tension of integrating Elisabeth and her children in to the group -- a tension which arises simply out of a reluctance to give up any more space to any newcomers -- is important to the underlying themes in the film. Elisabeth and her children badly need comfort and acceptance, but the children resist this new space of hippie sharing -- as though they believe it's a fraud in its weirdness for the sake of weirdness. And another area this film explores well within the theme of the individual vs. the group is that of sexual experimentation and promiscuity. Vital to preserving the group is tolerance of homosexuality and sexual openness, yet sexuality in a group setting can be as diverse as each individual that inhabits the group. And those who are most sexually predatory can leave lasting scars and bitter resentments. Homosexuality for some of the members in the group has lost its instinctual drive, and instead, as Lasse irreverently jests about toward his ex-wife, becomes just another form of political expression -- but also ultimately sex serves up a form of individual expression too. Sex gives the individual a greater sense of identity to the degree that that individual's sex life is so different from everyone else's -- whether it's a certain kind of homosexuality, a large number of sex partners, an odd choice of sex partners, etc. In other words, sexuality can define the group, but it often can threaten it too in that it too greatly exalts the conquests and exploitations of the individual.But then again so can many other values can define or threaten a group -- many of which are shared and others which are not -- such as vegetarianism, television, consumerism, Marxism, etc. Tension is there throughout over various doings (or lack thereof) within the household, and these different areas are discussed and battled over through the characters to explore how the group succeeds or fails to define itself according to any given value. Erik leaves because he can not stand the group's softness when it comes to concern for the proletariat against the bourgeoisie enemy. Lasse makes fun of Erik to no end over what he sees as Erik's fundamental hypocrisy. Two other housemates finally leave when the children are allowed to bring hot dogs in to the house. Fundamentalism, the film suggests, destroys diversity, and therefore is a threat to preserving a successful group dynamic, even though fundamentalism may have the best interests of all at heart.Tolerance, with some debate and disagreement, is the key to long term togetherness and diversity. Togetherness and diversity is a key component to happiness and a functioning group, the film strongly and convincingly suggests -- especially through its wonderfully simple games in the November snow.This film also spoke to me in how it seemed to also evoke the countercultural revival of the late 1980s and early 1990s. Something about these hippies seemed neo rather than old school, but that's understandable in that total period authenticity just isn't possible. Political correctness vs. creative and individualistic irony and drive also felt like a major theme at work here -- even though no one in the film ever utters the term politically correct as it was not a term that was coined in the 70s. As a theme, as much as a term, such tensions are of the 1980s and 1990s as much as the 1970s -- if not a little bit more. Maybe this is more in my head than it is in the film, but I have to think that the countercultural aspects and themes in this film connect to a 21st century audience so strongly still not just because so many of us lived through the time period in which this film was set, but also because we continued to live out these kinds of issues up until the present day -- especially many of us who were kids in the 70s.Interestingly, one thing the film really stays away from was central to the 60s and 70s counterculture drug use and experimentation -- as though exploring this theme might infringe upon or distort the theme of drug and alcohol abuse -- which one of the characters, Rolf, battles in the film. But nearly everyone else in the film drinks too, so I'm not so sure. If drug experimentation at Together had been more explored in this film, it could have provided some more lively and funny scenes, but perhaps Moodyson didn't see the need either in terms of character or of theme. Instead, everyone pretty much drinks alcohol. Maybe drugs weren't as big in 1975 Sweden as they were in 1975 America. They were -- and for much of the population still are -- a religion in America.If this film had been only about Elisabeth's dilemma with her children and her husband, or only about the collective itself, it would not have been nearly so strong. But Moodyson joins the two main stories and sets of characters masterfully to illustrate his themes. Moodyson introduces us to dysfunction in the family realm with Elisabeth and Rolf, and then moves us over to difficulties in the community realm with the collective Together. By joining the two groups -- the family and the community -- in his narrative with such skill, wit and simplicity, Moodyson shows how the two need one another, can threaten and damage one another, but can also fill in for one where the other could be failing. In this film, it seems to be the community rescuing souls from the dysfunction of family more so than vice versa. Families break down, but the community can help restore some sense of order -- and can occasionally help restore families. Togetherness in the community arises where a lack of togetherness in the family is most needed, yet togetherness in the community requires a sense of shared responsibility and industry to go along with the friendship and nurturing.The film suggests that not all forms of togetherness are ideal, but togetherness in general is essential -- and that debate and discord are an important part of maintaining and discovering what makes the group work. The film also strongly suggests that intolerance and recklessness, in the long run, leads to loneliness, anguish and despair. It's been so long since I have seen a film I could relate to with such ease. My sincere thanks to Moodyson for such a heartfelt, hilarious, painful, genuine film.  "},{"Title":"Human drama as it should be done","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Together is a story of human relationship. As one character says at one point in the film, I'd rather eat porridge together than pork chops alone, and that is the recurring message throughout the film. Our story takes place in a commune in 1975, which is called, you guessed it, 'Together'. The commune serves as the crux of the movie; it's the centre of the film, and the people that inhabit it are what surrounds the central habitat. The film really starts when Elisabeth has a fight with her husband and leaves him, with the kids to live at the commune, which is owned by her brother; the far too kind, Goran. From there, the film just takes off; the multiple personalities that inhabit the commune are each allowed to grow and be nurtured by the audience, no one character is similar to another and they all have their own strengths and weaknesses. Just like he did in his masterpiece; Show Me Love, Lukas Moodysson creates characters here that are real and that we therefore are able to feel for and like for being people, as opposed to just because they're the central characters. It's this realism that gives Together its edge over most other human dramas, such as In America or Whale Rider.Lukas Moodysson delivers a film here that works on a multitude of levels. The moments of drama are spot on, and because each of the characters gets to develop and we get to know them, it makes the drama more powerful than it would have been if this were not true. It's amazing, actually, just how many characters Moodysson is able to juggle in this film. In many films with a lot of characters, some end up being left by the wayside and not having a chance to shine but all the ones here do, and that is a testament to Moodysson's writing abilities. The acting on display here is an exhibition in excellence, and nothing that the actors do in the film feels odd or out of place. It's almost like watching a real commune. Just like he did with Show Me Love, Moodysson has opted for a gritty style to his film, which doesn't make the film look nice, but it does give it a very rough edge, which is what the film needs; it wouldn't have been the same with an aesthetically pleasing feel. Moodysson's direction in the film is very detached and it almost feels like a documentary. This is a good thing, as with this Moodysson allows the audience to make their own mind up about what is happening on the screen. He never piles on the sentiment, or condones or discourages any of the acts in the film; they're just they're, and you can choose whether they are moral or amoral; which is exactly how a drama of this ilk should be.Overall, Together is an excellent piece of film. The character development and the way that the characters are handled alone makes it a must see, but the excellence doesn't end there. Moodysson has created a film here that is as entertaining as anything you're likely to see and with a definite message. Moodysson can make rubbish for the rest of his life and still be warmly remembered for this and Show Me Love. "},{"Title":"The aesthetics of porridge","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Göran is making porridge.  For some reason this prompts him to deliver an improvised musing on the theme of Life Is Like a Bowl of Porridge, which goes roughly as follows We start as individual oat flakes, each with an individual shape; then we're heated and mixed and we start to blend together with all the other oat flakes; we're no longer oat flakes, but we're part of something larger - something warm, nutritious, and, yes, beautiful.  Göran says this as though he's trying to convince himself.  And no wonder.  The porridge the camera reveals to us looks like repellent glomp.And up until that point - well, up until a little before that point; the film's arc is like a long walk up a very gentle hill and it's hard to pick the precise moment at which we make it to the top - the collective seemed just as much a dollop of repellent glomp as the porridge.  There were too many people too close together, the windows were never open, and for long stretches we never stepped outside, never even caught a glimpse of the outside.  Every single room looked and felt as though it were buried in the very centre of the house.  It was like living in a fetid warren, and it made me long for something cold and impersonal.But even as we're gasping to escape we're being won over.  In the end the film really IS warm, and it's the pleasing warmth of a fireplace rather than clammy warmth of porridge.  The joyousness Moodysson concludes with grew so naturally out of what preceded it that the glow it casts is retrospective.  I can't recall a single moment which I don't NOW (having seen the whole thing) recall with fondness.The LOOK of the film is, in a quiet way, astonishing, except that it's so convincing you forget to be astonished.  You'd swear it was shot in the 1970s.  (When I saw the trailer I thought was watching an ad for the reissue of a movie that HAD been shot in the 1970s.)  This is as great a triumph of art direction as any you're likely to see. "},{"Title":"SUPERB","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every moment of this gem is believable. How rare for a recent film to take mundane human activities and create searing images. We all know these folks, and we have been there ourselves. I have a whole new view of what Swedes are all about! Deserves much wider distribution and critical acclaim.  "},{"Title":"Appealing & very human","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've ever suspected that Pippi Longstocking was a capitalist pig, Lukas Moodysson's film is for you. Set in Stockholm in 1975, this revisiting of those not so halcyon good ol' days brings us up close and extremely personal with a cast of appealing characters living close to their ideals while remaining quite human. Apparently communal life isn't all vegan dinners, late-night Marxist dialectics, and Joni Mitchell singalongs-even in Sweden. The film beautifully records the residents' foibles through the eyes of their children, who serve as the group's conscience. A disturbing, funny, moving and ultimately upbeat look at the utopia we all hoped could exist. "},{"Title":"Moodyson's best work","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This one is certainly the best movie I've watched in my life. Casting is so natural, and the movie touches many aspects of life from politics to family disputes. Göran has the hardest job in the family and hardest job as far as acting is concerned. But he's totally successful. When you watch the movie, you feel like he's acting his own life. The open relationship between Göran and his girlfriend, the friendship between the two youngsters, and social/political issues give the movie a lot of spice. Moodyson's another movie, Fucking Åmål (Show Me Love) is also a masterpiece, but this one is more suitable for older people. Briefly, tremendous content and flawless casting.   "},{"Title":"Anyone feel like meditation?","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Together is a good film. It has no plot to speak of, but hey plots are overrated anyway, especially as most of them have so many holes it's impossible to make sense; Together bypasses this by not having one. But instead what we have is a beautifully observed and a very subtle intelligent comedy. Together (initially ironic) follows the discordant inhabitants of a hippie commune in the mid-seventies. It begins with them all literally jumping for joy at the news of Franco's death so yeah they have their beliefs, where much of the comedy is derived coming as we do from an apathetic cynical new-millennium perspective. Well I laughed an example; one of the children is called Tet after the Tet offensive during Vietnam!!. And there's the free love, the radical politics, and the ostracisation towards them by their neighbours. All the clichés, but clichés do happen and as with Show Me Love the writer/director Lukas Moodysson manages to somehow freshen and make them no longer clichéd at all a very good skill he has.Coming from the position of being a very big fan of Lukas' first and better film Show Me Love/ Fucking Åmål it's easy to see the similarities between the two. The similarities are what make Together less impressive, that and the story is less interesting it's not dull but there are just too many characters, it's hard to connect with any one of them. I've seen Show Me Love perhaps too many times, what keeps me coming back again and again is that I really connect with and love the main characters, it's like they are versions of who I once was. Additionally, there are essentially only two of them for Lukas to focus on, whereas with Together there are at least ten. I don't think it's the age thing either as I'm closer to those in Together than Show Me Love (depressingly). There are just too many characters and he can't focus on them all, the film is essentially a snapshot of their lives over the space of a turbulent few weeks. Similar to Show Me Love, only with the same duration Together needed to be longer. However at the close it does all come together, you begin to feel for the characters. You come to understand and witness some growth in them they lose some of their radicalism and begin to actually like each other becoming more synergistic as the staunchly dogmatic members leave for more idealistic communes or the Baader Meinhof! I think the point is that the remaining characters may be similar to me, I may have found a connection only there is no time to show this as they only get a few moments of focus each.There are also some annoying directorial techniques (the same ones as in Show Me Love) like the fast-zoom to close-up where sometimes a static shot would have been better, I hoped he'd learnt to use it sparingly but obviously he loves it too much to ever part. But this is a tiny point, the biggest drawback is that I can see all the characters from Show Me Love transposed onto this film; different ages, different settings but essentially the same it's like we're watching the parents of the kids in his earlier film. It's not enough to annoy me, but it does detract, it's what makes this film only a nine rather than the definite ten that Show Me Love deserves. Finally, I hope Lukas will make a film better than Show Me Love so he'll not have it like a millstone, but first he has to find different voices for his characters. I hope everything he does will not be compared to that film, but it is a very good film indeed. However, Together, as it stands, is just too similar not to compare it with his earlier film.After seeing Together I left the cinema smiling and, if nothing else, it managed to make me sing ABBA's SOS all the way home, and I hate ABBA, being a man and all! And I'm still deciding about seeing it again, so it is a good film and I did enjoy it, the difference being that I wanted to see Show Me Love again immediately and then over and over and over and do. Maybe after a second viewing I'll feel something more for the characters? I'll let you know!  "},{"Title":"A gentle and observant comedy","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** A warm and big hearted comedy, with poignant, bittersweet overtones.Set in a Swedish commune of hippies in the 1970's, the 'Together collective' is a group of political idealists who wish to reject the bourgeois values of modern society.  Naturally the socialist utopia begins to break down as the reality of the traditional conventions of human nature creep in.Goran, a leading member of the collective, brings his sister Elisabeth and her two children to stay at the commune when she leaves her abusive and alcoholic husband.  Initally pretty bewildered by the bizarre environment she finds herself in, she begins to enjoy her new life after being befriended by Anna, a member of the commune who, according to her ex-husband Lasse, has decided to become a lesbian for 'political reasons'.Lasse is in turn being pursued by Klas, a naive homosexual, and Lena, Goran's girlfriend, is also sleeping with Erik, the rich man's son who has rejected his background to become a welder  - a job at which he does not excel - and is the most ardently political member of the collective. Whilst Goran and Lena practice an 'open relationship', Goran ultimately struggles and finally cracks in one of the most climactic scenes of the film.Director Moodysson shows his brilliant understanding of childhood in his portrayal of the budding relationship between Eva, the teenage daughter of Elisabeth, and Frederik, the son of an uptight middle class family who live across the street.  Both loners who don't have any friends at school, they bond through the discovery that they both have bad eyesight and slowly become friends.  The  pain of adolescence, sexual naivety and acute awkardness is captured here perfectly.Conflict in the house soon ensues when the rejected conventions begin to creep in -  Goran and Lasse buy a TV for the kids to watch, the kids picket for meat and begin to play with Lego.  Two members leave in disgust to join the rival commune ' Mother Earth', and Erik leaves, full of disappointment with what he sees as the political apathy of the house.Despite the problems at the collective, it's warmth and love is illustrated in the contrast with the loneliness of Elisabeth's abandoned husband.  He initially drowns his sorrows with yet more alcohol, but is shocked into repentance after a disastrous night out with his children when he gets drunk and is eventually arrested. A plumber, he meets another man who's wife has also left him, and is so lonely he calls him out to fix a non-existent toilet purely for someone to talk to.Eventually the film ends on a feelgood note, but of course as viewers from the 21st century we know that this particular brand of idealism is approaching it's sell by date.  However, while this is really a film about the conflict of individuality versus the complexity of family and community, it never judges or damns, it simply observes.Moodysson treats the era with a wry sense of humour without actually laughing at it, and lets the plot gently unfold with a deft hand.  An extremely intelligent piece, the acting is impeccable throughout.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One more comment from an American...","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this at the Minneapolis International Film Festival, and it was quite a gem. Unfortunately, that's all I'll ever be able to refer to it as in the United States. While it is surely an enormous hit everywhere else in the world, or at least in Europe, it will probably never actually be released here because of the silliest thing nudity. Fucking Amal wasn't opened in more than a couple of theaters, mainly because of the title (couldn't they just translate it screwing Amal?). We all missed it over here. I should just buy the DVD, considering how good Together is. Together does owe more than a little credit to Dogma '95 and especially Idioterne, to which it is very similar. Still, it is very creative, well written, and enormously well acted. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Welcome to Our Delightful Soccer Game","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1975, in Stockholm, the housewife Elisabeth (Lisa Lindgren) gets tired of her abusive and drunken husband Rolf (Michael Nyqvist), and she moves with her teenager daughter Eva (Emma Samuelsson) and her young son Stefan (Sam Kessel) to the hippie community where her brother Goran (Gustav Hammarsten) lives. Goran is a good man, who has an open relationship with his mate Lena (Anja Lundqvist), but does not feel comfortable with the situation. They are welcomed by the group composed of a new-lesbian Anna (Jessica Liedberg), her almost gay husband and their children; a gay; and an idealist communist. Eva becomes friend of her neighbor Fredrik, and with the new-arrivals in the commune, lives of the members change. Meanwhile, Rolf misses Elizabeth and his family, stops drinking and tries to approach to Elizabeth again.Tillsammans is a delightful dramatic comedy of this great Swedish director Lukas Moodysson. The story is very human and engaging, with many characters very well-developed that find themselves in a world of freedom and without repression, changing their behaviors and improving as human beings. Very hilarious, at least for South-Americans, the two boys playing of torture as if one of them was the Chilean General Augusto Pinochet. The integration promoted by the soccer game is fantastic. The soundtrack with hits of the 70's is wonderful and another attraction. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Bem-Vindos (Welcome) "}{"Title":"A rare film with heart.(possible spoilers)","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is so rare in these times to find a film so utterly bereft of cynicism, and so warmly sympathetic to people, in all their variety and flaws, that it would be churlish to do anything but celebrate.  Some critics have complained that 'Together' has adopted a sneering tone towards its subject matter, a collective living in 70s Stockholm, in which more hackneyed emphasis is put on rows about washing-up and petty ideological points than the genuine spirit of good-will that made them set up a collective in the first place.  They must have been watching a different film to the one I saw - not only is the portrait of the collective affirmative, but it is made into a kind of magical space with transformative powers - it protects the weak, gives refuge to outsiders, opens the minds of the closed but essentially decent outsiders.  It is a magnet, which drags towards it those in need of spiritual change, those for whom the social grind of 70s Sweden, supposedly the most liberated and liberal in the world, is too much.  It manages the difficult trick of celebrating alternative communities and dropping out, while retaining the integrity of the individual and the family. This collective is a magical space in the Shakespearean sense, a kind of Forest of Arden with its own special glow surrounded by the grey oppressiveness of normal society.  It has no place for false freedoms, austere puritanism, selfish sexual promiscuity, narrow ideological nit-picking.  Although it effects change on outsiders, its power comes from its ability to change within, to adapt - its power is not destroyed by the introduction of TV or meat, it is strengthened because their introduction respects the freedom of others.  Again like Shakespeare, it is not just a magical space, but a testing ground, a spiritual test for those of essentially good faith.  This is where I got a little queasy and could sympathise with the critics.  With any test, some people must pass, some must fail; to allow someone to enter, someone must be thrown out.  It's a fair enough satiric point that en essentially decent man is turned by a soulless society into a spiritually empty, drunken wife-beater.  And it's completely lovable that Moodysson should take this potential monster and make his spiritual progress the heart of the movie. But to make this possible, somebody must be expelled.  And this is Lena, whose nymphomania is demonised as destructive, even paedophiliac.  The scene where she is thrown out is dangerously close to Lester Burnam's throwing a plate in 'American Beauty' - where a weak man finally puts a strong, overbearing woman in her place.  We are meant to cheer; I found it uncomfortable.  It seems Moodysson's big, inclusive heart wasn't big or inclusive enough.I found 'Together' very watchable and likeable, but something of a disappointment after 'Show me love'.  Maybe the jokes weren't funny enough.  Maybe the multi-character format is more suited to ironic distance (e.g. Altman) than warmth, although Edward Yang pulled it off.  Maybe the characters, through amiable, aren't distinctive enough - with the exception of introverted Lisa Simpson prototype Eva, with whom I worryingly identified, it was hard to care about the characters. The use of Abba to add a built-in melancholy for the overall optimism was inspired - I loved the fact that the 70s recreation was less in the period detail than in the zoom-heavy, dark-colour style - even the genitalia was filmed in 70s porn murkiness. "},{"Title":"A brilliant heart-warming treat.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most anticipated movies this year, Tillsammans offers a moving, funny, and evocative document of life in the mid-70s. Set in Stockholm, its story follows the interconnected lives of the residents of a left-wing community and captures the difficulties of building and keeping relationships in a crowded environment.Writer-director Lukas Moodysson's follow-up to the hugely acclaimed debut Fucking Åmål (a.k.a. Show Me Love) presents a definite crowd-pleaser and a sharp piece of story-telling (closer to British East is East than The Ice Storm). Tillsammans (=together) effectively develops its central theme of friendship and strong solidarity blending 70s nostalgia, sexuality, curiosity, loneliness, and hilarious comedy into an engaging emotional quilt. Once again confirming Moodysson's knack for conveying human emotions and creating hugely likeable characters.The performances are uniformly excellent (by an almost completely unknown cast) -outstanding are Lisa Lindgren (Elisabeth) igniting the screen as a self-discovering mother, Sten Ljunggren (Birger) as a lonely depressed old man, Gustaf Hammarsten (Göran) as the biggest namby-pamby ever seen, Michael Nyqvist (Rolf) as an alcoholic and abusive father and Jessica Liedberg as the new-born lesbian Anna.The sense of time and place are never lost in this witty, dramatic story filled with historical references and Moodysson's hand-held documentary style heightens the real feel no end.Funny, recognizable and on occasion deeply moving, this is Swedish cinema actually worth shouting about. Tillsammans is simply one of the greatest films of the last several years and regarding the strong audience response at the screening I attended, it will no doubt enjoy a long career and attract a mass audience. I can't wait for Moodysson's next film project. "},{"Title":"A Moodysson that you can watch over and again...(& again)...","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I bought my Lukas Moodysson 4 disc boxset, this being the second DVD in it, little did I realise that I had in fact seen Together many years before and many parts had lodged in my memory and so it was a huge pleasure to see it again - and actually own it now, too.It's a lovely multi-faceted film that can be watched intently, or as I'm doing this time, just picking up the bits and characters I want to follow. Few movies successfully allow such freedom, at least in still giving us an overall picture. So totally un-Hollywood, with as much natural everything, including (refreshingly, these days) body hair - and I mean ALL body hair that it's impossible to get embarrassed by any of the open and frank attitudes to sex, the (now) ridiculous clothes and the Communist lifestyle of the 'Collective', as it prefers to be termed (not commune).Battered housewife Elisabeth leaves her husband Rolf with her children and is promptly thrown into the very strange but comforting cushion as is the Collective, as Rolf pours all the alcohol down the drain and attempts to contact his wife. Slowly, through reunions with the children, they paint their view on their new life, which, as you can imagine, is often hilarious. Whether they get back together as a family unit is definitely not for me to say, though and the varying shades of this aspect is yet another of the film's delights.Because everyone is so natural, nothing is surprising, yet individually, in another film and with a different director, many scenes would just be too way-out and off-beam. Similarly, we almost want to join them, as common-sense is painlessly drawn from us and we are enveloped by these rather strange but peculiarly likable people.Moodysson extracts enormously natural and relaxed performances - you'd swear much of it is a documentary, yet the camera always expertly follows and ends up just where it should be, swiftly but gently. The children in particular, especially when playing is a wondrously warm treat; they're just like all kids everywhere, totally oblivious to the camera.Together is an offbeat gem, it might not be for everyone but for anyone with a heart and soul and a wholesome attitude to life, it definitely will be. "},{"Title":"Seventies Communal Idealism and the Individual","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this Swedish film, most of the action takes place in a communal household--called Together--set in 1975. Apropos to the time, there is a philosophical idealism that binds the family. It encompasses anti-materialism, vegetarianism, socialism and sexual freedom of choice. I felt it was a very accurate representation of the communal or anti-establishment viewpoint.Since politics plays a part in the movie (the house is decorated with depictions of Che, Mao, Gandhi and the Olympic black power salute), it is difficult to not discuss the political issues at play. I will just say that those who wished to break away from the status quo and define themselves without the traditional roles of society did not always embrace a common political agenda. Those many who did gravitated toward socialism in their idealism, and that was one of the mistakes that ended their experiments in freedom. The film addresses this. We see a couple leave the house because of its changing values. Another, who fancies himself a hardcore Communist revolutionary, leaves because the others are not political enough for him.But the main theme of the movie is togetherness. As humans, we are always reaching out to others. The film creates situations in which there are some unusual connections. To an extent, that is how life works. Worthwhile bonds are created when people reach out. In contrast, we see others who seek to draw lines between various peoples because of political beliefs, sexual orientation, or other man-made distinctions. In one scene, two men argue about who is more useful to the social revolution--a worker who see himself as the common man or a student who represents the intellectual or academic.The film shows that individuals are more important than factions. And when groups are created without exclusive group definitions--like the impromptu soccer teams in the film--the only agenda is bonding and fun.The director keeps it interesting. And their is enough comedy in Together to keep it light, even when dealing with the weightier issues, like the impact of parental negligence on their children. "},{"Title":"Living together","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The inane introduction on my television channel to this film about a 1970s commune described it as a story of hairy flare-wearers - but in fact, it's much more interesting than that. Many people complain about the atomisation of modern life, but there's one good reason for this, and this is that getting along with others may make life worth living but it's fundamentally hard there's a sense in which many of us have chosen distance in exchange for an easier life. And the very plausible characters in this film have chosen to try and live together in spite of this. One way or another, most of them are misfits, and yes, there are a few utopian radicals of various sorts among them. But the film is ultimately a touching and sympathetic portrait of people trying to live life differently, and tells a story with humour but also lessons applicable to all of us, instead of simply taking cheap shots at the values of another era. A minor point I noted is that Gustaf Hammarsten looks like Mike Leigh, and plays a role that feels like it could have been borrowed from one of Leigh's own works. That's not a criticism of this very nicely observed film. "},{"Title":"Very funny if you stick with it","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that, if I'd encountered it late one night on TV, I might have given up after the first ten minutes. That would have been a big mistake.In the early part of the film it is often difficult to sympathise with some of the characters who live in the Tillsammans Commune, even though their antics are frequently funny. It doesn't take long to figure out that you aren't (necessarily) supposed to like some of the characters or what they get up to. The title is very clever inasmuch as it describes the film perfectly on a number of levels. The commune is called Together and the sub-plots within the film are all about how people live together. This could easily be trivial if not downright icky if it was an American film but there's very little of the sentimental cloying stuff you find in mainstream films. It strikes me in some ways as being very like the situation you find in the best-written fantasy and science fiction books (and thrillers and many other novels but not serious novels); having a real family is not about blood and relationships, it's about finding your family of choice. And that's what the characters in this film manage and it's all down with a great deal of humour and affection for the 70s, the period in which it's set.I believe that in this film Moodysson has achieved the task he seems to claim he often attempts &#x96; that is to both defend and attack something with equal vigour. So even though you can see the satire of the wilder political and feminist viewpoints explored here, you can also see how seriously the director has taken the ideas and shown how they positively influence the family that coalesces by the end of the film.But beyond the analysis of what the film may or may not be about it has to be said that this is a joyous film. You would have to be dead not to enjoy the jokes and always perfect use of music. By the end you can't help but have a silly grin all over your face and you may well find yourself questioning, as I did, why you waste so much time watching so many inferior American films "},{"Title":"An engaging and amusing film that works on several levels and is well worth seeing","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Elisabeth's husband Rolf hits her she packs her bags and takes the children to go and stay with her brother Göran. Göran lives in communal house called the Together commune and as such things are a bit different from what Elisabeth, Eva and Stefan are used to. Elisabeth seems to take to the fun adult lifestyle easily but with no TV and no normal structure, Eva and Stefan struggle, with Eva spending a lot of her time sitting outside in the van while Stefan seems determined to get back to his father. However as time goes by the dynamics of the commune start to shift due to the presence of the family.Although I wasn't sure what this film was going to be about at first I found myself drawn into it on the grounds of it being nicely comic without mocking its characters to the degree that the audience loses the ability to take them seriously or have an interest in them. As such the film works well because it treads this fine line and finds things to like and mock on both sides of the society that we see being formed within the house. Parts of it are funny but generally it is comic and engaging at the same time. If there is a moral then I suppose it is that no one group is right and that happiness and peace is easiest found in the middle ground rather than in the extremes (no matter how worthy they seem); this message is clear and it is nicely woven into the story that sees both extremes comically picked away to leave a final scene of simple pleasure and togetherness. It sound corny but I was surprised by how expertly Moodysson delivered it &#150; keeping the emotional core while also producing laughs and characters that if you met them in the street you would hit! The cast do well to work within this and I was impressed by the fact that they mostly avoided caricature. It is hard to pick out one performance because the whole film is very much an ensemble piece but if only for avoiding the horrid cute kid performances so beloved by Hollywood, Samuelsson and Kessel deserve praise. Generally everyone gets the tone of the film and produces performances that are comic without hating themselves. Moodysson's direction took a second to get the hang of (with its zooms and movement) but I quickly got into it and it did suit the material by drawing the audience into the house (even on my small TV it worked!).Overall this is a slight but enjoyable film that is as comic as it is engaging. It is not hilarious and it is not dramatic; suitably enough, it sits somewhere in the middle ground but works well by doing so. The plot is simple but the writing makes it more than it seems as it charmingly delivers a solid moral. It may frustrate some viewers looking for a nice traditional narrative but this is an engaging and amusing film that works on several levels and is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Euro-Anarchist Cookbook","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like the American film Anarchist Cookbook, this is an utterly brilliant and surprising film. Both are about the ups and downs of anarchy and collective living, but this one is far less cynical and provides a feeling of hope at its conclusion, unlike the American one.The brilliance of this movie lies in its simplicity. A boy moves into his uncle's mid-seventies Stockhom commune. That's it. But the joys and aggravations of collective living are exposed thru a series of events that are not the type of life-changing things that characterize American movies. Rather, it's the small things couples trying to stay together. Couples breaking up. And all along, people wrestling with their sexuality, individuality and where the two meet.I recommend this as a double feature with the American movie Anarchist Cookbook. "},{"Title":"Moodysson delivers","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Moodysson's previous (and first) feature, Fucking  was a good movie, but it was sometimes stingy with detail. With most films, you can drop in in the middle, and after five minutes you will be fully up to speed. I keep feeling that such would not be possible with Moodysson's films, and I think that is a bad thing. However, his second offering, Tillsammans, is at least much more coherent than the first. An example of the problem, though; in the middle of the film, a couple leaves, because they disagree with the changed politics of the commune. Who were these people? Did we see them in the film before? If we did, why did they not show their faces more often? At that point, I suddenly realize I am watching a movie, and a director should avoid such realizations at all cost. Most of the time, though, this is a good movie. As in Fucking, Moodysson's biggest strength is making his protagonists seem real. With Tillsammans, he reached a rare level I knew these people. Perhaps not literally, but parts of their characters are present in people I have met throughout my life. At times, I could almost 'hear' what the characters were thinking. Spooky and gratifying at the same time. I don't know how he does it, and over time as other directors acquire his technique we may get used to it, but for now he has the upper hand. (For instance, Hill Street Blues felt like a breath of pungent air of realism to me when it first aired, but seems very much dated now that re-runs are shown.) I can safely say that if you could only watch 100 movies in your entire life, this should probably be one of them.  "},{"Title":"Everybody needs somebody.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's better to eat porridge together than to eat steak alone. That is the tag line of Tillsammans, uttered by the film's most tragic character, Birger. That is also the main point of the film now matter how eccentric, introvert or angry people may be, they always need another people to support them. It's rare too see film like Tillsammans, where such a basic theme is handled with such simplicity and delicacy. Yet Tillsammans never rings a false note, never falls victim to overt sentimentality or patronizing.Set in 1975, tells the story of a leftist-environmentalist commune, and the housewife who moves there with her two children, after being hit by her husband. Although some of the commune's occupants are perhaps too much caricatures, the director Moodysson takes great effort in understanding their humanity, if not always their political stance. Even the simplest of the characters, the communist Stefan, proves the overall point of Moodysson. Although his preaching and agitating is used to fish cheap laughs (which, to my opinion, is the films most serious flaw), he too is a human being who desires contact with someone who understands him. When the members of the commune can't fulfill this need, he ends up joining Baader-Meinhoff. While the scene where this is announced is funny, it is also perhaps the most tragic in the film, considering what it implies.The political nostalgia may be the cue to see Tillsammans, but as I already said, it isn't about politics, it's about ordinary people dealing with ordinary emotions. The husband who seeks redemption, the mother who wants to broaden his perspectives, the daughter who lacks for love, these are the characters who lie at the center of the film. Although I'll have to admit that part of the film's charm for me was the familiarity of the characters, their politics and their discussions and debates. Should they eat meat? Should they buy a television? These kind of issues ring a familiar bell for anyone whose known or lived with these kind of people. Also, though the film is set in the past, many of those topics still sound quite relevant. I guess the leftist/alternative lifestyle hasn't changed as much as one would think in the past 25 years. "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lukas Moodysson has a lot to live up to after Fucking Åmål/Show Me Love. That film is one of the biggest Swedish movie successes in the 1990s. Judging from how well Tillsammans has been received by both critics and audience, Moodysson's latest film will probably do as well at the box office in Sweden as Fucking Åmål did.I certainly enjoyed the film. After walking out of the theatre there were many scenes that just kept popping into mind, and still do many hours afterwards. First of all, it's a great cast. Can anyone go wrong with Shanti Roney (granted, his wig is absolutely ridiculous and he looks like Jonathan in Bröderna Lejonhjärta) and Michael Nyqvist in the same film? Don't think so, and it has worked once before in Vägen ut. The rest of the cast is also great, and Moodysson proves once again that he really has a hand with young actors. The story is also very interesting and funny and sad, and the characters... wonderful. However, to me it seemed to drag at times (not very often though) and the film should have been shorter.Overall, though, Tillsammans is a great film -- although not as good as Fucking Åmål according to me -- and I certainly hope that Moodysson will keep making films since he really is brilliant. (7/10) "},{"Title":"7/10","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost two years after the (in Sweden) immense success of Lukas Moodysson's debut Fucking Åmål, comes his latest movie, Tillsammans. The plot is very simple; people's trouble with love in Stockholm in the mid 70's. The movie is well-written, the cast makes an excellent work, you get a good laugh (notice Shanti Roney's haircut) and Lukas Moodysson proves himself to be the most interesting and talented writer/director in Sweden. Nearly as good as Fucking Åmål. I'm already looking forward towards Moodysson's future films. All thanks to him for reviving the Swedish movie industry. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Swede Life","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of free spirits living in a commune in Stockholm in 1975 experience problems. This is a slight comedy-drama that tries to tackle themes like spousal abuse, infidelity, homosexuality, and communism, and mostly falls short. There is a scene where a woman tries to seduce a boy who is about fourteen by exposing herself to him and kissing him; it's meant to be light-hearted - only in a Swedish movie! The script is rather unfocused, wandering all over the place. In the large cast, Hammarsten comes off best as a good-hearted fellow who tries to help his abused sister while dealing with a cheating wife. Moodysson's amateurish direction is marked by an overuse of the zoom lens. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I saw in 2001.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  2001, was unfortunately just lie 2000. I went to see a lot of movies and most of them stunk.This little movie I saw quite accidently. We wanted to see a film and everything else playing at the 40 or so theaters in the area we has either seen already or had no interest in seeing. So, at the last minute we picked this one. Thank goodness.Everything that is lacking in American films today. Believable acting, humor, poignancy and a little social commentary thrown in. Too bad Wes Anderson didn't see this one before he made the Royal Tenebaums. The family in Together is disfuntional in more ways than one and the family goes two ways - one communal and another by blood. All the characters are flawed but like most people in real life but unlike in the recent spate of hateful American films - we can see that people are basically good and stuggling to get better. Subjects such as alcoholism, pediphilia and abuse are brought up and treated in a very real way and with a lot of humor.Real humor - side splitting - roll on the floor - pee your pants humor. That above all makes me recommend this film strongly. I like to laugh - and when you can tell that people are trying to find the humor - you know when a few people laugh here - and then a few people there - and then afterwards everyone ties to explain the joke to one another - I just get angry. No one should feel obligated to laugh when something just isn't funny - ala the Royal Tennenbaums and happiness and all those other so called comedies that are around these days.So. If you want to laugh - go rent Together, call a few friends and make some popcorn. You won't be sorry.    "},{"Title":"Franco is death - what a great and unmissable Swedish film","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lukas Moodyson is a great revelation for me. After having seen Fuching Amal, brilliant and fresh, it arrived Tillsammans - Together.Life is not easy anywhere, also in Sweden, where everything apparently appears to be easier and clean, but is not like this. A lady argued with his husband and decided to join together with her 2 kids a hippie commune where her brother is already living. Franco's death news is the welcome of the film which goes in a crescendo of funny and brilliant situations. The neighbours are fascists and concerned but interested to know what a hell is happening there. The whole attitude is very communist oriented, considering that everyone of course believes that capitalism is a dangerous weapon. Kids are educated to see homosexuality and the couple exchange as something normal. It is great to see how the new incomers kids see the adults ...seems that all the adults in the commune like to play to be perverse person against the exterior unreal world. When one of the new kids brings a toy gun, the entertainment is to play who is going to be Pinochet.The drama of the couple separation is well and deeply analysed in this fresh and brilliant film, well far from the commercial standard distribution channels.Rating 7/10      "},{"Title":"It is unfailing in showing through some very tight framing the difficulties of anyone but family surviving the kind of togetherness communal living requires.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I lived in a cooperative in the mid-seventies-it was not pretty dirty dishes and not-so-free love were the ties that died daily.  Nobody would respect a schedule for cleaning, and no one would admit that the idea of faithful mates was a good thing. I suspect Sir Thomas More and Nathaniel Hawthorne found this out as well in `Utopia' and `Brooke Farm.' Maybe not the dishes, but for sure the free love.Because Lukas Moodysson, the Swedish director Bergman called a `master,' has one other film, ''Show Me Love'' (1998) about two misfit teenage girls falling in love despite the fact that one is probably straight, he is right at home with odd arrangements in `Together.'Although the camera jerks now and then and may get too close too many times, it is unfailing in showing through some very tight framing the difficulties of anyone but family surviving the kind of togetherness communal living requires. For instancea.The abused mother and her children settle in the claustrophobic house despite the space, remaining a unit in the face of the mother linking with a lesbian or linking again with the alcoholic father. Her son wants reconciliation with his estranged dad. b.The nerdy mom of a nerdy adolescent son may eventually join him at the commune to leave her masturbating oaf of a husband. c.Even the troublesome wife who torments her husband by consorting in front of him with a young man finally calls her mom in tears to go back home.The kids are the true test of the commune's fate-two of them play a Pinochet torture game (perhaps mirroring the pain of their current living), and one also discovers the other has real Legos with him. His comment covers both the Legos epiphany and the delivery of a TV set, when he says, Dad wanted to make Legos out of wood for me, but he only made two pieces. The real world was not as bad as hippies painted it.The adolescent girl trying to explain the living arrangement to an outsider best expresses my desire never to return to 1975 when she says, We have ugly clothes, and we listen to bad music.  "},{"Title":"Funny but unfair to the people of the 70's","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is funny, and it gives you who experienced the 70's a good laugh. But I think the movie is unfair and gives only one angle of view. Many of the people were serious, well informed and had really a point in their actions, but in the movie they are shown as naive and odd persons. The 70's was a good decade in my opinion, today we are more lost than then... "},{"Title":"One of my faves!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the first Swedish film that I had ever seen and I loved it! There are some political jokes and comments that are much funnier if you have a good sense of the political situation in Sweden, or even just in the world, in the 1970s.I thought that this movie was very uplifting in the end.  Many films made out of Hollywood seem to have a darker ending than I am used to but this one left me feeling great.The director, Lukas Moodysson, is amazing.  He really captures human nature.Another film that I would recommend, which is written by Moodysson,m is The new country, another Swedish film.   "},{"Title":"Even better than Fucking Åmål","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having thoroughly enjoyed Fucking Åmål, I was wondering if Lukas Moodysson would be able to make a new film which was in the same league. Together or 'Tilsammans' as it is called in Swedish is an even better movie than Fucking Åmål. This is not your typical run of the mill Hollywood movie. It's a very special movie, which ought to appeal to a large audience. You laugh a lot during the movie and when leaving the cinema it's kind of difficult to digest the experience you've just had. You feel aroused in a way, which only a very few movies achieve.   "},{"Title":"Uproarious Look at PC-Ness vs. Human Relationships","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Together (Tillsammans) proves that Dogma 95 filmmakers can actually have a sense of humor, even an uproarious one. An urban commune in 1975 Sweden is never the same once the real world really intrudes in the form of the sister of a participant with her kids fleeing her abusive, alcoholic husband. The complex ensemble has very distinct characters, in a very frank, contemporary update of a French drawing room comedy circle of relationships. Anyone who shared a house with many roommates in the 1970's will particularly relate. Looking as if it's at least partly improvised or Real World documentation, each character's motivations and actions are completely and hysterically believable, from the little kids taking turns playing Pinochet torture to the political uproar caused when the brother brings first an old TV set then meat into the house for the kids, to the various bed-hopping and nosy neighbors. The reactions and actions by the husband are a poignant counterpoint to the goings-on at the commune and really grounds the movie.Music is distinctively used to reflect each individual, from the pre-teen daughter fleeing her quite reasonable conviction that All adults are idiots with Abba on the headphones, to the PC lesbian trying to seduce the sister with a Tori Amos-sound alike record but getting trumped by the sister's heartfelt playing of a pop version of Love Hurts (which we see later why it has much personal meaning for her). Which made it very frustrating that none of the credits are translated into English so I could not make out a single song listing, though I assumed the music was largely Swedish. I'm tired of foreign filmmakers griping about lack of distribution and audience for their films in the U.S. when the producers won't take the courtesy to translate the credits into English. The subtitles here were also particularly annoying -- both parts of a dialog were put on the screen all at once so one read the punch line before the set-up was out of the first character's mouth. While the dialog is fast and furious, there's no excuse for this kind of killjoy subtitling. For goodness' sake, we can read fast enough to keep up. (originally written 9/4/2001) "}{"Title":"Finding the family you need","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The characters in this film, both children and adults, find their way into a commune that forms and reforms itself into the family that each of these people needs to mature into the complete individual he or she was meant to be. The repressions and impositions of all societies, both mainstream and counter cultural, have stunted their growth until they encounter each other, lose their affectations in close quarters, and begin to understand themselves in reference to the people around them. In the process, they develop nurturing approaches that displace the isolation of self-absorption with the joy of sharing self-discovery. The house itself becomes a metaphor for the nurturing process, with the children finding a safe place in a womb like, windowless room at the center of the house, and the adults gradually finding the limits of themselves in creating the public and private spaces they need. The use of color, sound, the commercialized vices of smoking drinking and television, and movement from interior to exterior and vice versa are all objective correlatives for the maturing of emotional structure. The movie is a work of art, and a how to manual for any family whose members need to find out what is hurting them. Paying serious attention to it is worth three years of counseling. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining, a joy to watch","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1970's Sweden a mother leaves her aggressive and abusive husband in order to take her children to live in the idiosyncratic world of her brother whose house is a hippy commue.As one newspaper film reviewer put it this film is 'sunshine to warm the soul'. I like that quote as it seems to sum up what an enjoyable and touching experience it is to watch this. We get a wonderful insight into the lives, personalities and feelings of so many different colourful and interesting characters that one is almost spoilt for choice. The whole anti bourgoise ideology is interesting,with the hippie commune seeming very realistic, unlike other movies, and at times I almost thought that this was a documentary about a real commune. Lucas Moodyson directs brilliantly and the cast are very good.I think that this is a great film , one of my favourites, I cannot recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"a really good flick","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film in a sell-out showing at a festival and the audience was laughing their heads off; afterwards everybody was happily chatting about how great the film was and I thought sure it was going to be a big hit.  I was amazed when it never found an audience.  Were people turned off by the gritty look of the film, the lack of production values?  Did the mix of serious and comic elements confuse the easily confusable?  I was not surprised by the lukewarm reviews because I know that reviewers see films in special screenings at 1030 in the morning and at that hour most of the excitement and fun of the thing, the generous mood of communal 60's experience would just not happen.  But anyway, I loved it and can't wait to see it again when it becomes available. "},{"Title":"Jätte bra","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Tillsammans very much! It tells a story about people just like you and me in the 70's and doesn't make the fashion or the people any cooler than it really was. Even the colours used made me feel more like I was really watching a movie made in the 70's. Just as Fucking Åmål Lukas Moodyssoon pays attention to a very human aspect of life and problems that really face us in real life, and he does it well. One of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Together - Greatest Movie of the Year","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *******Warning Contains Plot Spoilers********Together (Tillsammans - Swedish) From the director of acclaimed film, ****ing Åmål comes Lukas Moodysson's second film, and what a great film this was. The title of the movie, Together, is also the theme which rings throughout the entire movie and what a powerful message this film sends.The films portrays a multitude of people living together under one roof, a commune called Together (Tillsammans). It's 1975, post-Vietnam, the peace movement, free love, women's liberation. The film takes place in Sweden. There is a multitude of conflicting personalities all coming Together under one roof. Naturally, before there can be order, there must be chaos.The beauty of this film is how each character develops over the course of the movie. There is Rolf who is an alcoholic. He's married to Elisabeth a distressed housewife. Their two children, Eva and Stefan are caught in the middle and have their own problems to work through. Elisabeth's brother Goran, a pacifist, tries to please everybody but himself. He's in an open relationship with Lena, whose infatuated with Erik, an angry communist. They all live with Anna, a self-proclaimed Lesbian male hater, who was married to Lasse, an attractive cynic whose jealous of his ex-wife. And then there is Klas, an open homosexual who lusts Lasse. Fredrik who has a crush on Eva but his parents are skeptical of the commune. Birger whose extreme loneliness leads him to befriend Rolf, his plumber. This is only a sampling of the many diverse characters in the film who all must overcome their own problems before they all can come Together.I gave this a perfect 10. Had me smiling all the way to the urinal. "},{"Title":"Nice portrait of what my family could have been","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Conflicts of feelings, searching an identity, escaping the world. And mostly the discovery of love. This is what this movie is about. Sometimes it turns a little cruel, and tries to take some tears out of your eyes (in my case it worked), but i felt this movie is absolutely honest, never pulling it to the limit like Hollywood does. The children in this movie made me think about how i was, how my family was and how my friends families were. I grew up in the seventies, when everything was possible. And i had a drink too when Franco died! If you're a libertarian you should watch this movie.8 out of ten "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh yes I like this movie a lot! Tillsammans is a really good movie that plays from the 70s I didn't like Lukas last movie...but he do strange, different movies and this one I just love! Shanti Rooney is now one of my favorite Swedish actors, he is super! Good music aswell. The filming is also great because it is different to. yes a really good Swedish movie. //Sofia "},{"Title":"A rose in contemporary cinema","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Together is a rose in contemporary cinema. A beautiful film, both photographically and narratively. It tells a story taking place near the end of the Hippie era. A time when, the good was bad, and sunny days were treated as rainy ones. For the people who lived during this time, a revolution took place -- a personal one.There are many interesting people in Together. On one side, you have your family of hippies, comprised of a lesbian mother (who has no problems with walking around the house with her apparatus showing, or in inviting women into her room for a little meditating), the lesbian's ex-boyfriend (he's not the open-minded type) a die-hard rebel (he'd rather talk politics than have sex -- promise him you'll talk after sex, but don't act on that promise, and he'll take it personally), an optimist (he's the more level-headed of the bunch. Though, he has marriage problems.) His wife, you see, will have sex with any man she pleases, if only her husband, the optimist, agrees to it.In the beginning of the film, the audience witnesses the aftermath of a fight, between a husband and wife. The wife, calls her brother, the optimist, packs her things, and grabs her two kids, to live with him. He takes them to the home of the family above.From then on Together becomes a character-study. People meet people they figure will have no effect on their lives, but do. The movie's message is that it is better to, Eat porrage among hippies, than to eat chicken fillet, alone. For the hippies, whose public revolutionizing is getting tired, mirrors that saying. Because characters, little by little, find themsleves attracted to the middle class lifestyle, loneliness would erupt from one person's stubborn ideal that the bohemian lifestyle is the way to go. Sooner or later, you gotta roll with the flow. "},{"Title":"Families are made by emotion, not ideology","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  __MINOR SPOILERS__ Directed by Lukas Moodysson, Together shows the experience of a mother and her two kids (boy 9?, girl 12) when she leaves their alcoholic father in 1975 and goes to a classic alternative lifestyle commune. This is consistent with Europe lagging a few years behind the US in the various phases of the 60s' Consciousness Revolution -- the filmmaker indicates that this was not a played-out concept in Sweden at the time.The people living in the commune are very believable and well-acted, but they are also classic Awakening-era stereotypes -- the radical Communist, the Mother Earth hippies, the newly Liberated Lesbian, the Open Marriage couple, the Gay Man and so on.People are saying this is a comedy, and that is not quite true. There are funny scenes and the end is uplifting, but for the most part this is a film about the dark side of the Consciousness Revolution. The Swedish Boomers are slammed big time -- not for their beliefs, but for the way they treat their children.Again and again the filmmaker shows how the adult's lifestyle experimentation causes them to ignore and even abuse the kids. There are several scenes that brought me to tears involving the girl. The chief form of abuse is emotional neglect. Everyone gets enough to eat and a place to sleep, but the kids are secondary and even a hinderance to the great experiment.At the same time, the kids constantly see through the foolishness going on around them.A third boy, Tet was born in the commune. He seems to expect nothing from the adults and is casual about sucking up beer lying around after their parties. Fortunately, his dad -- a cynic who frequently needles the other adults -- seems to care about him.Again and again the filmmaker pounds home that the commune is not a good environment for kids. In other words, he is showing us the genesis of Generation X, Sweden-style. It is not great for all the adults, but the kids don't have any choice about being there. In many ways this film reminded me of a Judy Blume story.The filmmaker is not simply telling us that communes were bad -- he insists that families have to be 'real' in some way to provide love and support. One of the main characters is a 14-year old boy who visits the girl from across the street. His parents are just as toxic as the free-thinkers, despite their traditional family structure. Just like the commune, they have substituted rule-based ideology for emotion.Just when you think the kids are going to be ruined, things change for the better. People leave and join the commune, and the mood alters. By the end we no longer have an ideology-inspired alternative lifestyle, but a true extended family -- not traditional, but loving and supportive. A very powerful and hopeful film.  "},{"Title":"Great actors, great story","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this with no previous knowledge, I was pleasantly surprised. I was 14 in 1975 (the year the story takes place) and even though I lived in Belgium (and not in Sweden) I could identify myself very well with the two children around whom the action is set. This movie was funny, well-written, well acted and left me with a very good feeling about life in general. Don't expect a sentimental romantic comedy, but a realistic portrait of life in a Swedish commune.After seeing this movie I also rented Fucking Amal and felt that Tillsammans(Together) was much more consistent and polished than F.A. A must-see, a splendid time is guaranteed for all.  "}{"Title":"Warm, but ultimately uncompromising.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it hard to believe that this is not a fairly blunt, reactionary critique of alternative lifestyles, and of the attendant half-baked ideologies that accompany it.The use of the contemporary film technique of 'fly on the wall documentary' rewound to the 1970s was interesting. It gave the the film an air of  realism that was necessary in underlining the film's serious point.The reason that the characters are all so likeable and intelligent  reinforces the message; if they were not it would undermine the credibilty of the message that their 'system', albeit an alternative one, was as flawed, if not moreso, than the system against which they are raging. This is a film about systems and ideologies overpowering people.But  Moodysson not only presents the problem, he presents the solution. You do not tolerate your partner sleeping with other people. You do not watch your marriage fall apart. Either way you ultimately reach happiness by conforming to the time tested, western, Judeo-Christian model of monogamy as the framework and the basic building block of a happy, stable society. But Moodysson does not suggest that that conforming to that model, in itself, is sufficient. Effort has to be made, and sacrifice has to be conceded. It was healthy to see children portrayed as the losers in the game of fickle, immature adults. This could easily have been an adult film about adult problems, but the injection of childrens' perspective into the plot gave the film context.Ultimately, though, this isn't a particularly sophisticated film. It blurs the edges as an excuse for exploring the problems, and it's a bit simplistic. A bunch of flowers and a pile of promises don't solve all marital problems.  But ultimately a well made film that will serve as a reference for a time largely passed, where the alternative vied with the mainstream for credibility, and where there was a higher cost than was anticipated. "},{"Title":"a writer/ director with a superb grasp of human nature","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very human tale told with great humanity.  With wit and warmth rather than cynism, Moodyson explores the contradictions of human selfishness and greed vs. ideals and altruism.  The end result is a redemptive, optimistic tale which manages to avoid the usual pat and cloying happy endings of Hollywood.It was a delight to watch the film in a full London cinema with a audience of various ages, the majority of whom (judging from the laughter throughout and comments after) thoroughly enjoyed the film.Sadly this is the sort of picture that is rarely ever financed (now) in Britain--  too much characterisation and not enough plot for the financial powers that be.  More's the pity.... "},{"Title":"A great movie with lots of humor","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Funny language and a funny movie. Maybe a little slow but worth watching. Specially in the beginning with the naked lady in the kitchen. This scene is a promotion of the whole movie. The complexity and minds of the people in the house is exactly as during the 70ties. "},{"Title":"nice and charming","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This a nice little movie about human relationships in a 1975 pseudosocialistic community with lots of lovable, colourful characters. It's never boring, always funny and gives some great insights about what makes living together both easy and hard without ever even getting near the gooey clichés of comparable major movies "},{"Title":"A truly warm film, that makes you happy.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching this movie at the cinema I felt so warm inside, and happy. The story is sometimes funny, sometimes horrible and sometimes it makes you cry. The only bad thing you can say about it is that sometimes the time typical props in the scenes is just too much seventies and make you laugh even though the scene in itself really makes you cry.I would say that this is the best Swedish movie ever made, and if I would ever recommend somebody to see just one Swedish movie, this is the one I would recommend. "},{"Title":"A touching movie, with a great sense for humanrelationships.","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an outstanding film! I have watched it at the Rotterdam Festival of 2001. After the success of Fucking Aamal, Moodysson's new film was sold out and the expectations were high.The story is placed in Sweden in the seventies. The decade of Marxism, commune lifestyle and tolerance. A group of young people share a house in a Swedish suburb, where the neighbours observe their alternative lifestyle with suspicion. Their claimed tolerance is being tested constantly. Discussions vary from who is supposed to do the dishes and should there be a TV in the house or not? The commune appears almost like a normal family!There is one painful aspect in the film the position of the children in the commune. Even for tolerant and political aware parents it seems to be very difficult to give their children a worthy position in the commune and in the society as a whole. It is evident that children are handed over to the chosen lifestyle of the parents; whether conservative or alternative.From this report it may seem that this is a serious and depressing film. But that is certainly not true! There are many funny and touching moments and there is a pleasant happy ending. I can recommend this film to anyone!  "},{"Title":"Much better ending than Fucking Amal","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angelo is right, this is much better than Fucking Amal, because it is funnier, and has a better story and finally an ending. Love to listen to Abba's SOS and to see good old commune life-style. Had a lot of good laughs, one of my best movies I've seen this year, right behind Eureka and You Can Count on Me. "},{"Title":"A Warming Swedish Movie","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes, you get proud of being Swedish. And I am now. I love this movie who takes place in the 70's, where a mother and her two children leave their husband/father to live with their brother/uncle in a collective. You got to see it! From the director of Fucking Åmål, who in English is named Show Me Love. An absolute 10! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, no less -- A Swedish American Beauty, only better","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When seeing Moodysson's debut-movie, Fucking Åmål (English title Show Me Love), I regained my faith in the Swedish movie industry. I really liked Vildängel, and most movies by Ingmar Bergman are masterpieces, but there is still too much of noise that drowns the heavenly choirs (this applies to Hollywood to an even larger degree, of course, but the annual Swedish movie production isn't exactly big, and most of the noise from Hollywood get filtered out before coming to Sweden, so most of what arrives to the box offices here in Sweden is quite acceptable.) When I noticed that Moodysson had made a new movie, I had very mixed feelings.I knew he would never be able to make something better than his debut, so I did not to rush away at once to see it. Still, I didn't want to miss a good movie, so I decided to wait until some of my friends had seen it, and let them tell me whether it was worth seeing or not. After hearing nothing by appraisal of the movie, from both movie critics and friends, I decided to give it a go. I was not disappointed.Simply put, I damn myself for doubting Moodysson's abilities to make a good second movie. Moodysson did not only parallel his first one; he was able to push himself a couple of notches higher. This movie is so good that I'll probably go see it again once or twice at the theater before buying the Video/DVD. The movie is a masterpiece, nothing but a masterpiece.This movie is the Swedish counterpart to American Beauty, only (in my humble opinion) much better. And you should note, that I voted American Beauty as a tenner. This movie is... Indescribable. The story has nothing in common with American Beauty, but there are still so much that makes me feel that these movies share a special bond.Moodysson is worth an Academy Award or two for this one, the actors are too -- the acting is just sooooooo convincing; the characters seem perfectly natural, their feelings pure and their acting balanced. And the art director... Wow! The settings reproduces the feeling of Sweden in the 70's so perfectly that you feel like you have moved back in time. It's almost scary -- every detail is perfect.I have a hard time deciding whether this is THE best movie I've seen or not, but it's a very hot candidate. I'll have to rent all my other favourites and see them through, then see this one again before deciding, but at the moment, I'm tending to believe this one would win.For all Swedes (or indeed, most people of the Nordic countries) if you haven't seen it, do so. You won't regret it. If you've seen it already, well, there's nothing stopping you seeing it again.For everyone else if you get the chance, take it. You might not understand all the small details Moodysson has managed to squeeze into the movie, and you might not laugh at all the situations that the average Swedish audience laughed at, but I think that most people really will enjoy this movie.I'll not be surprised if this becomes the most successful Swedish movie ever. It's a movie that both critics and audience loves. It's a mirror of our own souls, it's a look into one of the most important things in society -- the fear of being alone.The next time Moodysson blesses the world with a movie, I'll stand in the front line waiting for a ticket at the opening, if I so have to wait in line for a month to get one. (10/10!!!) "},{"Title":"Funny, thoughtful, and a trip back in time","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw _Tillsammans_ earlier this month in Stockholm. So many memories of the 1970s came flooding back -- and decades never really end smoothly with years ending in '9', so 1975 was close to the very end of the 1960s. The period props and set decorations were perfect (such as the posters on the wall).But of course the characters were the stars; the reckless, rebellious time just a backdrop. I can't pick out any character I liked better than the others -- other than perhaps Göran, who struck me as a quiet idealist -- since they all worked so well together. Yes, that era, in much of the Western world, was a time of feeling that the world was there for the young to change. I was young and idealistic then, too.This is certainly a different movie from _Fucking Åmål_. I think there are two reasons for this first, the main characters in _Tillsammans_ are adults with adult outlooks on politics, sex, and used to be called here The Establishment. The young teens are shy and nervous in this house of adult activity; whereas in FÅ, they are dealing almost entirely with kids their own age. Second, kids in 1975 _were_ more reserved than they are 25 years later.But I have thoroughly enjoyed both movies, and look forward to Lukas Moodysson's next one.  "}{"Title":"One long and sometimes painful walk down memory lane","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The scenery is next to perfect, the hideous brown t-shirts and the striped woolen sweaters, that itched and were too tight and the music and the milk cartons and the strong beliefs. In the opening scene every member of the socialist collective cheer after hearing the radio announcement that Franco has died.After seeing the movie, it just makes you wonder, did they really love more, believed more strongly and cried out their opinion much higher in the glorious year of 1975 and if so, where are we now? "},{"Title":"Ten minutes of standing ovation in Venice!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this great movie in Venice,during the 57th Festival,and being present the director.I've been really amazed after this movie.Tillsammans is a film full of joy,and real feelings.I hope it will be successfull as Fucking Amal(I loved it,obviously)and even more,not only in Sweden but everywhere.I know you can think I'm not very original,but in my opinion everybody should see Tillsammans.It seems that all Venice's people present at the Sala Perla when the movie was presented,were particularly touched by the lightness of Moodysson's style.I mean,I've never heard something like that viewing other 34 films in Venice,10 minutes of standing ovation.Really thanks from the heart(and the brain),mr.Moodysson! "},{"Title":"He has done it again","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lukas Moodysson has done it again! Another movie with brilliant dialouges, superb acting and with a great plot.You can´t compare Tillsammans with Fucking Åmål, that would be a misstake. This movie is about a group of extreme-socialists living together in a house in the seventies. During the movie we get to know lots of great characters.. For an example * Anna, who desperatly wants to be a lesbian to prove that shes not a part of the mens sexistic society. * Göran, who wants to get along with everyone. He even allows his girlfriend to sleep with other guys.. * Erik is the son of a rich banker. He doesen´t like his father very much and tries very hard to be the exact opposite.. Thats why he choosed to be an extreme leftist.The first scene is when Göran listens to the radio when they announce that Franco is dead. He jumps up and runs trough the house shouting of happiness Franco is dead!! Franco is dead!! And so it continues. Alot of laughs and tears! See this movie!!!// Jonas Eriksson "},{"Title":"Lukas did it again!!!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at the premiere. Only two times in my whole life I have applauded a film at the cinema. The first time was when I saw Fucking Åmål, the second time was when I saw this. It's a really good story about the 70's. The comedy in the movie is very simple. But so genuine. All the character are so perfect in this story. Lukas is a very good director, his movies are brilliant. I think everyone should see this film. Maybe it's a bit difficult for children under 12. But, it's a good movie to see if you feel angry. "},{"Title":"A hell of a movie","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  He's done it again. Tillsammans or Together is as good as - if not better than - Fucking Åmål or Show Me Love as the geeky americans renamed it. A new international success is not impossible, as the movie is the only swedish contribution to this year's film festival in Venice.  "},{"Title":"A touching, embarrassing and very funny piece of the swedish 70´s.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A story told with much love about the life and sorrows of a Swedish alternative household in the 70´s. The household (big family) is called Tillsammans (Together). It´s a touching, embarrassing and very funny piece of the swedish culture. As they say in the film It´s more fun to eat porridge together than to eat fillet of beef on your own.Excellent stage design, with a lot of cult objects. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as Fucking Åmål.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this film before the swedish premiere (on friday this week), wohoo!The style from Fucking Åmål is clearly visible and it's even more extreme than FÅ. The reason why I liked FÅ better is because of its ingenious simplicity and situations more easy to relate to. Tillsammans (Together) has a more complex story and is set in a collective during the leftwing wave of the seventies in sweden.Trivia The Fucking Åmål gang can be seen in the scene where the children are buying hot-dogs.The main characters from Moodyssons shortfilm Bara prata lite also appears.  "},{"Title":"enormously enjoyable and endearing","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Catching Lukas Moodysson's first feature, F**king Amal (aka Show Me Love), on whichever of the BBC digital channels is the posh one, I was quietly entertained by the charming and humorous tale of teens finding their own path in life. Together is even more wonderful and even more comical and even more emotional. The tale of a 70s commune being deconstructed by new arrivals would no doubt have become a grandiose 'ensemble piece' in the hands of a US or UK director (say PT Anderson or Lawrence Kasdan). Moodysson though is able to direct with great subtlety, making a film as funny as it is poignant and passionate; he just doesn't know how to over egg the pudding. Any film that can use Abba's SOS with heartbreaking effect during the opening scenes, then use the same song (unchanged) as a joyous anthem at the end deserves 5 stars. This is an enormously enjoyable and endearing film. "},{"Title":"Just keep watching until the end","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everybody who claims to know something about foreign cinema will agree with me that Lukas Moodysson is probably one of the most famous directors when it comes to the recent Scandinavian cinema. And with his Lilja 4-ever and Fucking Åmål, this man needs no more introduction. When you've seen those movies, than you'll agree with me that this man must be some kind of genius. That's also the reason why I was looking forward to this movie, hoping that it would be at least as good as these other two.Tillsammans or Together in English is the name of the commune in which Göran lives in 1975. When his sister leaves her husband because he has hit her, she and the kids move in with Göran and eight other people between the ages of 25 and 35 and their kids, who form this ultra-left commune. At first everything seems to work perfectly, but gradually some cracks start to form in the 'perfect' community and it doesn't take long before they all start to realize that life in such a commune isn't the answer to every worldly problem either...Even though this movie isn't perhaps as good as the two other movies that I mentioned above, I must say that I had a very good time watching it. At first it felt a bit too much like communist propaganda, but that was only because I didn't know yet that this was only to show that this form of life wasn't perfect either. Only when I started to realize that, I liked this movie a lot more. And I must say that I really appreciated its mix of fine humor, good acting, interesting drama and ABBA music. It all felt a bit unreal, but never unrealistic and I admit that I had a really good time with it after all. That's also the reason why I would recommend this movie to everybody who is interested in Scandinavian cinema in general and in Moodysson's work in particular and why I give this movie a 7.5/10. Watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Funny and intelligent","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my regrets is not to know Swedish cinema enough... Apart from notable exceptions -the Ingmar Bergman's movies, some films of Jan Troell and Lasse Hallström (before coming to Hollywood) as well-, in non-Scandinavian countries these films are not shown. It happens very rarely. It's a pity, because I know Swedish cinema is very good and interesting.It's also strange when I think that Sweden has lots of actors and movie professionals famous all around the world (Greta Garbo, Ingrid Bergman, Anita Ekberg, Bibi Andersson, Ingrid Thulin, Britt Ekland, Maud Adams, Lena Olin, Pernilla August, Max Von Sydow, Erland Josephson, Stellan Skarsgaard, Peter Stormare, cinematographer Sven Nykvist). The fact is that most of these people have become famous in working abroad (other Europe's countries or USA) ...I enjoyed Tillsammans a lot. We're in a hippie commune in Stockholm in 1975. Many people live together political idealists, frustrated intellectuals, homosexuals, a woman and two children who have just left their husband/father. The film is a study of relationships, many stories cross each other. Without making an intellectual movie, Moodysson gives us a very intelligent movie, very well written and terribly funny (without being vulgar).The movie is a caricature about political idealism and middle class in that period. We see the contradictions in these two attitudes. We think, but we also laugh a lot! I think this film is a gem. I hope the success of films like this one help Swedish movie industry to become more popular in the rest of the world.  "}{"Title":"Life in the seventies","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In 'Tillsammans' it is 1975 and we are in a commune in Stockholm. People with their own ideals try to live together. Some have a partner, some have children. Some are gay, some are straight, some are not sure. There is also a couple with an open relationship, Goran (Gustav Hammarsten) and Lena (Anja Lundkvist), but they basically have no relationship at all.We follow the lives of these characters. We see how the sister of Goran, Elisabeth (Lisa Lindgren), moves in, with her two children, how the children hate it at first but slowly starting to like it, how the husband of that sister, Rolf (Michael Nyqvist), wants his wife back, how one of the kids, Eva (Emma Samuelsson), begins a friendship with the boy next-door, Fredrik (Henrik Lundstrom). We see human life in a commune.With moments of comedy and more dramatic moments the story of all those characters is told. Some are surprising, some are logical and some are strange, but they are all convincing. With every event we think it is something that could happen. The performances are all very good and I especially liked the performances of all the kids. Director Lukas Moodysson apparently knows how to get the best from his kids and teenagers as we saw in his 'Show Me Love' (or 'Fucking Amal') about two teenage girls, one lesbian and one that isn't sure. "},{"Title":"Where are those happy days? They seem so hard to find.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall, this was very clever and amusing, with some very enjoyable moments, and a fascinating collection of characters. My only problem is that some key features of the story were highly implausible. For example 1. The only openly gay man in the cast is also the ugliest in appearance. 2. Rolf, the estranged husband, gives us a happy end by promising never to drink again, and never to hit his wife again.  "},{"Title":"Great film.  Too bad I watched it entirely in Swedish and couldn't understand a large part of it.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tillsammans was a great film depicting the communal lifestyle.  It helped having beauties like Anja Lundqvist and Jessica Liedberg in it as well. Lukas Moodysson does a great job as he did in Fucking Amal (Show Me Love) in describing social eccentricities.  Maybe seeing it with English subtitles next time would improve my review. "},{"Title":"feel good movie","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the film starts a bit slowly - probably due to its many characters - it does keep up a pleasant enough pace.  Particularly the special/odd situations of all characters and getting them all together in one community house makes it funny and intriguing.Detail but cool, especially for those who already were walking around in the year 1975 (the year the movie goes about)  although I was still a child then, I do recognise many household objects, cultural and political viewpoints of that time.  Charming to see these back ! "},{"Title":"You don't have to be in Hollywood to make a feel good film.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tillsammans has good acting, good camera work and some pretty good laughs going for it, but plot?  A no good drunk has an epiphany through a middle aged divorced man?   Reformation through football (association football, or soccer to us Americans)?  It's amusing enough, though.  "},{"Title":"All Together Now","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good to see such an interesting film about hippies without a cliche insight and great attention to detail, without any of the usualpseudo-hippy attempts to get just some of the detail correct.Likeable in the main, Together works extremely well as a story about agroup of reasonably ordinary who come together, experiment with variousrelationships and then for whatever reason, find their own way in theworld (while of course remaining 'together').The character Goran's metaphor for life, as a bowl of porridge is justone of many key moments which really makes you want to sit and stare atthese folk for a long, long time. However these golden clips seem tocome all at one point in the movie and after such we are left with aslight feeling of desolation and despair when for about ten awkwardminutes in the last quarter it losses all direction. Worth seeing,especially for the soundtrack and the friendship between the younger  "},{"Title":"Tragedy and comedy in a perfect setting","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think this film will reach the same kind of international acclaim as did Fucking Åmål. Not because of the political views that the characters air throughout the movie, but because of the setting, the typically Swedish clash between societies and because of all the memorabilia that the team has managed to salvage from the mid-70's. The blue underwear with the yellow crowns, the UGLY glasses and the posters and even the Tuborg beer cans.Director Moodyson manages to keep tragedy and comedy close together, mainly because he has understood that tragedy does not necessarily mean life-threatening situations or entire families lost. It's enough with picturing a father who goes to the basement to tinker and then proceeds to masturbate while hammering away at the workbench. It's enough to see and hear the poor old man invite his plumber for a beer and then undo what the plumber fixed just so that he could have his company again.This film is more about loneliness and being afraid of loneliness than anything else. And the setting is perfect a community of extreme leftists and all that entails - ridiculous discussions of whether to ban Pippi Longstocking books (because she is a capitalist and object-oriented), free sex and liberal thinking that doesn't work.What is most amazing about this film is actually how stunningly well the director has portrayed the era. He must have some really colorful memories of it. The music, the ideas, the stuff. It was almost creepy. "},{"Title":"LOVE, PEACE & LAUGHTER","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very amusing film depicting a Swedish commune. It never seeks to patronize, but instead pokes fun at the seriousness of it's characters. It's also notable for it's strong portrayal of the child characters. So many great comic scenes, although the Pinochet torture game was mine.Drop out and enjoy this life-affirming movie for those who love football, ABBA and Karl Marx.  "},{"Title":"Well-observed, but ultimately fails to entertain","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting cinema verite in the European tradition. The film looks at a 60'Swedish commune not the laid-back, dope-smoking UK/USA style of the period, but something far more politically orientated. The characters are reasonably interesting and the docu-soap aspects seem convincing and worthwhile, but the film tends to lack any variation in pace and this, together with the Swedish monotones, tends to grate after a while. "},{"Title":"A study about anarchism in the late sixties","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Tillsammans of director Moodysson is definitely an interesting study about anarchism in the late sixties and early seventies of the previous century. This episode of our recent history, in which some young people tried to develop new and it was to be hoped better ways of living, deserves to be told. This movement was a reaction to the life style of the war generation, which while rebuilding their countries and countering the Bolshevist infiltration, grew accustomed to a regulated way of life (including censorship etc.). The generation of 1968 saw opportunities to shake off this surplus repression, and behave in a more playful and creative manner. The change (Bob Dylan!) was indeed necessary, but the youthful recklessness was bound to degenerate into excesses. This is nicely documented for instance in the little-known but excellent film Strawberry statement. On the other hand Tillsammans shows the more successful attempts of the episode, which in several aspects have managed to persevere. A personal caveat is in place a review can not and should not be objective. I could have participated in the social experiments of the time, and therefore must wonder if I have missed something. In the past decades I used to visit anarchist book fairs, and thus got an impression of their motives. I find the merit of Tillsammans that it addresses most of them. As such the film is more successful than the film Hair, which is a mutilation of the fairly authentic musical. What do we have? Some ten young people have created a commune in a single house. There is the couple, who wants to integrate with mother Earth and abandon all technological progress. For modern life is artificial and not sustainable. They are the predecessors of the modern ecological movement. In our times ecology has been integrated into business, so that the small-scale anarchist initiative has been marginalized by its own success. However you can still find them in some places, though. Then there is the extreme left-wing radical, who truly believes in the revolution. He gushes about Che Guevara, reads Lenin works, but abhors the party and undoubtedly likes workers councils. He gives up his study in order to agitate in the factory. This type of anarchism was never successful, although elements can still be found in Latin America. Another vital element of anarchism is the sexual liberation. There is the woman, who advocates polygamy, also in deed. Unfortunately, her partner has not really thought out the idea, and vomits on the occasion. Of course polygamy is age-old, but here it can and is discussed, and also for women. The poor guy is told that he does not give her a true orgasm. Then there is the homosexual man, who has come out, but at first can not find a partner. As the reflected image, there is the heterosexual woman, who for feminist reasons decides to become a lesbian. In fact the narrative is moderate here, since she is not a hard-core feminist. The then hard-core feminists banished all men, since they were believed to be natural oppressors, and lived in female communes. For instance global fame was acquired by the Danish estate Kvindelandet (Womens Land). Today this female network has disappeared, but lesbian couples have become quite usual. A hallmark of this anarchist section is the meditation, preferably based on Buddhism, with its respect for all life forms. The film contains many tragi-comic scenes of the situations, which evolve from the experiments. I enjoyed the part, where the left-wing radical tries to persuade a constable to take sides with the common people. Unfortunately Moodysson has intertwined his description of the commune with a story about a battered house wife, who takes refuge in the commune. Thus we also witness the alcohol abuse of the husband, his growing social isolation, and his effort to repent. These are fascinating problems, but it overcrowds the film, and is perhaps added for commercial reasons only. Moodysson seems to suggest, that communes serve to remove the loneliness, that is inherent in our postmodern individual society. Relations without commitment offer no durable satisfaction. This may be a truism, but it is not the decisive motive for anarchist ways of life. Moreover it develops the story line in an incredible direction. For the commune embraces the repenting husband, and at the same time sheds the last ideological remnants. The Earth First couple and the left-wing radical had already left, the vegan nourishment is abandoned (but Drinking Cola is one step too far), and the polygamic woman is expelled. The ruling order sighs with relief. Nevertheless, Tillsammans remains an interesting and somewhat alternative film. Although it may be an actual tragedy, this is sufficiently balanced by humor. I definitely prefer it above Moodyssons later ink-black film Lilja-4-ever. If you like such films, consider reading my other reviews. "}{"Title":"leaves you feeling all positive inside","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" it truly is a wonderful movie, that instead of getting trough with violence or grossness or sadness gets to you with good humor and pleasant characters. the script is original and acting is great. I watched Tillsammans because I really liked the Lutz character from Brüno and I found out that Gustaf Hammarsten was chosen because of his role in Tillsammans. I can see why. I recommend it to anyone who is mature enough for a really simple movie. I do think that people under 15 (males under 25) will find it a bit boring, but it isn't slow paced, just too simple for younger crowd.It's been now 2 days since I watched it and I still feel the positiveness that it left me with. "},{"Title":"A slap changes everything, could be the message","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Together, a new Swedish film, tells of a married woman who leaves her drunken husband to live in a commune with her brother and other socialists.  She also brings her kids along, with much dismay.  Good performances mixed with some (bitter)sweet scenes and a large spread of sex make this watchable, but I wouldn't reccomend it in total because a lot of times the people were expected to admire and sympathize aren't smart or good people.  Plus the socialist and communist material is pushes on the audience more than some can tolerate (I myself thought it wasn't neccessary to have so much commie stuff).  If the focus had mainly been put on the drunken father, who intermittently tries for redemption, it would've been even better.  Still, some scenes are laugh out loud funny, for instance, a neighbor of the Togethers who says he's going to work in his woodshop but does more than that as we find out.  B "},{"Title":"Oj, oj, oj...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There I was, thinking this would be yet another witty Swedish comedy. Some of my favourite actors... Intriguing plot set in a jail. It was not THAT funny, I admit, but what a film!!! I was swept off my feet and felt a hard punch in my stomach when he died. After the film I was so taken I was still crying, I had to walk home in snow, could not take the underground while red-eyed. Why do good people loose? "},{"Title":"Ordinary Hippie flick","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Together takes a motley bunch of people of varied genders, age, political and social ideals, sexual orientations, etc. and sticks them in a house in Sweden circa 1975 and then lets them do what hippies do while we watch voyeuristically. The result is a mildly entertaining light dramady potpourri which is very well assembled but shows us nothing new. On the downside the film is dialog-intensive with burdensome subtitles and will be less than engrossing for those old enough to remember the hippy era. On the upside, it conjures some heart and humor and deals with issues which will be fresh for those too young to have remember hippies. Recommended for young adults who can identify with the idealistic and rebellious ideals and behavior tossed like a salad in a hippy collective. (B) "},{"Title":"You've simply got to love this movie","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie. Funny, heartbreaking and interesting. Its about a group of swedes living together at a place called Tillsammans in the mid 70s. This is Lucas Moodysons second great movie, and I must confess, I thought it was even better than Fucking Åmål. You've simply got to love the people in this movie, they are all great, the acting is fantastic. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Too sexy for their shirts","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pleasant.  Laugh, cry, cringe out loud.  About one of each.  No great insight into life in seventies&#133;  er  &#133;  Where was it?  Ah yes.  Abbadom.Ron (Viewed 5Feb2001)  "},{"Title":"stupidest, most stereotypical movie ever","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" stupidest, most stereotypical movie ever. The only thing that this movie managed to accomplish was to ridicule gays, lesbians, vegetarians, communists, socialists, meditation, hippies, women and men, and basically all of humanity. but not in a funny way. and just because i have to write 10 lines to submit this, i need to say that the only reason that i made it to the end was because some idiot, that i knew he was an idiot but i wanted to hope was not, told me that this movie was his favorite one. no wonder why he is an idiot. so i decided to write this review in a mood of solidarity, just in case some idiot has suggested this movie to you and you are about to watch it. don't. "},{"Title":"Together didn't do much for me","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This reminded me of Happiness in many ways it was over-hyped by critics, had many 2D characters whose quirks were there purely as straw-men for the writer to knock down with his jokes and both films seemed to get away with their simple, rather empty statements because initial critics found themselves charmed.If this were in English and had a name like Spielberg attached to it it would be easily demolished for its sentimentality and silliness. However, as an example of the kind of soft-touch Arthouse cinema that people encourage these days, people seem to leave their brains in the lobby.I won't list the weaknesses; they're easy to spot--intentionally so, as the writer wants easy fodder for his jokes--and you either sit their aghast at the paper thin treatment of sexuality or just glow with some sentimental residue that I couldn't spot, for all my efforts.--- "},{"Title":"Over hyped dramedy with stock characters","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately reviews provoke high expectations for this film, after all the premise is very promising A commune that goes through tribulations and changes after its members abandon the bourgeois lifestyle. Add to it a lost soul and kids and lots of things can happen. And here is the problem. Nothing does. Utterly predictable with barely recognizable characters that do not add up to real people, sloppy plot and inconsistent allocation of time to the various problems that surface in commune-living. At times it becomes highly confusing and slow due to lack of conflict or comedy. This is neither a very thoughtful piece nor a critique of anything but only good intentions that are not worth the price of the ticket. Rent the video if you are really bored.   "},{"Title":"We Go Together","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you can make it through, I don't know, the first three-fourths of Together (Tillsammans), the togetherness will grow on you.It's unbelievable this was released in 2000(-2001) as even though it's set in 1975, it feels like it was made in 1875. Yeah, before movies were, well, more commercial.It's the graininess, the constant and enormously amateurish ZOOMs that make it feel so&#x85;old. I doubt it was the budget; it's just lack of experience or too much desire to make this really look like 1975.At any rate, we have a battered mother, Elisabeth (Lindgren), who, rightfully, removes her two children and moves into some refugee home of many more people who believe the government (in Sweden, that is) is just as bad as it is in the States in '75.Though it's nice to see another perspective of the world of the 1970s verses just the US's, it really was the same tree huggers, anti-government, Viva the Revolution hippies and the (gasp) homosexuals &#x96; including those in training.You'll get to know the tenants of both this jam-packed (full of clichéd) residents and their neighbors, and slowly, but surely, you'll begin to care about them. I was indifferent throughout, but, again, if you can make it through, you'll really root for the lost souls of the mid-70s and want the aimless to gain solid ground.Unfortunately, the movie does fall into the Michael Bay (non-action, that is) tradition of jamming too much in Lesbians, Straight-to-gay, young love, old-to-young love, beating, separated parents, confused kids & adults, hippies, revolution, vegetarians, open relationships&#x85;.the list goes on. Thankfully, the actors pull it off, it contains a good soundtrack (mainly of ABBA, duh &#x96; it's Swedish) and by the end, you will feel good and together. "}{"Title":"All that Sex and No Pot?","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hmm, it's about 1975 in Sweden & this bunch of hippies are living together in what appears to be a clean, neat, colorful & well-appointed home.  Everyone has recently showered & in some cases, shaved (tho' not under the arms).  Dishes & laundry are somehow done & everyone has a variety of outfits.  No one (except the heroine's estranged husband who is a plumber with plenty of time between calls to sit & schmooze & drink coffee) seems to be working, but there is enough money for all these clothes & for food (even the occasional treat).  Is that because Sweden is a socialist country, or are all these people living off trust funds?Most striking of all, no one is smoking anything!  I agree with the viewer who said it left him all bubbly in the stomach, only my bubbliness came from wishing I could live in a household like that, apparently kept clean by little elves working at night.  P.S. This vision of the world is often obvious in films made by men. "},{"Title":"Silly Stew","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alice's Restaurant meets The Brady Bunch. Sexual high jinks in Swedish commune, soft punchless satire of '70's hippydom, soggy sit-com sentimentality. Like countless TV shows since Hill Street Blues, this blah movie layers multiple concurrent plots, none of which stands up on its own, as if the aggregate could make up for the failure of the single parts, a common enough contemporary ploy (e.g.,ER, NYPD, etc). Another American copycat; Coca Cola has truly tainted the brain of the world. "},{"Title":"Stinks","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An attempt at depicting a Swedish Commune household, complete with heavily suggested Homosexuality, and suggested Lesbianism. Kids drinking wine and smoking. Teen girl baring breasts to young boy. And inferences to pot growing and use. Underage boy looking at Nudie Magazines, and his young female friend looking at male genitalia in a book on male anatomy. Anyone who infers that this is a sweet comedy, or that this movie needs no plot, Because movie plots are overrated,....or suggests that this is a family comedy, is likely as sick and as perverted as the director of this garbage obviously was. This is exploitive garbage that would likely only be entertainment for homosexuals who want to mainstream sexual perversion, promote sexual promiscuity with children,...and deliberately miss-label it as a comedy or a slice-of-life drama. It is neither. There are perverts who will rejoice the Homosexual connotations. Don't be misled by the Homosexual reviewers who love this garbage. They need serious help. "}]