[{"Title":"This existential fairy tale is devastatingly beautiful","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"65 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Princess and the Warrior moves at a leisurely pace, nowadays commonly mistaken for slow or plodding. It is the pacing antithesis of Run Lola Run, yet in remarkable ways, covers the same thematic ground. Tykwer takes Krzysztof Kieslowski's favorite themes (fate, chance, destiny) and tells one of the most uplifting existentialist tales I've ever seen on film. Poetic in its visceral impacts, heartbreaking in its emotional force, The Princess and the Warrior achieves an astonishing level of humanity which very few films ever strive to attain.As a result, The Princess and the Warrior becomes the jewel in the crown of Tykwer's filmic repertoire. With Franka Potente as the emotionally-reserved Sissi and Benno Furmann as the jaded Bodo, Tykwer has created two opposites who are fated to attract. Unlike Hollywood, however, there are no magical forces at work, no clever Meet Cute. It is very conceivable that these two could have never met, and only due to Bodo's criminal actions do they meet. Is it fate or coincidence that Bodo's run in with the law causes a run in with Sissi? Their interactions are quiet with bursts of trauma, their eyes do most of the talking. Tykwer seems to suggest that Bodo and Sissi's entire existence is to affirm each other's life.Tykwer has crafted a psychological exploration of two misguided souls looking for an escape from their lives. Stuck in perpetual repetition, Sissi and Bodo live without living, searching for some meaning but incapable of doing so or, even more sorrowful, rejecting whatever is presented to them. This is not a Pretty Woman clone but an honestly reaffirming look at two unhappy individuals finding what they so desperately need in each other. Bodo and Sissi's relationship of awkward meetings, misconceptions, and soul-binding metaphysical connections culminates in what I can only describe as one of the most impactful and emotional climaxes in all of film history--period.Kudos to Tykwer for creating one of the most romantic and spiritually-fulfilling films I've ever seen. A perfect and necessary viewing experience for anyone feeling stuck in the mundane routine of life, thrilling, suspenseful, almost painfully aware of what it feels like to be emotionally and spiritually lost. The Princess and the Warrior upholds the optimistic idea that even when things go bad, life is still worth living, if only to help someone else. It is, in my opinion, one of the finest motion pictures ever made. "},{"Title":"Stop Lola Stop","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" For me, a brilliant movie. There is so much of it, and any holes were not apparent at first viewing. But if it is not universally acclaimed, no-one is at fault. There's much magic in the hands of this director-writer. The casting is perfect; original in looks and body language, Furmann and Potente grace a modern fairy tale that says, well, something about fate, leaving the past behind, finding what you want right under your nose etc. All the old true clichés. This time, told with exquisite pace (slow), and beauty. A couple of shatteringly good scenes, well thought out, plotted and executed, all rounded out with a black humour and tender touch that keeps it CLEAR of pretension. The ending leaves a poignant, puzzled smile and an appetite for more German cinema. If you don't like this you must be a Van Damme fan. "},{"Title":"Simply beautiful - Kieslowski in magnificent colors","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"33 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Now, there was a pleasant Sunday evening.I never got around to seeing it in the theaters, but just caught it by accident on tele, and even from the start. And it works perfectly on that media as well.It is a rarely beautiful tale told in so few words, that tell so much. It is little wonder that Tykwer got to make Heaven (a script left by Kieslowski). Few has ever described the love between man and woman so catchingly and so real in so not so extraordinary circumstances. And these are the stories that sticks.And Tykwer also always seems to get the music right, notice the elegance of the end-title number You can't find peace by Pale 3 feat. Skin. Thankfully they still show end-titles now and then on danish television.There's lot more to write, but the morning a another day at work grows frightfully close.This will be a fond memory. "},{"Title":"I´m missing the words...","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There´s Bodo. There´s Sissy. They don´t know each other. A accident happens. Bodo rescues Sissy´s life. Then he disappears. She tries to find him. Will they have a chance?Sometimes it´s hard to find words to describe a movie. It´s an unusual love story, a  melodramatic thriller, that is sometimes disturbing, too - especially the scenes in the psychiatry, where Sissy works as a nurse - and with hypnotizing music (which sometimes reminds you of Lola rennt and Winterschläfer). Director Tom Tykwer shows again that he can tell stories with heart and soul. There are characters you really care for. Especially Benno Fürmanns performance touched me deeply. I could really feel the pain he´s going trough. And of course Franka Potente. I was on her side when she was desperately fighting for Bodo´s love.Probably the best german film this year, I  can highly recommend it. Watch and FEEL it!!!  "},{"Title":"Stylish and Slick","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  'Der Krieger und de Kaiserin' (2000), translated as 'The Princess and Warrior' is brought to our screens by 'Run Lola Run' director, Tom Tykwer. For myself 'Run Lola Run' was an excellent film, and i would say that this film is good in its own way. Looking at this film in comparison with Tykwer's previous debute, it doesn't have the same energy rush or rythmic motivational feel to it. However, we have to bear in mind that this is a different film entirly and audiences of 'Run Lola Run' are possibly full of predertermined expectations of Tykwer's new film, based on the previous.This film is stylish, if not more stylish than than 'Run Lola Run', despite being quite slow moving, it does make you feel 'locked' to see the film through to the end. This film is a captivating experience which will exhilarate and 'move' you in the quest for Sissi's (Franke Potente (Run Lola Run)) survival and then her quest to seek out Bono and help him to the end.OK, maybe not the 'complexist' of story lines, but it works, and is good.This is a enigmatic love story, and really if your more inclined to a Hollywood, big-budget, huge special effects etc film, then maybe this isn't the one for you. Personally, this is a slick (the film-making), stylish, captivating film and i would recommend it to anyone who likes a 'visual' film (i know that sounds mad, but e.g. very visual and superb camera angles etc)! See it before you buy it, because it might not be your cup of tea!8/10  "},{"Title":"As good or better than LOLA","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a rich, layered film with characters behaving in believable, realistic manners. There are no holes I could find anywhere in the film, and no clichés either. A fresh script that revisits the CUCKOOS NEST asylum setting with a woman as the anti-McMurphy - she is employed there but thinks it may be time to leave.The man she encounters in a harrowing little moment underneath a semitruck is the trigger that allows her to confront the life she has in comparison to the one she may want. But the only way she can know for sure is to meet up with this stranger once again.Coincidence as a theme plays heavily in this director's oeuvre (Lola was based entirely on the premise of what is needed for no coincidences to have occurred). But the plot is much deeper after initial relationships are laid out. "},{"Title":"Tykwer's make-or-break is a make, but an uneasy one.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Only a fool would expect this to be a second Run Lola Run. But unfortunately, there will be a lot of fools out there This won't be the hit that Tykwer's former film was. And, just to say that Run Lola Run still plays in a higher league.But that's, of course, not to say that The Princess And The Warrior is a bad movie. Quite the contrary there should be more films like this one. It's slow at times, yes, but to the ones with keen eyes it's meditative. It's metaphysical, in the end even surreal, it's down-to-earth, but at the same time very outlandish, it's a love story, but without the usual assets there's no kissing, let alone sex; yes, even holding hands just occurs for a second. It's about a spiritual love, something epic, as the title suggests.Many people won't like it; far too few people will love it. And I'm somewhere in between It's a bold movie to make, especially in the dull (to be polite) movie scene of Germany, and a good one, too. Something refreshingly different (and wonderfully written, directed, shot and acted, I might add...). But somehow, you can't help feeling just a little disappointed after the milestone of modern film making that Tom Tykwer released two years ago.8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"My 1st Tykwer Experience","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film was playing in our little theater here, as part of the Beyond Normal Films promotion about a year & a half ago. I must say that before then, I had never heard of Tom Tykwer.Since then, he has become 1 of my favorite writers & directors. I immediately went out & got the highly acclaimed *Lola rennt* & I must say that I was very impressed. I also got to check out his most recent film *Heaven* as part of this year's Beyond Normal ticket; I LOVED it.If you are not familiar with Tykwer's work, I would suggest you start with *Der Krieger.* The story has several elements that almost everyone will enjoy & although the story may be a little slow in a few parts, it is nonetheless, interesting. It is not really a film for kids though.I was once a little intimidated by films in a language I could not understand (German, for instance). There were several times that I did not even have to read the subtitles to know what was going on, it was great & even a little inspiring to me for wanting to learn some German (Danke schön, Tom). I encourage you all to check this flick out if you have not yet.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Methodically beautiful imagery, story and characters- a gorgeous film","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a modern fairy tale, treat and appreciate it as so. The characters are bold, and their actions are representative of who they are than what actual people do. I say this because I noticed every negative review of this film was caught up in looking for realism- there isn't any. The setting may be proposed as so but the method through which the story is told unfolds like a performance piece.This film is brilliant- stark personalities, dynamic relationships, and a mix of modern, classical, and fanciful direction. The allegorical context is brilliant when mulled over. I would compare it to `Last Tango in Paris'.  "},{"Title":"Escape From the Valley of Suffocation and Immobility","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Wuppertal is a town that I know well, because, the same as Tom Tykwer, I was born in it and spent my youth there. Like a long tube it extends along the narrow valley of the river Wupper from east to west. It is a fairly big and industrialized city, and, due to the narrowness of the valley, its air is almost unbreathable in times of smog. It is therefore not a surprising fact that there is a high moving rate. Sissi and Bodo, the empress and the warrior of the title, are also on the move. They try hard to get away from the sickening valley, and this movement of escape is set into relation to their dispiriting life situation they are struggling to find the exit of that blind alley in which they are reduced to an inactive immobility.The psychiatric ward, where Sissi works, is a place completely shut off from the outside world. And Sissi does not do much to get way from it she occupies a little room inside the hospital, and seems satisfied with her role as the inmates' darling and shining light. It is only by accident that a turnaround of her situation can take place. Or is it destiny? A friend of the past, who has emigrated to the breezy coast of Brittany, asks her to go to the bank in order to settle an inheritance matter. The accident occurs on the way, in the literal sense of the word Sissi is run over by a tanker, and suddenly finds herself under the vehicle being unable to breathe. In this dramatic situation Bodo, a runaway criminal,  comes to her rescue, and executes a life saving tracheotomy on her. Suddenly she can breathe again, as if by pure magic.But then there is suffocation once again. Once she is back in her ward, she feels overwhelmed by the immobility of her life, in which everything seems determinated from the cradle to the grave, in which no change whatsoever is likely to take place. And in which something terribly great, something tremendously indispensable is sadly missing You may call it love.Sissi needs to get out of the ward, out of the dullness of her daily routine. And there is only one exit she can think of Why shouldn't the warrior, who once ensured her physical survival, also ease her existential pain? For her he is an agent of destiny, the only living creature with the ability to make her breathe again.She does not see that Bodo is caught in a trap himself. Haunted by the excruciating experience of the violent death of his wife, he is unable to give a new perspective to his life. He therefore ignores the power of fate conjured up by Sissi and rejects her with hurtful vehemence.The characters are locked up in the standstill of their own lives, and they find it as hard to open that exit door as it is a hard and strenuous way to climb from down in the valley up to the summit of the hill, and to progress from there to a different world. Bodo lives on the top of the hill, from which he can see the whole town of Wuppertal. But nevertheless his view is limited he cannot see what is beyond the summit. Sissi, on the other hand, is the driving force that pushes him forward. Again and again she climbs that hill up to him, until she finally gets the just reward. In the end she and Bodo are set free, and they are heading for the coast of Brittany, where at last they will be able to breathe the liberating air of the Atlantic Ocean.  "}{"Title":"The Princess And The Warrior ***","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Having loved Tykwer's impressively energetic RUN, LOLA, RUN (1998), I was really looking forward to watching his follow-up feature but, somehow, I never managed it until now (I did get to watch his subsequent film, HEAVEN 2002). Thankfully, it was worth the wait and the result is almost as good. While the film is long and often rambles on rather aimlessly, it is never boring and, at times, disarmingly inventive and emotional; the leading players, especially the enchanting Franka Potente, have a lot to do with the latter quality. THE PRINCESS AND THE WARRIOR's main themes are matters of chance and fate but it also features an elaborate bank robbery and a long stretch of it takes place in an insane asylum (where Potente practices some unorthodox therapy on a couple of her patients) which is not too far removed from the one seen in ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST (1975). "},{"Title":"Weird Romance with a Flawed Screenplay","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The lonely nurse Simone Sissi Schmidt (Franka Potente) spends her life with the interns and colleagues at the Birkenhof mental institution where she works. One day, a friend of Sissi from overseas asks her to go the bank to check her inheritance that is in a safe and Sissi goes to the city with a blind patient. Meanwhile the smalltime crook Bodo Riemer (Benno Fürmann) is chased by two men that he had robbed and he provokes an accident. Consequently a truck runs over Sissi while she is crossing the street and Sissi lies under the truck, but she can not breathe. Bodo helps her with a tracheotomy and she becomes infatuated with the guy. Fifty-three days later, she is discharged from the hospital and she seeks out Bodo. However Bodo has a severe trauma from the past and rejects Sissi. Further, Bodo and his brother Walter Riemer (Joachim Król) are planning heist the bank where Walter works. However their lives entwine again when Sissi arrives at the bank where Bodo and Walter are robbing. Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is a weird romance, with an unconventional love story and bizarre characters. However, Bodo is an unlikable character; the shallow screenplay has many flaws and is too long; and the film is boring in many moments. The masturbation scene is silly; there is no explanation why Bodo had background to perform a tracheotomy; the insistence of Sissi in visiting Bodo is annoying; and the participation of Sissi in the heist is ridiculous, and to open a safe in the bank she should have provided her personal data to the clerk. The camera work and the soundtrack are excellent. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Princesa e o Guerreiro (The Princess and the Warrior) "},{"Title":"Richly-textured and deeply satisfying","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Tom Tykwer is certainly one of the most imaginative and creative film makers in the world today. He wrote and directed this one two years after his famous RUN LOLA RUN (1998) with the same star, the mesmerising Franka Potente. This one is set in his home town of Wuppertal, Germany. Miss Potente, as usual, is very potent indeed, so potent in fact that one is entirely spellbound just watching her to see what she will do next. This film is so unpredictable, so complex, so mysterious, that it might be described as 'Symbolist' (see Paul Valéry's essay 'The Existence of Symbolism' which he wrote in 1936). If I had been told it had a script by Stéphane Mallarmé, I would believe it. All the events are richly-textured, like a fine cheese which has just turned ripe. Who are all these people, and why do they behave as they do? Potente is a nurse at an insane asylum, but late in the story, when an exasperated Benno Fürmann says she is crazy, she answers with her eerie calmness 'Natürlich' ('Certainly'). In fact, we discover that she has been working in the asylum for years because her father is an inmate there. What she discovers about the true cause of the death of her mother is part of the surprises. She has long since ceased to be part of the real world. She claims to have been born in the asylum, and it is possible that she was. In any case, the film demonstrates that there are degrees of sanity and insanity, and where you draw the line can be subjective. The film consists of one shocking dramatic moment after another, and there are some frenetic running scenes as well, reminiscent of RUN LOLA RUN. Tykwer seems to love people who run. He also likes people who get soaked in the rain, nearly drown in ponds, get unexpectedly socked in the jaw, chew on glass, get strapped in to stop them committing murder because they have been ordered to do so by a voice which is 'ganz oben' ('of the highest'), and who continually encounter as many extreme situations as possible. Early in the film, Potente is knocked over by a bus and Fürmann saves her life by giving her a tracheotomy, grabbing a straw from a blind man, and inserting it into her chest so she can breathe. She then becomes 'imprinted' on him like a baby duck who thinks he is her mama. This leads to her insistently following him around until he accepts the dictates of Fate that they must be together. To say that all the characters in the film are strange would be an understatement. Underlying the action we have themes like the true nature of love, guilt, fear, redemption, salvation, sanity and insanity, and other 'meaning of life' issues. It makes for a heady mix of surrealist philosophy and action as frantic as that of a Dada manifestation. The directing and cinematography are superb. Everything about this film is utterly fascinating. Tom Tykwer must be even more so. "},{"Title":"Run, Lola","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps Tom Tykwer took himself too seriously after Lola Rennt, so he handles the romance between a nurse and a bank-robber as if he were a young Michelangelo Antonioni taking Psychology 101 and doing his first film. Overlong but somehow still fascinating, thanks mainly to the dark character of the warrior and Franka Potente, who is always good to watch. "},{"Title":"It's not that great, or I don't get it","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERS  Well, everyone is raving about this film, but I didn't like it. It was very slow and plodding, and supposedly about destiny.  I found the narrative to be very uneven.  It seemed strange things were thrown in (the nurse jerking off a mental patient, the tracheotomy, the mother's death with the radio in the bathtub, etc).  The beginning and ending framing of the friend who lives on the coast.  I don't see it where destiny has anything to do with it. The woman forces her way into the man's life. I'd say the man was the Princess, because he needed to be rescued from grief, and the woman was the Warrior, who kept fighting her way into the man's life.  Overall, I wouldn't recommend this. I didn't think much of Run Lola Run either, but then again, I could be missing the point.  5/10. "},{"Title":"Artful Storytelling","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If you read this review now, chances are you've seen the The Princess and the Warrior when it came out many years ago. Unless you're reading this to find out whether you should take the plunge and watch a foreign film with subtitles. Short answer, if you have a little time and want to escape into a unique, strange and ultimately inspiring world of Tykwer's imagination - definitely do. Not a short answer...my bad.Very few movies successfully create a powerful atmosphere without messing with your emotions. This film takes its time. Each scene is focused and serves a purpose and what's nice about this particular movie, is that it doesn't indulge in tragedy - this shouldn't be seen as a spoiler, more as an encouragement to watch it - I've seen more than one of the director's early work.With this movie, Tom Tykwer consciously goes beyond the bleak and hopeless reality he creates in 'Die Tödliche Maria' and 'Winterschläfer', or the manic energy of 'Run Lola Run' and introduces you to a flawed, peculiar microcosm of unlikely heroes and fiends. An impressive and gripping scene towards the beginning of the movie will give you a taste of how much he's holding back to tell this unusual story of emancipation and the common underlying question of coincidence versus fate. An artistic, subtle and engaging look into a character's journey through life - twisted, maybe, but never cold or heartless.The soundtrack deserves a mention. Pale 3, three German geniuses had worked together on Tykwer's films before and manage to craft an unusual but intriguing soundtrack which after many years I still enjoy listening to. It helps tell the story with few words and leaves enough space for the viewer's emotion to be part of the movie, without dictating the mood. Why review a film from 2000? Honestly, few take you on an emotional journey as unexpected and rewarding as the Princess and the Warrior - with all its German-ness - you will make you feel good about yourself for having spent an hour and a half with a thought-provoking - and that's kind of my point here - artful movie, that doesn't indulge in violence and tragedy but instead tells a satisfying story in a way that few directors seem to have the financial support, patience or confidence to create anymore. "},{"Title":"an powerful, atmospheric and twisted take on a love story","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Princess and The Warrior is a dreamy, atmospheric, twisted, (elegantly) awkward and sometimes violent take on a love story. It draws you into its world, captivates you, floats you on its cloud, makes you feel you are there in this alternate universe- a universe you've certainly never experienced before. I've seen many films, perhaps even hundreds, but never have I seen a film quite like this. It truly was like entering another universe only Tykwer himself could have though up... And a surreal one at that. And yet, unlike most 'surreal' films, it is human enough so that you, too, feel and move with the characters. It had me bawling at its profound beauty during one instance. This, like the infamous AMELIE, is one of those romance films where everything is to be felt, rather than visualized. By this, I mean that, like Amelie, The Princess and The Warrior displays very little of what every other 'romance' film feels the need to do... There is little (if not any... but I'll let you watch the film to find out) touching, kissing, sex etc. And yet, this somehow makes it all the more effective, and ultimately, one of the most heart-wrenchingly romantic films I've ever seen.This is no trendy, action-packed 'Run Lola Run'. It is certainly stylized as all of Tykwer's films (that I've seen) are, but less blatantly and pretentiously so. But even though many were disappointed at it not being another version of Run Lola Run, I personally found 'The Princess and The Warrior' to be much more of an evolved film... perhaps a bit slower, but much smarter, more profound, and ultimately a film that gets down to the core of your bones and leaves a lasting imprint. At least for me, anyway. "},{"Title":"A fairy tale about inner peace...","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Princess and the Warrior (2000)A fairy tale, as profound as the Grimms and as playful as Anderson, but told with enough gritty realism to avoid pure fantasy. It's creates a sweet spot between believe and make- believe, and the romantic in us wants life to be as full of the kind of possibility, beauty, redemption, and escape (as a last resort) given in this fictional world. The fact that people are miserable most of the time only makes it more pungent and glittering, and the moments of joy rise like, well, the steam from a fresh baked pie. For lack of better metaphor. It's about dreams, and dreams coming true, and sometimes we have to wait for the dreams to see an open door. Surely Potente's character knows about calm, and it's through her odd, almost zen-like inner peace that we see the constant beauty in her life. It's the power of disconnection, but knowing that there is a purpose somewhere and she'll find it. Even her bedroom, in a ward of a hospital, is a chamber within a chamber from the world. Likewise, the lead man, played by the compelling xxx, Accident connects them. Or a seeming accident. It's more like the old/new idea of fate, where some bigger plan is letting a kind of frequency to find its sympathetic waves. That is, they find each other. They each leave their protective structures and go to heaven (which not by accident, I think, is the name of Tykwer's next film).Director/writer Tom Tykwer's earlier Run Lola Run set the stage for this film in many ways, mostly by opening up a huge audience eager to watch his development. (This alone is some proof that directors still hold their role of leading auteur in contemporary film-making.) The Princess and the Warrior carries the same lead actress (Franka Potente), the same composers (three are credited), and the same cinematographer. In a way, this is like the coterie of huge talent surrounding other auteur directors such as Woody Allen.Not that this is a bit like Woody Allen--there is essentially nothing funny here, though a lightness infuses everything--but it has a nice directorial solidity and consistency. And originality. I have always liked Run Lola Run better (if you haven't seen it) but both of these German films rise about what I remember of Heaven, which is a somewhat Americanized (or neutralized) international film, and made somehow made less peculiar. There is a feel to these films that is deliriously strange, and a mood gets grooving and doesn't let you go. There is a solid plot, but it isn't about plot (we couldn't care less about the bank robbery, I think). It's about that zone the two main characters occupy, of rising above the fray and recognizing what matters and, importantly, taking action on it. It's the woman's persistence against normal good logic that propels the film, and draws us into the higher state of peace it represents. "},{"Title":"Great Follow-Up to Run, Lola, Run for Tykwer","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is a very great follow-up to Run, Lola, Run, excuse my English but see this film right away.  Franka Potente is even better here than in Lola, and the film twists and turns so that you never know your way or can guess where you will be.  If you have only seen one film by this director you must see this and then you will hooked by the way Tykwer blends genres that shouldn't seem to mix and comes up with a brand new recipe for film! "},{"Title":"Fans of typical 2000s visual gimmicks and kick-boxing non-actors watch how fast this one will date!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Apologies to fans of this movie, but I really, really disliked it. A successful, poetic-existential-symbolic-lushly photographed romantic drama thingie allegedly à la Kieslowski should not feature two unintentionally funny suicide attempt scenes. Plot holes of cavernous proportions, inconsistencies and cringe-worthy, cheesy, pretentious dialogue hit a peak during the last third of the movie. Since I mentioned Kieslowski, would someone please explain why this movie is compared with anything made by the late Polish master? It's like comparing rabbit pellets to chocolate drops.The first 15 minutes may even trick you into believing you're watching something potentially good, despite an inclination towards the use of gimmicky visual tricks right from the beginning (though I did like the sequence of the letter going through various bits of machinery inside the post office). Franka Potente as asylum nurse Sissi is very aptly named indeed &#150; her character is a wet rag, a sissy. However, you first get a sense of just how dodgy this movie may truly become when about 20 minutes in, you're treated to Benno Fürmann kick-boxing in a vest for no apparent reason, which I assume was supposed to appeal to an abstract demographic of female viewers aged 13 to 21 (very dim 21-year-olds, may I add). The movie contains yet more clichés, cheese and affectedness with every passing scene. Unlikely coincidences masquerading as fate abound. Kieslowski it really is not! Cliché number one the wounded hunk who won't let another woman near his heart anytime soon, because he still hasn't elaborated the tragic death of his wife (if this had been a period drama, she would have died in child-birth). This kind of male hero is clearly meant to appeal to the sacrifice-prone Florence Nightengale that allegedly inhabits every woman &#150; and funnily enough, the heroine here is literally a nurse, not to mention a masochist without a rational bone in her body. Cliché number two The bank heist gone wrong. Oh, please. Cliché number three the colourful assortment of loonies in the loony bin, uncomfortably reminiscent of another movie I abhor The Million Dollar Hotel (why, Wim, why?!). All that was missing was a loony dwarf. In a moment of crisis, one of the loonies starts chewing glass because everyone's favourite nurse (you guessed it Sissi!) isn't paying him enough attention. Another one of the loonies, who mysteriously has free access to the asylum's roof top at night, threatens to jump for the same reason, naturally forcing the selfless heroine to make a difficult choice. Cliché number four a shocking, cathartic (not!), faux-Thelma and Louise-type scene towards the end. Cliché number five (***SPOILER***) During the above-mentioned, botched bank heist, the ugly brother dies, the handsome one doesn't.I can turn a blind eye to the odd plot hole, but there's a limit to everything. Example Sissi is delegated to pick up a friend's inheritance from the bank. Naturally, before being handed a key to the safe containing said inheritance, Sissi would have had to fill in her personal details - name, address, the works. Straight after having opened the safe, Sissi participates in the above-mentioned bank heist, and is even caught on camera doing it. In normal circumstances, the police would have been on her doorstep within hours, since they had her address and all the evidence they needed. In the movie, Tykwer preferred to have the TV set playing in the asylum show a news report the following day, providing only vague information about her (approximate height, etc), because she was wanted for having taken part in the heist! I wonder if Tykwer thinks all police agents (not to mention ambulance drivers!) are required to ingest a handful of barbiturates with their morning breakfast.Another example of Tykwerian script sloppiness why should the audience accept that Bodo could do a tracheotomy without being offered any background on how he learnt to do one? The irony is that I was actually still enjoying the movie during and straight after the tracheotomy scene, feeling confident that we would be given a plausible background for what was happening sooner or later. The movie only took a downward trajectory for me from the infamous, kick-boxing-in-a-vest scene and what followed it absolute nonsense that got worse with every passing scene. By the bank heist scene, I was mentally parodying everything I saw, unfortunately.The get out of the toilet line and the tear duct defect that Bodo had may seem deep and poetic to some, but to me they were just elements ripe for parodying. Get out of the toilet wasn't deep, nor clever in an ironic, it's meant to pretend it's deep but it's actually Tykwer winking at the audience in a post-modern kind of way. Maybe my sense of the ridiculous is too developed or just misplaced, but so much about this movie seemed unintentionally funny to me. It was also the very first time in my life that I wanted to shout Put your clothes back on, you fool! to a fit young man who was constantly required to run around in his birthday suit in melodramatic moments, or in revealing, macho attire. Like all the other characters, he was irritating, but aside from that he was also unintentionally comical. Oh, and let's be really honest can Benno Fürmann actually act? At least with Franka Potente, I could see her undeniable charm, feminine yet androgynous, and her potential as an actress through that horrible, hickuppy performance that Tykwer got out of her! Still, I think Tykwer might do well directing an episode of CSI or two. He's very good at doing the particle-swooshing-through-a-tight-internal-space kind of sequence you see in such TV series, when we're shown, say, a speck of a toxic substance travelling through the victim's lungs, or whatever. "}{"Title":"The benchmark for pretentious filmmaking","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It is probably one of the biggest pretentious pieces of filmmaking I have ever seen. Yes, the guy knows what to do with the camera, but that's about it. The movie starts out great, and has a very good premise, but somewhere in the middle it just becomes nonsense and unbelievable. Dreadful dialogue trying to be figurative and metaphorical that comes out to be plain stupid. Not even make-believe characters behave that way, it is just so bad. It feels as one of those MTV-produced movies set in Europe and done in a European style that targets the confused teenaged demographic and ends up being crap. This movie is intended for the emotionally unstable who think they are movie critics and want to recommend it to friends. Garbage, just plain garbage.Just because the director is a highly capable person and he aimed high, I'm considering this piece as higher standard cinema. In a high standard scale of filmmaking I give it a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A 10.0 on the pretention scale","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Oh Christ! My worst fears came true! Tom Tykwer was told so often by both critics and audiences that he was a freakin' genius that he actually believed it. Of course, his previous film was Run Lola Run, a smash hit on the festival circuit, and subsequently in the video stores, a couple of years ago. That film hinted that its director had some talent, but it played too much like a hip music video director's notion of a Kieslowski film. In the end, the excessiveness served only to give me a massive headache. It was also painfully lacking in substance, although I was pretty sure that Tykwer thought it was chocked full of it.The Princess and the Warrior is unfortunately a step backwards. Way backwards. Tykwer has no restraint and he certainly doesn't have a critical eye when looking at his own work. It sort of has similar themes to RLR, fate and interconnections and such. Absolutely none of it works. Few films have such an egregious lack of cohesion. I don't think there is a single scene in the entire film I thought succeeded.Take a look at this scene (don't worry, no spoilers) after being rejected by the man who saved her life, Sissi (Franka Potente) walks out in the rain. In slow motion, she stops, and then the rain ceases. She lays down in the wet grass and looks up at the stars. Brilliant, huh? Maybe if a middle schooler came up with it. An adult, I hope, would giggle at it. I won't ruin it (I think you have to see it to believe it), but the final sequence is so bad that the audience was laughing their heads off. And Tykwer, as always, wasn't joking. He thought he was being profound.Another thing I could tell you more, much more about the two main characters from Run Lola Run than I could about the characters in P&W, which is, incidentally, nearly an hour longer than RLR. In fact, I could tell you more about secondary and tertiary characters in RLR. All of the secondary characters in P&W are caricatures, especially the offensive stereotypes you're going to find in the mental hospital scenes. Stop for a brief second for God's sake, Tykwer, it's like you don't even realize that that whole mental hospital schtick was done to death twenty, maybe even thirty years ago. Christ! Anyway, before I relate the only bit of back story we get for the two major characters, I'll issue a SPOILERS warning. Sissi yeah, um, apparently, though it's not clear, her dad's one of the patients. Her mom was electrocuted in the bath tub by a hair drier that mysteriously fell into it. This is explained near the end of the film, but it's rather laughable. After those two facts, nothing else. I knew absolutely nothing about her, except that she works at a mental hospital and is not opposed to masturbating her patients. Why does Tykwer even include this scene, btw? I'll tell you it is simply to shock.  Does it say anything whatsoever about Sissi? It serves little purpose. The same goes for half a dozen other scenes in the film, like when one of the patients gets mad and starts to eat glass. Riemer okay, now this is especially funny, although it's played, if you can believe it, as straight drama he was arguing with his girlfriend one day in the car (we know nothing about her), so, when he was in the bathroom at a gas station, she, um, lit a cigarette and blew herself to smithereens. I would say that this has to be the stupidest I'm-depressed-'cause-my-girlfriend's-dead backstory in the history of the cinema, and the world, for that matter. Actually, there's that great one in The Naked Gun where Leslie Nealson tells the ol' boy-meets-girl-girl-dies-in-a-tragic-blimp-accident story. I think the one in P&W is funnier.END SPOILERSAnother thing that bugs the hell out of me is Tykwer's use of music. In RLR, the film is so steeped in execrable techno that it either hypnotizes you and carries you past the numerous flaws or it gives you epilepsy. The same is true of P&W, except that the score is a bit more traditional. The film is never once suspenseful, but you could easily be tricked into thinking it was just by the music. Actually, there is a simple piano score during the bank robbery sequence that is so beautiful I was nearly fooled into thinking the scene was the only good one in the film. It would have remained that way in my mind if not for the fact that I started to think about what was going on.The acting is pretty horrible, also. The two main characters have a combined total of two expressions. This rather disappoints me. Although I disliked Run Lola Run, I thought that Potente was quite pretty and that she might be able to act in a real film. I was wrong. My guess now would be that, even in a film where the characters are well developed, she would be poor. Maybe I should rent Blow and check out if I am right on that.So what did I like about P&W? Well, as you can probably guess, very little. However, I can recognize that Tykwer (or, more correctly, his photographer) has a talent for camera movement and framing. Color is sometimes used well. The editing can be interesting, though poorly used 99% of the time. Still, with such vapid writing, no technical prowess could ever have saved The Princess and the Warrior. It's awful. 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Absurd and underwhelming","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Der Krieger und die Kaiserin or The Princess and the Warrior is a German movie from over 15 years ago written and directed by Tom Tykwer. He made this one 2 years after Lola rennt and once again cast Franka Potente, the rising star of German cinema, as the lead character. Tykwer and Potente were still a couple at this point. But this strong relationship did not necessarily result in a good movie this time. I cannot blame Potente though, I would even say she was better in here than in the overrated Lola rennt. In terms of Benno Fürmann, I am a bit biased as he is far from one of my favorite actors and I don't think he is particularly talented. He cannot convince me otherwise here either. Also I am confused by the film's title. Not only is it fairly pretentious, but it has Fürmann's character first and he is really just a supporting player. It is all about Potente's character from start to finish. Start to finish means a massive 125 minutes here, this film makes it past the 2-hour mark, but it is not even close to having the material for this runtime and sadly, this is true for several Tykwer fans. I saw that in his newest film, he worked with Tom Hanks (again). I am genuinely baffled that he is still considered one of Germany's best filmmakers abroad. I have yet to see a movie where he really wows me, especially as a writer.But back to this one here The story is about a nurse who has a serious accident and a stranger saves her life. As a consequence, she keeps searching for him and when she has found him, she somewhat confesses her affection for him. This is already pretty strange. Can he not just be a good Samaritan without her developing feelings right away. And equally strange is his reaction. He is more interested in committing a crime (Lola reference) than in going on a date with the girl despite how stunning she is. So yeah, he has not much interest, but of course this changes at some point as they had to include a pretty bizarre love story in here too next to the bizarre crime story. This film felt like a weaker version of the Schweiger/Wokalek movie Barfuss. Tykwer proves again that he struggles a lot with character elaboration and his films are in so many cases examples of style over substance, sometimes hidden between pompous costumes or impressive special effects. But the story-telling comes short and when he really tries it, then the outcome is frequently disappointing. Just like here. Thumbs down for this movie, I do not recommend it and it lacks realism in pretty much all areas. This is nothing that could have happened in real life whatsoever. Not even close. "},{"Title":"Potente and the Warrior.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Princess and the Warrior (2000) Dir Tom Tykwer / Cast Franka Potente, Benno Furmann, Joachim Krol, Lars Rudolph, Ludger Pistor Provocative German film about the events that unite two people. It stars Franka Potente as a young nurse at a psychiatric clinic. Benno Furmann robs gas stations and is pursued by police. During the chaos Potente is struck by a truck and Furmann performs an emergency tracheotomy in a scene that is unnervingly graphic. She recovers and seeks his whereabouts and eventually tracks him down at a hideout with his brother. She is rejected but turns up again during a bank robbery where consequences are much more severe. Detailed screenplay that flashbacks to the fate Furmann's wife and the reason his brother awakens to find him caressing a hot furnace stove. Insightful directing by Tom Tykwer with a sympathetic performances by Potente who is intrigued and cares too much. Furmann plays off regret and grief. One wonders whether the conclusion is satisfactory with regards to the future of this relationship. Joachim Krol plays his brother who looks out for him until he can no longer. Lars Rudolph plays an overprotective patient who cannot maintain the focus sought for the situation. Conclusion is wayward yet it is an insightful analysis about mental instability and the consequences living in the edge. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Entrancing and unique story","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I'm not entirely sure that I can explain why but essentially, I think the reason is that the film makers managed to do something different with the plot, music and overall production quality, and transformed what may have otherwise been an ordinary script and film, into something unique and interesting.If you watch while checking messages on your phone then you won't get the full experience of being completely sucked into the story whether or not you fully understand why.I've been a fan of Franka Potente since watching Lola Rennt (1998), an epic film, and she completely transforms herself here. She and Benno Fürmann have fantastic on-screen chemistry and every scene is engaging. Many of them provide an unexpected yet highly subtle twist.I don't want to talk about the plot because it's better to just watch. Nothing extraordinary happened and yet, I feel like I've watched a rare, genuinely interesting and unique creation. Even the ending, which I won't discuss at length, was weird but fitting and completely different to anything I've seen.I don't really have any criticisms, nothing to speak of anyway.It's an easy recommendation.9/10 "},{"Title":"Its worth a review","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film is certainly worth a good review. The most cryptic film you'll ever see. Its about destiny. I have seen it a lot of times but i am still working on what on earth it wants to tell me. For the true artist, this is a ride you will love. Do not miss it if you admire psychological or mysterious films. I believe that this film is one of the most important ones in film history when it comes to cryptic films. Its really a shame that the movie fans has learned to watch American films only, thinking of this amazing creation and so many others. European films are certainly not to be underestimated. Overall Franka Potente is such a beautiful woman, i got lovestruck by her watching this movie, shes so tasty in it. That might be a part of my passion for this film. "},{"Title":"A Slow Paced Film That Is Worth It's Weight in Gold","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" First and foremost, this is not a film for everyone. If you've watched nothing but big budget Hollywood blockbusters, with their ADD style editing, this film will have you bored to tears.Yes the film is done with a very slow pace, but it's done very well. The (much above average) score, the gradual cinematography, and smart editing move the film at pace that fits Tykwer's creation just fine (in my humble opinion).Tykwer not only provides us with a unique and interesting script, he delivers it amazingly well. The acting is much above par as the leads (and most of the supporting cast) deliver very convincing real to life characters.The film slowly brings us through a myriad of twists. The last of which are little unconvincing, but leaves us, at the end, pleased to see how things were supposed to turn out.In summary, if you have the patience for a slow paced film, and don't mind watching a film in subtitles (or for those that are fluent in German) this is definitely a must see for any film buff.-A Fuzzy review "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful movie, I like to watch something with a bit of meaning. Great acting, great script, funny bits, sad bits, strong characters and a strong plot line. There is not a moment of boredom while watching this movie. Sissi is beautiful on the inside and the outside, and Benno is handsome and strong. I felt a real connection with the characters while watching.Other movies I like are Pan's Labyrinth, Amelie, Donnie Darko... in the same style where they are not just a few hours of TV-staring but where you're left actually thinking about the movie for a few days afterward. I saw this movie and then wanted to show my Mum & sister and so I saw it for the second time just the other day. "},{"Title":"Pretentious pauses","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Tom Twyker's cumbersomely-titled film, 'The Princess and the Warrior', has much in common with his justly celebrated debut, 'Run, Lola, Run', namely a plot featuring Franka Polente, a criminal love-interest, and a chase scene on foot. There's even a moment that resembles the incident with the pane of glass that was the stand-out moment from the earlier movie. But whereas the brilliance of that film was it's stripped-down essence, this movie also features a story of personal obsession and mental imbalance. Unfortunately, it's very, very slow. It's not even slow like a conventional slow film - it's not as if there's no plot. Instead, it's very literally slow - too many scenes are shot in slow motion, while in numerous others, characters pause between the sentences of their dialogue while portentous music plays in the background. Unnaturally extending the key dramatic scenes is something a director can possibly get away with in the climax to a film; but in this movie, it happens so often that if feels more as if one is watching an episode of 'Who Wants to be a Millionaire?'. The film also features superfluous melodrama (as a back story, both of it's protagonists have family members who have died young and dramatically, although neither death is truly necessary) and a strange, tacked-on ending, which smacks of a director trying too hard to be profound and clever but which feels like the conclusion to a different film. But neither has the direct sharpness of 'Run, Lola, Run'. "},{"Title":"Yawn....","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The director tries really hard to build anticipation.  It always *seems* like something is going to happen, but it never really does.  Basically, the story and script are drawn out (this movie should have been a half hour shorter).  And the rest of the film doesn't make me care about the characters.  There are things I liked, notably the beautiful imagery (like when they jump from the roof and slowly rise through the water).  But some pretty pictures are not enough to carry a film.  Also, the trailer is VERY misleading  I was expecting a fast-paced, surrealistic journey.  That's not what I got. Pass on this one. "}{"Title":"Slightly overrated","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  After reading the rave review in my local rag, I was excited to see this film.  Unfortunately, I found myself looking at my watch more than 3 times during the film which was definitely too long.  Too many plot lines took much longer than necessary to flesh out.  I wanted to like this more than Lola but alas it was not meant to be. "},{"Title":"Ya Das Der Stinkenbomben","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Visually stunning? I think thats the phrase they always use, but it applies here. Its German arthouse with Hollywood budgeting, nice combo that works very well. But I had to laugh at how they wanted to escape from such a charming place. Grass is always greener I suppose. Quickly, the film is sort of a homage to Hitchcock, sort of. Its not quite original or clever enough, and the last hour really could have been cut in half. But I do recommend it for fans of foreign cinema. Its very well made. I like how the asylum allows its patients roof access, and the freedom to wander the halls at night. Also televisions that are just there on coffee tables to be smashed, why use a wall mount? But the best was the doctor in charge, offering a 'glass' from his  glass bottled water, to the newly admitted and obviously unstable patient. Details Fritz, details!!!!  "},{"Title":"Rather dull movie from the Lola Rennt director","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong.  Its a decent story.  But not enough to get me to buy the dvd.  Thank god for the expanding universe of online rental plans.  It wouldn't surprise me that half the movies I rent..  I wont find at Blockbuster.  (maybe Family Video)But Lola Rennt was exciting while this movie is too slow.  The director is still a goody.  But without a decent script... this movie may be too slow for alot of folks.  And that trade off between the  guy and himself.  Confuses me.  Even while listening to the directors commentary on that scene... it confuses me.6/10Quality 8/10 Entertainment 2/10 Replayable 2/10 "},{"Title":"Too long, too slow, and what's it about, anyway?","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Most films could benefit from being longer and (at least in places) slower than they are.  Many GREAT films are longer, or slower, or longer and slower, than this one - which is, nonetheless, too long and too slow.  Let me explain.It's not, of course, that two hours and thirteen minutes is too long in the abstract; rather, the movie GOES ON for too long, in the manner of someone who can't remember how his story began and has no idea how it's going to end.  Tykwer will create a difficulty for himself in order to get in an image or scene he likes and then doggedly devote his, the characters' and our time and effort to getting out of it.  For instance Everything that happens at the mental hospital after Sissi has found Bodo is just protracted working-out.  It's like watching Alexander the Great sit down and UNRAVEL the Gordian knot, except that Tykwer unravels knots which he himself has tied immediately beforehand, and they're simple (but obstinate) reef knots.As for too slow - well, the main problem is that slowness is the only means Tykwer has of imparting significance or dramatic weight to the scenes which he feels should be significant or dramatically weighty, and it just so happens that ALL scenes are scenes which he thinks should be significant or dramatically weighty.  Characters pause before saying anything, the camera pauses before committing itself, stand-offs go on and on and on ... and while this is going on, NOTHING else is happening, unless it's Tykwer underlining the dialogue with a red pencil, or underlining the tension (which can't be felt) with cascading piano music.  The pauses aren't pregnant, merely overweight.There are indeed some gorgeous (if meaningless) shots, but so far as I'm concerned these were precisely balanced by the early scene under the truck - the one in which Bodo saves Sissi's life in a gruesome and disgusting fashion.  It's painful to look at.  It doesn't even help much if you shut your eyes; it's also painful to listen to.  (And of course, the scene goes on and on and on...)  If being forced to sit through this goriness is the price we have to pay for such things as the lovely, soaring, fast-motion shot of the city at twilight, we can't do better than break even.The Princess and the Warrior sounds fine in English and sounds as though it sounds even finer in German - but what does it mean?  Bodo is sort of a warrior, in that he's fond of camouflage get-ups, and practises kick-boxing in his spare time.  Sissi is sort of a princess, in that she's a woman.  Otherwise the title is a broken promise. "},{"Title":"Do not watch","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm so sorry. I love Tykwers 'Winterschlaefer Winter Sleepers and admire Lola Rennt Run Lola Run, but this effort is so bad, so utterly hideous. Don't go watch it. Many technical and continuity failures too, didn't think that Tykwer (whose technical skills in the 2 mentioned films i admired) would make such a slow soap opera.yuck ! "},{"Title":"Boring and shallow","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie, I really did.  The film looked good, the soundtrack was good, the director was good, it had good actors, but there was something missing from this a reason to watch.  It seems like Twyker thought to himself Hmmm... I did really well with Run Lola Run, now how can I write a script that is lacking in any cohesive ideas but still film it in a way that people will claim it's brilliant just because it's not in English?  There is almost no reason for any of the characters to act the way they do.  We don't learn much about them and we don't even care about what happens to them.  It's just a stunning example of style over substance and it seems as if many people were sucked into it.  If this were made the exact same way, but in the USA and in English, it wouldn't be nearly as proclaimed as it is. "},{"Title":"the worst!","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the worst film I've seen in a long, long time.  I rented it to watch w/my uncle (who is german) b/c I thought it would be nice for him to watch something in Deutsch (after being in the states for a month and watching all English films).First of all, the storyline was totally unbelievable.  Franka Potente plays a nurse in a mental institution where she goes in at night and pleasures the patients.  Nice!  Talk about giving a bad name to that profession . . .She then gets run over by a semi truck one day while in town w/one of the her patient's - a blind man.  In an extremely long scene, she is underneath the semi for an EXTENDED amount of time (wow!  didn't realize the medics took so long in Germany).  A thug comes by (on the run from some clerks at a store he just tried to rob)and decides to crawl under the truck to hide. Oh!  He discovers there's a girl who's just been run over and can't breathe. . . Since he's obviously been trained in surgical procedures and she just happens to have a drink in her hand w/a straw, he proceeds to cut her throat and insert the straw -to save her life!! Very realistic, indeed.The remainder of the film follows Franka searching for this guy and upon finding him - having him basically tell her to GO AWAY & LEAVE HIM ALONE. Oh no.  That would be too easy and make to much sense.  She goes on to humiliate and embarrass herself again and again.The german was very poorly spoken and my uncle, who does not speak English, had to ask me what they were saying (i was reading subtitles) b/c there was lots of mumbling going on.Run Lola Run was good - this film was not.  period. "},{"Title":"Plain silly. Maxed out on Pretentiousness","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one the worst movies I've seen in a long time Poor acting, ridiculous script, lot's of cliched and pseudo-philosophic moments. It's one saving grace is the photography and some of the camera work. I had to restrain myself strongly from not walking out halfway during the screening, but at least had quite a few laughs in the second half. Unfortunately it definitely put me off this director, even though I liked Run Lola Run. "},{"Title":"Truly disappointing follow-up","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am truly shocked at the positive reviews this movie has recieved. like everyone else who enjoyed Ron Lola, Run, I went into the theater expecting something that was truly original in concept and style, and masterful in execution. I walked out having witnessed a hodge-podge of cliches, that was clearly the result of a troubled script and sophmore jitters on the part of the director. it was obvious that he couldn't decide what he wanted this movie to be about, and as a result it ended up being very disjointed.it could have been a great romance. it could have been a great story about life in a psychiatric facility. it could have been a great story about someone who has been taken out of her normal life and made to enure in exceptional circumstances. it could have been a great heist film. it could have been a great action film. it could have been a great combination of a few, but not all, of those afor-mentioned genres, but instead it tried to be all of it, and there was no effort made to blend it together well.one scene in particular really bugged me. so as not to spoil it, let's call it the cliche'd action movie roof thing or CAMRT for short. I've seen a CAMRT just like that in about twenty movies prior to seeing this, and I am nothing short of amazed that such a promising director could be so lazy as to recycle something like this!even Franke Potente turned in a sub-standard performance. why did we all fall in love with her in RL,R? because she was strong, independant, clever, and with a soft and vulnerable side as well. she was interesting to watch, and it was interesting to hear her talk. her role in this could have been played by a cardboard cut-out! she was bland, and entirely un-interesting, and merely drifted through the film.about the only thing I liked about this piece of tripe was the ending. that was rather clever.   "},{"Title":"Waste of celluloid","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not too surprisingly, after making a nice fast film, director decides to show he can do it all. So from 3 stories in 80 min we jump to a film of 1 story that should have lasted 20 sec. It's simply an agonizing film, a torture surviving its whole. From other comments about this film here, I see many were moved and touched by it. Whatever. If you know you have the mental abilities of a parrot, you'll be rewarded. High point of the movie Michael Dudikoff making a german movie...The guy even knows martial arts (1 cheap stolen motive from Kieslowski that accidently worked). Low point Sisi prancing the entire movie on slow motion complete with robotic arm movements - seeing is believing, but just don't... "}{"Title":"More (yawn) Tykwer.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Critics seem to just love it when some director puts together a film which is artsy, inventive, and creative. Forget about a story and people with whom the audience can empathize. And so, many a critic raved about this artful and unique shoot in which Tykwer creates peculiarity for the sake of peculiarity, appears to make the story up as he goes, and gives us characters we could care less about. All sizzle and no steak, you'll be hard pressed to find even a metaphor for a princess in this art-for-art's-sake flick. Recommended for film critics and others into artsy Europics. "},{"Title":"Ethereal?","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The story centres around two characters A nurse in a psychiatric ward and a jobless petty thief turned bank robber. Normality is not present in either of them - she is so much a part of the clinic that she refers to outside with the same kind of mystified fear you'd expect from the patients, and he has a serious melancholy problem, crying freely and frequently, and flirting with death. Their lives intertwine when he (unknowingly) causes her to be hit by a truck, only to save her life a few minutes later. From then on, she has an anchor in the outside world - the memory of him and how he saved her, and she tries everything to find him again, only to be rejected.I watched this movie without a clear idea of what it might be. From the posters I knew it wouldn't be an action movie, or as fast-paced as Run Lola Run. But somehow I didn't expect a sweet romantic comedy either. So, when the movie turned out to be a slow, artistic, abstract one, I was slightly surprised, but not particularly disappointed. So, what can you expect? It's not Wings of Desire, but neither is it City of Angels - this movie sits in the middle between artistic (boring) stuff and entertainment. Clearly, the director enjoys telling the story visually, and the soundtrack sounds a bit too Run Lola Run to fit this movie - quite honestly, it's the biggest weakness. Expect good acting, but little action. Lots of story, but few words and little dialogue. It is hard to describe the experience of watching this movie. The only word I can think of is ethereal. It was interesting, but, to be honest, certainly not my usual taste in movies. Perhaps, if it weren't the always enchanting Franka Potente in the roll, I wouldn't have enjoyed it at all. Watch it if you like something slightly different. Just don't expect too much - expect a love story that belongs in a psychiatric asylum, and you'll be fine.6/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful but ultimately confused and misplaced","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was excited about this film having enjoyed 'Run, Lola, Run' but was left with an unsatisfied and rather unpleasant taste.As in Run, Lola, Run the characters are somewhat flat and unexplained. But unlike the directors previous film The Warrior and The Princess fails to capture a viewers attention with an exciting frenetic style and plot, lifting the need for character development. This failure only serves to highlight the films shallowness of writing and characterisation. This is a shame as the opening hour of the film show real promise of depth and meaning. However from half way through the film slowly meanders through the rest of It's rather long running time, eventually becoming sludgy and stretched.It is the lack of any real explanation of the characters actions and reactions that brings this sense of loss. While Run, Lola, Run did not require such in-depth explanation, the slow pace of The Princess and the Warrior lends a viewer much more time for reflection on events. However there is little explanation of events to reflect on.The film is beautifully and obviously very expensively shot. The cinematography, along with strong direction and a barrel load of powerful performances might just save this film for some. However, I ended the viewing with a sense of wasted time, distaste and mild disappointment. "},{"Title":"Engaging but too long","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I found The Princess and the Warrior to be engaging and interesting but too long.Simone or Sissi was born in a mental hospital and she tells her love interest that her father is 'out there' as she indicates the common hall where the patients now congregate in the place she is now employed. This in itself could make one feel claustrophobic and develop a sense of dread. Sissi walks like she feels a sense of dread and she sometimes acts that way too. With good reason. Her life is one that anyone would want to escape and this is what she wants also.It is all interesting but the film is too long. Some of the scenes are played out way too long and I found myself becoming bored. I never want to fast forward through films but this one made me feel that way. I really believe that if they had trimmed this down and compacted it a bit the film would have better and made more impact. By the time the ending comes you find yourself feeling bubbly not because of what is happening on screen but because you know this film is actually ending. I say shorten it up and trim some fat and you've got a good film here but as is it's slow. "},{"Title":"Odd but Amazing combination!","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" well this movie captured me from the start to the end....well I loved it but I didn't like the post-modernistic scenes at the end...it seems that Tom Tykwer had ran out of idea how to end it......the last sequence was so out of the world he has been defining in the whole movie....this maybe look like a post modernistic view but its also one of the big mistakes in writing a screenplay.... overall I liked the cast and the characterization flow....it was damn perfect.....Franka Potente she played perfectly...I liked Tom Tykwer's way of storytelling...you could see some sequences passes by much slowly than the others.while Sissi was under the truck it seems the timeline goes by as for Sissi...but you could see the sudden events one after another on the chase sequence. "},{"Title":"I forgive him the ending","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, although it certainly had some flaws. Its major achievements was that it was very unpredictable plotwise. I like it when people don't act rationally in movies. Also two sequences, where Sissi gets hit by a truck, and a bank robbery, stand out for their quiet despair. Beautifully done. The movie was full of little cinematic tricks, almost to the point of being annoying, but Tykwer pulls it off in my opinion. I was so impressed by the good bits I hardly noticed how crappy the ending was... "},{"Title":"They're kissing on the cover of the box...","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  But not in the movie.  I hate when they do that.Regardless, this movie was...interesting.  Although it was long and sometimes too slow, (as everyone else has mentioned) I found myself peeking at my watch to make sure that there was enough time for everything to work out ok in the end.  I cared about the characters...kind of.  None of them seemed like real human beings, but once you just excepted that, things could be swallowed a bit easier.Although Sissi's lack of arm movement creeped me out.This movie is worth seeing, but expect it to be a bit slow.  Also, it definately had some of the most disturbing scenes that I have ever seen in a movie.  At some points I literally jumped up off of the sofa and ran into the kitchen out of pure fear/horror. "},{"Title":"The Princess, the Warrior, and a Straw","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The Princess and the Warrior is the next film from Run Lola Run director Tom Twyker and star Franka Potente. It's not much like the earlier film, which is fine, even though Lola is about my favorite movie of the last several years. Franka Potente has become a favorite of mine; she was an icon in Lola, v.good in the mostly ghastly Blow, and terrific here. I'm not one for posting spoilers, but everyone who sees this movie is going to want to talk about one scene in particular, having to do with the princess, the warrior, and a straw. It's a stunning scene, better than anything else in the movie. Overall, the movie is too long (as most are these days), but engaging and interesting, and Potente is wonderful and That Scene is gold. I'd give it a seven on a scale of ten. "},{"Title":"Can't hold a candle to Run Lola Run","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  We went to this film with high hopes, having immensely enjoyed Lola. Were very disappointed that the makers of this film apparently felt compelled to go to extreme lengths to 'top' Lola, instead of merely make a good film. The disturbing images were not crucial to the plot, certainly not as graphic as they were. The dialog was at times childish and pointless. We could not wait for the film to end-- but it continued to drag on. The musical score was good, and the cinematography was excellent (save the fakey rain shots). The plot was simply ridiculous, though you could see they attempted to be creative-- it just didn't work for me.This was truly ein Schrecken ohne Ende. "},{"Title":"Painstakingly slow moving and very boring.","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This had a very good story and could have been a very good movie, if it had been directed by someone that understood that his audience needed to be entertained while watching his product or at the least kept awake. I was constantly dozing off with the pace of the whole movie. Everyone took an unusually long time before speaking their lines, as if they were trying to remember them. The scenes almost fit together but seemed to be lacking in continuity. Even the final scene is milked for an excessively long time. I presume that is in keeping with the central mind numbing theme to bore the audience out of its' mind. The scene where 'Bodo' is driving the car and sitting in the back seat watching himself is precious. I'm sorry I wasted my time. "}{"Title":"About 30 Minutes Too Long.","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Plot outline ahead... possible spoilers.I'm sure this film was a huge sensation in Germany, but I think maybe it just wasn't meant for an Amercian audience. The premise was really cool; A woman's life is saved by a stranger who turns out to be a damaged ex soldier. She tracks him down after recovering and lets him hide out in the mental institution she works and lives in after she unwittingly aids him in escaping a botched bank robbery.The story lost some steam and got a bit draggy and unfocused about half way through. Not to mention some plot holes that had to do with the fact that there were only a few people (and only ONE security guard) working in a large bank in a good sized German city.I think the story spent way too much time with the mental patients and not nearly enough with the main characters. "},{"Title":"get the german version with subtitles!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It has been about a year since I watched Der Krieger und die Kasiserin... I will agree with Lee Bartholomew that the film was a little slow but I'm sorry to hear that you did not understand the trade-off scene with himself. The term is symbolism, he is no longer that man clinging to his lost lover and is making a definitive effort to move forward in his life.  I suggest you take a high school English/Writing Comp. instruction.  While the scene is a tad of a stretch from the film's scape of realism, I found it interesting and not that uncommon of the country of origin's style.In general, those looking for Run Lola Run part II will be disappointed. I do wish to point out to those people that, despite some common actors and staff, they are not films in a series, nor were they billed to be.Aside from a creepy patient love scene, it was not a bad flick to pass a rainy day on the couch with.  Get the German version with subtitles, the English voiceovers lack emotion.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but much too artificial.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  While other filmmakers like, let's say Julio Medem, effortlessly provide their movies with a metaphysical, bigger-than-life-kind of eeriness, Tom Tykwer stays true to pseudo-philosophical artificiality when it comes to storytelling. Featuring excellent cinematography and surprisingly good performances by the entire cast (even by anti-actor Benno Fürmann), Der Krieger und die Kaiserin` fails to attract deeper sympathy for the mainly quite unapproachable characters. The direction is somewhat pretentious (a common problem among German films) as well as simply too artificial; the same applies to some of the dialogue. The biggest flaw might be the running time 130 minutes is just too long, and the movie could have been tightened by omitting some unnecessary sequences. Let me admit, though, that this is still one of the more watchable German films - at least it got this certain cinematic feeling to it which most, if not nearly all German productions lack.  "},{"Title":"Tries to be deep but isn't. Vaguely interesting but mostly sentimental nonsense","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sissi is a shy nurse in an asylum who has given most of her time and heart to her patients. However a series of chance events see her hit by a truck and only saved by the quick action of Bodo &#150; a criminal who actually caused the accident to happen. Surviving this changes Sissi and she sets out to find her saviour but, when she does, she is met with only a door slammed in her face. She learns that he is a troubled man with a gland problem that makes his eyes water all the time, a tragic and painful past and a criminal future but she keeps trying and gradually their fates intertwine.I don't know; maybe it is me; maybe I'm totally, totally stupid (it's a possibility) and have no taste in good films but I have yet to see what others seem to see in Tom Tykwer. I have been bashed for not liking Run Lola Run, yet I have tried some of his other films to get a better feel for his work rather than just dismissing him on the basis of that one film. So it was that I finally got around to watching this film and I was glad that the visual trickery seemed to have toned down and the material aiming for a more mature, emotional tone. It is a shame then that the material totally misses the mark no matter how hard Tykwer tries to set the tone. The plot is based on coincidences and the idea of strangers having eternal bonds by saving each other lives and so on. Now, in a well-written film I can buy into that idea as easily as anyone else but in a poorly developed and scripted film it is much harder and, without a firm base, it mostly comes off as sentimental nonsense.The basic relationship between Sissi and Bodo didn't convince or engage me, although individually they had some interesting aspects within their characters (which the film didn't follow). Of course compared to the hospital patients, the two leads look as detailed as they could possibly have been written &#150; but that is only because the patients are so poorly used. In fact used is the perfect word, because they are just there as objects to do things within the story, but never to be real people. Tykwer's direction is much better here and his toned down style may not be good enough to raise the material but it is a positive influence in the film compared to the tiresomely flashy style of Lola. The acting is also quite good considering the limited material they had to work with. Potente is good looking and easy to watch but she never seems totally comfortable with her character &#150; only occasionally getting it spot on with her more emotional scenes; she is still good, but the direction and writing of her character didn't seem to help her. Furmann tries hard but his crying criminal is a silly character who is overly tortured and aggressive &#150; but yet still has a flair for the poetic etc. He has presence at least but cannot save a poor character. Support is so-so, with some actors doing well while others are used to, well, chew glass and make us go ugh or ahhh but never to care about them as people or have any interest in them.Overall this is not as terrible a film as I have made out &#150; but it is a very weak one that tries to be a mature, emotional film but only manages it in the areas of direction and a great little score. Sadly the material (and hence, the performances) is weak, not well developed at all and far too quick to avoid the hard work and just throw in supposedly deep emotional gestures that didn't convince me and just came across as rather sentimental nonsense that only happens in films. I can see improvement as he matures but Tykwer has yet to win me over. "},{"Title":"Oh my God!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is so much i love about this film i don't want to taint it with my own binal comments.If you only ever see one film for the rest of your life, make it this one. Also buy the soundtrack. Just Pure cinematic beauty.  "},{"Title":"deadly boring","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The general public was expecting a follow-up of Lola rennt. This film will not only disappoint them but also those who were impressed by Tykwer's die tödliche Maria.Except for the first thirty minutes were Tykwer creates a thrilling atmosphere by contrasting fast cuts with long silent scenes, the film lacks any form an structure and it is obviously too long.This does not suit the plot. Right from the beginning we know how the movie will end. The details are not too interesting. Had Tykwer used the artistic brilliance of the two movies mentioned above, he could have created a new masterpiece. But now we have a unstructured mix of elements of Lola rennt, die tödliche Maria and One flew over cuckoo's nest in German. A mix that lacks the strength of these movies. "},{"Title":"very interesting until it runs off the rails at the end","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The first three-fourths of this movie is absolutely fascinating. It moves along seamlessly, hovering somewhere between reality and dream logic. The characters are fascinating and rather tragic, although the movie doesn't allow you to connect with them particularly.And then, well, something happens. A bunch of stuff is just sort of tossed in, weird plot points that come out of nowhere and the balance between fantasy and reality shifts radically to just plain nonsensical. The ending was particularly odd and unsatisfying. The movie neither ties things up nicely nor leaves you with an interesting ambiguity, it's more like it just sort of hiccups a few times and then just trails off to nothing.Still worth watching though. "},{"Title":"Though Gorgeous, Princess Requires Stream-Lining","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  How unfortunate that such a beautiful movie has to be so incredibly slow! There were so many amazing shots in this film, as well as vivid use of color throughout.  Many frames would serve as amazing pieces of photography.Yet, the entire film dragged; sub-plots were distracting, background information became foreground, and secondary characters evolved into main characters.  All this cluttered about the plot-line, making the story improbable and uninteresting, and the sparse dialogue did not help either. The writer/director, Tom Tykwer, obviously has a knack for the visual. The most energetic moments of the film engage the viewer.  But when characters are forced to relate on a verbal level, the scenes are excrutiatingly drawn out.  It's not so much that the dialogue is poor--in many moments, it touches you, especially Sissi's narration during the pivotal scene--but that the timing of the dialogue is too slow.My suggestion to Tykwer  stream-line this film! "},{"Title":"A very pretty movie.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you've seen Run Lola Run, you know that Tykwer has an extraordinary visual style.  Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is no exception, but here he goes for a much more mellow vibe.  The performances are excellent and there are several truly stunning moments, but I was left with the feeling that some unifying element is missing.  This is a very good movie that I feel should have been a great movie, although I'm not sure why. "},{"Title":"Nice camera work, amusing story, worth the rental.","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Lola Rennt, the film of which folks have been raving ever since it came out a few years back, seems to be the main motivation for watching this one, for they share the same director. However, these movies are not similar in any discernable way, save two Lead actress, and some of the background music.Lola Rennt is an adrenaline rush, mixing scenes of running, cartoons of running, and music which seems to exemplify running. This movie is a cute story about a half-crazed child-of-an-insane-asylum-turned-nurse, and the severely disturbed ex-soldier she falls in love with after he saves her life with an emergency tracheotomy underneath a truck. Some have likened this story to a fairy tale, and indeed it seems to follow a general narrative scheme of hero-seeks-treasure, hero-is-thwarted, hero-finds-sidekick, hero-braves-battles, hero-gets-treasure, similar to almost any other fairy tale one might come to hear. However, though the camera work was done exceedingly well, with many interesting angles and the like, and though the acting was indeed very realistic, I was unable to suspend disbelief. This might not be fully generalizable, as the friend next to me was not delighted at the few jokes I made during meaningful parts, but after the movie the friend mentioned that she was more annoyed that I interrupted her already-difficult task of suspending her disbelief than she was annoyed that I ruined the moment. The was no moment to ruin in the film, though there might have been in the script.However, as mentioned before, this movie is indeed worth the rental. It's a good time, and it does not drag on. It's not overly meaningful, and it's not overly action-packed, and it didn't achieve everything it set out to, but it was definitely an amusing watch. I recommend it, but this is not a must-see. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen this year (close to 150!!)","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was shown in Belleville last evening by the Quinte Film Alternative. It is one of the best movies I have seen this year. Written and directed by Tom Tykwer, who gave us Run Lola Run a couple of years ago, it stars the same great actress, Franka Potente. Is life a series of coincidences? or are the fates organizing our lives? In either case, can we change them? The action of the movie (and there is a lot) takes place mostly in an asylum where Sissi has grown up, and in a bank which her unwilling boyfriend Benno is attempting to rob (with his brother, Walter). There is much interaction and reaction between the participants in this mystery-drama-romance. It is a movie I want to see again - I hope you will too! Pay attention to everything which happens! It is all important to the final resolution! "},{"Title":"A film that keeps your eyes glued to the screen.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I recently watched this film in my film appreciation class, and by far it is one of the greatest I have seen all year.  The cinematography was amazing! Some of the shots, especially the one of Bodo flying on the high-way overpass, are technically amazing.  The film was wonderful to watch.  I loved the story-line.  The actor who played Bodo was extremely handsome. The one problem with the film was that the subtitles on some of the scenes in the mental institute were difficult to read.  White on white, often poses a problem.  Other than that, the film was wonderful.  A must see! "},{"Title":"Run Lola Run, but better.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie I thought it was super.  I'm a big fan of Franka Potente, and I think that this is her best film to date.  This movie has a great story line and all the actors do a great job.  If you like foreign films you should see this one. "},{"Title":"Get off the toilet! said the man.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sissi works as a nurse at a mental hospital and encounters a depressive army veteran, Bodo, when he saves her life during a traffic accident that he himself caused.  When Sissi is released from the hospital, nearly 2 months later, she is obsessed with Bodo and tracks him down.  However, Bodo is battling some inner demons and wants nothing to do with her.  It would be best if Sissi could leave it at that and walk away, since Bodo and his brother are planning a dangerous heist.  But, of course, Sissi and Bodo's fates are now inseparable, and they must walk their joint path to the end.The Princess and the Warrior is director Tom Tykwer's fourth feature and follows the great international success of Run Lola Run.  With the current film, Tykwer turns away from the visceral, kinetic energy of Lola and attempts to pull off an urban epic.  Unfortunately, the film moves at the pace of a glacier and lacks any sort of emotional or narrative focus.  The main characters spend most of their time wandering around in a confused daze, somehow managing to cause more problems than they solve.  Also, the story is built on two ridiculous coincidences, leaves numerous loose ends, and climaxes with a dramatic twist that is one big cheat on the audience--a sort of gutless, faux Thelma and Louise moment.And what is the message of the film?  What is the line that will haunt you for hours afterward, possibly causing indigestion?  Get off the toilet!  Well, there's nothing like scatological sentimentality to bring a truly cathartic end to a failed epic. "},{"Title":"Lay Down Lola","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Run, Lola is a superb film, and not just a film but an exploration in the malleability of  fate. Here, Tykwer does the exact opposite explores the immutability of fate, the charm  of coincidence, the grace of predeterminism.If watching a movie that is just pasted together out of other bits bothers you, this will. I  think it is part of Tywker's plan to use nothing original, so we have Sundance and Thelma  and Nurse Betty and Cuckoo and Deer Hunter and scores of other bits of the collage that  I could see. I can't quite put my finger on where the hanging laundry bit came from,  Night of the Hunter? It reinforces the feel of recognized inevitability.It would have bothered me, were it not for the rather effective character Potente creates.  This is very much in the context of an anti-Breathless. She hasn't struck me in the past  as someone who can really conjure up a being, but she does so here. Her Sissi is so  endearing that in loving her ourselves, we are placed in the asylum. She spends a few key  scenes on her back, and she uses that intelligently as a connection between the character  and the visual projection of the story. This one goes on my list of films where the off- screen relationship between actress and director clearly adds something for us. I can't  wait to see her in Tulse Luper.The story is deceptively simple but has lots of little details, subcoincidences and side  dramas -- more than you can get on first viewing. And that's part of the engineering as  well.I only know Lola and this, but from these two different gems one can see that this man  knows something about how things get assembled in that short path between screen and  mind.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Holy Mother of God","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film in its US release and really enjoyed it. I especially enjoyed it in the context of Tykwer's and Potente's overall work. I enjoyed it but didnt think all that much of it a month later.I viewed it for a second time 3 months later and was left speechless. There were scenes and shots in this film that tapped into every possible human emotion I think Ive ever felt. I dont know why it hit so hard, it just did. Potentes acting was utterly amazing! Her portrayal of a shy nurse was just monumental for her career. Tykwer took more time with this picture, clearly trying to acess the deeper and more complex parts of our minds than with his last fearure, Lola Rent. Although that film is one of my favourites, this one really out does it in terms of overall appeal. This is a true romance. A true love story. It reminded me of something almost hyper-Sheakespeare, the kind of love story that seems outdated and just not in swing with our contemporary and trite views on love and relationships. This isnt a love story based on Dawsons Creek or Titanic, its far too involved on too many levels to be viewed as such.The pacing is intentionally slow, forcing the viewer to hang on every word spoken by the charecters and every detail shown by the camera. This dualist approach to a scene makes this picture really unique and special. His artistic vision combined with Potentes capacity to draw the viewer in with her body language is truly an excellent combination.I cant wait to see what else Tykwer has in store for the future. He really is an exceptional filmmaker. "},{"Title":"A love story you've never seen before","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tykwer did an excellent job in crafting a story that through its characterization and plot lines, separates it from any story of love that has ever come out of Hollywood. (It came from Germany)I love his method of telling stories where you never really get a chance to become comfortable with any situations yet, you can't wait to see where things are going to go next.Check it out. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and engrossing film","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the most beautiful films I've seen in a while.  The camera shots, the locations and the overall feel of the movie are ...well, beautiful.  It's also a completely engrossing film.  The magnificent performances and the excellent score, really keep you involved in the story.  This is the second film I've seen by this director, and I will definitely look for more.   "},{"Title":"Charmed","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie just charmed the pants right off of me. What a well-executed, consistently paced, gorgeous, gorgeous movie. And Potente! Watching her play lovable and neurotic, infatuated and frightened, and ultimately emboldened through her love of another was an absolute treat. What a physical actor! She tells stories with her facial expressions alone. Just staggering. This is why I go to the movies. "},{"Title":"Stands just fine all on it's own, regardless of RunLolaRun.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  From the producers of Run Lola Run comes this endearing tale of a chance meeting by a young woman, Sissi, and a young man, Bodo.  She is working in a mental hospital; he is a would-be thief.  On the way to the bank one day to pick up a bequest on behalf of a friend, she is hit by a vehicle.  As she lies under the vehicle, Bodo runs by, trying to find a place to hide from the people he has just stolen from, and crawls under the vehicle.  He ends up saving her life by performing an emergency tracheotomy.  However, after he sees her safely to the hospital, he leaves.  Sissi needs to find out if this was not an accident, but a push along a different path for her.  The movie is a bit slow, not nearly the pace of RLR, but is well written and you never lose interest throughout the entire movie.  The director's style is clearly evident in the way that he does close-ups of the people in his story.  The way that so many events are linked to others.  It really is a great job at story-telling.  If you liked RLR, see this movie.  While not as fast paced, you will find it rewarding.   "}{"Title":"It actually made me (gasp!) think about it.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Like most of the folks submitting comments on this movie, I saw Run Lola Run (or Lola Rennt, if you prefer), enjoyed it immensely, and eagerly awaited the next bit of celluloid from Tom Tykwer.  I snatched up The Princess & The Warrior the second it hit the new releases shelf at my local video renting megastore, took it home, and watched it immediately (okay, I waited a couple of hours, but you get the point).Man, this movie is frustratingly good.  A bit worrisome at first, what with all the insane asylum stuff, but it abandons the cliches and does something fairly original.  But still, it's frustrating in that the pacing's much slower than Lola, and you keep expecting it to rev up.  Finally, as the movie comes to a close and you realize it's not ever going to get hyper like its predecessor, you start to think about it on its own merits.  And that's when you realize it's a worthy piece of cinema.And am I the only one that got weirded out about how real the tracheotomy looked? "},{"Title":"Curling and lingering in the mind.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I waited a long time to see this film because I had heard so many negative reviews about it. I adored Run Lola Run, but was told that this film was slow, boring, dragged on and had none of the creativity and innovation in RLR. However, I ended up enjoying it much MORE than RLR. Of course it was slow in comparison.. any film is slow in comparison to Run Lola Run, which was intended to be very fast-paced in every aspect. This film is the polar opposite - it touches you lightly, caresses you very subtly, and each scene lingers deliberately. I didn't  feel it was slow, though - the pausing was more like when someone pauses between kisses to give you a devouring look, then continues. The soundtrack once again is somewhat electronic, but more on the ambient side. Visually, it's beautiful - wonderful framing of shots, brilliant color. It would've been possible to explore the characters more - perhaps character development was cut out to shorten the film's running time. I haven't seen the deleted scenes yet, so can't comment on whether they add to the film. Definitely don't skip this one because of the gripes about it - it does have flaws, but they just accentuate its beauty all the more. "},{"Title":"Bonnie & Clyde in Slow Motion","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A very interesting movie. A very German movie; if you've seen enough of them you know what I mean.  The commentary for deleted scenes a lesson in editing. I especially like how they commented that scenes deleted leave ghosts because they set the motivations and mood for the actors that are unseen in the movie.  It moves so very slow, but is so visual. A good movie, but definitely not for everyone. "},{"Title":"A different pace than Run, Lola, Run.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Franka Potente plays a shy nurse in car accident who is rescued by a handsome stranger (Benno Furmann). She to find and thank him for saving her life. Will she think differently when she finds the stranger. Tom Tykwer directed this slower pace picture and take star Potente from Run, Lola, Run in different role for her. The graphics used are basically the same as the last film that Tykwer directed. From directing Run, Lola, Run to the Princess and the Warrior he is trying a diverse range not getting hook on the same subject. If you enjoy Run, Lola, Run, you might enjoy this film. I did. "},{"Title":"Remarkable use of the medium","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tom Tykwer's follow up to Run Lola Run has been criticised by some as slower and more introspective but this is it best quality.Franka Potente departs from her usual character style to play a true princess and Benno Furrman is rugged and sexy in his portrayal of a soldier scarred from his love life, not war.The movie is unusual, but this makes it fascinating to watch. It contains some amazing scenes which are true Tykwer (like the opening scene and an amazing scene with a blind man.I heard another reviewer talk of Princess and the Warrior as giving the audience enough time and respect to make up their minds whether or not they are villains, heroes or ordinary people.Disturbing in parts, extraordinary in others, this is a impacting portrayal of intriguing characters with a beautiful charge of sexual energy. "},{"Title":"Something unusual these days - a unique plot","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, I got free tickets to this one, and if I had been forced to pay for the tickets - I probably would not have gone. I am glad thats not the case - awesome film, really captivating - cool camera work and a unique plot. Awesome acting, even though I have never seen a German film before - this may force me to broaden my viewing horizons a bit.9 out of 10 I say! "},{"Title":"fate, interpretation","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Interpretation, spoilers	        The movie starts with the separate stories of Sissi and Bodo. He is living with his brother and planning a robbery. She is working at a mental hospital and a letter seems to be the most exciting thing going on in her life. Then comes the intense collision between the two characters. Is it fate or coincidence? 	At first, the growing together of the two seems foundationless. After all, he wouldn't have gone through the trouble of saving her life if he hadn't felt guilty that the accident was entirely his own fault. She wouldn't have become infatuated with him if it weren't for the intense emotional experience that resulted in an even more intense feeling of gratitude and debt. 	Yet the two seem destined to unite. At first it is only her tenacity that brings them together. This is because he has suffered from a terrible tragedy and is `somehow still on the toilet' at the scene. The movie thus becomes an overcoming-your-past-and-triumphing sort of thing, how nice. He can't love her because he once entrusted his heart to another woman and has hence failed to recover from destruction of said heart.	This view, however, must be rejected in the end when we are informed that he wasn't actually in love with his wife. In actuality, they had quarreled more than they hadn't. He hadn't loved and lost, he had never loved; hence his suicidal melancholia. If he had loved he would have known that happiness exists. Instead, he came to a life philosophy that claimed `I don't believe in happiness' and `everything is meaningless.' `That's not true,' she replies. She is the polar opposite to his nihilistic side in this battle between hope and despair. 	When she comes along, she isn't there to help him recover from the loss of his wife, she is there to act as a first love. After all these years of despair, she suddenly appears, it was fated. The idea that the merging was fated is evinced by the numerous numbers of coincidences. For example, the fact that Bodo buried her friend's mother and the fact that Sissi was there on the day of the robbery. I guess fate could be described as an uncanny amount of coincidences. 	Back to the bank. This scene turns out to be a turning point in his and her relationship. It is only after this time that he ends his obstinacy and allows her to take him away. After his despair with woman began, he became unhealthily attached to his brother. The dream prior to his self-burning was of a woman telling him that his brother was dead. When he and she work together to save his brother, the benefits are twofold. First, her debt has now been payed; and second, he must suddenly overcome his disinclination towards women. 	With this obstacle overcome, only one remains between love and happiness. He must return to the original gas station and free himself from the toilet &#150; but only free himself of course, not become his old self. With this done, he is able to finally show affection and grasp his lover's hand. He smiles, for the first time in the entire movie. 	In the end, they are both free to love, which is shown in their happiness and symbolically through their surroundings. He had been fed up with his local life for whatever reasons and desired to skip off to Australia. She had been born in the hospital and lived there her entire life. As a late revelation reveals that her mother was murdered purposely, she sees that her confinement in the hospital could actually kill her. Both escape to the boundless beach coast and escape their respective cages. Could it have been any other way?    "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films I ever saw. Very poetic pictures. Really great actors and actresses. I like all the films of Tom Tykwer very much, because he has the talent to tell a story in an unconventional way, often with slow pictures but then again fast moving, sometimes nearly wild moving cameras. "},{"Title":"i thoroughly enjoyed this movie","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  it was excellent, from beginning to end; i didn't know where the film was going to take me, and when i did eventually get there, i enjoyed the ride! the soundtrack is also excellent.  "},{"Title":"A long lost urban fairy tale","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Where do fairy tales fit these days of so much despair? Are there still warriors willing to sacrifice themselves for the love of the princess? Are there still princesses waiting for their prince to rescue them from the peril and suffering? If you suddenly begin to wonder about all this, director Tom Tykwer has the answer to that in this film with his unique style that has put him between the most innovative german directors of all time.Now, this isn´t by far the sweetest fairy tale ever, is more like a bittersweet story that pushes the characters to the limits of their existence and at the edge about to break. On the other hand, we also have the inverted roles making this a urban allegory to what is established in the good old tales, such as the princess now is locked inside an asylum, and the linking object is a bottom from an army shirt wore by the warrior; and of course the warrior, who is a man struggling with a torturous past but trying desperately to fall in love again.Like in his other films, Tykwer takes care very stylishly of the music to create a whole new dimension inside a world that could be as normal as ours, but is not. Also, is this music that sets the environment of melancholy and bittersweetness that in a way is oddly romantic and enthusiastic. You might think...How can two people fall in love in situations such as these?...You´ll see.In this film you will find not just a fine piece of modern cinema, but also a gripping, sordid and hopefull message that reminds of again what fairy tales are made for. "}{"Title":"What followed the Lola Rennt preparatory experiment.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was astounded at the maturity and assuredness of this movie. Its pace and timing exact without stiffness, because it grows organically as a true creative process. All the elements of The Princess are present in Lola in a larval stage, and in watching The Princess and the Warrior we witness the transformation of all the components into an hallucinating Butterfly. And the score sounds to me as a fully fledged minimalist work as good as anything Arvo Part et al have ever composed, including The Berlin Mass. Who would ever imagine that a young german film maker would demonstrate that there is a use for minimalist music any way.  "},{"Title":"Incredible Character Study","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is not the greatest film of all time, nor do I think it is perfect.  I think The Princess and the Warrior is a flawed masterpiece.  It is too much of a good thing and is so close to being great you can feel it.The short description of the film is this  this is Germany's Amelie Poulain this year, a complicated love story of two complicated characters.  However, this film reveals that German and French film versions of romance are not similar.  Amelie Poulain was a very cute, romantic piece that ended in a truly inspirational fashion.Princess is far more intellectual with far more real characters. They are both wonderful films.I can honestly say that this film explores all your available emotions.  There are some scenes that are very difficult to watch because what is being shown.  Then there are other scenes that are difficult to watch because of what is being said.  Finally, there are scenes that are breathtaking to watch.  The film is an emotional rollercoaster (to use a nonsense quote by Peter Travers) and pulls you along with it.Excellent acting (with the male lead acting obsessed and driven), very nice directing, and great soundwork.  But, unfortunately, some scenes just seem to clunk together.  The film, at 2.5 hours, is a tad lengthy and could be trimmed by 30 minutes, creating a tighter narrative.I went into this movie knowing nothing about it and I recommend everyone else try the same.  The less you know, the more rewarding it will be. "},{"Title":"Far better than the trailer led me to believe...","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie.  It was a fantastic world to be caught in for 2 hours.  I wasn't set on going because the trailer was so incoherent, but I'm glad I did.  Very mesmerizing, visceral and sensual.  The simple theme of the music, repeated throughout the movie in various arrangements, knocked me out.  During the viewing I sat in on, an audience member had a possible mild epileptic seizure and passed out(I'm sure it was unrelated to the movie), the movie was stopped, and the paramedics came.  The movie resumed after 25 minutes.  I don't want to make light of the incident (the person was okay), but it created an even weirder atmosphere for a movie full of, hospitals, medical emergencies and the aforementioned viscera.  If Lars Van Trier knocks you on your butt (can we get a round of shuddering, shell-shocked applause for Breaking the Waves), you'll probably dig this.  This is a wonderful cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Emotionally chilly though remarkably affecting","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This engaging film explores the dance of synchronicity, the role of fate in the lives of two people otherwise unlikely to cross paths.Sheltered, compassionate Sissi (Franka Potente) is an adored nurse in the same mental institution in which she was born to clinically insane parents. Somewhere across town, walking time-bomb Bodo (Benno Fürmann) dwells in his own private institution, as a petty crook who channels his grief and rage into planning a bank heist with his brother, Walter (Joachim Kröl). While Sissi embraces the receptive, intuitive, classically feminine pole as a vision of innocence in love, former soldier Bodo holds up the more active male principle, and the embitterment experience can bring. Both characters are a little `off,' begging the film's question of what defines madness.On her way to claim an inheritance at a bank--the very bank Bodo's targeted to rob-Sissy is hit by a truck. When Bodo discovers her gasping for breath, he performs the most nausea-inducing tracheotomy ever filmed, saves her life, then promptly disappears.Sissi, however, cannot lose the thought of him, and her dreams cast them as brother/sister, mother/father, and husband/wife. The nurse doggedly pursues the happiness her savior represents, and despite his furious rebuffs, their lives increasingly entwine.Both people are wounded; both resist love in their own ways. Neither believes in happiness, though Sissi's near-death experience has fired her incentive to seek it, while Bodo remains wallowing in the past. Indeed, Bodo is so overwrought with grief that he even tears up at strangers' funerals-`a genetic glandular problem,' he calls it.In his fourth film, young German writer/director Tom Tykwer custom-tailored Sissi's role to his Lola, actress Franka Potente. In fact, many of the cast/crew are RUN LOLA RUN retreads. Here again Tykwer is fascinated by the hand of fate, by what could happen in life if even a small detail were modified. The languidly paced PRINCESS contains none of LOLA's hyperactivity, though it can be a similarly cold fish.Benno Fürmann might just be the Teutonic Brad Pitt, though more intense and less pretty. In fact, this movie reminded me a bit of FIGHT CLUB (crossed, perhaps, with AMORES PERROS in the intersecting-lives department). It recalls FIGHT CLUB's edginess, themes of loss and salvation, simmering rage, and doppelgänger motif. Fürmann's is a great performance-though I can't think of any that aren't.He acts to the tune of an intelligent, unpredictable screenplay, which skillfully evokes how anger derived of grief looks, feels and smells. All of these characters have dimension and depth, and the leisurely pacing allows us to get to know them slowly, instead of having them defined at the outset in 30-second soundbytes. Beautiful, dreamlike imagery and thoughtful cinematography clinch the deal.Given who these people are and their individual development, the ending seems right intellectually--yet something about it left me unsatisfied. My brain applauded Sissi and Bodo's ability to transcend their pasts. But I still craved more emotion from this wintry-though still remarkably affecting-film.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Intricately plotted, stylishly executed - a film that's not afraid to take its time and detour into into individual character exposition. The best film of the year so far. Excellent. Don't miss it - you won't be disappointed!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Franka","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The last time actress Franka Potente and director Tom Tykwer teamed to do a movie, they did the marvelous Run Lola Run. While The Princess and the Warrior isn't quite as good, it's still a solid follow-up. In fact, Potente may be better in Princess. She's wonderful as the shy, quiet nurse Sissi. Tykwer, who also is a musician, weaves together the music and the screen images as well as anybody. If you like the movie, don't forget to buy the soundtrack. It's a treat. "},{"Title":"Much better overseas...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm at a crossroads as far as recommending this film.  If only to support Tykwer and earn the film some money here in the states, go and see it. It's a really good movie.  On the other hand... DON'T SEE THIS FILM IN THE US! I saw it first in London and came home eager to see it again, only to discover that they had changed the ending (at least at the theater where I saw it) and the movie was not remotely as good as it was overseas.  If you have seen the movie and care about the change, go to the forum for more information. Otherwise, an excellent film. "},{"Title":"my love for Princess and Warrior","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have seen Princess and Warrior about 10 times. Honestly, I really want to watch it again and again another time. This is one of my favorite movies. I love this movie for some reasons 1. The cinematography of this movie is brilliant. I love the movement of the camera, the angles, the compositions and the lighting. This is how the movie is told in the visual world and cinematic culture. 2. The directing of this movie is superb! The ways the characters interact with each other are naturally. I feel like I am witnessing everything is going on in every single scene. Therefore, My mind reached the catharsis moment that the film produced. 3. I love the acting of both actors, Franka Potente (Sissi) and Benno Furmann (Bodo). Sissi has a great heart. She believes in what she feels. She is determined with what she believes that is the truth. Most of all, she can stand up for love. Benno is excellent for his acting as Bodo. I like the look of the character Bodo constructed. The masculinity of the character Bodo is reinforced by Benno acting and the directing of Tykwer. How Bodo's inner world influences his behaviour can be sympathetic. I was attracted by the acting of these two central characters (Franka Potente and Benno Furmann)I can feel every breath they breath, every word they say and every tear they cry. The love and the miracle intertwine with the happiness and the tragedy. In this world, everybody has his/her own pain but depend how s/he expresses. Some people try to hide the pain and someone is trying to understand one's pain in order to help them to overcome/recover. Everything we need is time. Just only time can help to heal the wounds, particularly, some wounds are deep in our hearts. Another elements to help us recover from pain are love and miracle. Together, time, love and miracle can help us all escape our own world to live in the better world, the world of love. There are many lives are shown in the movie but Sissi and Bodo represent of two lives in many tragic cases. One has a mother was killed by her own mad father; one has a wife was killed by chosen the suicidal way. Both are ladies but they both died in different situations. This movie for those who believe in love, believe in miracle, and believe that somewhere in this world there is someone who is waiting to love and to be loved. Let's love each other! I love this movie and I believe so do you. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Being that Franka Potente is my favorite actress anywhere. I am a bit partial but this movie is very well directed and all the actors and actresses are Germany's best. The story line is very intriguing because there are many plots and sub plots. You learn a little about each character as the film goes along but obviously the movie's main focus are The Princess and The Warrior aka Franka Potente and Benno Furmann.There are no loose ends left in a movie with so many plots. All of them are explained along the way as long as you pay attention. As far as story lines I think this is Tom Tykwer's finest film to date. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable character study","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film presents a clever plot story of two emotionally handicapped people who meet twice by coincidence under unusual circumstances.  Franka Potente plays the role of Sissi, an attendant at a mental hospital; Benno Fuermann plays that of a man who is seeking a job after serving his military draft duty.  Franka's clumsy little-girl walk is in stark contrast to her well-known film, Run, Lola Run, but it adds valuable characterization to her character's incomplete personal development in this story.  Her acting in the film can be described as slow and subtle, but utterly compelling in its ability to convey emotion.The cinematography includes some unusually long zooms, especially of the Wupertal overhead monorail (the longest operating monorail in the world?), and some standard transitions and special effects that are nicely done.  In other words, the director and cinematographer don't try to impress the viewer with their technical expertise, but add just a right amount of dash.  A scene near the end is especially wonderful the camera circles continually around the two actors, who are contemplating their next move.The soundtrack is mesmerizing without being intrusive.  It ranges from the anxiety typically used in medical crises to hopeful optimism when a character is trying to change destiny.  There are some extraneous scenes that could have been omitted a patient in the mental ward attacks Sissi, the ward patients are being their normal (?) selves.  Others may argue that these scenes add to the enduring quality of the Sissi's character.  Then there is the title in the original German, which translates into Empress and not Princess as the marketing folks would have us believe, and some undefined, implied link to Empress Sissi.  But these criticisms are minor. In summary, the film represents an enjoyable character study.  It is one of the few films I felt compelled to watch again before returning the videocassette to the rental shop.  Rating 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Jaw still hanging open!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Hi, I have a feeling I'm about to ramble incoherently. The credits of the movie just ran about a minute ago, and I'm just so damn impressed that I don't quite know what to do, so I thought it might help to write something down.Throughout the movie, I remember thinking this is what film should be like. Oh, I suppose I could try to provide an insightful-sounding analysis of everything that was right with this movie, but I don't feel like it right now. I'm sure people will compare it to Lola Rennt, where you really notice and remember and want to talk about all the great cinematic things that Tykwer pulled off. Well, this movie just left me with this deep sense of satisfaction. Like great sex, this film doesn't give you exactly what you want when you want it. In parts, it takes its time. But in the end, you just find yourself profoundly moved. (That is, if you're able to enjoy that sort of thing.) If Lola was a marathon f***, this encounter was full of sensuality, tension and wonderful, confused feelings. If I smoked, I'd light up about now.This will probably come out wrong, but I also have this strong feeling that if you didn't like this movie there's something wrong with you, and you couldn't possibly be the sort of person I want to be friends with.  "},{"Title":"This has never lost it's imagination","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The film starts with an unfamiliar character. She writes a letter, looking at the simplistic if not Dover-esq view of the seaside. This letter is then put into a post box and we see the journey of this letter as it reaches mailing room, to mail box. Now the story begins.Sissi. A slightly insecure, caring individual is working in a mental institution where the only comfort she is provided with is in the form of the blind Otto. White walls and screams enter Sissi's bedroom night time to day time. Her daily routines are never dissimilar, from the prevention of self mutilation to the simple storytelling to her patients. When the letter arrives (which we see is intended for her) she reads it and gives an explanation as to why the favour the letter asks for could not be given...........Disaster strikes. Even after her period of time to heal when she returns to the mental hospital after her accident the only form of a mentor poor Sissi gets is Otto. He's a blind and deeply believes she's the prettiest woman alive, and yearns for her affections. There is something missing however, Sissi wants to find the man who saved her life during the accident. She's looking for her 'Warrior'.- This film is the most articulate, cleverly made film I have ever seen. It is beautiful, both in picture and viewing. The camera angles never cease to amaze (especially as we see Bodo at the beginning at an ariel shot - with arms spanned. Like an angel) Sissi is a fairy tale character, she excentuates beauty and radiates innocence throughout and you can never fail to believe that she deserves to live a better life. She's a caring human being and Franka Potente was just the right character for this. She stands well against Beno Furrman's manly, rugged, selfish looks and personally. They are the perfect contradiction and this is ..... the perfect film.  "},{"Title":"do yourself a favour and watch this movie - Don't let the plt summary or a trailer put you off!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film was moving. I find it hard to find other words for it. The brilliant camera work and photography have been mentioned a lot in other reviews, and it is truly great, but the thing that is really remarkable is that this film draws you in... you are moved, and you can't help it... and you surely won't regret that you are.I have to admit that I was close to tears in parts ... and I do realize that that may not be the most 'manly' thing to say, and that it might make this film come across acs a chick flick... but trust me, just do yourself a favour and watch it. This is most certainly the best film I've watched this year. And I must have seen about 100 so far.10/10 straight... I can't even remember any flaws, if there were any. That is how much this picture moves one. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tom Tykwer was excellent at directing this deep, thought-provoking film. It was about destiny, and leaves you with the question of how much control we really have in the process of our lives, and the connection between our past, present, and future. Do accidents really exist in our lives or are they a part of our path of our destiny? Does our past and future exist in our present?  Again, Franka Potente was excellent, and seemed to be the perfect actress for Sissi.  I give this film a 10+.  I'm disappointed that it has not been more recognized and appreciated in this country.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent, engaging, mature, well crafted, dignified","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is a lot to enjoy in this movie - depth, subtlety, straightforwardness.  Cinematography and music are excellent. All characters and the audience are treated with respect.The pace and length were fine for me. I find most TV far too slow but this film has plenty to look at and think about.I can't understand how some people thought Lola Rennt is a better movie than this one, though the running shots were wonderful.   I must warn viewers that you don't get to see Franka's navel this time - ah well, nothing is perfect. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Beautiful, Perfect","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is probably tied for best movie I've ever seen.  Very beautiful to watch, listen to, and feel.Has all the elements of a classic film - artistic shots (e.g., the wrap-around shot of Bodo on the bridge, the imagery of running faucet/running fuel at gas station), suspenseful silence (the breathing, dripping, footsteps, etc.), evoking of emotions, multiple elements and characters coming together in surprising ways (though not all were as surprising), great acting, and a great message.Can't say enough good things about it.  I wish to own a copy ASAP. "},{"Title":"Another great performance by Franka....","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am again impressed with Franka Potente' ability to act.... In Run Lola run we saw her ability to play the passionate hero and I expected to see her play role along those lines for the rest of her days. However the character of Sissi that she plays in P & W is a complete 360° turn around from  Lola. I was very impressed with her feminine character and want to see more of that kind of work...And more of her in general!!! Big round of applause for Franka!!! And a big 'ups' to Tykwer for another excellent script!!!  "},{"Title":"i am grinning from ear to ear","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Der Krieger und die Kaiserin knocked me out. Incredibly well shot with an immense amount talent from everyone involved, Tykwer outdoes his last work by leaps and bounds. The film had me from the opening fairy tale shot of coastline and everything that followed imprinted itself with pleasure. The long aerial shots of the city were *wow*. The romanticism of the story was quite lovely too. Every little bit that paid homage to German cinema and psycology was tremendous. An excellent film whose pace will scare off some of you nutters. Have patience, don't be judgemental if it is new to you. watch. enjoy. "},{"Title":"Excellent piece of work.  The bar has been raised on the genre of subtle profundity.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Excellent piece of work.  The bar has been raised for the genre of subtle profundity.  All of the elements were there  perfect casting, excellent directing, transcendent cinematography, great story writing, awesome score, actors who understand their craft, and editing that brings together all of these elements to form true art.This movie is definitely a challenge to our great American independent film makers who can go to school on this one. "},{"Title":"Human Connection and Storytelling","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is honestly one of the most genuine portrayals of humanity that I have seen since the Australian film The Interview last year. I am a big fan of Run Lola Run, and thus had high expectations for The Princess and The Warrior.These expectations are met, although not in the way expected.In speed, Tykwer takes the exact opposite approach to the frantically paced Lola in Princess. He builds his story of emotional isolation with careful camera work, and allows the audience to discover the characters as they discover each other. Both Potente and Furmann do an excellent job in facial control and expression. They create a princess ruling over her unreal court, and a warrior fighting the greatest enemy of them all, himself and his past.Yet, Tykwer continues the same theme of connection as in Lola. How do we influence each other's lives...and why? But he does not have the pretention to answer these questions. He simply tells a story that involves them.Some people have described this movie as a love story. I disagree. Although love may be one of the emotions involved, this film is about instant connection and what it does to change everything.An excellent piece, but not for those expecting the same as Lola, or the same as anything else. "}{"Title":"Best film, American or foreign, of this year.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Best film, American or foreign, of this year.  Extremely engrossing, moving, great directing.  Not easy to watch, but well worth the experience.  Run, Lola, Run was terrific, and The Princess and the Warrior (Der Krieger und die Kaiserin) was even better.  "},{"Title":"A Truly Exciting Follow-up","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a masterful film. Exciting to watch. What might have been pretentious under some one else's direction technical cleverness, a multitude of story threads becomes captivating and engaging in the hands of a wonderful director "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Why did it take me so long to get this film on DVD?? It has beautiful pictures, a truly original script, a perfect cast and it was shot by one of the most talented cameramen alive Frank Griebe. I have considered director/writer/composer Tom Tykwer to be a genius ever since I first saw his Deadly Maria which was, I suppose, one of his very first films and already starred Joachim Krol who is Walter in The Princess and the Warrior. Tykwer never stops to surprise me and he has an infallible feeling for real characters. I loved the fast paced Run Lona Run and his amazing Wintersleepers. The Princess and the Warrior is again completely different. Very touching, very thought provoking and utterly humane. Franka Potente and Benno Fürmann are brilliant here. This movie is definitely a must see for everybody with a taste for intelligent film-making. Personally, I can't wait to see Tom Tykwer's The Perfume next year which will star amongst others Ben Wishaw, Alan Rickman and Dustin Hofmann. "},{"Title":"The most amazing film ever","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you want to see a film about love, loss, grief and destiny, Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is the film for you. Director Tom Tykwer blends all these elements seamlessly, creating an original vision of humanity that is seldom seen in Hollywood-produced films.The acting is terrific. Franka Potente makes us sympathize with Sissi's loneliness and the rut she is stuck in. Benno Fürmann has an intense presence on screen, combining passion with extreme vulnerability. The two share great chemistry on screen.The cinematography and camera work are very unique. All three of Tykwer's films I have seen - Lola rennt, Der Krieger und die Kaiserin and Heaven - show how much he loves aerial shots. There are also some unique shots in this film, which make us feel we are right there with the characters.This film is a true work of art. I give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Solid beginning, one of the year's best endings and a 2nd act that completely flies off the tracks","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Final Score 6.7 (out of 10)`The Princess and the Warrior' (as it is titled in the U.S.) is being billed as from the director and star of `Run Lola Run' - the modernist live-action video game that was an international hit (and invigorating to watch) due to it's focus on action over dialogue and the tiny events that can change one's life. With `Princess' writer/director Tom Tykwer again goes for this subject of destiny, but in an entirely different way. On one hand you could say that it is more modest as the movie is a slower drama. I think Tykwer thinks he's being art-house and meticulous when it is really just dull and meandering. With these two films Tykwer has proven to have a visually compelling eye. `Princess' is one of the most beautiful and vibrant looking straight drama's in recent memory.The problem with the movie is... well, all the stuff that happens in it. Tykwer's theme is so huge and abstract that he can't literally get his arms around it, making up for it with an overabundance of plot. The story is a scattershot of events where Tykwer not only throws in everything but the kitchen sink he can think of, but every sub-genera and theme he can get away with. It starts like a story of random events colliding to create a love induced obsession, turns largely toward a standard look in a mental institute with the usual kooks, swings from there into a serial killer movie about a years old murder and then comes back to it's long lost original focus Beno Furmann as an emotionally distant drifter trying to get control of himself and his life. Oh, yeah, and did I mention there is a bank heist in there somewhere.Always at the forefront is `Lola' star Franka Potente. Potente is a fine actress ('Blow', 'The Bourne Identity'), but Tykwer puts her in a thankless role. It's as if he just wanted to see her dealing with the crazies of an insane asylum. Her Sissy (like Lola was) is an overgrown baby who seems lost without her men to take care of her. It's unclear what Tykwer is trying to say with the story on her end. Her arc feels incomplete and her purpose in the 3rd act simple becomes to bump up against and run alongside our hero while he sorts these tangled events out.As it reaches it's drawn out ending Tykwer finds the right pitch to make the emotion of Furmann's journey resonate. The final scene is an impressive payoff. One of the best endings of the year with Furmann delivering a solid performance throughout. However, we're still left asking what on Earth all the nonsense in the 2nd act was all about? Filler? Scrapes from other Tykwer projects crammed together? The movie has it's share of isolated moments of effectiveness it looks like the very long trailer for another more ironed out, cohesive Tykwer movie to come. Ultimately, it wanders so aimless that it comes up to be a viscerally gorgeous, but emotionally empty experience.  "},{"Title":"So dreamy, and pulling, and daring to the emotion!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As the brilliance of this film settles into the mind, it will pull you to the depths of your emotions, and you will forget reality as you know it! Twkwer was a genius to write and direct this classic of fate. As a young women is rescued from her face to face with death, she never forgets the man who saved her. Filled with the most dreamlike of cinematography, and the stunning visuals that Tom Tykwer can come up with, this film only brings you out of your world into this one. Franka Potente is most stunning of actresses when she fills the screen with a humble performance of Sissi, a women looking for where fate will lead her. Benno Fuermann is so enchanting as a wounded bird, so to speak. His character, Bodo, drags you to this feeling of a low and sweet psychosis. After the first encounter with death, another meets the two up again, and coinsedence is out of the question this time. Soon, the two are in a shamble of love, chaos, and legal problems. The very thought of the human soul, drawn by fate, is a wonderful way to tell a story, with style, and charismatic view to last a lifetime. You will definetly fell awkward for weeks after this one!  "},{"Title":"a pretty cool movie","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If you described the plot to me in summary, I would probably not have been interested in seeing this movie, but it was on some movie station in the middle of the night and I started watching it simply because it was in German (if it's on cable and it's not dubbed, someone must think it's good). The plot is pretty flaky, but the characters are strange and appealing enough to make you care about what happens to them and curious to find out how the story is going to end.I previously rated this movie a 9 just to get people to give it a chance, but years later I feel I must revise that lofty ranking.I just this movie to be a solid 7. "},{"Title":"Complications in Wupperthal","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Touching story, almost like the director's Lola rennt, but more feelings than running action here. This is about a girl working in a psychiatric clinic, where her care for her patients even goes into helping them sexually. Her life is among the patients and for the patients, when her life suddenly is saved in a car accident, by a really disturbed man, in whom she falls deeply in love.This is told in a certain very special rhythm. So is the photo. You are often surprised, the story turns many times in ways you hadn't expected. It's violent, strong and very emotional and is really to be recommended.And besides, there is a happy ending! And it occurs in a way you won't find out for yourself.    "},{"Title":"Oh my god!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is terrible. It absolutely makes no sense, the script is laughably stupid.  Franka Potente is very, very attractive and likable and the filming and framing is very  professional. What absolutely makes this movie as bad as it is, is the story. How anyone  could actually come up with this nonsense and get to film it is a mystery. "},{"Title":"Could be a companion piece to Wings of Desire","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Der Kreiger und Die Kaiserin is a beautiful, existential and Romantic (in the pure sense of the word) film. Judging from this film and the recent Perfume The Story of a Murderer, Tom Tykwer is becoming one of my favourite film-makers.I won't do the typical plot outline because anyone who has seen and loved this film already knows how good it is and doesn't need a summary. Franka Potente and Benno Furmann are endlessly watchable and I could watch this film if it was 8 hours long. Life goes by slowly sometimes and this film's pace is appropriate to the essence of the story. There is longing. Longing for love, understanding, purpose and forgiveness A masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Philosophical look at contingency","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie was a great improvement over Tykwer's Wintersleepers. The canned lines are gone and the characters are less predictable. As in Run Lola Run Tykwer does a fine job of considering the role of luck (or is it fate?) and contingency in everyday events. This movie succeeded philosophically at doing what Butterfly Effect was attempting to do. The scenes feel like they occur in a magical, ethereal universe, however, the characters themselves are believable. I like that juxtaposition realistic personalities set in imaginative contexts.Though philosophical, I appreciated that it didn't become ideological, kitschy, or sanctimonious as thinking movies so often do. Why Princess and Warrior as terms in the title? I'm not sure. Perhaps to prepare us for encountering something that superficially felt like a fairy tale; perhaps it was ironic? After all, these were certainly not your typical masculine and feminine roles. Potente and Fuermann carry the androgynous theme credibly. The utopian ending somehow doesn't seem contrived or cheesy. I definitely recommend this. Don't be put off by the subtitles. There is not lots of reading, and though I don't understand German, I found the sound of the language communicated much. "},{"Title":"Unflinching and realistic fairytale","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A friend recommended this film after we had a conversation about life, love, emotional baggage, and how the world seemed full of what we call The Walking Wounded of relationships.This is a phenomenal movie that I have seen a couple times and it gets better each time I watch it. It's very hard to describe the story or the film without making it sound melodramatic, so I just tell everyone Just watch it, you'll understand.If you've ever felt disconnected, disaffected, shut out, abandoned, isolated, or just plain different than everyone else and you are just waiting for life to change, for SOMETHING to happen to make a change...watch this film and maybe you'll be inspired to get up and make that change yourself.Beware there are 2 rather bloody scenes that are not for the faint of heart, some sexual content, and strong language. "},{"Title":"Original, thought provoking and interesting","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Princess and the Warrior, to give it it's English title, is a consummate piece of film-making. Original, thought provoking, and interesting are just a few adjectives I could put in this review in a more professional way if I had any talent at writing reviews. The film focuses on two central characters, one, Sissi is a nurse in a psychiatric hospital, (May I take this time to congratulate the filmmakers on avoiding any psychiatric hospital clichés) and the other, Bodo, who is involved in crime. It was an ambitious effort to have these two very different characters and see how they react with one another when their paths cross. An effort that was worth it because it results in a great story. Indeed, the paths crossing, coincidences that seem to bring two people together being one of the main themes of the film, that I'm sure if examined thoroughly, could have any number of similarly interesting elements with every viewing. All the things that are needed to make this film worth watching are there, great acting and cinematography, with a score and script of a very high standard. Overall, The Princess and the Warrior is a great story told very well. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that this is a great movie. I gave it 9/10. It reminds in some scenes og Lola Rent, but Heaven is the movie it's got most connection to. Der Kreiger und die Kaiserin demands a lot of the viewers and has this fantastic symbolism. Actor is although good and it a good quality movie. See it, it's not often you see German movies soo... give it a chanse... "},{"Title":"Most inspirational film I have seen in years. Truly original and powerful.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tykwer grasps the line between cinematography and psychology and mixes thetwo so coherently that without either, the films he make would simply fall apart. Every piece fits together and is so well pre-produced that this film in particular sets a new standard in filmmaking. Tykwer is the best. BB "},{"Title":"Tykwer is a cinematic genius","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Follow-up which is, to my relief, very different from Lola rennt. Following the same path as Swedish up-and-coming director Moodysson Tom Tykwer has come up with a really good follow-up to his successful and novel action Lola with this quiet, yet gripping action-drama about fate and love. The opening sequence alone with the letter is worth it all.  Franka Potente is probably the most interesting actress right now.  I hope she never goes back to Hollywood to be dullified among the other non-creative minds that seem to flourish in the zest pool of wannabes that is Hollywood. And the theme song with its Portishead/Skunk Anansie sound is also excellent. "},{"Title":"A modern romantic tale","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  With so many crap movies being produced, it is not easy to figure out why director's Tom Tykwer following movie after Run, Lola has been released only to the DVD. Let alone far 2 years later.The fabulous Franka Potente plays Sissi, nurse in Wuppertal psychiatric hospital. Her life crosses with Bodo's (played by Benno Fürmann) when she's hit by a car Bodo - which has just accomplished a hold-up - stops his runnaway only to perform a emergency tracheotomy on Sissi, so she can breathe while waiting for the paramedics.After her recovery, she tries to get closer to the stranger that saved her life - and his feelings are not mutual. But the more Bodo drives away from Sissi, the more she insists. And more their lives entwine.The result is not as original as Run, Lola, but it brings back the same elements combination that must be Tykwer's signature an absolut romantic tale (check out the movie's name) told with a modern package. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've Ever seen!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful.  I loved Run Lola Run by Twyker too.  This movie makes you care about the characters that take their life into their own hands.  The struggles of Bodo and Sissi are told so well you feel like you were there.  The cinematography is wonderful and the acting is superb.  I would thoroughly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Loved every minute of it","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film was unpredictable, strange, and engaging. It's different from Run, Lola, Run, but in a good way. Franka Potente (who happens to be exactly one week older than me) was, as always, very intriguing.The only downside the movie had to it was the title, which prevented me from renting it several times until I finally went for it. X Creative Pool is coming up with some very good stuff, here.Watch this film with an open mind, without any preconceptions, and you may like it... "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie. I watched it with subtitles and within the first 10 minutes I was so involved that I forgot I was reading them. However, it tends to drag along at the end and you just want them to ride off into the sunset and be done with it.  "}{"Title":"A love story that is as astonishing as it is profound","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This story contrasts a dream like pace with scenes of remarkable intensity. The sheer invention of the scenarios burns unforgettable images into your psyche. The characters are full developed and complex yet they seem to move in a world of fable.  The tension between fable-like quality and the grim reality of the settings is the product of a wonderfully subtle, poetic imagination.The unusual moral boundaries within which Sissi and Bodo live their lives contrasts with their essntial innocence and vulnerability. The structure of their lives is built on a foundation of irony and paradox.  In the key scene in the movie Sissi and Bodo are forced into a love as deep as the genetic code will go. That image echos in my dreams still haunting in its unexpected beauty. "},{"Title":"Excellent in its own right.  Beautiful, creative","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Another great film from Tom Tykwer. Exquisite visuals and the performances even better, especially from Franka Potente.  Potente and Tykwer work magic together.  A truly redeeming and thoughtful film, again dealing with fate and love, much like Lola rennt. Don't listen to comments that Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is too slow.  True, it's not Lola Rennt, but the slowness of the film and story, and the long drawn out shots must be appreciated as the reflection on the situations the characters are in, and in a way, the slowness of main character Sissi. HINT watch it twice.  The second time flies by and, for me, was a much better representation of what it should be.   "},{"Title":"Dreamy","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tom Tykwer's answer to his `Run Lola Run' features many of the same collaborators (including the winning actress Franka Potente, cinematographer Frank Griebe, editor Mathilde Bonnefoy and composers Reinhold Heil and Johnny Klimek) but the results are fascinatingly different. This time around, Tykwer slows his action down considerably to tell a dreamy tale of a compassionate nurse working in a mental hospital (Potente) whose life intersects dramatically with a low-rent but sensitive criminal (Benno Furmann) when he saves her life. The theme presented here--that fate and chance are barely distinguishable--is the same as in `Run Lola Run' but as with that film, it's not ideas that matter but execution and while there aren't nearly as many cinematic tricks (the few there are are hit or miss) and the film occasionally moves a bit too slowly, it does establish Tykwer as a very good storyteller with plenty of innovative ideas to make you look forward to future work. Recommended. "},{"Title":"As methodical as Lola without the speed","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"      Twyker's film is much more slower than Run Lola Run, yet it shares a methodical well-written screenplay that allows for twists and developments.  It also shares some similar themes about destiny and chance encounters that actually mean everything.  Even many of the same actors from Lola are recognizable here, especially Joachim Krol, Lola's hobo, who here plays a well-groomed bank robber.         I loved two things about Lola that are missing here.  I loved the fire emitted by Franka Potente in that film, and while her character, Sissi, is given some interesting moments under the truck and lying with Bodo, she lacks the passion that made Lola such a damn fun character to watch.  Benno Furmann's character is rather intriguing, but at times, Furrmann seems one note.  The final transition is a great visual, but it doesn't let Furrmann act out the change in his character.  Finally, Lola's ending left the audience breathless with a big smile on its face- the closing shot here is more like something out of a Folger's commercial.    I saw this in Greenburgh's Clearview in Theatre 3.  It's where I saw Dancer in the Dark, You Can Count On Me, and Under The Sand.  They all seem to have had similar effects- well-written, well-acted films that sometimes affected you or made you think, but seldom pack real inspiration.  I still go to the movies hoping to leave with energy, like when I was a kid leaving Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Batman, Sneakers, 12 Monkeys, Speed, Everest, or more recently, Fight Club, Traffic, and of course, Memento.  These films made me want to be in the business, making the art, and maybe someday soon the Theater 3 films like Princess and the Warrior will begin to measure up.      "},{"Title":"Tom Tykwer grows up...","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Der Krieger und die Kaiserin marks Tom Tykwer's growing maturity as both storyteller and film director, while finally allowing Franka Potente a chance to prove that, yes, she really can act.  Amazing to compare her pairing with Benno Fürmann here with last year's incomprehensibly popular Anatomie, a 'missgeburt' of a film in which she was at best wasted and he was utterly dreadful.  This effort is a huge step up for Tykwer after stylish but sophomoric work in Lola rennt and Winterschläfer.  Not for the adrenalin-starved teenagers who flocked to Lola perhaps, but serious viewers will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Lola und Die Krieger","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is an amazing change of pace from Lola Rennt, which moved quite literally at the speed of sound. Twyker has slowed the pace to a crawl, putting pedal tones in most of the score to heighten the dramatic limbo. As in Lola, there are many of the same narrative devices. The heroine is associated with a certain colour (yellow, instead of Lola's red); tangential information is related in high-speed flash sequences; and of course, the musical narrative is told with ticking clocks and glockenspiels.But where Lola is concerned with multiple layers of reality and the hyper-kinetic tension that they create, Der Krieger is concerned with the creation of forward momentum. Bodo and Sissi are both bound by tragedies to their past. Neither of them are really living, and each must suffer a great shock to their system in order to jumpstart their lives again.Twyker's optimism is an enormous relief to the sheer dread of this film. There are several moments when the grief of the central characters seems overwhelming, but Der Krieger masterfully stops short of being insufferable and delivers a powerful, uplifting ending.Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is by no means a companion film to Lola Rennt, but the signature of their director is unavoidable. Twyker's films are, like so many great directors (Hitchcock, Gilliam, Kubrick, Bergman), woven of the same fabric. We should all hope that he is around as long as they were, for he will certainly provide us with a formidable body of work.  "},{"Title":"Masterfull story-telling, that both is intelligent and entertaining.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Director Tom Tykwer has already brought us Lola rennt or Run Lola Run. Der Krieger und die Kaiserin however is nothing like Run Lola Run. It is a movie about personal fate and how to overcome traumatic events in your life.I am not going to explain anything of the story as it is too complex and would give away too much. The movie is wonderfully filmed and brilliantly executed. Seldom have I seen such convincing actors in every tiny little role; so much atmosphere. Rarely did I really care what would happen next to the main characters (here Franka Potente as Sissi, Benno Fuermann as Bodo)of a movie.I recommend this movie to anyone who isn´t just into action-flicks, but who wants to witness a  intriguing story and a movie you can discuss about afterwards. "},{"Title":"Good movie with some flaws","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I liked Run Lola Run a lot and I can imagine how much pressure it was for Tykwer as the whole world was expecting something like it or at least something as inspiring. I think he got crushed by this load. The movie is in some parts much too crowded with metaphors and stylish shots. Another thing I didn't like was the ending. It was far too long as if he didn't know when to stop. But as I said I still consider it a good movie and I gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Best German movie since Kleine Haie","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Together with Wortmanns Kleine Haie, this is certainly my favourite German movie. I didn't care very much for Lola rennt, so I didn't expect very much of this film either. However, this is at last a film that tells a story - weird, sometimes, even improbable, but therefore all the more exciting - and without all that postmodern riff-raff of fast cuts, quoting genres, special effects and everything. The characters you meet are so common (in a way), but still they carry a sense of dignity that I miss in most Hollywood blockbusters. "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  the new tykwer-movie is amazing, exciting and unique. After Lola rennt which turned out to be the best german film for years, Tykwer creates a new masterpiece with Der Krieger und die Kaiserin by using an unordinary plot.I personally liked the scenes in the psychiatric hospital. As I'm working in a similar institution, I can say that these scenes are very realistic.THUMBS UP!  "}{"Title":"The opposite of Run, Lola, run sometimes too slow","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie, but I think, it would have been better made a bit faster. 30-40 minutes less wouldn't have made it worse. Tom Tykwer is sometimes working with too much symbols, metaphora etc. Some scenes are really fascinating, but I disliked especially the end-scene with the bus driven by Walter. For me, it didn't fit, making the film some kind of irrealistic all of a sudden. What I really liked, was the atmosphere the surroundings and the music were excellent chosen, a bit exaggerated only the psychiatric clinic. I would say, the film is the opposite of Run, Lola, run not fast, but very slow, but nevertheless equally enjoyable. "},{"Title":"one of the best German movies ever","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Run Lola run by Tom Tykwer was not the movie i actually liked too much. Winter-sleeper was a bit better. This one, however, proved to be the successful combination of drama, romance, suspense, comedy and can be the best German film after Goal-keeper anxiety by a penalty kick. Director gets less into technical details (like in Lola) and concentrates more on a story which is full of unexpected whirls. A must-see for all fans of unusual camera movements. "},{"Title":"A great movie. Watch it, feel it.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Two protagonists that are out of sync with the world around them. They find each other, need each other to sync each other. With each other. Haunted by ghosts from their very own past they (can) face it, integrate it, forget it, trust each other - not necessarily in this order -- ...PS. Beware of a woman that is so utterly determined like the princess ;-) "},{"Title":"Difficult follow-up","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It is quite difficult for a director to make a new film after producing the best film his country has seen in a decade. Tom Tykwer's Krieger und Kaiserin is this follow-up. It is a romantic love-story, that is refreshingly unconventional. If there were more films like Tykwer's latest, it would be easier to criticise. Compared with the mainstream of popular cinema it is wonderful. But at times it is just a little boring, a little too slow. Compare La fille sur le ponte with it and you will see, that you can make a similar film that is much more fascinating, due for example to the use of a black and white material. "},{"Title":"Highly emotional plot + story","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is just another masterpiece of art by Tom Tykwer. It's a one-of-a-kind epic drama, which tells the story of Sissi and Romeo in very slow and beautiful pictures. By the way, it's also a wonderful declaration of love to Tom Tykwer's home town, Wuppertal. A must-see for fans of great (and somehow surrealistic) love stories. "},{"Title":"Boy, Girl and NO Kiss","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much A Lovestory without a single kiss seems to be impossible. But Tom Tywker proves its not!  If you hope, empress Sissi and warrior Bodo will get together easily, you' re wrong. It needs 129 Minutes and many unexpected turns.  "},{"Title":"Intellectual Masterpiece","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film is very difficult to review in itself. On the surface it appears to be a rather flimsy love story that has nothing going for it, with the German stereotypes at hand. However, the now legendary Tom Tykwer has revolutionised a simple tale with great ease.The basic plot comes down to lonely woman has her life saved by a mysterious man, and goes about trying to find and be with this man. However, the Director weaves philosophical interludes of theories of perception that come about without even noticing and embed them in the viewers mind. It really is an intelligent film.The visual techniques used are hard to find a parallel to in American / British film-making, truly original, modern, sleek and very fast. The soundtrack is comprised of rhythmic dance music that adds to the tempo-rhythm of the piece. It is much like his work in 'Lola Rennt' (Run Lola Run).I would recommend this film to ANYONE but you must be warned, that this is an intellectual film and the beauty of it can be lost on viewing it without an open-mind. "},{"Title":"German cinematic excellence","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If this same story were told by a Hollywood director it would probably end up being  something like Untamed Heart,a.k.a trash.  This is only one more example of German cinematic excellence. Tykwer has a place in my book of remarkable directors. However, for editing Mathilde Bonnefoy deserves the title 'artist' for crafting this film.  "},{"Title":"A masterful Next Step for both Tykwer and Potente. Great Movie!!!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful! I waited three months for this movie to open here inSanta Barbara. It was playing first at one screen in Santa Monica(LA, really-- 2 hours from my house), then two screens (addingPasadena). Now, at last, it is in my town! Is it everywhere now?Princess and the Warrior was really worth the wait. Previously, Ihad avoided foreign films, especially German ones. I can't recallthe directors' names, but back in the 1970's and 1980's, I sawthree or four German movies. Oddly, they all had at least onecomponent set in America. And they were all REALLY depressing,offering a skewed, unrealistic, and bizaarly dark view of life (andmy country).I thusly avoided Run Lola Run in the theaters when it came out,but then saw it later on DVD. I fell in love with the new Germanmovie style. Director Tom Tykwer, and his girl friend star FrankaPotente are EVERYTHING great movie making folks should be. Inow own all of the available Tykwer, and Potente, DVD titles-- andon my graduate student's meager budget, that's a rare  compliment.The Princess and the Warrior shows Tykwer's deepening andenriched development as a director. Good show! Potente provesthat she is more than a cute, clever girl on the screen. Whichwould be enough, mind you, for most actors and movies. ButPotente is NOT merely Lola, her the movie character. She isnothing less than a brilliant, talented artist and actor of amazinggrace, skill, and depth. Her acting is seamless, engaging,charismatic, beautiful, etc., etc.! Her current character, Sissi, mightbe Lola's 2nd cousin, but Sissi is a rich, intriguing, and totallyunique character in her own right. So, do like I did Get in touch with your Inner Kraut, and take thetime to find this classic movie. You'll love it.  "},{"Title":"Tykwer amazes again.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I begin by saying that Run Lola Run is one of my few most favorite movies. I was doubtful that Mr. Tykwer could surpass his impact on me with this film. But, Tykwer amazes again. The metaphysical guts of Run Lola Run were impressive. Time, choices, consequences. This film takes these same BIG ideas and works them through a very eccentric story about misfits, somewhat less flashy and sexy than Lola and Manni. These two, Sissi and Bodo (I love the names), start out as strangers in the film and are both so alienated that it seems doubtful through much of the film that they will ever be on a first name basis. Benno Furmann, the film's macho centerpiece, does an impressive job as the silent, volatile Bodo. Brooding affectively is not easy, as I imagine Clint Eastwood would attest. Franka Potente's character is very complex, and she manages to incorporate her outrageous history into believable and sympathetic behaviors with small gestures and that stunning face. The frenetic and narcotic pace of Lola is replaced here by an appropriate slowness and tranquilized tension. I have been a psychiatric nurse in a violent ward, and I will testify that the hospital scenes in the film are right on the mark. Tykwer amazes again. The ending of the film, aside from making me cry aloud, was both discomforting and brilliant. It was also risky. Bravo, Mr. Tykwer! I want more.   "}{"Title":"It's as satisfying and disturbing a film as you will have seen all year.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  About this unfortunate title, Tim Tykwer (`Run Lola Run') says, `I think it's a very descriptive title since the film gives these special, strange figures the same dimension that is usually reserved for historical figures.' There is less history and more downright insanity as Sissi (Franka Potente from `Lola') pursues the man who saved her life, Bodo (Benno Furmann). In `True Romance' fashion, these star-crossed lovers defy the rules of logic by evading the law and their own crazed natures.Besides the interest they generate in their considerably eccentric characters, one scene may be the finest moment of filmmaking this year when Bodo saves Sissi by performing a tracheotomy under the truck that has just driven into her, sexual tension oozes like the blood from the small straw, and these two are fated from that moment to share a troubled future, despite his reluctance. All you hear is her breath, tenuously hanging on, and your own. Your thoughts race like a lover's from the ecstasy of a life being saved and figuratively made love to at the same time to the irony of his being the thief who inadvertently caused this accident.Last year's `Girl on The Bridge' left me with that same feeling that sexuality plays best in metaphor, as it did then when the hero threw knives at his carnival model.  In addition, the sterile insane asylum scenes in `P & W' (she works there; he hides there from the law after bungling a heist she happens to witness) strongly evoke the unforgettable Jack Nicholson stage in `One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.'Adding to the classic touches of `P &W' is Tywker's consistent interest in the timeless dialectic between fate and chance. In `Lola' and this film, the director reminds us how each random act has its effect, tying us together in an endless string of coincidences. The challenging ending reinforces the ambiguous nature of these connections, suggesting the incestuous struggle with former loves, our own Doppelgangers, the war between men and women, and the redemptive power of that battle.  This is no film for the cinematic simple-minded.  Like `Memento,' `Princess and the Warrior' offers little explanation and raises a whole bunch of metaphysics. It's as satisfying and disturbing a film as you will have seen all year. "},{"Title":"Tom Tykwer is a very interesting director","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Tom Tykwer is a director whose movie Run Lola run made him famous around the world.Run Lola run is a very dynamic movie which had some innovative things which made it better than a lot of action films.It would have been very easy if Tykwer made more movies like Run Lola run,but he decided to take another way with serious movies like The princess and the warrior(the movie I'll talk about on this commentary),Heaven and Perfume.The best thing about The princess and the warrior is the excellent photography it has.The photography gives aspects about the characters.Franka Potente and Benno Furmann give excellent performances.The expressions these two actors make are simply phenomenal.The movie has a slow development but it's never boring.The princess and the warrior is a very good movie with honest emotions and great performances.Tom Tykwer is a very interesting director. "},{"Title":"Unspeakably beautiful","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Tom Tykwer sacrificed the sure footing that Lola Rennt had granted him to make a far more ambitious and abstract film Der Krieger und die Kaiserin. Like Lola Rennt, it heavily explores the themes of fate and romance, navigating the path that life can take depending on where you are and what you want. Now, it is said that no good film can ever be too long, but this film is very good and it is too long so scratch that saying. It is no Lola Rennt for me (I'm inexcusably partial to that film) &#150; but it is a wonderful story and Tykwer in his element.First, it details the sedated and secluded life of young nurse Sissi (Franka Potente, who else?) in an asylum, where she is unmistakably popular with the patients but feels something is missing in her life. When one day she crosses the street, a twist of fate brings her together with equally lost Bodo &#150; pinned underneath a truck. He saves her life but parts with her on the way to the hospital, leaving Sissi lusting and searching after her savior for weeks to come until one day she decides to seek him out, much to Bodo's dismay.Throw in a bank heist, troubled asylum patients, overlapping incidences of fate and a splash of surrealism and you have Der Krieger und die Kaiserin &#150; one of those fairy-tales masking as a contemporary film (Big Fish, Undertow, Running Scared), and aptly so. No doubt it contains many unspeakably beautiful and touching moments that Tykwer enforces with his dutiful use of techno- and piano music, such as the first meeting between Sissi and Bodo. The result is undoubtedly less raw and kinetic than the adrenaline-pumping Lola Rennt, but rest assured that Tykwer still delivers his trademark devices shots of people running, screaming in stop-motion and fast-motion with speeding overhead trains and a booming score.For that matter, Franka Potente is also a dutiful inclusion to any Tykwer film and as Sissi she is remarkably emotive, soft-spoken, honest and gentle but with the same no-nonsense approach to tasks as Lola get it done. Yet it needs to be said that because Bodo has trouble reciprocating her emotional needs, her character treads a fine line between sweet idealist dreamer and creepy stalker. Both characters also look almost incongruously lost at times, but this is unmistakably what Tykwer wants to highlight being lost in life.Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is a perfect showcase for excellent photography and indeed my visual expectations were floored by the well-handled cinematography of the film. There are sharp, colourful frames after another and picturesque settings that tip over into surrealism at times, becoming medidative, abstract and introspective. This is it starts moving too slowly and you wish some condensation would have been made. Nevertheless, this is a beautiful story and a damn well-executed film, Tykwer-style.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Fascinating, Unusual Love Story","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Princess and the Warrior is better evoked through its alliterative German title of Der Krieger und Die Kaiserin. I'm now hooked as a fan of auteur writer/director/composer Tom Tykwer, having also seen his Winter Sleepers and Run Lola Run, though the latter turns out to be atypical stylistically. All three movies deal with coincidence as fate, here in the service of a very unusual love story between two people who are damaged in very different ways by their pasts. Over a tantalizingly slow playing out of coincidences, Lola star Franka Polente, now a sexually-awakening blonde, ignites a non-verbal chemical reaction on-screen with magnetic, crying macho man Benno Fürmann, though what with a car accident meeting and a courtship via a bank robbery that ends up in an insane asylum, there's no time for more than a chaste hand hold. Yes it does drag over the 2 1/2 hours, but that pace intrigues as practically real-time happenings pique your curiosity and all the secondary happenings and characters link to a larger purpose of saving these two people's sanity and maybe even their souls through what must be True Love.(originally written 7/13/2001) "},{"Title":"Modern Fairytale","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Okay, there are many people who claim that this movie is unrealistic or unbelieveable. It surely is.But noone claims Star Wars or Lord of the Rings to be unrealistic, no?This movie is a modern fairytale. A quite depressing one, though. The characters are portrayed in a very special way, the way the Director wants them to be.Anybody who just looks at the love-story will be dissapointed, sure. But the main thing, in my opinion, is that they knew what they wanted, and at least Sissi (empress, named after the austrian empress Sissi, I guess) got what she wanted.As Otto said You fear to come back and everything is still the same. Nothing is the same.Bodo (the warrior, fighting against himself and his past) got what is good, not what he expected. At least. He quit with his past. Here we go.Okay, the Movie might have some long sequences, but, still worth watching. For those who still dream. "},{"Title":"Tykwer is very good; Potente is amazing!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tom Tykwer, who directed and scripted Der Krieger  und die Kaiserin  (2000) has many abilities.  One  of them is that he can depict a psychiatric hospital  and the staff and patients in a remarkably accurate  fashion.  Even more important is that Tykwer can bring out  the enormous talents of Franka Potente.Potente is like a chameleon.  Not only does her hair  change color from film to film, but in this movie she is transformed from Lola the runner, to Sissi, the nurse, who walks with a limp.  She looks like a  nurse, she acts like a nurse, and she is totally  believable as a concerned, conscientious  mental health professional.Ms. Potente is--of course--attractive.  But she doesn't have the drop dead beauty of the standard international film star.  What Ms. Potente has is talent.  She is the German  Meryl Streep.  Doug Liman use her as just  another pretty face in The Bourne Identity.   What a waste.Tom Tykwer knows how to direct  this actor.  He knows what she can do, and he helps her to do it.  But the incredible talent belongs to Franka Potente.  I am convinced that if the role required it, she  could walk on water and live on air. "},{"Title":"Good, Silent Effort","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Der Krieger und die Kaiserin is a really cool and silent movie.  It isn't is in your face and it doesn't contain any crazy imagery.  It is a great film about the subject of love and fate.  I really liked it and I suggest others who want to a different sort of film to pick it up.  It is subtitled you can understand what the actors are saying but it doesn't take away from viewing it.  It is one of the best European films to have come across the Atlantic in a while.  10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed flick. The true thing about filming","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Happy to see this one from Lola rennt director. The visual stuff, photography & camerawork in general is really cool. The storyline though is not for everybody, I guess.  If you liked Lola rennt only for its fast pace, Franka Potente & the nice soundtrack, then you might be disappointed. Franka is here, but playing a total different role, the pace is rather slow  (even if there are also many action scenes). But if you can trully appreciate the work of an original director, a clever plot with twists (not flawless, but deeply satisfying) then this piece of fine german cinema is for you.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" People with short attention spans may not appreciate this film, as it requires quite a bit of concentration. Yet the storyline and acting was riveting from beginning to end for me.Franka Potente continues a near superhuman rise in the world of acting, and rightfully so. She has exceptional range, is very attractive in a Neighbor girl from Europe kind of way, and works very well in the scripts she has chosen. I was impressed by this film especially because it is exactly what Run Lola Run (Lola Rent) is not a long, character driven romance. However, we see many of the elements that made Lola Rent such a great film here as well, including the clever cinematography (the opening credit sequence is a series of shots of letter sorting machines at the post office.) Something I noticed is that Writer/Director Tykwer seems to have made a signature camera shot out of running scenes. Action director John Woo is well known for his 2 gun, leaping through the air shooting scenes, while Tykwer seems to favor scenes of people running. Whatever the shot, however, Tykwer has proved himself a director of great vision.The final 20 minutes are VERY edge of your seat. I genuinely cared about the two main characters, Sisi and Bodo, and loved the ending, including some creative imagery that you almost never see in Hollywood productions.Rent it, be patient, and treat yourself to something that doesn't come along very often. "},{"Title":"As spellbinding as any Hitchcock mystery, as austerely humane and full of heart as any Truffaut tale","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The Princess + the Warrior is very much German filmmaker Tom Tykwer's own. It is thrilling, simply mesmerizing watching Franka Potente and Benno Fürmann carrying out what Tykwer has written, this captivating study of two strangers' lives somehow intertwined. Predestined timing, unexpected circumstances&#133;it's intriguing and thought-provoking. Tykwer is so imaginative and resourceful in the characters he illustrates. There are befitting details and skillful graphic presentations of his story, its plot progressions. It's actually quite methodical as if following a grid built for this particular film. The music, again, Tykwer created together with Johnny Klimek and Reinhold Heil (they now call themselves Pale 3) - definitely complements the atmosphere and development of the story. Tykwer's favorite theme, fate, is very much front and center this time. And you can't not follow Potente's character Sissi's plight - we are drawn to her, just as she's magnetized towards Bodo, Fürmann's obscure character (you might say he is 'the man who cried' vs. Johnny Depp's character in the movie of the same name.) Bodo is a mystery unto himself. Complex backgrounds, indeed, yet fascinating to follow the truths unraveling. Viewers will feel clever connecting the clues and missing links, and absolutely surrender to being in the midst of this Tykwer-spun entanglement. THE PRINCESS AND THE WARRIOR is more serious and in-depth in storyline than 1998's RUN LOLA RUN. It is more of a rarefied fairytale than 1996's WINTER SLEEPERS realities. The pairing of Franka Potente and Benno Fürmann alone is enough of an attraction to this Tykwer down-to-earth magical film. He is giving us the harsh reality of fate and being alive, making us think about the nearness of death. It's all so real and yet, unreal - or is it? Can love dissolve walls? Can the two together fly? It prompts us that we CAN let go of tormenting pasts, take a bold leap (or jump rather) forward and start anew, come what may. And yes, with a total stranger should fate so destine. Ah, that rare human valuable - TRUST. Another kudos to Sony Pictures Classics for the wisdom of bringing us this sparkling diamond of a Tom Tykwer production. Thrice delivered supreme quality filmic experience storytelling creativity, innovative techniques, both visual and aural. This film has elements measured up to Hollywood productions, its sets, cinematography, locales, even scenarios reminiscent of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 1975, yet a unique spellbinding human story when Sissi met Bodo. Treat yourself to a Tykwer experience - The Princess + the Warrior.My 100th user comments sent to IMDb.   "}{"Title":"Patience, in this case, was truly a virtue! (Not a spoiler)","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The Princess and the Warrior is one of my favorite foreign languagefilms. Still I can relate, to some degree, to the negative press thatsurrounded it, therefore I don't intend to make an all out effort tojustify the fact that I disagree. Instead I'll try to focus on thepositives and hopefully influence others to watch and make their ownjudgement. It wasn't particularly creative from the standpoint of cinematography ordirection. I did think that the performances of some of the actors, inboth key and supporting roles, were exceptional. It was, however, TomTykwer's writing efforts that I found to be truly extraordinary.In the beginning and on the surface this movie seems shallow, inhibitedand fairly predictable, but eventually the story becomes like a flowercoming into bloom. About two thirds of the way through the film thereare certain distinctive features that come to light, which are based onseemingly meaningless details from earlier in the story.As the film progresses it's almost as if the plot and story line areslowly turned inside out. What are initially perceived to be the mostsignificant features of the piece are gradually replaced by underlyingelements that become more consequential, and are difficult, if notimpossible to anticipate. As the drama unfolds it's almost as if you'rewatching the pieces fall in place for a puzzle that you didn't knowexisted.Another impressive feature is the fact that there are a number of scenesthat are very disturbing and difficult to watch. This effect is achievedwithout producing a work that is particularly graphic. In my opinionthis, in itself, is significant accomplishment. As usual, Franke Potente is strange and beautiful. Her role as Simone,(Sissi), an  introvert who lives and works in the confines of a mentalhospital was bit unusual, based on what I've seen of her other work.Never the less she played the part exquisitely. Chronologically, thisseems to be the role that brought her significant notoriety in the eyesof American Filmmakers. Whether or not this was a positive effect is adebatable issue.The chain of events are brilliantly tied together. Two antisocial peopleare linked together and go through the difficult early stages of forminga bond based on their own personal tragedies. There was considerableirony in the fact that Potente's character helps her emotionally unsoundlove interest seek asylum in the mental institution, a place from whichshe is trying desperately to escape.If you're prone to give up on a movie based on the contents of the firstfifteen minutes then this may not be the film for you. Patience, in thiscase, is truly a virtue.              "},{"Title":"Sucked Me In","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching Der Krieger und The Kaiserin. I'm psychologically drained. The second half of the movie is so beautiful, so absorbing... it's just brilliant!The story involves Sissi and Bodo, two troubled youngsters who meet when Bodo saves Sissi's life (in, I might add, one of the most disturbing scenes I've ever seen). A recovered Sissi tries to find him back. But that's not the most important part of the movie. It really takes it time to start off, but once it does...I won't say too much about the unveiling plot (involving scenes in an asylum and a bank robbery, and that's all I'm gonna say) but it had me edged to my seat 'till the end. It sure is a long way from Lola Rennt but Tykwer pulls it off and Potente is great yet again. One of the best movies I've seen lately.8/10. "},{"Title":"BOOOOOOORING!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the worst flick I've seen in the past ten years second only to Jason X. It's pointless and has almost as many unintentional laughs a minute than an Ed Wood film. Long story short nurse at a home for the mentally ill runs into a guy who almost kills her and falls in love with him even though he treats her like dirt. It's not only unbelievable, but also insulting. An idiotic remake of Breaking the Waves. If Tom Tykwer is the savior of German cinema, German cinema ain't worth saving. 3/10 "}]