[{"Title":"The Ultimate European Movie","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one French movie which I am pretty sure will not run through an American remake. It has all the elements that attract the intellectual European movie goer, and all what is rejected by the typical American viewer. It is a love story with two characters, almost everything happens in just two places (a restaurant and a hotel room), drama is based on characters development, and eroticism is all but explicit. It is a love story, but it departs the usual romantic comedy pattern and escapes the cheap happy end that spoils that many American movies. Acting is superb, and actually the best part in the film, though it is sometimes too static, more Russian or East European style than French. At the end, you are left with a simple story of un-realized love, the message being that the imposed limits of communication according to which the heros decided to play decide their ultimate faith, and the faith of their relationship. Not too much, but decent cinema if you like the style and genre. 8/10 on my personal scale.  "},{"Title":"Sublime acting","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This little movie is simply sublime. I ran across it again when searching for more Sergi Lopez films. His range is simply amazing, from sensitive fantasy lover (as in this film) to the most dastardly twisted villain. I would be hard-pressed to think of any more talented male actor in European film today. I particularly liked him in Dirty Pretty Things, due to its serious, thoughtful treatment of the pressures on immigrants. A Friend Like Harry was just great entertainment, humor of the darkest sort.Une Liason Pornografique is still another type of film altogether. The French produce many interesting films on sex, some successful, some less so. This is of the best I can recall from my own 20-year love affair with European art films. Another recent French film that I can whole-heartedly recommend is Coline Serreau's Chaos, which took several years to cross the ocean to the U.S., but was originally released in 2001. Also Chocolat by Claire Denys, another quiet but piercingly accurate character study. "},{"Title":"French without tears, sex without fears...","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is not a perfect film, it has flaws, the most obvious being the pseudo psycho babble that could have been achieved with greater effect by having said less, but having said it better. It is a romance, it is romantic, it is sexy, and it is a slice of life, their lives, a small part that keeps the rest of their lives from being without charm. There is no need to contemplate the past or their futures but the moments that make the present happiness complete. The film proves that sex between mature adults can be beautiful, and not bound by the petty mores of witless societies that demand sex take place between pnuematically enhanced teenagers and souless males who would not understand the rhythms of sex without a street directory. Nathalie Baye was 51 when she made this film and has an attractive body, but she has a great way of making herself erotically desirable. Any person that has never laughed, joked or cried during sex has not had much good sex. It is the casual and caring ease between the leads that demonstrates how sex can be imtimate and romantic and caring. The people who call this movie cold have looked at it from the director's eyes and have failed to capture the warmth of the two leads. The title, I think is in the French style of ironic (a word missing from the American dictionary) rather than the British sense of the word. While the British treat irony like a Shakespearean tragedy the French equate it more with the little death and regard it more as humour tainted with pathos. The French idea of tragedy is to leave the ending out of movies, but perhaps I am over using irony here. If you have 80 minutes to spare to think about the relationships in your own life, then this little movie just might help you explore your own heart a little more. And remember a movie without flaws is called, Looney Tunes. "},{"Title":"Bitter sweet exploration","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An ad in the paper with a specific sexual fantasy asked for.  A meeting of 2 strangers, who remain so both to us and to each other. A subtle deepening of feelings for each other...this movie is so delicate it is like gossamer. Nuances of looks, smiles, movement. Elle winds up a little harder, lui a little softer.  I was spellbound by it.  Recommend it to those who like their movies to stay with them for a while. Great acting and direction.  "},{"Title":"love as the essence of nothing","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the search for intimacy and meaning in the dehumanizing urban environment, quite personable, intelligent and attractive people have to resort to newspaper or online ads to meet someone for romance or just companionship. In this film, however, a man and woman, both attractive and personable, seek depersonalised sex, not involvement. Or so they thought. Of course they become emotionally involved, and then the question becomes will they continue? This is a very nicely judged piece using a combination of interview sequences intercut with flashbacks. There are no distractions we focus almost entirely on Nathalie and Sergi as they are interviewed separately about their affair. Their versions are not identical but there is only one flashback version of each encounter so there is not a lot of confusion. The curious thing is that although intimacy develops it follows the rules of the original impersonal pornographic encounter &#150; no names, no talk about jobs and families and friends, no swapping of personal detail. They meet once or twice a week in the same coffee bar and hotel room for six months or more, yet still know virtually nothing about each other (apart from their sexual fantasies). Why this holding back? Neither is currently attached to anyone else. The only explanation is that they really didn't want to get involved, or don't want to take the risk. Burned before? Who knows?Nathalie Baye as the (slightly older) woman is poised, charming and not obviously hung up about sex. She seeks the zipless f*** of feminist legend. She does have trouble expressing her feelings &#150; for her `I love you' are the hardest words in the language (all right, `Je t'aime'). Sergi Lopez as her homme de jour is a bit more emotionally expressive but still holds himself back.I suppose one could see the film as suggesting that the alienation of modern life can be traced to an unwillingness to become emotionally attached, that life is faster and cleaner if relationships are disposable without much pain. These two want intimacy, but they don't want to pay for it.It's a well-made movie with plenty of Parisian bustle and lots of nice close-ups. It's all a bit sad, though. Have we been reduced to being consumers of personal relationships as well as sex?  "},{"Title":"A Casual Sexual Encounter Turns Surprisingly Romantic","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Her (Nathalie Baye) places an ad in a magazine looking for a sexual partner to share her fantasy. He (Sergi Lopez) responds. They meet in a bistro on a gray afternoon in Paris and proceed to a nearby hotel. Their coupling is verysatisfactory to them and they proceed to other encounters. All this is told in flashback with both speaking separately, and wistfully about what happenedand how it ended. This is a fascinating story, appealingly told with sureness by director Frederic Foteyne and his attractive, expressive leads. Yes, their affair is casual, sexual and without the usual meeting cute baggage. Actually, I thought she was the engine that began and ended the affair. Lopez's character seems to be far more emotionally involved as the affair progress than Baye's. He responds to herresponding to him and you can see him falling for her. Her speech to him about her feelings is quite startling and you think, maybe he's going to seek hercommitment. A happy ending, though this is not one of those silly tearjerkers where you sit there embarrassed, would have been wrong and it's very satisfying. I loved this small, quiet, movie. The sex is very discreet. The dialoge is direct and thank goodness this is not a wordy movie. It doesn't need it. It's got a very good director in control of his material and two fine leads who tell you all you need to know. I just discovered Sergi Lopez was the villain in DIRTY PRETTY THINGS. He's a terrific screen presence. Someone mentioned CHAOS (in connection with their review of this film),another French film I recently discovered. Two more mature, well-written, well- acted and directed films could not be imagined. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story of a romance between two people - no names, no lives, only each other and the time they had together.It's beautiful. It's one of those movies that stabs at your heart every now and then. You know what you want to happen, but at the same time, you know it won't. I love Natalie Baye and Sergi Lopez. Both actors are incredible in their own rights and wonderful together. The characters that they helped create only further that. I love how there are no names, no phone numbers, no address. There's only each other and that room. As the viewer, we don't even get to see what happens in that room, except for the more normal scenes. At the end of the movie, I can't help but wonder... what happened in that room and I watch it over and over to find out what happens and I never do. If anyone does, let me know. I'm still dying to find out. At the end of the movie, anyone who's seen it, knows it ends with an unhappy ending, but I can't help but think it will end differently. I always watch it and wait, hoping for something I know won't happen. It makes it end all the more beautifully, despite the fact that I still think in my twisted little head that perhaps the 'behind the scenes' guys gave them their phone numbers and names and they ended up together. Of course, when I know that my version didn't go as planned, I feel a deep sorrow. It's like two of my best friends breaking up and ruining everyone's lives...Of course, everything makes it all the more beautiful.I also love the way that the movie is brought out. It's a fictional movie with fictional characters presented as a documentary. "},{"Title":"Not another Tango","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frederic Fonteyne's Une Liason Pornographique, ridiculously retitled An Affair of Love in the US to satisfy the US censors, falls into the category of much better-than-it-sounds. Nathalie Baye and Sergi Lopez are the anonymous couple who meet through a contacts magazine to engage in an unnamed sexual fantasy and who decide to make a regular thing of it. Naturally they end up falling in love and destroying their relationship at the very moment when it seems that it has a future. That what could have been yet another Tango in Paris actually works is down to the strength of the performances - refreshingly, not once does Lopez resort to some of his more overused mannerism - and the fact that both characters prove somewhat unreliable narrators in Phillippe Blasband's script. Not much sex, virtually no nudity, but some moments of truth in a concise and involving movie.  "},{"Title":"The epitome of a certain kind of European movie","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An unnamed man and woman find each other through the personal ads of a sex magazine, to engage in a pornographic act that forms their mutual fantasy (the camera, old-Hollywood style, lingers in the hotel corridor during the act itself). They meet again; and again. They start to get to know and like each other. They make   normal   love. Maybe they'll have a normal relationship. But the film continually reminds us of the proximity of the crowd, within which they might blur back into being strangers; of the beguilingly complex topography of relationships (you feel the emotional landscape as electrically as you feel her finger trace the contours of his face and back in one scene); of the possibility for devastatingly wrong moves even amid the most enveloping intimacy; of the inevitability that even our profoundest memories will erode; of the relationship between the experience and the interpretation of an event. This is the epitome of a concise, elegant, sensitively written and acted European film; not designed to move an artistic mountain, but a certain crowd-pleaser. "},{"Title":"A Scheama of Everyone's Fantasy","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie about all of us - what we dream of doing, do for real or envy others who do it. The mere meetings of the couple are the fantasy. It's an everyday matter to experience a blind date, but it's a one-to-a thousand chance that it will be so perfect. Its perfection makes the ending so tragic. I was to a great extent shocked by the anonymity, in which the couple exists. And how can he realize that he doesn't know neither her name, nor her telephone numbler, nor ...anything, after so many months of regular closeness?! This movie definitely moved me with the simplicity of the story and the tragedy of human misunderstanding. Again, I was fascinated by the beauty of European films. "}{"Title":"An adult examination of Love, of Sex, and how these two worlds sometime coincide.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A careful & thought-provoking examination of how two lives intersect.... and how the nature of that intersection defines and then changes the level of personal engagement.  The film is compelling in its continual exploration of how we know ourselves, how we know each other...the lens & filters (real & imagined) through which we know the world.  Both performances were exemplary...and the conversations (which drove the bulk of the film) remarkable for their seeming realism. (even with subtitles!) "},{"Title":"Pawns In The Game Of Love","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie proves that a wonderful film will overcome a stupid title that can only attract the wrong kind of audience. From the very first frame it's clear that the two protagonists who met only in the interests of pure unadulterated (sorry about that) sex are going to fall in love and it's just a question of watching it happen and seeing if it ends in tears. Once you get past the basic flaw - the kind of people who resort to sex magazines to look for partners usually do so because conventional methods have failed. They are either too old, too ugly, too short, too fat (short AND fat will usually do it every time) in fact the LAST thing they are is as gorgeous and desirable as Nathalie Baye and as handsome as Sergi Lopez - this is a wonderful film and I'm delighted to add my voice to all those others who have praised it on this board. I saw it on release some six years ago, long before I even knew of this website and I've just seen it again and admired it even more. A definite ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"It was an act of love...","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Notwithstanding their national origins, Belgium director Frédéric Fonteyne and Iranian scenarist Philippe Blasband have managed to create the quintessential French film a film created for adults, with a theme to match, unusual maybe, but still taken out of real life, psychological, philosophical and challenging to the viewer. Fonteyne, in spite of his young age (born in 1968), speaks about love and feelings with great maturity. He mystifies the viewer with his approach to modern sexuality.Blasband's scenario presents his love story upside-down. Starting from a fantasy, which will eventually end up in love, he surrounds the slow but inevitable drift of the protagonists' feelings for each other. Refined, with simple and subtle dialogue, he facilitated enormously the director's work. The two characters recount to a third party, with emotion and an air of propriety, the passion that they were unable either to control or to really confess to each other. We know that their experiment was a failure, because from the outset, their testimonies indicate that they are apart. But the way each talks about the other makes us want to discover this other. We would like to get involved in their story, know their pasts, their presents, and understand why they speak about the other with so much nostalgia. They will never know each other's names, their ages, professions. What they do after their trysts, we'll never know, either.The rhythm and content of the story is controlled by the two protagonists who refuse to disclose the nature of their fantasy, allowing the director to impose upon the viewer the role of voyeur by limiting the viewer's space to that of the fantasy never revealed. Actually, the word pornographique in the original title, Une Affaire Pornographique, is a joke, as there is nothing pornographic about this film. Unfortunately, the American title denies Fonteyne's intention to fully condition, right from the start, the viewer's state of mind. Each time the camera in the red hotel hallway bumps against the closed door of room 118, it renews and heightens the voyeur-viewer's interest. This contrasts sharply with the only time the camera penetrates in the lovers' blue room to witness a banal love scene, which in fact leaves the viewer even more bewildered as to the nature of the fantasy.The success of this film rests entirely on the flawless acting of Nathalie Baye and Sergi Lopez. These two actors developed chemistry, which is the undeniable sign of mature artists. Their interaction is totally genuine in their exchanges, both verbal and unspoken. We can read on her face the birth of her love for He she wants to be happy next to this man, this one and none other. He drinks cognac and dips sugar cubes into it while undressing her with his eyes. We can tell that this man knows how to love women, mixing tenderness with desire. There are also their gestures Her expressing herself with her hands, admitting her need to always talk, even during love-making. He is reserved, observant, always answering her many questions.The camera movements often consist of static shots on the two characters, in medium-close shots and close shots, contributing further to the viewer's probing into the two characters psyches.The original film score is some electronic music, unfortunately up to now unavailable on CD, by André Dziezuk, Marc Mergen, and Jeannot Sanavia. When the credits are rolling, one hears a downtempo/trip-hop, drum and bass music, which recalls Funki Porcini. It all fits perfectly with this unreal situation.The main theme of this film is boundaries and their perilous crossings. At the beginning of the film, She is within her own world, inside her own boundary. This is symbolically represented during the opening as a crowd of pedestrians seen from her point of view, out of focus. She has a sexual fantasy, but in order to satisfy it, she will have to cross the first boundary, one set by society. Her fantasy cannot be fulfilled with members of her own entourage, husband, or intimate friends. For this, She must look beyond the boundaries of socially accepted behavior, to a stranger. As both meet, they will be beyond society's boundaries in their fantasy world. This accomplished, they breach another boundary when feelings develop the boundary fixed by love. A whole new world appears to them, a totally unexpected world. Finally, there are the boundaries of understanding and commitment, which they are unable to cross, for previously mentioned reasons. At the very end of the film, we see again a crowd of pedestrians out of focus she is back within the confines of her own boundary.Fonteyne shows us a modern society where sex is no longer taboo, but love is becoming such. He never moralizes or resolves these apparent contradictions, but instead brings them into harmony as never done before him the modern world denying love and the Judeo-Christian world negating sexuality. In the process, Fonteyne destroys the actuation of the fantasy and reinstates it in the secret, in the intimacy, both personal and private of the viewer.Finally, the film tackles another great theme in the relationship between man and woman the incommunicability. The fears that each feels the fear of love, the fear of confessing the love one bears for the other to the other, the fear of appearing ridiculous, the fear that the feeling may not be reciprocated or has not progressed as rapidly in the other. The final scene at the café reveals and underscores a cruel, intense moment, the like of which I do not remember having ever witnessed in any film before. Very little is actually said, as most of the dialogue is in individual voice-overs. All the walls come crashing down on one woman and one man who, by all accounts, we judge were meant to be united for life. And this failure in a relationship which we were starting to take for granted is due to their incapacity to communicate. "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this movie","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I grabbed this video from Blockbuster not knowing until I got home that it was subtitled.  I watched the French version with English subtitles.  This movie was done so tasteful.  What went on between the two characters behind closed doors goes as far as the viewers imagination.  In this day and age when people resort more to meeting thru personal ads and online - this is a movie that shows what we are all looking for......that one passionate relationship where two people truly connect on a very deep level.  I fell in love with Sergio Lopez and have become a huge fan! "},{"Title":"Humans CAN be beautiful, and not just on the surface.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The beauty of this film shocked me, and I will always remember it.The entire situation pulled me in right away, and she, he, and the interviewer unraveled what turned out to be a love story. The sex between them was gorgeous, powerful, loving, and unapologetic. I love how the interviewer, no matter how he tried to siphon the details of the sex from the man and the woman, just could not ever get his dirt, so to speak. They couldn't give him that, because it was not ABOUT that.This is a work of art, and I am grateful to have seen it, to have felt it. -Cindy "},{"Title":"Quite beautiful and touching","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From its title, A Pornographic Affair might seem like the kind of film that might appeal to a 13-yr old boy just entering puberty. Its actually a very restrained and beautiful love story. The format of the narrative is in the form of interviews of Him and Her after the affair has ended. There is a mysterious fantasy which brought them together. We never find out, despite the interviewers repeated prodding, what that fantasy was that led Her to advertise and Him to read and respond to the advertisement.Inevitably, the physical aspects of that fantasy don't matter because the two eventually move on to more conventional forms of sexual activity. Neither knows anything about the other - children, marital status, profession or age. Both are good people and inevitably the affair has to develop into something more. Both are charming and beautiful in their own way. Eventually they begin to like and be infatuated with each other.Obviously, adult themes are explored in this film, but there is no gratuitous nudity or smut. It has a surprisingly human touch even though the route followed in a conventional relationship is inverted here. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful, tasteful and meaningful romance","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Une liaison pornographique can trace its textual roots to another tri-national production made over 25 years ago called Last Tango In Paris in which an Italian director (Bernardo Bertolucci) used Paris as a backdrop to explore the possibilities of sex as identity in a highly dysfunctional relationship. Now Belgium director Frederic Fonteyne uses Paris to explore the lives of two people who define their relationship initially as nothing but physical gratification. Their knowledge of each other's lives is minimal at best recalling Marlon Brando's demand of his partner in Last Tango that he wanted to know nothing of his female cohort thereby defining the relationship through a mutual ignorance. But where that film ceaselessly rotated around Brando's sulleness, une liason pornographique succeeds as a mature and thoughtful meditation on the nature of relationships and how healthy sex can actually serve as a positive introduction into understanding emotional complexities and thereby underscoring the irony of the title of the film. A finely tuned performance from French acting veteran Nathalie Baye, who at the age of 52, communicates an unforgettable sexual and sensual presence throughout the film complimented by intelligent and accesible dialogue make une liaison pornographique a truly good film and while its characters do not escape sadness, the emotions and ideas that are communicated honour the film's creators and their audience. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Anything but pornographic ...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In French the title is An Affair of Love, not pornographique ... yet the way it's been labeled exploits the sexuality, rather than the romance involved, even if it was originally based on a sexual fantasy.  The irony is that in She's opening lines, she explicitly says it's pornographic but the story she tells is anything but...  In any case, this is a highly erotic film - because what is supposed to be unattached becomes quietly intense, and the reality, capturing the failures, flaws, and beauties of two plain, ordinary people who want passion and eroticism in their lives, yet cannot seem to catch it, or are not brave enough to risk their pride for it, is so touching.  I was made breathless and, yes, I was very provoked by the sheer beauty of the sex between he/she.  The insecurity, the openness, the vulnerability.  A conversation in the film touches on Adam and Eve ... this is like watching Adam and Eve, in our time, jaded and older, surrounded by a lack of romance, and watching them experience love, arousal, and romance, as if for the first time. "},{"Title":"Superb film","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a little gem. It is easy not to notice good acting but in this film Nathalie Baye and Sergi Lopez gave a master-class in how to do it well.Admittedly the plot is slightly artificial. After multiple meetings they would have used first names at least and so you have to suspend some disbelief, but the conclusion that it reaches is true. You can start a relationship from any direction, such as sex first, but where it will lead is unpredictable. In end relationships work by sharing, and so one where the lives were so entirely disconnected was doomed.It clearly does not appeal to some American tastes (the six of the lowest seven rating so far are from the US) but for those who like a subtle and thought-provoking film, this is recommended.The French title is unnecessarily provocative and does the film a disservice. "},{"Title":"Man meets woman  from sex to a perfect relationship","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One way to distinguish excellent from good or medium films is the fact that no matter how many times you see it you don't get bored of it. This is a film that has stayed in the back of my mind for ever! It's got everything in it. The acting is brilliant both Natalie Baye and Sergi Lopez give top performances, they have touched the heart of their characters. The title I also like, because this is precisely a story of a liaison that started at least in a pornographic sense. The music, in particular the track that opens and closes the film, is superb, I can say no more about it! The script is very original, it is a study of the most intrinsic and human aspects of a relationship. I have also noted subtle similarities with Francois Triffault's film The woman next door. For example the cleaner lady that walks around the corridors of the hotel holding a trolley with lots of linen on it. A wonderful film! French cinema is alive and kicking! "}{"Title":"The most touching film I have seen this year.","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me lay my cards on the table. I do not know why I watched this film. I usually have a reason. The common American title (An Affair of Love) is not a literal translation, so maybe that was it; I wanted to see A Pornographic Affair. I don't know.In it's most basic sense, this is a chick flick. Two people meet through an ad, arrange a liaison at a hotel to act out their fantasies, fall in love, and split. Well, the split part would not be satisfying to most. But, it is so much more that that. I could not take my eyes off the screen for fear of missing one word. There was nothing pornographic about this film; it was a beautiful love story.Nathalie Baye (Catch Me If You Can, Le Petit lieutenant) is an adult. She was 51 when she made this film. This is not a WB teen sex story. Sergi López (Pan's Labyrinth was almost 20 years younger. This was a film about two adults who met to have sex. No strings, no pretensions, just acting out sexual fantasies. We never learn what that fantasy was. Belgiun director Frédéric Fonteyne and writer Philippe Blasband left that to our imaginations, and I thank them for it. Their work makes me want to see their latest collaboration (Gilles' Wife) even more.As Baye and Lopez meet each Thursday, you can see the transformation. The sex is a given and out of the way. They are free to communicate as a man and a woman. They share every thought and feeling, except who they really are. Names, marital status, jobs, etc. are not mentioned ever. It is communication that I have never had and have never seen. It was beautiful.I said they fall in love and they split. I will not say more because that would spoil it for anyone who happens to catch this film. It is what makes this such a beautiful love story.I said I wanted to see Gilles' Wife to see more from this director and writer. I also want to see more of Baye and Lopez. Having said that, I am not so sure as I do not want to see something less that this film and spoil it. I cannot get this movie out of my head.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Only one word can describe it Superb","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the acting to the dialog and the situations, this is simply one of the best films I have ever seen. The situations rings true, the dialogs are simple and natural and the characters become alive in front of us.Worth more than a 10 "},{"Title":"Brief, honest and lucid analysis of love, sex and human relations","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An aged woman who needs to fulfill a sexual fantasy she has writes an advertisement in a contact magazine. When a younger man answers the advertisement, they start up a sexual relationship (pornographic as she calls it, because that's what pornography is, just sex and nothing else) based on the fulfillment of her fantasy. However, the initially sexual relationship becomes more complicated when they become sentimentally involved and start liking each other.Une liaison pornographique is an honest and pure movie about love, sex and human relations, which lacks all the usual paraphernalia, ornament and romanticism. I liked specially the initial scene, when the camera shows an unfocused view of the crowd, with faces that come and go, never staying too much time. This scene made me think of how modern life is in the cities, where we seem to be bees in a giant beehive, simply passing through life without any purpose at all. From this scene on the film shows how difficult it is to maintain a relationship based on something so natural as sex between two adult, responsible and free people. The film also shows how feelings may interfere and complicate human relationships, and how easy it is to misunderstand each other's feelings.Although the title may suggest otherwise, the film advances mainly through the conversations of the two starring characters previously to the sexual encounters that take place in a little hotel's room. Sex is shown only when it is strictly necessary and in a delicate way (the spectators never get to know what her fantasy is, since the camera lingers through the hotel's corridors during the act), so people looking for explicit sex will be deceived. The performance of Nathalie Baye, and Sergi Lopez is convincing as two ordinary people with sexual and emotional needs, succeeding in involucrating the spectator in their private universe. In conclusion, a movie that is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Honest and Realistic","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Une Liaison Pornographique (A Pornographic Affair - please disregard the awful title 'An Affair of Love', which shows that the distributors either didn't watch the movie or didn't pay attention) is one of the most earnest, most naturalistic portrayals I've seen on film of a sexual relationship, and in that respect it's much more successful than English-speaking films (American and otherwise) that tried for something similar - films like Better Than Sex and Strictly Sexual, which attempted to shed Hollywood's romantic vision of sex, but ended up adhering to it anyway. As the female lead in Une Liaison Pornographique says in one of the film's key lines, sex in movies is either heaven or hell, but in real life it's usually somewhere in-between. The film shows that in-between with brutal honesty, neither idealizing it nor demonizing it, and manages a touching, frustrating, bleak portrayal of a subject that is at the heart of human nature and yet so difficult to handle in film.Unfortunately, the refreshing realism and honesty, and the naturalistic performance of the two leads, aren't quite enough to make for a great film; the script just isn't good enough. The film is too short, not taking enough time to fully explore the relationship between the two leads, and yet it also feels excruciatingly long - large chunks of it are just not interesting enough. In the end it turn out to be a pretty frustrating and unfulfilling experience - partly intentional, to be sure, but that isn't quite enough to help overcome that feeling of dissatisfaction. I can't help but recommend the film for its stronger aspects, despite the fact that I can't honestly say I enjoyed it; and I can't shake the feeling that it could have been much better than it is. "},{"Title":"bitter sweet story with a slight sadness","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are a kind of person who's intrigued with the subtleties in romantic relationship, then you may like this story a lot. Their conversations, facial expressions, gestures...are very true to things that happen to all of us I think. A few discrepancies on how they each recalled the moment when they were still seeing each other. For instance, she said that they met once or twice a week...he said it was once every two weeks. And while watching them, despite some faults in memory, you just know that they felt or perhaps still feel strongly for each other. I can't help to think that these 2 people are quite fatalists, which we sometimes are too. Despite the 'unhappy' ending...it doesn't leave you feeling emotionally drained or sad. Only a very small dose of sadness but as you watch these 2 people, it leaves a kind of smile on your face. Honestly in my opinion, this is one of the rarest intelligent honest romantic stories ever made. A beautifully mature way of seeing love and its intricacies !!! There's nothing original about this film, it's an ordinary love story of the 20th/21st century...so ordinary that it becomes nothing else but ORIGINAL. Their love story isn't made to feed your fairy tale ideal about romance. Yet, it leaves you feel hopeful, it's an eye-opener sort of film...in which you learn that the best way to communicate when it comes to express your love...is to say it and don't risk to read on the other person's face or words, simply say what you feel. And if it still doesn't turn out to be a happy ending, you know that the memory stays sweetly intact. I can't praise enough of this film. And if any of you enjoy this type of film, then you might also want to have a look at 'le gout des autres'. "},{"Title":"A slight affair","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frerick Fonteyne's 'Une Liason Pornagrahique' is a brief, but very French film, with a stylish female protagonist, and lots of talking about sex. We see the story of a couple's relationship; they also recount their own recollections of it, which interestingly, do not always agree, though the film itself never settles their differences. But it's an essential part of the relationship that both partners go into the affair with a deliberate reserve; and although that coolness melts over time, the viewer is never allowed to get close enough to really care about either one. It's not badly executed, but I never felt truly involved. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a frank and wonderful film. Subtle and yet enthralling. The two leads are superb and the connexion between them is beautifully conveyed. I highly recommend this. Probably one of the must see films of 99 and sure to stand the test of time. It's what you don't see that is the real craft. Enjoy it and your cinema.  "},{"Title":"I think this screenplay is brilliant and is an inspiration","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught the movie An Affiar of Love at the Art Academy in Hawaii by accident.  I think the screenplay is amazing.  It is searing, gentle, brave, and brilliant.  I just won Best Director for a short film called CHOICES in the NY International Independent Film Festival.  CHOICES will be shown at Sundance.  And I am so impressed and inspired by the screenplay and direction of An Affair of Love. I hope it gets a major release.  It certainly deserves great attention.  If you have the chance, go see this movie!!! "},{"Title":"The kind of title that does not necessarily rely to this kind of movie.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title does not reflect the atmosphere of the movie.  It is first of all an excellent performance by two very good actors. Nathalie's frankness is sublime and Sergi's mimic is overwhelming.  This is not a funny movie, but I smiled all the way through.  I thought the dialogs were very accurate and true to life.  This is not an American movie!  If you like something different, go see it. "},{"Title":"A couple meets through the minitel to share a sexual fantasy","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great French movie about feelings and the difficulty of facing love. It is easier to have sex with someone rather than to admit to be in love and be ready to live together. Wonderful actors. "}{"Title":"A story of sentiments, simple and human","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The two actors, Nathalie Baye and Sergi Lopez, offer a human and touching interpretation of how feelings and alchemy develop in a relation, while at the same time showing how the perception we have of the other's feelings may distort the root of the relation itself. The camera leaves the two actors playing a game of looks and smiles, while love and complicity is growing behind the stage. The first movie of the Belgian director, Fréderic Fonteyne, is precious and promising. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie that could have been a great film with a better script","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Une liaison pornographique is a entertaining movie, but its beginning promises much more of what it finally delivers.I liked the performances of Nathalie Baye and Sergi López, and the topic of the movie but I think with a better script this would have been a great movie.The plot of the movie is about two people Nathalie Baye and Sergi López who meet frequently only to have sex without knowing anything else about each other like the name, profession, phone number, address etc. During the movie we can see to each one of them talking to the camera about what they thought about this kind of relationship that they had. "},{"Title":"For a second you gave it all to me.","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We make the decision to stop smoking and stop. But deep inside us is still the smoking-desire. We have not stopped. To do this we should enact smoking until we are not disturbed by the suppressed wish. Now we have stopped smoking. Like this it is with many of our more or less conscious/unconscious phantasy's we nearly never can enact. For most of them we need the corresponding Other. Une liaison pornographic describes such a nearly-never-situation. The actors are the 17 years older Nathalie Baye and Sergi Lopez (1999). It's an interview after their years-experience. She and he disclose not their name, age, occupation, or where they live &#x96; emerging from and disappearing into the peopled blurred crowd, two normal every-day-people of the respectable middle class. After he answered her ad they meet in a Left Bank café before they go to a neighborhood hotel, closing the rooms door Ne 118. We are outside and the off screen interviewer is not told what happened. It is the Belle de Jour-box or the Pulp Fiction-briefcase &#x96; or the forbidden door in the fairytale the hero opens, or Tjernisjevskijs inspiring novel a common room for togetherness and the two rooms to which the other was forbidden to enter &#x96; or the lacanian short hour after the patient has said the word, he enters without Lacan the room. Of their years relation we witness eight sessions. After the first three we jump to the last; the protected frame-deal is designed by her. The desire itself is focused. As Roger Eberts wrote It is about having a part of you that has been your precious secret since you can first remember, a part you thought you could never share, and finding someone whose own secret part is a match for your own (Chicago Sun-Times oct 27 2000) The relation ends as it started in room Ne 118 without us as witness. Enclosed the six experiences, headed by a keyword the deal, restaurant dinner, cabylian legend, love, boy, disintegration, rescue attempt, deal-return &#x96; the process of a curve. After their second encounter he suggests a restaurant dinner the same evening. Seeing them talking, we hear the interview. During the dinner is the sexual undercurrent of saying one thing and thinking another disturbing; both are free. Leaving the restaurant they again return to the hotel and before she steps later into the taxi, he hears that he is 'nice'. After some months, she suggests to love, we invited to watch the nearly nine film minutes. When they part, she weeps. Until this moment he was an adult, polite behavior and tender attitude. Roger Eberts You are not in love with the other person, so much as the two of you share a tenderness because each knows how hard the other has looked, and how hopeless the search seemed at times. But after their public-lovemaking he changes into the boyish stubborn attitude, paired with its latent male brutality. Against the deal, he follows her without her knowledge &#x96; or does she? &#x96; loosing her in the métrolabyrint. Even she is nervous, sensing that he, against their deal, needs not her but her as 'Mother'. The idea of the restaurant dinner did not belong to their deal. A new deal should have been made as the deal was for them the lacanian Third, forbidding the mother-child-incest. She accepted the dinner, admitting for the interviewer What was it? One sentence, two? Words he said, those few, started off everything. But I didn't understand that then. A deal helps the male to be the adult, but changes him into a boy when the deal is not taken seriously, not changed when the contents changes. The event with the old man is the result of the deals disintegration. She looses her self by trying to rescue the relation. She suddenly believes that she loves him, telling him that she wants to share their aging life together. Now it is his turn for his tears. Unable to answer, they return to the hotel, having a bath and seeing them after having made love For one second, he tells her you gave me everything. (this moment is the cover picture of the VHS/DVD). Their last time in the café we hear their thoughts &#x96; he translating her body language different. The affair has to end as their years experience is not enough for a every-day-relation. For a last time they return to room Ne 118 to enact what the deal was, closing the circle, sealing the together-year as a memory-jewel. Departing, they briefly kiss goodbye and dissolve into the blurred crowd. It is in todays big-brother-is-watching-you-society easy to find the other &#x96; they never did that. Are they now tempted to use the off screen interviewers knowledge, aware of that their fantasy still tempts? As long we live with the wish of smoking, even that we have stopped, we still smoke. "},{"Title":"it had potential","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes it seems that only the Europeans can get away with making a film as surface simple as An Affair of Love (AKA Une Liaison Pornographique). It tells the story of a woman and a man who meet for sex through a personal ad. Week after week they meet in a coffee shop then hike down the street to a hotel. It's got a certain Last Tango in Paris kind of flavor, with the sex-only connection between two otherwise mysterious characters being the most obvious core. Unlike that film An Affair of Love only briefly conveys any on screen sex, and tiptoes around it in dialogue. What really makes this film so European, though, is how it's told through flashback via an unexplained and unnecessary interview. It's a character-driven, reasonably romantic film that feels made by deft filmmakers, but a forced second act dramatic twist ruins its impact. "},{"Title":"It Simply Is As Titled; An Affair of Love","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is important to analyze the important theme of this movie. Many people get too far into how it was made and how it was done when they watch this film. The film is about a man and a woman who begin a relationship that is supposed to be simple. Of course no relationship is simple, and it doesn't take long for them to understand that.But even though they realize that things are beginning to happen between them, but they have problems seeing beyond the original concept of their relationship. They are bound to it, and they feel they cannot escape it.Throughout the movie, the scenes where they are together and apart are all very unique, and their dialogue is extremely engaging at times. They are very human characters, to say the least, which is displayed mostly by their thoughts vs. action.The best part of it all is how it flows from one scene to the next. Events happen that they cannot control, others they control and change things for themselves. It is also interesting to see how they both react to things that happen to them. Their relationship is so human at times though, it almost makes you want to think about decisions you may have made in life. "},{"Title":"Not pornographic, romantic","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking at the title of the movie, then you've already got the wrong impression about it. You're probably expecting all kinds of nudity, and lurid acts. Well, let's just get those questions out of the way, there is only a minor amount of nudity in this movie, only from the top and no frontal. There you go, now that's over with, if that's not enough nudity for you, then you might as well skip the movie, and the rest of this review.Okay, the movie is still very erotic, not because of things we see, but because of things left unseen. Namely, the sex is left mostly upto the viewer to imagine, but in the meantime, you see how the pair go from complete strangers at the beginning to developing a level of comfort with each other that progresses from lust to friendship to love. That progression is a little backwards, most movies go from friendship to lust to love, which makes the movie unique. There is a scene of them in bed together, but again, it's mostly left upto the imagination, but what we do see is the tenderness between them. These two are so compatible with each other and in tune with each other's feelings that they even know when to call it quits. That might be the only weakness of this movie, French filmakers can't ever seem to come up with a happy ending for a movie. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking, beautifully crafted, poignant and witty.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of thought-provoking, beautifully crafted film the French recently seem to have forgotten how to make.  The script is intelligent, poignant and witty, the acting impeccable, and the directing clever and creative without ever straying into self-indulgence or flashiness. Unfortunately low-key treats like this have become a rare commodity.  I'm looking forward to seeing Frederic Fonteyne's next feature.  I hope he can keep up the high standard. "},{"Title":"Realistic French Romance","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The growing relationship between a man and a woman who met because of an advertisement (she searched for a man for sex only) is photographed in an easy, slow style which gives the actors much room for their brilliant acting. You could really imagine to meet these characters on street. A good contrast to the big romantic movies like City Of Angels; it reminds me more of Bridges Of Madison County- no fancy stuff, but realistic emotions and characters. "},{"Title":"A One Set Stage Play","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The characters were great and well cast. The subject is all too real. But to make it the way they did was a waste of film. It should have been done as a limited cast play with one set, one café table, a hotel bed and a street lamp. The unspeakable sex act is pure Alfred Hitchcock and his Magubgub (?), the off stage, undefinable object that is never to be revealed. The interviewer is completely gratuitous and could have easily be handled in the modern way that many television interviews are handled, without an interviewers voice. I would add one very large sheet to the play set as the pseudo-sex scenes need to be portrayed in the modern neo-Victorian manner - painfully tasteful, non-gratuitously, part of the plot - thus keeping the censorious R rating in America. "},{"Title":"This is Not Last Tango in Paris","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While Last Tango in Paris was full of passion and lust, An Affair of Love is full of talk and thinking. While Brando brought us into the bedroom for most of the movie, the audience in Affair of Love is left outside, in the hallway for most of the story. We are not allowed into the hearts of the two lovers until far into the movie. As for nudity and the act of love, Last Tango had no shame of crossing the line and showing the powerful image of passion. An Affair of Love is more of an affair of teasing and thinking. The characters in this movie spend a great deal in deep though and at most times speechless. It is one of the better elements of the movie, still, it lacks passion and the lust that Tango in Paris gave its audience. At times, the movie is honest and deep into the situation that the characters are living, but it lacks the true grit of love that is mentioned in the movie's title. "}{"Title":"Dernier tango en Luxembourg","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Had you seen Last Tango in Paris, from Bernardo Bertolucci? Put all the hardcore scenes away, think about the fears in the 90's, forget any political-ideological motivation, and you'll have this movie. Good approach, excellent actors, sensitive camera. Forget the title, it's a fraud, and enjoy a typical French film. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, and forgettable, drivel","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry, but this is the kind of movie that pushes my buttons. This film takes itself very seriously and seems to think it is making a profound statement about something men and women, relationships, love, sex--who knows what?--when in fact it dares and says nothing.I won't rehash the plot, but I will make a few points about its illogicality and lack of believability. We have two people who are sneaking around, meeting clandestinely very much like two married people having an affair, although they both appear to be unattached. Why, then, the secrecy, and why does neither do more than hint at breaching their cloak of anonymity. Secondly, what sexual practice could be so unusual that it couldn't be talked about and would cause the man to say he would rather die than reveal it? After all, there are only so many things people can do, and both of these people seem reasonably experienced. This alleged sexual practice is only a gimmick to start the story going. And finally, where else but in the movies do people make love with sheets draped over them? It was the actress who presumable did not want to display her body. Fine, that is her right, but then why do a sex scene?I'll stop here, but don't waste your time or money on this one. "},{"Title":"Pornographic charms","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The kind of non committal aspect of the two main characters who respond to each other's profiles is the object of getting together and learning nothing about one another has a promising premise. Of course, we, the audience and mostly the filmmaker hope that, as voyeurs, become participants into what is supposed to surprise. While I like Baye and her face on screen, it is Lopez who exudes most of the charm, even if it is that of a schoolboy. As she sees him for the last time, one is reminded of the strong ending of THE WAY WE WERE where the substance of is more satisfying because of the lovers in that film's having an interrupted past. Sergio can be quite handsome and it is to his credit that he is a good actor to be able to be non sexual given his physical attributes which would make most women find attractive. His tears do not really surprise unless it is because he feels he is an unsatisfying lover. This makes sense primarily because of his excellent wardrobe, stylishness, and obvious successful other life.He borders on being a stud except for his height.5'6 may or not be mentioned to get reactions from audiences worldwide who primarily think of leading men as being taller. Because I am 6'3 and find my height along with my good looks as a major plus I have had in past bedroom conquests. I lived in Paris for many years in my 20's and it sure worked there. So, I am left with a feeling of Sergio still like a young boy who does not know if he is loved by anyone including Baye and at home'. Finally, I think the interviewer is a needless device and is written in as a time filler. My personal feelings of romance vary and believe most men to be childlike where it is such a part of a woman's being. "},{"Title":"Somewhat familiar..","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I trust anyone who's seen this didn't have to delve much into it to understand what Fonteyne's message is. Rather simple I would say, no need to dissect it, what you see is what it really is, as Magritte said about his paintings. The two characters portray the life of probably many of us in today's day and age, a disposable society where there seldomly is time for feelings to be discussed, even though we'd like to. Their relationship (I've been too generous I think..) is ironically carried on routinely probably like everything else they did on a daily basis, just like many of us do.As we now meet on the internet, they met through a magazine ad, just to dare one another I guess, challenging one another to see who'd give up first maybe. Fonteyne constantly keeps his lens on the two of them, leaving everything else out of sight, almost as if he were afraid of one of them fretting the situation and escaping. They don't even know each other's name; they just carry on, consuming their rapport behind the red of their hotel room walls, a deep, intense red, as deep and strong as the attraction for one another.No matter how prone each of them is at the end of the movie to declare their feelings, they will eventually fail in the attempt to chip the red off the wall and carry some of it along in their lives. A strong sense of regret underpins the end of this sad -yet realistic- story. What we see toward the epilogue is a manic attention to the few details around them from a lighting perspective The red walls and the bed sheets as their love slowly dissipates. "},{"Title":"The course of love never runs smooth...","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an accident...that is, my viewing it was the accident. The title intrigued me, but I neglected to notice that this was a French film. Being rather inexperienced to the foreign film genre, I wasn't expecting much...sometimes, watching an actor speak in a foreign tongue and trying to read subtitles simultaneously causes me to miss the action, and facial expressions...something that would capture my attention...reel me in...not so with this flick.The acting, the script, even the flow of the French language was superb! Not only was I hooked, but I was devastated that the character's real emotions were never revealed to each other...if there's a sequel, I'll be watching!  "},{"Title":"love is as simple as an affair, yet it's so deep that it was painful to watch","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  interesting, thought-provoking, philosophical, and a revolutionary way of examining the growth of love....beginning from simple fantasy to lust, from strangers to friends, from experiment to fulfillment, and from dreams to love...yet love is still so far-fetched "},{"Title":"Intimacy was better than this...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In a few years they made two movies that had similar plots Intimacy and this A Liason Pornographique. A man and a woman meet once in a week for one simple reason to have sex. No love, no feelings... just sex. Intimacy was more pessimistic and dark, and maybe A Lisaon is more frivolous and absurd, and it looks more like a romantic comedy. Also the narration is pretty artificial a fake interview with the main characters and a series of flashbacks.It's a pretty nice reflection on how much we complicate things such as love or sex. It's been filmed in a modern style and it has a trance soundtrack that it will sound old fashioned in a few years.*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"A few fries short of a happy meal.","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A cute, yes cute, 40ish French couple recount the stages of their pornographic affair to an interviewer. I say cute because most of the acting they both did was thoughtful, sincere reflection, and I thought they were cute doing it.BIG SPOILER We are never told nor shown what kind of kinky sex constituted the affair. Instead, the focus is on how they come to really like one another and then tragically decide to stop seeing one another.Even though I liked the characters I think the film was a cheap tease and tried to pull on the heartstrings too much. I don't know what the goal was for the film and the ride by itself wasn't good enough to compensate. It was neither erotic nor sexy, and for a 'talkie' film it had a little too much yardage between the goal posts. "},{"Title":"Over rated.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Affair.. is a technically and artistically well crafted film about an affair between an middle-aged couple who meet online and subsequently, at regular intervals, in a cafe where, after some chit-chat, they go off to a hotel for the physical activity. Most of what happens sexually in this sanitized film is behind closed doors and the audience is left to speculate. Their past and who they really are remains a mystery as well. In short we are never allowed to become involved with them in any way other than as voyeurs watching them analyze their feelings as they try to figure out if they are falling in love while leaving us with a feeling of detachment....outsiders looking in with the real story just beyond our reach as the film serves up one bit of story at a time all the way to its anticlimactic conclusion. For some the enigmatic nature of the film will be enough. For others the film will prove tedious. "},{"Title":"unconvincing sex","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My tag line says it all--the plot is OK, the actors are attractive and intelligent, but it didn't work for me--their sexual encounter was unconvincing, too talky,  and not intensely erotic--so the rest of the movie also seemed too cerebral and distant. "}{"Title":"Boring and naive","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't be fooled by all the positive comments on IMDB. The storyline is a typical example of filmmakers hiding away everything that's of any interest to the viewer. Couple in this movie are in their 40s, yet their views on sex, relationships and life are more suited for a couple of 12 year olds, if that. We're also supposed to believe that a couple of mentally healthy-looking people would spend 6 months having sex once a week without wondering about each other's name. Somehow, these monsters manage to utter words I love you and even cry afterwards. Give me a break. Director also tried to put the storyline in the context of urban dehumanization by showing blurred images of people in the street, once at the beginning and once at the end of the movie. Pathetic.. a first year media student would come up with a less cliched tip. "}]