[{"Title":"Sue me, I enjoyed this movie.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Note that I say movie and not film.  I was dragged to see this, but I found myself really liking it.  The chemistry is wonderful and even though the storyline isn't the most original thing in the world, it has enough spark to keep it going.  Definitely more of a rent-able movie, but let down your guard about teen flicks.  This one is pretty good. ) "},{"Title":"Better Than When Harry Met Sally","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the critics seem to be saying that this movie is trying to be When Harry Met Sally and failing miserably at it, instead of seeing what a nice change of pace it is to see a romantic movie about two people who don't cuss and run around naked.  I get so tired of seeing the same plot line over and over and then when someone makes an original movie like Boys and Girls it is bashed because people say it is boring.  It is not boring, it just contains great dialogue instead of the usual lame boyfriend girlfriend story where they all try to figure out who to sleep with next or what funny sex scene they can come up with.  It is incredibly sweet and it contains a great performance by the wonderful Claire Forlani.  She is such an incredible actress and no one seems to notice.  The same thing happened with Meet Joe Black because it had wonderful dialogue and no one saw that either.  I think people just don't like movies with any character development that may actually cause you to think about anything other than what will blow up next.  If you want to see something that takes a little effort to understand, then go see Boys and Girls.  The dance scene alone is worth the $7.00. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies out there","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"33 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, technically, it was kind of predictable in the case that boy meets girl, boy and girl encounter turbulence in relationship, and then boy and girl end up back together at the very end of the movie.  However, let me ask you this  How else is a romantic comedy suppose to go?  I challenge anyone who isolates this flick's unoriginality as the reason for their dislike to come up with a better overall plot for a romantic comedy.  I think that the writers did an excellent job of adding onto the generic template and making this film enjoyable to watch.  First of all there's the whole thing with fated meetings where the two main characters seem just unable to get away from each other which adds that sweet soul mates ideal (even though I personally don't buy into that stuff, there is an undeniable charm to the idea).  Then there is the still-unoriginal-but-not-yet-hackneyed idea of attempting a mere friendship between the guy and the girl.  Finally, there is the inevitable falling in love, the relationship problems, and then the falling back in love towards the end of the movie. As a matter of fact, the only problem I have with the script is the miniscule hypocrisy found in it at some point in the movie, Jennifer states that a romance movie never shows the affect of time on long term relationships, and this movie was not an exception as it ends with them making up and going off to live happily ever after.Now we can look at the undeniable chemistry and superb acting of the two main characters, Ryan and Jennifer.  The interactions of these two characters is the classic example of not getting along as kids but falling in love as adults.  Freddie Prinze Jr. and Claire Forlani are two of the up and coming celebrities of teen movies and I personally feel that they did their part in this movie by acting well.  Also, the principle humor of this movie did not lie in the common slapstick or sexual humor, although Jason Biggs does add in those factors hilariously.  I think the main characters came off as more intellectual (as one majors in engineering and the other in Latin) so the writers aimed more towards clever jokes, anecdotes, and quip remarks which, to me, seemed just as hilarious as Jason Biggs's antics.All in all, this isn't the BEST movie in the world, but it IS definitely a good movie if you want to watch a movie that will make you feel like Love is something real and not just some random idea that people have in their heads. "},{"Title":"I am not afraid to admit that I like it.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In an era when teenage-girl movies run rampant, it is easy to dismiss this as just another flick targeted to make young girls squeal over Freddie Prinze Jr or one of his 20-something cohorts.  Boys and Girls, however, is different.  It presents itself with much more class, and comedy, than most other films of its genre.  Boys and Girls has an engaging story that makes the audience connect, emotionally, with the problems of the main characters. The film has more than one story that it follows.  It touches on the lives of four different college students and their failing attempts at social interaction.  Its involving story line is strengthened by the funny parts, too.  Each character has their own unique quirks that make the viewing experience that much more enjoyable.  Boys and Girls leaves many other films of merit in its dust and deserves much more recognition than it has received. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally for teens","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys and Girls is a predictable but fun look at two young people who are friends with potential.  This movie follows Ryan, an uptight nerdy type who feels all life should be planned out to the very minute.  Enter Jennifer, a quirky fun and free girl who is out to enjoy life as the adventure it is. Ryan and Jennifer meet a few times over the years before finally settling into a comfortable friendship at college.  Where will their relationship go as they share more of their lives together?  It's an obvious movie with an incredibly close resemblance to When Harry Met Sally (somewhat less clever than its grownup counterpart, but cute nonetheless).  Freddie Prinze Jr. and Claire Forlaini have wonderful chemistry and are fun to watch (especially in the dance club scene).  Ryan's best friend and Jennifer's best friend are played by Jason Biggs and Amanda Detmer with whimsical freedom.  They provide much of the comic relief and are an enjoyable distraction from the plot.  If you want a little escape from life for a few hours, this movie is just the light, enjoyable distraction you could be looking for. "},{"Title":"A decent movie...","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an interesting piece of filmwork. The characters are completely believable, the story is effective and funny, and the actors pull it off with such distinction, I have new faith in Prinze's ability to act. Many say these are the only roles he's good in - so what? If this type of character is what he does best, let him stick to it. Claire Forlani is a new face, but bright and powerful, with the kind of new charm we first got from Hewitt or Gellar. This movie is a romance, so it may not appeal to everyone, but altogether, it is a decent movie, recommended for about 10 and up. "},{"Title":"Such a sweet film.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes you want to watch a film, not to hugely stimulate the mind but to stimulate the heart and this one did it for me. The romantic concept was a familiar one of boy and girl meet but don't seem to get together and they become 'friends' but when they do strife comes of it.  The ending may have been predictable but it was uplifting and very sweet and even though it's just a film you come out feeling optimistic that maybe happy endings do exist.  "},{"Title":"Give it a chance!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film may be predictable, but it is so in a good way. I found it fun yet thoughtful at the same time. Its a Romantic Comedy that has something about it that makes you laugh out loud or cringe with embarrassment! I reccomend this film to anyone who wants a good laugh and a good cry! I give it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thoroughly enjoyed the film. The chemistry between Freddie and Claire was great. Would recommend this to anyone who loved 'When Harry met Sally'. Jason Biggs is great as the best friend showing more character than in the American Pie films. If you like Claire Forlani then you must watch 'Meet Joe Black'!! "},{"Title":"I simply LOVE this movie!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I simply love this movie. I love this kind of movie, that has both romance and comedy in it. And Claire Forlani is brilliant, here acting skills is huge and she's THE most beautiful girl I've ever seen. Freddy Prince is good too, plays great, and his role is great. Jason Biggs' role is very funny, and gives the movie the comedy touch, that I love.What more can I say??... I love it, and I think it's brilliant... It's a MUST SEE. "}{"Title":"Claire Forlani is great in this movie","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  First time I've seen Claire Forlani, but it won't be the last.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. was Freddie Prinze, Jr., but Claire Forlani was terrific.  I liked this movie so much that I have it on tape and watch parts of it over and over again.  Lots of people didn't seem to like this movie much.  Maybe, I liked so much because it reminded me of my college days in the 60's, in particular, how my wife and I got together there. I'd give this movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"way underrated!","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" my cousin introduced me to the film after it hit video. since then it has been one of my favorites. OK, so it is basically a re-make of when harry met sally (also one of my favs) and initially i thought the editing could be better in the beginning. it seems hurried or forced unlike the seamless transition between periods of time in when harry met sally. despite it's flaws though i love this movie. maybe it's just a personal thing for me because i always found myself in Freddie Prinz Jr.'s situation. getting stuck in the friend zone, lol. and Claire Forlani's character is absolutely my kinda woman. i love her quirky, off-the-wall intellectual humor. that's the kind of girl i'm looking for. Jason Biggs also stands out in his few scenes, especially in the one as the credits roll about the Victoria's Secrets models. hilarious! whenever i get to feeling lonely i can always put this movie on and feel better. the music on the movie is really good too. the Jennifer, Jennifer song is really catchy. i highly recommend this movie. trying to grade it objectively i'd give it 8/10 but for me personally it's a 10 all the way. "},{"Title":"More believable than When Harry Met Sally?","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am sorry to see that this film has achieved such a low average score, for I thought it was really pretty well done. Of course the plot has echoes of When Harry Met Sally, but for me it was sufficiently different to be readily distinguishable, apart from the fact that it took place over a much shorter time period, almost all the important action being in the central characters' college years.I liked it that Ryan was an archetypal nerd (but not a totally clueless geek), which made the whole development of an apparently platonic friendship (but evidently more on his side almost from the start) much more plausible. I know it's a cliché, but I liked his room mate, self-proclaimedly more knowledgeable about women, continually striking out in real life. I liked the quietly attractive but by no means glamorous heroine and her friend.Because it did not require so much suspension of disbelief as When Harry Met Sally, I think it worked better. "},{"Title":"Very sweet, heart-warming, and romantic","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BOYS AND GIRLS, in my opinion, is a very sweet, heart-warming, and romantic movie. From now on, whenever I watch it, I will be reminded of my ex-boyfriend. This is because we saw this movie in the theaters right before he headed off to college. The one person I really couldn't stand was Amy (Amanda Detmer). In my opinion, Hunter/Steve (Jason Biggs) was absolutely wacko. I laughed really hard when he got punched by a girl in dance class when he asked her how far she could bend. In conclusion, to all you Jason Biggs or Freddie Prinze Jr. fans who have not seen this film, I highly recommend it. Prepare to laugh and be touched when you see it. "},{"Title":"HELLO!!!  Freddie could sell Ice cubes to Eskimos!!!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I'm just a sucker for love, but this was good.  Seeing 'Ryan' as a geek was almost a paradox, not to mention that that geek was as sweet and cute as can be.  Let's face it...If it has Freddie Prinze, Jr. in it, I'm hooked.  The plot is pretty decent, too. "},{"Title":"Dear boys and girls","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a nice surprise, mostly because it's a rare occasion to see a movie with Claire Forlani. Freddie Prinze is terrible at the beginning of this movie, I thought he kind of looked and talked like Christopher Reid, the brotha with the funny haircut from Class act. Anyway, thankfully he recovers in the second half. Jason Biggs is Ok, and provides some very funny moments. But the best part of this movie were the dialogues. They were talking about the same things I usually talk (or think) about with my friends. I probably wouldn't have bothered to watch the movie, had it not been for Mrs. Forlani. But it turned out to be different from the rest of the recent teen movies(American Pie and Road Trip excluded). It was smart! The ending is predictable, personally I'd rather have the sort of Chasing Amy ending, but hey nothing is perfect, right. Except maybe for Claire Forlani.   "},{"Title":"Homeless man's When Harry Met Sally","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie isn't really half bad. But it was a more recent take on of the iconic When Harry met Sally. If you haven't seen the latter, you will like Boys and Girls. But if you already have seen and loved the Meg Ryan & Billy Crystal version, this will feel like a cheap imitation. And it is just that.....but made well. A little originality would be nice though. Seemed like the makers were way too lazy to work on an original story. Anyway, its not a bad movie if your expectations are appropriately adjusted. The actors' performances were reasonably mediocre but they looked good as most would expect. I recommend it as a one time watch. "},{"Title":"Makes American Pie look like Citizen Kane","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The year after American Pie, both Jason Biggs and Alyson Hannigan signed on for the worst script either of them had ever read. My guess is that they had absolutely no better offers that year, because this is a pretty cynical cash-grab. Its just falls flat in every way. They both play minor characters, which further adds to my theory that this film was a preexisting make lovers from friends script featuring Forlani and Prinze Jr's characters that was forced into the old pie-tin once American Pie became a huge hit. The acting is stilted, the dialogue is horrid, Claire Forlani is miscast as anything but an ice queen and Prinze and Biggs seem like they did a last minute switcheroo in an attempt for both to play against type, but Biggs can't play confident and Prinze is too good looking to be believably shy. I've seen worse movies, but I strongly recommend you don't see this one.its just not good in any way. "},{"Title":"Hated By Boys and Girls Everywhere.","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boys and Girls (2000) Dir Robert Iscove / Cast Freddie Prinze Jr., Claire Forlani, Jason Biggs, Amanda Detmer, Heather Donahue Dimwitted mess about gender differences. It stars Freddie Prinze Jr. and Claire Forlani who have been friends since he was twelve. They go through a string of failed romances until the idiot plot brings us to the obvious. Directed by Robert Iscove who made the somewhat better yet nonetheless stupid She's All That. He must be in some sort of desperate casting dilemma to get stuck with Prinze Jr. twice. He is not expanding himself and remains in that constant teen appeal. Forlani is a pretty face in need of material better than this. She seems smarter than the predictable tripe she gets stuck with here. In supporting roles is Jason Biggs who wishes to impress women through lies. My best advice for him is never to admit to being in this film. Amanda Detmer plays Forlani's lesbian roommate. Her sexuality is suppose to make her appear interesting or rebellious but it plainly looks tacked on as if the screenwriter was merely writing a type as oppose to a real human being with a personality beyond anything this film offers. Heather Donahue isn't exactly making a splash after The Blair Witch Project, and this will not increase her odds. The film should have examined gender differences. The script should be folded into a paper airplane and darted down a sewer. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":".. sure.. it's worth three minutes","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ..the only reason to watch begins at the thirty-six minute mark and lasts approximately three minutes. Otherwise the entire remainder of this movie is mindless banter between the two of them...one spewing more absurd dialogue than the other. Without a doubt she is easy on the eyes, but when she opens her mouth that's when the trouble starts. Someday it might be nice to see her in a film where she is not acting and talking like a complete airhead. Box Office Mojo indicates this film unbelievably made twenty-five million dollars worldwide, be that the case, it just shows how much trouble the culture is in. Watch the three minutes (like watching a short music video).. and do yourself a big favor and take a pass on all the rest. "}{"Title":"One of the most awkward romantic comedies you'll ever see","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ryan Walker (Prinze) & Jennifer Burrows (Forlani) have a history that goes way back, all the way to the time they met each other randomly on a flight. It continues off and on until college. The only problem is that both are in a relationship and they have contrasting personalities. Jennifer is funny, perceptive, wise, and beautiful. Ryan is an uptight mess that doesn't like to be out of his comfort zone. After a while, they become great friends. Things get a bit complicated when they develop feelings for each other. I saw this when it first came out years ago, strangely enough, I remember digging it. That is far from the case this time around. I was never bored, but it's one of the disingenuous romantic comedies I've seen in some time. Nothing in this movie felt genuine at all, despite the potential to be so. Right off the bat, we get conversations about orgasms and periods. When a romantic comedy pulls out all the stops in the beginning to try to get cheap laughs, you know you're in trouble. It tries to be clever and perceptive about the pratfalls of relationships to no avail. Despite the lame start, this movie did have potential to be a decent romantic comedy. It doesn't have the cast or the script to pull it off. It's also filled with unfunny slapstick that produces more groans than anything else. The only scene I laughed at is when Jason Biggs fakes being a priest and has a pool ball incident at a bar. That almost had me in stitches. The main problem is that I had trouble empathizing with any of the characters. All of them are rather obnoxious except for Biggs. Freddie Prinze Jr is a good guy in real life, but acting should have never been in his calling. His wooden style is painfully obvious. He lacks chemistry with Forlani and really brought the film down. Claire Forlani fares better and has the charm to spare. She's also gorgeous, but I felt her character was quite pretentious. There were a couple of times I wanted to smack her. Jason Biggs will never be known as a great actor, but I think he's funny. He injected some much needed life with his antics in this movie. The finale is completely clichéd and predictable. Forlani's monologue in the end made me cringe with how forced it sounded. Alyson Hannigan is wasted as a brief girlfriend of Prinze's. Amanda Detmer is OK as Forlani's odd friend.I wouldn't exactly call it horrible, but it was certainly mediocre for the most part. It comes across as extremely awkward and very phony. Romantic Comedy enthusiasts may wanna give this a look, but you're not missing anything4.8/10 "},{"Title":"Claire Forlani and Freddie Prinze Jr wrong for the parts","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Burrows (Claire Forlani) and Ryan Walker (Freddie Prinze Jr.) first time meet on a flight to LA as kids. Four years later, they both go to the same high school. She's the home coming queen and a free spirit. He's the lowly geeky mascot. Then at Berkeley, he's the geeky guy with high school girlfriend Betty (Alyson Hannigan) who's going away to Seattle. He has a roommate (Jason Biggs), and runs into Jennifer again who gets dumped by her committed boyfriend.What's with Jason Biggs' hair? Forlani's character is wildly inconsistent. Her persona is a little more serious than this free spirit character. Freddie is not the geeky boy type. They're both miscast for their roles. There isn't anything undeniably wrong with this movie, but it just doesn't have the charm. It doesn't have any comedy either. "},{"Title":"San Francisco bay area","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie captures the outstanding beauty of San Francisco bay area. In reality, the area isn't as glossy looking (there are many poor areas, and poorly maintained areas) as in the movies, but if you look carefully, there are areas like those shown in the movie.Movie's treatment of life as a college student at UC Berkeley is just as glossy. UC Berkeley is only school that I know of that the campus is part of the town that the school is located. There are no perimeter set that isolates the University from the surrounding town. School merges right in with the town. This contrasts sharply with Stanford, that's across the bay where its campus is isolated from its surrounding town of Palo Alto by quite an expanse of land and roadways.Is life in school like shown in the movie ? Well that's made extra glossy too. The movie should be viewed as a situational drama that's situated in UC Berkeley. College life aren't like what's shown in the movie either. These are kids from super privileged household if they really existed.Movie's plot is very predictable. What else would boys and girls in college do ? I thought it could have had bit more charm, and/or more story to it. For those who might have fallen in love with San Francisco bay area after seeing this movie, the area is no doubt beautiful, but isn't as new or glamorous as the picture shows it to be. It is now an over crowded place with danger of major earth quake looming. "},{"Title":"Boys and Girls","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film opens with a song called Love Stinks, that should be retitled This Film Stinks, because it does, from director Robert Iscove (She's All That). Basically Ryan Walker and Jennifer Burrows met each other as youngsters on a plane, and seven years, they encounter each other again in UC Berkeley high school. Jennifer (Meet Joe Black's Claire Forlani) is quick, witty, ironic, literary and independent, and Ryan (I Know What You Did Last Summer's Freddie Prinze Jr.) is deliberate, literal, serious and studying structural engineering. They become best friends, consoling each other over break-ups, and Ryan shares his plans, Ryan's roommate Hunter/Steve (American Pie's Jason Biggs) is surprised they aren't getting together. Jennifer is going to Italy after graduation, and surprisingly they spend a night together, after which she skitters away saying they should just be friends, and he is withdrawing also. In the end though, very predictable, Ryan and Jennifer end up on the Italy plane together, and they do accept they love each other, while Hunter (in a small subplot) finds his perfect girl with Jennifer's friend Amy (Final Destination's Amanda Detmer). Also starring The Blair Witch Project's Heather Donahue as Megan and American Pie's Alyson Hannigan as Betty. Prinze Jr. is too good looking to be a nerd with glasses, Forlani is the wrong person for the character, and Biggs with his weird coloured hair is just too much like Jim with a tiny bit of Stifler added, and what was with that extra scene in the credits where he farts with some models?! Hardly funny and too predictable, it just doesn't have the same spark as something like American Pie. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"When Jennifer met Ryan","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title above says everything about this movie it's a `When Harry Met Sally' modern version with a inversion of characters. I realized that even before watch. The trailer line were very familiar `First they hate each other, then they become friends and then...' Although it has some differences the premise is the same. Jennifer met Ryan during a trip and they hated each other. Years later they met again and another few years later they became friends. They had the perfect relationship till something happen and change everything. A very familiar story that was wonderfully adapted to a teenage movie. `When Harry met Sally' begins when they both graduate from High School, this one ends after the graduation.I love remakes, specially if it's a great movie, but the new version has to have something special,. Roger Kumble made an excellent job with `Cruel Intentions' for example, `Boys and Girls' is charmed, sweet and has great lines. Everything a romantic comedy must have.Claire Forlani is very talented and surprised me with her performance, Freddie Prinze Jr. is very cute and the girls just love him. As to the rest of the cast, they are in charge of the fun, specially Jason Biggs with his hilarious character. Go see it, it's worthy.   "},{"Title":"Delightful !!!!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First I'll be very honest I am a huge fan of Claire Forlani since Meet Joe Black. So I went after reading great and awful things about it. Well I would say it's nice to see a good, light, nice, cute film where the f word is not in each and every scene(Hope you'll read this, Mr Singleton with all due respect), where there aren't 2500 gun shots per second and where real human feelings are actually present all along. I think anyone who's been in such a relationship can totally relate to this film. Some people will reproach Jason Biggs role that feels too close from American pie and yes that's the movie main flaw but no movie is perfect and this one has not been produced for next year's academy award race. Also what really did surprise me was the great chemistry between Forlani and Prinze Jr. that you can definitely feel. I don't want to spoil it for anyone but the ending(even though predictable)is original and very very funny. It's nice to see a film where you sit, relax, enjoy yourself without having to expect the impossible and just experience it for what it is Fresh and Heart warming. Wasn't that what When Harry and Sally was all about ?.    "},{"Title":"Should friendship stage to romance?","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not as good as When Harry Met Sally, moved up from 1989 to 2000, with the screenplay dumbed down.Cinematography 8/10 Good, but not exceptional.Sound 8/10 Good, but not exceptional.Acting 5/10 Again comparing to When Harry Met Sally, Freddie Prinze and Claire Forlani are not nearly as good as Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan. The supporting cast is not as strong. Jason Biggs is particularly weak.Screenplay 4/10 This is about 15 minutes of plot spread over 94 minutes. All the Jason Biggs scenes could be omitted without loss. "},{"Title":"It's not when Harry Met Sally But I Like IT!","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Movie, I don't know how people can keep confusing it with when harry met sally, its not the same thing not even in the vecinity of the same thing LOL, okay now that being said, Freddie Prinz Jr, (very good looking guy) they try to make him like a nerd ummmmmmm wearing glasses does not constitute as a nerd, if anything it kind of made Freddie look even hotter with a more intellectual look LOL, I am sorry but that also being said he acts good, here or at least he tries, I like this a lot better than Down to you, maybe the plot of that one, I wasn't to into it (julia stiles) don't like her very much, on the other hand yes Claire Forlani does a look a tad old for the part, but she is beautiful, great actress and the great thing about this, I didn't even know she was British? LOL I thought she was American, you can't compare this with when harry met sally to begin with , Meg Ryan and Billy crystal already were established actors, especially Billy Crystal LOL so that would be dumb doing that comparison with Freddie Prinz Jr, who could be his son. Freddie, has this movie down packed he is cute, and yes he was a control freak nerd, and he came across that way as well, and the movie he definitely progresses from being that awkward nerd to being kind of a confident guy that knows what he wants.... so yes I liked FREDDIE's acting even if I don't think you are a nerd by wearing glasses LOL, but acting he did act like a NERD! i bought it, as for Claire Forlani she did a great job, to begin with the American accent LOL for one thing, the care- free spirited woman I think we all in one way want to be, she was great the polar opposite to Freddie Prinz Jr's character. They had great chemistry.... two things I didn't like about the movie first of all jason Bigg's character? why is he in this movie? as someone said comedy relief? I like him better in the American pie movies LOL.... I am sorry, and yes the end, was a little too rushed, if the movie would have been a little longer, then maybe we can get a better ending, more character development...... P.S. who think's Freddie is a nerd, he is not, doubt any of you guys, can get someone like His real life wife Sarah Michelle Geller! (buffy the vampire Slayer)... and I love men. (especially I would go backwards for someone like Freddie not only that looks like him, that has his personality in the movie he is cute and nerdy) ).... Love this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Just a reminder that you were young once!","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When i first saw this movie in my freshman year with my best friend, i was really awed by all the banter that's about friendship, not love. Inspired by the dancing scene, we got into the college's dancing club. HE(being my best friend) found her actual wife there (me being the best man at the wedding), and i scored 2 chicks in that very same club. So i decided to see it again today (being 07.08.2010), and the movie felt so raw yet so sincere. I was back at my college days, fooling around carelessly, and saw my friend in that movie, finding out his true love. What i mean is, this movie is a great part of my life, and when you see it, even if it isn't as literally as mine, it will be one of yours too. And if it isn't, you really should stop watching this genre!And just for the record; Freddie Prinze Jr. IS a bad actor. Oh well. "},{"Title":"An excellent Teaching (DVD)","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a good surprise because it isn't exactly a teen movie with dumb jokes but rather a serious analysis about relationships.As a boy, I can say that I really identified myself with Ryan as a planer, someone who doesn't decide or do what's on the moment. And it can be true that girls, like butterfly, like to wander there and there.The main thing about their stories is that it took a long time to acknowledge that they are in love. Again, it's a proved fact and it is often due to the feminine indecision. In fact, boys (or are least, Ryan and me) know at once what they feel and want to hurry the relationship. The twist of the beginning and end credits is clever because it looks like it was their fate to become soul-mates.The settings of the story in Berkeley and San Francisco is enjoyable because this city is rather underrated whereas it's much better than the famous LA! If it's always funny to see adults playing students, the cast was excellent I think that Ryan should have kept his glasses because it is boring always and every time to see tall, sexy, well-built flawless heroes when the common people are so diverse! To finish with a smile, I realize that Jason Biggs looks like very much as a famous president of republic in his teens years! It would be funny to see Jason at his fifties so! "}{"Title":"A beautiful Movie!! I Swear i loved it!","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I pity those people who have lost a certain sense of emotion to describe a movie like BOYS and Girls as boring lackluster etc..I mean are you people devoid of sensibilities or what?? your favourite comment that script was poor needs a Reality check!! let me ask you What do you expect from a romantic comedy? The central characters had a wonderful chemistry, to add to that the charm and sheer beauty of CLAIRE FORLANI. Jason biggs was adept in his part to add humour and also CLAIRE's wit...agreed that there was a certain element of predictability, but what the heck...isn't the story of how two people meet, become friends and eventually fall in love (the so called cliché, how else you expect it, extra-terrestrial or something) shown here in a very subtle yet fated, scintillating yet compelling manner, boosted by some strikingly genuine performances, enough to give the movie its due credit!!Those who still can't get the essence of it,i am afraid you guys need a life..P.S I am not a big fan of romantic comedies, but i have seen enough to say that this ONE rates right up there with the best!!!! "},{"Title":"Average movie","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is some quite competent acting in this movie by all the stars though the comic relief of the Jason Biggs character was the highlight for me. The standard romantic comedy conventions were obvious throughout making this film less than memorable. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  3 possibilities 1. This is quite a good movie 2. This is quite a poor movie 3. I'm too much in love with Claire Forlani to care. Seriously though, it's enjoyable enough and I for one did not find it boring. Some clever, original moments are balanced off by some derivative plotlines (comparisons to 'When Harry Met Sally' are not out of the question) and hackneyed handling of the character developments. I think there is at least some value to be had in watching 'Boys And Girls'; it's worth a couple of hours of your time and folks who like romantic comedies would probably not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well worth it","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it may be obvious that the two main characters will get together in the end (and it's clear that their best friends will too) - like life it's not the destination that counts, but the journey. It made me laugh most of the way through it and some of the lines in it were classics.  Jason Biggs' character Steve Hunter was brilliant throughout.Definitely one to watch if you want something to make you smile "},{"Title":"2.5 out of 5 stars","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At times mature and thoughtful, at other times juvenile and ridiculous, `Boys and Girls' centers around a decade-long friendship (leading to romance) between a young, control-freak boy (Freddie Prinze Jr.) and a wild, carefree girl (Claire Forlani).  The two meet in the first scene of the movie as 12-year olds on an airplane and continue to cross paths through high school and college.  Their love-hate relationship steadily moves toward romance, culminating in some funny, charming, and stupid scenes.  Director Iscove captures many of the discomforts of dating and friendship, but just as quickly turns around and makes a joke of it all.  Biggs is funny as Prinze's love-hungry roommate, but nearly every character in the film is too likable to believe.  There is little here to offend; there is also little here to make you think, although Iscove consistently flirts with success only to let it slip away several times.  More mature and interesting than most teen romances, but, in the end, that is not saying much. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Sally...without the writing or acting talent","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie seems to view itself as a teenaged version of When Harry Met Sally...but it misses that mark by a long shot.  The first problem is the leads...neither does very well in this movie...Prinze's acting is wooden at best and Forlani, while beautiful, is quite lacking in the acting department as well.  The second problem is the movie itself...it moves from nonsensical plot point to nonsensical plot point.  Everything is very contrived and predictable.  As for Biggs, he is given about fifteen minutes of screentime during the entire film, so don't be fooled into thinking that he is one of the stars of this snoozer.  Chances are he is probably glad about his lack of screentime now anyways.     "},{"Title":"boys and girls without personalities","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wish I had back the 15 minutes of my life that I spent fastforwarding through this movie.  The most appalling thing about the characters in this movie is their lack of vitality.  Are they alive or mere androids posing as humans, acting as humans are supposed to act in different situations?  And acting without chemistry or personality.What paint-by-numbers personalities they do have are unraveled with each scene.  Fred.P. Jr. is supposed to be an anal, neurotic dork, judging from the first scenes, but by the end he's the quiet, cool man on campus.  And Claire Forlani spends the entire movie craving his attention, and there is nothing natural about it.  It rings hollow.This movie uses every convention.  The two androids, i mean, kids, go clubbing and everybody on the dancefloor has synchronized, professional moves.  F.P Jr., who never dances and C.F. join in on the dance.  That's not clever, it's misplaced and creepy.They even go to a desolate mountain for a campy deep scene that begins with so, do you come here alot? it's beautiful. (insert puke here)also, the namedropping of F.P's other movies is not justified.  it's almost like, hey, forgive me for being in this crap, see- i've done other movies.finally, Jason Biggs could have been good in this.  operative word could. there were some good ideas about his lack of identity and dorky freakishness, but they are mishandled and suffer from poor direction and a horrible script.  "},{"Title":"a modern When Harry Met Sally","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was almost a complete parallel of the Rob Reiner classic When Harry Met Sally.  Only this was modernized and toned done for a younger, more teenage audience.  It lacked the truthful, profound outlook on life that Harry (Billy Crystal) showed in When Harry Met Sally.  Instead, it was a compilation of poor performances by two beautiful people.  This movie all in all wasn't terrible, just because the script was still heartfelt, but it lacked the same sort of emotion-grabbing needed to identify with the characters. It was a shame that is was advertised as an American Pie type of movie, because no comparison existed. This movie couldn't have worked from the beginning because the appeal was to a younger crowd which only went to see dirty jokes and ogle Freddie Prince Jr. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining, copied formula of Harry & Sally","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't have much to add to what has already been said about this film, but I'll submit my comments anyway.  It was mildly entertaining, but it was hard to get past the fact that the filmmakers essentially copied the formula of When Harry Met Sally.However, the chemistry didn't really seem there between Freddie Prinze and Claire Forlani's characters and the attraction wasn't terribly believable (other than they were both good looking).  The movie wasn't funny at all, save for a few moments of comic relief from Jason Biggs.  The dialogue was fairly lame and the plot was entirely predictable; I should have counted the number of times Freddie Prinze uttered the phrase I don't know-- it might have set a movie record!  As for Claire Forlani, she's appealing enough, but she seemed kind of old for the role and although she gives an American accent a good try (a bit better than her dialect in Mallrats), her British accent still is noticeable.Some of the film felt very forced, like the soapy dance club scene and the lesbian kiss (are women over the age of 11 really ever that cuddly?). Nonetheless, for all its flaws, it's watchable and just entertaining enough to warrant a 5/10. "},{"Title":"takes a while but gets to where it's going","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This whimsical flick starts slow and a bit shallow, but by the time it gets to the last reel, you are glad you did not leave in the middle. During the ending credits of the movie, Jason Biggs has his funniest scene of the movie, and for that matter one of the funniest during the credit scenes I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"And then....?","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys and Girls is what its title says. It is a movie about Boys and Girls.Well actually, it is really about the budding relationship between one Boy and one Girl and the Boy and Girl friends that the two have.If you watch this movie and only this movie, then it is a tad better than ok, but still not worth a recommendation. And then.... you start thinking and remembering that-->Basically, the movie is not very memorable. Amanda Detmer is good and the antics of Hunter/Tiger/Steve carry the movie a bit, but otherwise it seems like a run of the mill Freddie Prince Jr. movie (get a boy, get a girl, and a pinch of mayhem, and a dash of romance and tada...).Anyway, the year of 2000 had a lot of movies similar to Boys and Girls (ie Loser) and they are very difficult to decide which is better.This movie has funny points to watch, but alas they are not the whole movie.If you do watch this movie though, at least stay through the credits, that is almost the best part.Saw in theatres (35mm). Rating 6 "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-mill teen comedy.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why I rented this, I have no idea. Everything was out, I guess. I should've watched The Patriot again instead. Here, Freddie Prinze Jr. stars as a geek (obviously, no one knows what a real geek looks like) who repeatedly meets this girl (Claire Forlani), who's a couple of years older than him. Finally, he meets her in college and becomes friends (and more) with her.Jason Biggs also stars as Prinze's roomate who has the worst of luck with girls. He definitely is the shining star in this messy, smelly heap of a movie. The biggest problem is that there is either so little plot that you become intensely tired of watching them run around for no reason, or that there is so much plot that you don't WANT to know what they're doing. At some point it becomes so tedious that you have to take a break. However, having never left a movie unfinished (except Mystery, Alaska and Soldier) I decided to go on with the film. The acting here is average, with Prinze giving a hint of a perfroamnce. Thus, by the time he's 70, I might consider him a real actor. Claire Forlani is impossibly average, but only Biggs rises above the rest of this cast. He is funnier than the rest of the cast put together. Whenever Forlani makes a Friends-like joke, there's a couple of minutes of dead air that really should have been filled with a laugh track for better effect. However, do not miss the scene during the ending credits with Biggs and a bunch of models. It is the saving grace of this tired, clihe-ridden film.   4.5/10    "},{"Title":"Claire Forlani is simply wonderful!!!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, I have to say that I was really in the mood to see this movie!! I am a big fan of Claire Forlani and Freddie Prinze Jr. Freddie is really good looking, no contest on that!!! And Claire, what can I say, she is beautiful and a great actress (you can see that in Meet Joe Black, my favorite movie of all times). The chemistry between the two is amazing, and Claire saves the scenes where Freddie shows that he has a lot to learn yet!! Loved the movie... "},{"Title":"Second rate intellectual larceny","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This shameless (or should I say shameful) ripoff of `When Harry Met Sally' gives us all the neuroses without any of the humor of its entertaining predecessor.  There was no attempt to disguise the intellectual larceny on the part of writers Andrew Lowery and Andrew Miller, right down to naming Freddie Prinze, Jr.'s character Ryan, after Meg Ryan, who in WHMS played the character after whom Ryan's character was patterned.  There is further irony here since Freddie Prinze, Jr. is fast becoming the male Meg Ryan, never venturing beyond the safety of sappy romantic comedies.  Unfortunately, his choice of projects has been far more jejune with narrower appeal.If you have seen WHMS, you know the plot of this film.  Boy meets girl; boy hates girl.  They are thrown together periodically, and they eventually develop a friendship despite their differences.  This develops into love, sex, denial, and finally resolution.  They are both extremely socially challenged and neurotic.  Their differences are so irreconcilable that they really belong in different movies.This film tries to be a romantic comedy, but it is really a tragedy with a side order of hapless humor provided by Jason Biggs.  Even Biggs' scenes are not very funny.  The funniest scene in the film was a deleted scene they included in the credits with Biggs having a gas with some lingerie models.Claire Forlani was excellent as Jennifer, the flaky free spirit.  She was ditzy and lovable with moments of intense lucidity that kept the character from being farcical.  Forlani's performance is the only thing that holds this film together.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. gives his standard good-looking-nice-guy performance.  He had one decent scene at the end, during the couple's confrontation overlooking the Golden Gate Bridge, where he actually showed that he could act.  Otherwise, it was bland performance.  In Prinze's defense, Ryan was a dud and it would have been difficult to make him interesting without losing the essence of the character.  Jason Biggs did the best he could with a loser of a character and weak lines.  He is a much funnier performer than this film let him be.This romantic comedy is neither romantic nor funny.  I rated it a 4/10.  See the original; it was both. "},{"Title":"it has potential...","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that the movie was good but just predictable, you knew what was going to happen the moment they kept bumping inot each othr. Jason Biggs did great comic work, but I think it should have given a bit more depth into it rather than just the same usual storyline. The chemistry between Freddie Prinze Jnr and Claire Forlani was there, they just needed to focus a bit more on why they were meant to be "},{"Title":"Awful movie should be avoided","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Poor movie has Prinze and Forlani playing people who keep meeting spontaneously and finally end up at college together where they become friends, who end up in bed together and then can't handle the consequences.  Movie has no character development,  Prinze loses his nerdiness and ordered ways apparently by simply taking off his glasses, there is no real reason given for the two to even end up friends.  The script seems to have been tossed in favor of letting the actors wing it.  Also, this is one of the few college movies I've seen where the students never attend one class.  And don't be fooled, Biggs, who plays Prinze's roommate has only about 20 minutes of screentime. "},{"Title":"utter trash","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't waste your time renting this one if you're in the mood for a good, funny, feel-good teen romance--rent _Drive Me Crazy_ instead.  This one is almost, but not quite, as bad as _Down to You_.  If, on the other hand, you loved _Down to You_ this is the piece of rubbish for you.  It was billed as very funny, and it's not, and it was billed as very romantic, and it's not, and it did nothing to improve my overall mood.   "},{"Title":"Opposites Attack ? When did that happen ?","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie said, on June 16th, get ready, Opposites Attack ? Can somebody explain to me when that happened ?I watched this movie and saw a romance in the making throughout the whole movie. Fine. But when and how did the Opposites Attack like the movie poster says ?Hmmmmmm..... "},{"Title":"Fairly unoriginal plot with trendy actors","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a typical chick-flick with the plot revealed in the first 10 minutes. At the most basic level, it's about two seemingly different people that find they're perfect for each other. It's a time tested recipe for love stories, but in this case it's just a little too predicatable. The producers try to make it bigger with the trendy actors in it(Freddie Prinze Jr., Jason Biggs). It's not the worst combination of things, it's just a little too bland. It's not bad enough to make you turn it off, but it's nothing to write home about either. "},{"Title":"Never, ever see this horrible movie.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not only was this movie boring, the trailers on TV don't even explain what it is.  The trailers show it being like a PG-13 version of American Pie (when it shows Jason Biggs with 4 women at once).  It looked like it would be hilarious.  What you actually get is a very horribly written teen love story.  It was simply pathetic.  The very few laughs there are come from Jason Biggs and he is only in about 1/8 of the movie.  Whatever you do, unless you have seven bucks to just WASTE, don't bother with this film. "}{"Title":"There is nothing new under the sun...","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A too close of a resemblance of When Harry Met Sally for my blood.  Some lines were direct rip offs from it, not just similar situations, but THE SAME DIALOGUE. I couldn't believe it. I started laughing, but for all the wrong reasons.If Claire Florani stays sweet, she's fine to watch, but a dramatic actress, she is not.  I learned that one from watching Meet Joe Black.((shudder)) (she can pull off love scenes though)Freddie Prinze Jr. surprised me as a pleasant and slightly geeky at first young man who blossoms later in college .  I have never seen him take a role like that and was encouraged. He usually plays the stud.Predictable plot as most teen movies, but the characters are very likeable. More so than the average young romance flick.I wish someone would write something a little more original. Like they say, there is nothing new under the sun. "},{"Title":"A bring your date movie about a relationship","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why, but this film seemed like a lot of the other teen/college kid films that have come out in the past 2 years.  It's not completely bad (Jason Biggs is pretty funny), but I wouldn't recomend it for everyone (like fans of Truffaut and Fellini).  Freddie Prinze Jr. and Claire Forlani are likeable as the couple who have a off and on relationship in college, but they're choices are pretty dumb, which in turn, effects the movie.  Good college movie, not quite good romance film.  One treat- Heather Donahue (survivor of the Blair Witch project) appears as Prinze's brief girlfriend and shows she can be a good (and hot) actress.  B "},{"Title":"Chick flick","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie with a guy friend who basically wanted to see it because it would be American Pie in college.  I said ok and didn't have high hopes because I hated Anerican Pie.  Instead in turned out to be a cute romantic comedy.  I really liked it.  Freddie plays the geek but he is still a hottie.  I didn't see the point in him being a geek.  It would have worked better if he didn't have the glasses and just was really uptight.  I recommend it but not if your looking for a gross sex comedy.  If you are just go rent American Pie.  It's definitely a chick flick. "},{"Title":"This movie isn't what it's cracked up to be","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night and I didn't think that it was all that good, actually I was disappointed about it.  The commercials make this movie seem like it's hilarious, but the truth is that it really isn't and there is only a few scenes that are funny.  This movie is not a comedy, I would call it more of a romance but a bad one.  Basically don't go and see this movie unless you like to waste your money on pointless movies.  "},{"Title":"A rare and real college romantic comedy","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I bought my ticket for Boy's and Girls, I didn't have high hopes. From the previews and clips I got a chance to see, I had expected either a sex romp or a super-trite bubble gum love story.  Quite happily I got neither.  Boys and Girls is a surprisingly touching romantic comedy that should please all ages. For the most part this movie follows the When Harry Met Sally movie formula.  The two meet four or five times in years spanning from grade school to college, each time with with that cute friction that only pure opposites can create.  Ryan (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) is a structured nerdy type who plans everything, while Jennifer (Claire Forlani) is a free spirit who takes each day as it comes.  They become close friends after Ryan is dumped by Jennifer's roommate Amy (Amanda Detmer), and their bond is put to the ultimate test when sex enters the picture.  The whole story is quite predictable, but thanks to a lot of clever writing (especially for the side characters) you'll probably never catch yourself checking your watch.The acting on almost all parts is very good.  Claire Forlani shines as Jennifer.  I questioned whether or not Claire could pass ass a bubbly college student since she's been playing characters in the 25-30 age category for the past few years, but she is marvelous.  It would have been easy to play Jennifer as a one sided college chick who goes through men like kleenex, but Forlani gives her many different shades, filling her out to a real person that most women could relate to.  She doesn't even fall into the trap of over-acting at the more dramatic points of the film.  That combined with her stunning looks make it impossible to take your eyes off her. Jason Biggs plays Hunter, Ryan's roommate who's too busy putting on acts and playing games to just be himself.  This is a variation of his character from American Pie, but Biggs never lets you down and creates a lot of the movie's funniest moments.  Amanda Detmer also creates a few laughs as Jennifer's quirky roommate with a taste for therapy.  Fans of Alyson Hannigan and Heather Donahue (Blair Witch) will only be disappointed with the brevity of their screen time (each only gets about 3 minutes).The only real dud here is Freddie Prinze, Jr.  He's hampered here mainly because by the time he's allowed to use his tricks (namely, a patented smirk and puppy dog eyes straight from the How to Make Teenage Girls Swoon catalog) we've lost all confidence that he'll make something of a part with wonderful possibilities.  It would have been nice if he had went out on a limb and played at least the first half movie as a dork, rather than a hottie hiding behind thick glasses, or if he could deliver a monologue using more than two facial expressions.  Luckily for us either Forlani or Biggs save the scenes he's dropping the ball on.  Knock, knock Freddie...your career is on its way out unless you try a new genre or stop running this one on auto-pilot.All and all, this movie should create a lot of good laughs and says a lot more about relationships than you would guess.  7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Best Teen Movie This Year","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike corny teeney movie like Drive Me Crazy, and others, this movie (although the same type of role Freddie Prinze Jr. always plays) is a common story about boy meets girl, they fight, they make up and suddenly realize their love for each other.  This is, however, the first time Prinze has played the nerdy type boy who gets the girl instead of the popular jock.Still, this movie was funny and cute, and even some of the older crowd that had for some reason come to see it were pleased.  If you are after a good-time with some good moments go see this! Claire Forlani, Freddie Prinze Jr, and Jason Biggs star. "},{"Title":"Clever romantic comedy for teens.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I had very low expectations before watching this movie. But as I'm a die hard fan of Claire Forlani's sexiness , I decided to catch this on Cinemax.I ended up liking it a lot. It's a clever romantic story that deals with the burdens of growing on the sentimental aspects that deal with love relationships.The ending is very credible and I bought Prince Jr.'s final speech for convincing Forlani's character to be with him. It ended up in a perfect way. I mean, they had a wild night of sex but it had positive consequences such as starting a sentimental relationship although it was very difficult at the beginning.A really worthy romantic comedy. Please give it a chance, you won't regret. I'm a huge fan of Mrs. Forlani but the movie is also worth your time. "},{"Title":"Deja vu with other film? Guess what?","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film reminds me another one When Harry met Sally with Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan, a friendship between them for many years, with ups and downs, with different couples and respective break-ups and finally they found out they were meant one for each other that they are perfectly together in love. But this latest one with Freddy Prinze Jr and Claire Forlani is funny, touching and sweet too, the formula worked and they had love chemistry on screen, Freddy's character is more serious and a little nerdy and Claire's character is outgoing, strong-minded, impulsive, enjoying life day to day, but anyway they were the right couple in the end. "},{"Title":"If you like teen movies, you'll enjoy this, otherwise you'll hate it","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of Boys and Girls is simple. A boy and a girl (Freddie Prinze, Jr and Claire Forlani), who at first seem a most unlikely couple, gradually discover their similarities. To me, the film gets off to a slightly slow start, but becomes increasingly watchable as it progresses. The plot is similar to that of When Harry Met Sally, but the style of the film is totally different. It's essentially a teen movie in the vein of Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer. But it matches up to other teen movies well and offers some good laughs (mainly from Jason Biggs as the womanising, compulsive liar of a room-mate). For anyone interested in the technicalities of film-making, the final scene in which the plane takes off is very smartly edited, too. In summary, if you like teen movies you'll enjoy this, otherwise you'll hate it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a great movie. This movie is one of my friend's life story. We believe that all the events that happened in this movie will happen to her in real life. Even though some of the parts are twisted they still will happen. We love the part where they are in the club and all that whipped cream splashes them. My friend least likes the part where Jennifer and Ryan end up getting it on and they do that you know. So it creeps her out but still we love it. I think that everyone should watch this movie. It will make you laugh like crazy and it will make you think of loving somebody in a new light. Bottom line story of my friends life! "}{"Title":"Such a piece of rubbish","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm watching this movie RIGHT NOW and have absolutely NO need to finish it. I already know it's another predictable piece of cinematic junk in the now regrettably classic formula of commenting on the state of modern dating via terrible comedy. There are elements in this late-teen comedy that owe debt to movies like 'There's Something About Mary' and 'Chasing Amy' and countless other better variations on the same theme. Why, you may ask, am I watching it at all? My wife has it on, and her tolerance for clunky comedies is much higher than mine. The only reason I even give it a 2 is because I like Prinze and Forlani...who are both dreadful in this poorly scripted, ineptly directed clunker. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Worst romance 'comedy' I can remember.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Looking at the name of the film, I thought this might be a typical teen movie that shocks no one's world but would probably be (in spite of the uninspiring title) moderately entertaining to watch with a girl friend for example. But the disappointment hit me quite early. The content of the movie turned out to be idiotic dialogue that makes your stomach twist in unease and uninteresting and uninvolving characters who are either ignorable in there stereotypicality or absolutely unreal and still not funny. The first kind of characters make you wish you were watching a movie that is proper drama and the latter ones make you wish you were watching a proper comedy. In addition the progress to the so much waited tag line climax was unjustifiably long and slow, and considering the syrupy, totally predictable and extremely typical ending combined with the fact that there were actually no laughs throughout the whole movie makes this the worst movie of this genre I can remember.Good plot, good drama, good heart, good humour and good realization. A good movie may not need to have all of these. This movie makes an effort at perhaps all of them but is faced with failure on all five. "},{"Title":"OK of its kind","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The problem at the outset is that Prinze appeared in about six virtually identical movies in a row, and they can be very hard to sort out. This one has him playing a neurotic, nerdy type in an on-again, off-again relationship over several years with a free-spirited young lady (played by the fetching Brit thesp Claire Forlani). They eventually sleep together and that puts a very different spin on their relationship. But not to fear All works out in the end. I liked Prinze much better in the silly REAR WINDOW-inspired flick he did with Monica Julia Roberts Jr. Potter, HEAD OVER HEELS, wherein she thinks he has murdered someone. Lots of silliness ensues. But Prinze is certainly worth watching here,especially as his hairdo changes dramatically over the years. The problem is, I defy you to remember this film two days after watching it. It's a little like Chinese food. "},{"Title":"I liked most of it (SPOILERS)","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ryan and Jennifer meet on an airplane as children.  Several years later, they see each other at a football game, where Ryan is a mascot who lost his head.  Then they end up going to Berkeley together.  They are both seeing other people, but they become friends during their time in college.  Both of them go through breakups but have trouble seeing that they are, in fact, right for each other. I liked this movie best when it was funny.  Ryan's roommate Steve, who mostly called himself Hunter, was one of the best characters, constantly changing his hair color (it was red, green, blue and purple at various times).  And I really liked Jennifer.  Claire Forlani was wonderful.  I liked the games Ryan and Jennifer played when they didn't want to let others know they really liked each other, or when one of them wanted to break up with someone.  There were plenty of nice shots of the Golden Gate Bridge, which Ryan as an engineering major really admired.  The choreography in one dance club was really good (real people surely wouldn't dance that well if they were just out to have a good time), though I didn't care for the music most of the time.  I did like the music in one nice restaurant when Jennifer was on a date and Ryan showed up to play one of his games.SPOILERS FOLLOW  Unfortunately, when the two finally did realize they were meant to be together, the movie fell apart for me.  It wasn't funny any more and there was too much relationship talk.  The movie did get back on track and the ending was ridiculous and cliched but satisfying. "},{"Title":"not as horrible as many make it to be","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much out of Freddie Prinze Jr. again since he is the most one-dimensional actor since Hugh Grant. But, there is hope for the hearthrob after his performance in Boys and Girls. He makes baby steps in this film by improving his acting skills and working with Claire Forlani is definitely a step up from Jodi Lyn O'Keefe or Jessica Biel (both of whom currently cannot act their way out of a box). Forlani has improved since Mallrats, but, again, with baby steps as she also fails to deliver a true breakout performance. The script was more well-written than many other teen movies, but it had its hang-ups nonetheless (Jennifer's rant in the coffeehouse was brutal to watch and listen to, Ryan as a high schooler was horrendous, and the final scene on the airplane was also sloppy). Many have alluded to this movie being a When Harry Met Sally for teens. I have yet to see this flick, but after watching Boys and Girls, I'm most definitely gonna check it out (Crystal and Meg Ryan should be more enjoyable and entertaining). For the record, Jason Biggs was mentioned in the previews because of his success in American Pie which producers believed would help get people to see this in theaters. Biggs has just a minor role in this as he provides weak, poorly written comic relief. The year-hopping element of the plot is original. If I wrote the script though, I would have had Ryan go to Italy instead of Jennifer staying in L.A. In doing so, Ryan would have not adhered to his overly-planned out lifestyle and would show that there was hope for the up-tight, rigid Ryan character. Although I wouldn't recommend buying it, Boys and Girls is very watchable and not the worst way to spend 94 minutes of your time. "},{"Title":"Opposites attract","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I figured this would be a lot like She's all that and i was right. Instead of having the title Boys and Girls it should have been He's all that! Ryan grew up planning his whole life perfectly even though he was a geek through out high school, dated a fellow geek played by Alyson Hannigan and yet for some strange reason the most popular girl in his school Jennifer always seemed to be around him all the time. Even so they end up going to the same uni and that's where they become friends, but as Jennifer can pick any guy she still continues not to be satisfied and where Ryan was concerned he seemed like the perfect guy she could talk to since he wasn't interested in getting involved with anyone there were no problems between them. Their friends believe they are somewhat in love with each other and soon things get out of hand causing their perfect friendship to be in trouble since both are not after the same thing... It's a typical boy meets girl, girl meets boy, they hate each other but under the circumstances they find a reason to be friends and so on. I think Freddie is great looking guy so for his fans yes this is a good watch, but if there is another movie on the shelf that you would also like to see, get that one first this can wait. Out of 10 I would give this a 3 only because Freddie looks so cute in a goatee!  "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is weakened by excessive zeal in tayloring it to its target demographic.  The side-kick roles are especially stupid.  But the principals are pretty good.  I have seen more Prinze movies on airline flights than I would care to.  His performance in this one is the best I have seen.  And Forlani's role is also not badly written and played.  She is beautiful as ever and seemingly adept at the accent.  I just wish they had dressed her better, especially in better shoes.  She is obviously uncomfortable in the walking scenes.  But then, mine is not the target demographic! "},{"Title":"Finding love in the strangest Places","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Freddie Prince Jr. and Claire Fortani put in a stellar performance.  While I realize Jason Biggs character was there for comedy relief his scenes usually just annoyed me.  I especially loved the dance scene where she takes him to a club and forces him to dance.  I wish I could dance like that!  The scene in the laundry mat/ cafe was especially heart warming.  Where she asks if there really is a one out there for everyone. I've wondered that so many times myself and I felt I could really identify with her character.  This movie is a definite must see. The movie had had a Never been Kissed feel to it but it displayed the relationship between the characters much better than Never Been Kissed.  In the end you get that warm mushy feeling in your stomach just like you do in Never Been Kissed and many other love stories and it kind of make you feel that all is right in the world.  Then you wonder why your love life can't be that cool.  Or at least I did. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but good","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is not perfect and it doesn't claim to be.  it's a good light hearted romance/teenager movie.  Even though the dialogue at the beginning was rough it began to smooth out and become a rather enjoyable movie.  + the girl was sooooooo hot and so was her friend, Amy in the movie.all and all a good 7/10 (not perfect but hey can you do any better?) "},{"Title":"A great film if you let it speak for itself...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, the commercials do paint a different twist to this film. I think anyone's perceptions that this may be an American Pie type film are justified given what we see in the trailers, which is too bad. This film, without its trailers is excellent. While Claire Forlani's character continues to annoy, and Prinze's continues to be goofy, you can easily see two young actors who have tremendous chemistry and talent. Anyone who has been in a friendship such as theirs (and yes it does happen), can relate to this film 100%. Accurate yet mature, it doesn't slop sex around like it is meaningless. It is nice to see a film try to change the rules of what this genre of films has always been about. For no other reason than that I thought of it during the movie, this film reminds me of Before Sunrise. which too, crossed the lines of what a simple romance film should be. I recommend this to everyone, just ignore the advertisements and trailers for it. "}{"Title":"Must See Comedy Of The Summer!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very entertaining, and hilarious.  Freddie Prinze Jr. does some of his finest work as an actor, and has several very funny moments in the movie.Jason Biggs' role as Freddie's roommate steals the show.  Jason is funnier in this movie than he was in American Pie.Claire Forlani is adorable, and this is her best role yet to date.  She captures both romance and comedy well.This film is sure to be one of this summer's hits, and it's a GREAT date movie! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems I'm going against the stream here. Pretty much everyone else here seems to like this movie, although I really, REALLY can't possibly imagine why.Until this day, I used to compare all crappy movies to Isolation. A horrible attempt at a horror-movie, involving of all things a cow. But as of now, whenever I see a really bad movie, I'm going to think Well, at least it wasn't as bad as Boys and Girls.This movie is about... eh.. two people - a girl and a boy - who bump into each other at random places at regular intervals. And when they do, they start a boring conversation that usually ends with them disagreeing over something pointless, and parting again. These dialogs are not at all funny, not interesting, and most of the time, they don't make any sense at all.The editing is also confusing. Entire years pass by in a cut without any indication hereof, other than the changing hairstyles of the characters. Several breakups take place, without you even knowing they were dating in the first place. And the shallowness - oh, the shallowness. You will hear dialog resembling So, I just got dumped. Are you still with your boy-/girlfriend, because if not, we can like hook up. And here I was, thinking romantic movies were supposed to have at least some romance.So, no romance. And seeing as not a single sentence or scene in this movie was even remotely funny to me, I wouldn't call it a comedy either. And the drama kind of disappears when the dialog doesn't make sense, and the characters are impossible to sympathize with. That really leaves an hour and a half of absolutely NOTHING.Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Oh my goodness...","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... this was an awful movie! My friends talked me into seeing it, saying Hey, the movie looks really good! We should go see it! So I went to see in in the theaters with my girlfriend at the time and my two friends. I was disappointed 30 minutes into the movie already, and it didn't get any better. It simply was not funny! In any way! It had no laughs! On top of that, the three stupid teenagers in the row in front of us were annoying the hell out of me! The only thrill I got out of this movie was going outside afterwards and giving those stupid teenagers a piece of my mind about staying quiet during a movie. That's it. This movie is so unmemorable, that I don't even remember the plot. I only saw it once, and I will never watch it again, and if you want to save yourself from a headache, you shouldn't either. "},{"Title":"Oops... I actually liked it...","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just checked, people Boys and Girls was the 8th (!) movie I saw that starred Freddie Prinze. In almost every other occasion, the movies were horrible (I gave Summer Catch, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer and She's All That a 1/10, I Know What You Did Last Summer and Head Over Heals a 2/10 and Scooby Doo a 3/10). So why do I keep watching them? Well, sometimes, something good pops up.The first time that happened was Down To You (then again, Julia Stiles is excellent), and this movie is the second. Hardly a hidden gem, but good enough to watch and enjoy on a quiet night.Prinze is Ryan, who in early years, meets Jennifer (Forlani) on a plane (both characters are about 12 years old). Years later they meet again (and somehow recognize each other) and they keep on meeting while going to college. What do they do? Well, they talk. And talk... Mostly it's about their relationships. Which are not working. Well, you kinda know how this is going to end, now don't ya?There's a lot standing in the way of this film. It's terribly cliche (oh my, it even got a going-to-the-airport-no-driver-stop-the-car!scene), not really funny, it takes itself waaaaay to serious and... erm... it's a Freddie Prinze movie. But somehow it works. Well, for me anyway...Forlani is good (I can see her moving on to bigger things) and Biggs is downright hilarious as the goofy room-mate. The pace is right, the music's right. Never a dull moment really.6/10 "},{"Title":"Don't Be Fooled! (It's not a teen sex comedy!)","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because I saw Jason Biggs on the cover and a disclaimer that read Warning Sex Changes Everthing.  Grinning, I picked it up, read the back, and took it home.  I figured this would be a teen sex comedy in vain of American Pie.During the first scene (the airplane), I thought my first impression was right.  After that, the truth was revealed to me.  This movie is a mediocre comedy/romance film aka a Chick-Flick.  I didn't like it.Jason Biggs is pretty hilarious if you like his movies, which I do, but he just didn't redeem the rest of the movie for me, seeing how he only got about 12 minutes or less screen time.Guys This movie is great to sit down and watch with your girlfriend. Don't get it to watch by yourself, unless you like chick flicks. "},{"Title":"nice shot","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not a great movie as an art, but it doesn't change the way you smile after the end. Just a sweet movie about bosy and girls, relationships and can a man and a woman be just friends? question. this movies' leauge is obivous, and it's a very good one like the ones' in its league. "},{"Title":"WOW, I actually loved this movie","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe the ratings people gave this movie.  I thought it was an extremely wonderful performance by Claire Forlani.  I didn't really know who she was till I saw this movie.  But she just has something to her that attracts us to this character. "},{"Title":"Another pseudo-'80s great.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the (thankfully prolific) movies which follow the classic '80s teen romance-comedy formula.  If you liked Say Anything, you'll probably like this one.  The plot is simple, the characters are stereotypes, and basically anything a cynical film critic looks for isn't there.  There's lots of fun, though.  I saw it with my girlfriend, and we both walked away with a big Awwwww on our lips. "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this movie, you know from the get-go that Jennifer Burrows (Claire Forlani) and Ryan Walker (Freddy Prinze, Jr.) are going to wind up together, and that it's just a question of how.  The how takes place over the next hour and a half or so, with great chemistry between the two lead roles, hilarious comic relief from the talented Jason Biggs, and a very highlighting and well-integrated soundtrack.  The movie is, overall, a comedy (romantic, of course), but it knows when to be serious.  I laughed, I cried, and most of all, I enjoyed it.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Laugh a minute ride....","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was one of the nicest, wittiest films i have seen in a long time. I was lucky enough to see a preview screening in my home town. Jason Biggs has a way about him that allows his dry sense of humor to rise above the rest of this film. Claire Forlani is a rare beauty and Freddie Prinze Jr. who normally does not register in my mind as someone i would want to waste 2 hours of my time with in a darkened cinema screen, was actually rather charming. All in all a film worth handing your hard earned cash over for.  "}{"Title":"no likey likey","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this came on THIS TV not too long ago...and I was like, OH man! Freddie Prinze, JR.. I wanna see whats going on and whats gonna happen? you see, He didn't take it as far as that cat who dated Jen Fisher in the office, you know who Im talking about, and how he really can make a gay sound and lisp and stuff... well, this was Freddie being with a girl on a college campus, and only being friends with this girl who like likes having sex. It sounds good... and then, that's what I found out.....I just didn't like it, and they might not make another one like it together again, BUT Freddie will! come on. I do have to write a little bit more and I will try to get this published as soon as possible "},{"Title":"i'd rather eat my own vomit","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I'm sitting at my pc downloading Megadeth cds when I glance over to see what my wife is watching on TV. Having been with my wife for 10 years now I can usually guess what she's watching, and she has a tendency to enjoy romantic comedies. I wasn't wrong. The only thing worse than a romantic comedy is one that's contrived and insults the intelligence of the common viewer. I only managed to catch one scene but it left an impression on me which in turn led me here.The dance scene where everyone is supposed to be in a bar made me want to throw up on myself and then lick it off and smile about it. What bar on this planet has everyone doing a coordinated dance routine followed by a shower of soap / paint and water? How many bars on this planet have a shower setup on the dance floor? I also noticed the dj (guy playing mp3s with his pc) grabbed an umbrella to protect himself and his equipment from the spontaneous shower on the dance floor. Last time I checked WATER + ELECTRICITY = BAD. The only problem was that he never covered his equipment. Oops. I like most of these actors and they have done far better work than this contrived, Hollywood laced garbage. "},{"Title":"College Life - Lots of Fun -)","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With this movie being set in the life of college students trying to discover who they are and what they want to do is fascinating! It is fun to watch their relationships evolve, the various stages of their life. Jason Biggs (Hunter/Steve) is the perfect roommate to Freddie Prinze Jr's character (Ryan). They are polar opposites - Ryan tries to be the good, straight student and Hunter is enjoying his exlporing of parties, girls and the wild-side. The friendship between Jennifer (Claire Forlani) and Ryan is fun to watch. She is the ultimate career college kid that has been in college more than her 4 years because she was busy 'finding' herself and her relationships with the various men. She is a free spirit and helps to loosen Ryan from his stiff 'engineering' rules. It is a carefree and comedic relief type movie. There aren't too many serious scenes and that is OK, it is fun to watch. I love the club scene - the ultimate college club. "},{"Title":"extremely bad","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's one of the worst films I've ever seen, I just wasted my money when I went to the cinema...I think I'm still having a trauma.The people acting there are just horrible in their characters...Jason Biggs...just awful...and the others couldn't be worse, in fact, I hope they can't be worse than that...I really wanted my money back when I went out of the cinema and they almost gave it to me. They should warn about it before broadcasting the film.I didn't get asleep just because I had paid, oh, God, you can't even laugh about all the failures and boring things it has...everyone who made that movie should be in prison, and some of them, for all time.I'm sorry for their families, but that's the honest true. "},{"Title":"Lots to like in a two hander","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a romance presented as a sequence of episodes between the boy and the girl while they are studying at UC Berkeley. This is a simple film and it appears from IMDb comments that people either love or hate the style.For me the great strengths of the film are the thoughtful general arc of the story and the engrossing qualities actress Claire Forlani brings to scenes of one-to-one conversation. The development of the central friendship within the arc of the story is in many respects true to life and human nature. The comic diversions also work for me.The weaknesses of the film are the beginning and ending which are abrupt and unconvincing. We do not have any sense of the two characters' inner emotional reactions once things have changed. (European filmmakers do these aspects better.)For the gems in the middle this film is one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"Worth viewing for the final scene...","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...during the credits.  Biggs and the Victoria's Secret models have a rip-roaring time.  I was howling, that was so funny.  I know, I know, grow up, right.  Nah. Otherwise, this movie was pretty average, with spot funny parts.  I give it a 5/10, but definitely watch the credits.  "},{"Title":"i'm in luurrveeee","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Claire Forlani is a goddess (> if you're looking for fantastic plot, crazy special effects, big budget, etc. you're not going to find it here.a nice romantic comedy that takes the theme of what if and presents it in an enjoyable way.  "},{"Title":"A real good, romantic comedy.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one wasn't so bad. It isn't constantly being bombarded with loads of stupid humor. Freddie Prinze, Jr. plays a nerdy, book-worm student as opposed to playing a super-jock in SHE'S ALL THAT. *MINOR SPOILERS* Ryan (Prinze) and Jennifer (Claire Forlani) first met on an airplane when they were fourteen. Then, after that, they seperated for four years until they reconnected in high school. After that, they seperated for four more years. And, then the two finally reconnected again in college. And when they do, they discover that they have true feelings for each other.Jason Biggs is probably the worst thing to happen to this movie. He tries so very hard to act crazy and wild and to be all I don't understand why people don't like me!. But you can tell right away that it is all so very stupid. The humorous moments between Ryan and Claire is what creates some of the funny moments. Jason Biggs just adds to the idiocy of the film. Also interesting to see Heather Donahue in a smaller role after seeing her performance in THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. Interesting how she was supposed to have been dead in that film. Oh, well! See this movie if you were a fan of When Harry Met Sally. This is somewhat similar. BOYS AND GIRLS 4/5 (only because of Jason Biggs). "},{"Title":"I dont know whats going on.......","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  in Hollywood but maybe all the good writers died. I've been reading alot of reviews about this movie comparing it to when harry met sally for teens. This film doesnt go anywhere for about 30 minutes i say 30 minutes because after that i took it out and threw it in the trash can. Lets get something clear Prinze is a good actor but he's no Crystal, Billy puts out something on screen you cant teach. Forlani is great but still she's no Meg Ryan she's close though. My advice for Freddie is to do something different like he did in the house of yes than these puppy love films that are bringing him down. I really think he is good actor he just needs something that showcases his acting abilites because once again a bad script has brought another actor down. "},{"Title":"VERY sweet, heart-warming, and romantic","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BOYS AND GIRLS, in my opinion, is a VERY sweet, heart-warming, and romantic movie. From now on, whenever I watch it, I will be reminded of my ex-boyfriend. This is because we saw this movie in the theaters right before he headed off to college. The one person I REALLY couldn't stand was Amy (Amanda Detmer). Hunter/Steve (Jason Biggs) was absolutely WACKO in my opinion. I laughed REALLY hard when he said, How far can you bend? to a girl in dance class, then got punched by her. In conclusion, to all you Jason Biggs or Freddie Prinze Jr. fans who have not seen this film, I HIGHLY recommend it. Prepare to laugh and be touched when you see it. "}{"Title":"Jason Biggs proves he's everything Freddy Prince Jr. is not.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie hoping to see Jason Biggs give  good performance.  And he did, during his 15-20 minutes.  The rest of the movie is filled with the horrible Freddy Prince Jr. and the beautiful Clair.  They have NO chemistry, it's as if they were given lines and are reading them for the first time.Everything about this movie is for 13 year old girls.  It's view of college is a whimsical one with clubs that don't exist and parties that don't quite happen like that.Biggs is great.  Freddy Prince needs to be stopped.  Join me.  He must not make any more movies! He's like a young Al Gore, but less entertaining. "},{"Title":"Captures you, keeps you wanting more when it over!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was my favorite out of all the movies I've seen last summer. You really get to know the characters and soaks you into the plot, leaving you at the end wanting to see more. I easily gave this movie 10 stars just for being so fun to watch! I recommend this movie to any teen who knows what is moral to what is not. "},{"Title":"Instant world-art classic. Should be studied in universities.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a synthesis of good `renaissance' humor and structuralistic abstractions, based on indeed very productive opposition perfect artificial construction &#150; beautiful woman. It is a bit abstract film about how to cut through abstractions to real life and love. Very impressive actors and excellent performance. Strong visual culmination points. Instant world-art classic. Should be studied in universities. "},{"Title":"Boys + Girls Apparently Equals CRAP!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pure drivel.  Who would ever think that putting two mildly interesting lead actors and one hot leading lady in a movie would equal this piece of bull? There is no doubt in my mind that Freddie Prinze Jr. can act a little when given material to work from.  Claire Forlani is in the same category. Jason Biggs proved in American Pie that he can really deliver when the material is there (and he is probably the only one who comes out unscathed from this debacle).  One thing struck me as funny while watching this junk ... Freddie and Claire are seen walking in to (what I presume to be a double feature) showing of SIXTEEN CANDLES and THE BREAKFAST CLUB.  While all three movies mine some of the same material, this film, BOYS AND GIRLS, is nowhere near the league of intelligent and funny films such as SIXTEEN CANDLES and THE BREAKFAST CLUB.  One reviewer called this a WHEN HARRY MET SALLY for teens... that person must have seen another movie. "},{"Title":"Not superficial - unlike the title","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I expected this movie to be very superficial especially because of its extremely trivial title. I was surprised in the end because it had some wise comments and deep thoughts about relationships and friendships - I have lived similar stories. I hope this is not a spoiler coming up But what did the director think of when adding this stupid sequence after the finish together with the finishing titles ? When I saw this, what I had seen before was almost spoilt - at least then the trivial title had its justification. 6/10   "},{"Title":"Possibly the Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can I put this movie into words? It's like She's All That on smack. No, it's more like She's All That's drunken cousin. You may have to watch the movie for yourself to see.Here's the synopsis Boy meets girl screen goes black words pop up 15 years later boy meets girl again - 1 year later - boy sees girl, they talk for 2 minutes - 6 months later - boy talks to girl again - 2 weeks later -you get the point. honestly, they use that some time passes screen way too much in this movie and it shows. And I really wouldn't mind had the movie progressed at a nice pace, but instead I really think I'd rather spend that time getting my teeth drilled than watching this horrible slow wannabe-movie. When the two main characters finally kiss, check your watches, folks, because it takes them most of the movie.There is no development of character anywhere in this movie, and how did Freedie Prinze Jr. stop being a nerd? And what's the point of Jason Biggs? He's supposed to be comic relief in this movie but the things he says are not only funny, they hurt me just to hear them, and they add nothing to the story at all. They might have well just put a dancing monkey in his place.One good thing For all you Mystery Science Theater 3000 fans out there, this movie was really easy to make fun of and add your own lines to, due to the slow dialogues and the weird facial expressions on the actors' faces that accompany bad acting. My friends and I yelled at the movie and clapped at the wrong times in the movie theater and nobody around us seemed to care. In fact, I met a few girls afterwards who said that the only thing that made the movie good was the comments my friends and I shouted at it.Now I've never seen Battlefield Earth, but from what I hear it's the worst movie ever. After seeing this movie, I really find it hard to believe there can be something worse, but I like to keep an open mind. As for all of you out there who haven't seen this steaming pile of crap, make sure you see it, but without letting the studios make any money for it (i.e. steal it from Blockbuster and run like hell).Whew, now I feel better. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Horrible","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most horrible films I've seen... If it wasn't for my friends being extras in the film I would have walked out. Both Freddie and Clair lacked character development, so the inconsistencies in their characters totally made me question their actions ..There was just way too much scenery in the film, so it seemed like a college recruiting ad! Also, from scene to scene, the movie just did not have a sense of flow... Glad I watched it during matinee! "},{"Title":"not worth seeing","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last weekend with 4 of my cousins and we all agreed it was pretty lousy. It was extremely slow at times and the plot was not good at all.  In terms of teeny bopper movies, American Pie was much better.  Do yourself a favor and skip this film . Little about it is funny "},{"Title":"No plot, but it is a ok date movie","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILER ALERT Hello everyone this movie really sucked, it was about two college people who remember each other from a plane ride when they were twelve. The next thing you know they are dancing and becoming the best of friends, until they had a little action in bed, this ruined there friendship, until when the girl leaves for Italy she jumps out of the van and runs to go and find Ryan, she then realizes that she loves him, not as a one night stand. This movie was very boring and had no plot at all. "},{"Title":"Popcorn Fodder (ie Bad Film)","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that anyone who even considers this piece of popcorn fodder viewable did not witness the same waist of good salt & butter that I did.Yes, I do know that was harsh!  But, let's be honest...this is a Summer Release which boasts pretty, paper-thin, floating characters that constantly banter about relationships. What a horrid display!  Even the ever-luscious-Freddie Prinze, (who I admit can barely act, but is SO good to gaze at) who usually comes across with so much power and charm, was barely there. Although there are some viewable parts to this teen-targeted flick (i.e. the whimpering of The Blair Witch Project maven Heather Donahue), the majority of my time was spent watching teens walk out of the theater.The subtle irony and age-old plot saved Prinze's early effort, She's All That and the strong presence of Anthony Hopkins bailed out Claire in Meet Joe Black but not even Buffy's Alyson Hannigan could offer these two a life-jacket. Is this what romantic comedies have been reduced to?  I would take an edited, commercial drenched version of Harry/Sally over Boys/Girls any day! "}{"Title":"Prinze + Forlani = Crap","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys and Girls is what I fondly like to call a cop-out movie.  It introduces plots without resolving them; it resorts to a five-minutelet's-show-the-characters-having-a-fun-day-together-while-playing-the-saccha rine-soundtrack instead of actually developing the relationship with dialogue or skill; and it relies on a lot of cornball shots of the Golden Gate bridge as backdrop to take our attention away from the unconvincing crap happening on screen.Not that we really care about what's happening anyways...Forlani and Prinze portray characters that are so artificial and annoying (i wanted to wrap my hands around Forlani's straw-thin throat and squeeze to stop her incessant whining) and lack chemistry to the point that you hope somehow that somehow Arnold Schwarzennegar will make an unbilled appearance as the Terminator and gun everyone down the cast to put them out of our misery.  Alas, that would be far too clever for a movie that is far too predictable and far too willing to remain consistent with the tired genre of the teen date film.At least Jason Biggs acts like he's in an entertaining movie.  Of course, he's woefully underused and serves little purpose other than to act as a foil for Prinze's dorky straight-laced structural engineering student.I was incredulous to see that some people actually called the movie funny and awarded it a 10.  As long as indiscriminating people keep seeing these movies, they'll keep making this tripe.  But face it folks, it's a waste of money and a waste of two hours. "},{"Title":"Not Enough Supporting Cast","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The previews for this film were very misleading.  First of all, it looked funnier.  Some parts were (usually involving the supporting cast) but many of the jokes fell flat with some of the older teens while the younger teens seemed to find it hilarious.  The film reminded me of Down To You which also starred Freddie Prinze Jr., took place in a college, and to me was boring. The interesting/funny moments in this film were mainly with Jason Biggs and Amanda Detmer.  The main story was pretty boring and resembled many other teen romantic comedy flicks where the plot is basically the same throughout. I was hoping this would be different and that it would turn out to be a great teen movie, but it's just like all the rest.  The bottom line is that the supporting cast's story lines were more interesting than the central one (which was also the case with Can't Hardly Wait-which is a really good movie because of its supporting cast).  Oh, and if you're looking for the scene with the Victoria Secret Models in the dressing room, you'll have to stay during the ending credits, which is where that scene is eventually played. "},{"Title":"Average Teen Movie!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys and Girls is an average teen comedy about friends and dating. Freddie Prinze Jr, Jason Biggs and Claire Forlani all star here and they all give decent performances. The movie is really predictable though and it's really obvious who's going to end up with who by the end of the movie. This is a nice enough movie though which I'm sure will go down well with most teen-movie lovers. "},{"Title":"What an original and inventive title. (Sarcastically)","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew this movie would be bad. All of Freddie Prinze Jr's movies deal with the same subject. SHE'S ALL THAT and DOWN TO YOU. This one is better than those two. Prinze can act when he wants to. He does what he thinks he can with his part. Jason Biggs hot of the success of AMERICAN PIE was only chosen to be in this because of his popularity. Because he surely can not act. The script is stupid, but the movie moves along nicely and it is entertaining. I was most impressed with Claire Forlani who creates an amazing character in this film. She will be the next Julia Roberts. Also Heather Donahue was good in the few lines and five minutes total of screen time she had. I reccomend it to teenage girls. And boys of all ages because Claire Forlani was truly wonderful. 5/10 for the movie 9.5/10 for Claire Forlani's performance "},{"Title":"Glad the trilogy is over.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Freddie Prinze Jr. has recently stated that he has thought of She's All That, Down To You and Boys and Girls as a trilogy of relationship stories that move chronologically and form a story.  Ignoring for a second that both Down and Boys both take place in college, Boys and Girls is a movie packed with talent, but a script so bad it should have been taken out and shot.Freddie Prinze Jr. stars as Ryan, a somewhat meek and nerdy boy who lives and dies by careful meticulous planning.  One day while waiting for a plane to take off he meets Jennifer (the very talented Claire Forlani) and thus begins their somewhat testy relationship.  Prinze backslides a bit here and becomes dull and cardboard onscreen.  I'm not sure if it was the dull nature of his character or that the script he had was full of hackneyed bull but watching him was like watching Al Gore speak at a retirement home.  It's called loosening up a bit...give it a try.Claire Forlani is Jennifer, a beautiful free spirited girl who lives life by the seat of her pants.  She is far too talented to be in this drivel (basically same plot as the other two...see my Down To You review for info).  Her talent shines through though and Jennifer becomes a character you sympathize with.  Well done Claire, but next time read the whole script.Amanda Detmer is Amy, Jennifer's friend and roommate.  A goofy girl who is constantly in therapy, this character was simply there to give Jen a gal pal at college.  YAAAWWWNNNN.Heather Donahue is Megan, one of Ryan's few dates.  I mention her because in her first post Blair Witch role she has been plugging Boys pretty hard. She has about a grand total of 5 minutes screen time and the Jackie O hairstyle doesnt work on her.  Maybe next time Heather.  I'm actually looking forward to seeing you act again.Now on to Jason Biggs.  After American Pie I thought we had a wonderful little actor breaking out.  I may have been wrong.  Loser will decide for sure later this year.  His Hunter/Steve persona was a rewrite of his American Pie character and a bad one at that.  Lying and decieving girls to try to get dates, giving relationship advice while not having a clue. He does, however, have THE sequence in the movie.  Well, its actually in the credits...the notorious have you been with four women bit you're now seeing in the previews.  Stay for it..that 3 minutes is better than the entire 98 before it!!Boys and Girls requires no thought process, you have the movie figured out in the first 10 minutes and from there it goes downhill.  I'm so relieved to hear Freddie say the trilogy is over because that means we dont have to sit through c**p like this from him again.1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Predictable Stuff","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A rather uninspired film about the relationship between Ryan (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) and Jennifer (Claire Forlani) who meet as children sitting beside each other on an airplane and develop an inseparable bond.The movie is pleasant enough, but completely predictable and unoriginal. Is there anyone who could start to watch this without knowing from the opening scene that these two were going to end up in love? The movie largely revolves around their denials of the feelings they have for each other and their attempts to develop other relationships, only to be drawn back together. It's OK, and there are a handful of humourous scenes, largely involving their friends Steve and Amy (Jason Biggs and Amanda Detmer) - who have problems of their own to deal with - but frankly I wouldn't go out of my way to see it.4/10 "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is similar to When Harry Met Sally except the story takes place in College where WHMS takes place after. What makes this movie ridiculous is the very traditional ending, but mostly the scene where Jennifer (Claire Forlani) starts asking the guests at a cafeteria if they knew that maybe we will no ever find THE ONE despite our search for it. AS if she shouldn't have known the way she talks on and on (and on and on) about relationships all through the movie. Then we have to have this standard ending where ... well, it would be a spoiler if I told you, but don't expect anything clever. Please choose When Harry Met Sally over this mainstream feature. Claire Forlani's acting gets on your nerves in the end anyway. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I begged my friend to go see this movie with me and she demanded I buy her dinner later that night. Why? Because I dragged her to a film that SUCKED. The ill-fated attempt to be sentimental and romantic bombed, as well as the no-name actors (ex. Freddie Prinze Jr. and Alyson Hannigan). Even Heather Donahue from The Blair Witch Project was in this movie. The first ten minutes was somewhat humorous, I hated it. I did like Claire Forlani...now, FORGET ABOUT IT. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't sit through this.  The dialogue between Prinze and Forlani was brutal.  I didn't make it to the end so I will give this a 3.  I'm sure if I kept watching it could have become a rare 1. No adult could possibly enjoy this.  I guess if you're a teen you may find this cute.  I was physically attracted to Forlani before this role.  Her lines were so annoying that I have seriously lost all of my attraction. That takes a lot my friends. PAINFUL!!!  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Further proof that Freddie Prinze has no right to put down 'Actor' on his resume.  This movie has a half-decent cast that are unable to do anything with this awful script.  Sometimes you can watch a comedy with a predictable story but still enjoy it because its funny.  This one is predictable and incredibly unfunny.  Prinze, of course is a write-off but Claire Forlani, Jason Biggs and Amanda Detmer are usually solid actors. Forlani looks embarrassed to be there, Biggs can't pull off the lovable loser he aced in the American Pie series and Detmer comes off whiny and pathetic.I don't know why Prinze gets any roles but he definitely deserved this one. If you see this movie in the video store, walk on by. "}{"Title":"Yet another teen flick.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I bothered to even watch this movie was because of the cast. I'm not big fan of teen romance-comedies, but this movie at least had Jason Biggs (American Pie), Claire Forlani (Mallrats) and R&B diva Monica. Well just my luck. Monica has a 3-line role, Jason Biggs has never been more annoying and Claire always seemed either dull, or dull but smiley. And Freddie Prinze Jnr in another one of these below-average teen flicks - no thanks. The plot basis was passable but the characters were unengaging, whiny and completely one-dimensional. "},{"Title":"This has to be one of the WORST movies of 2000","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Given how many movies are made every year, it's a pretty safe bet to say that you can surpass this one on for bigger and better things.  This movie is such a big ripoff of When Harry Met Sally, that it's not even enjoyable to watch.   First off, Clair Forlani is too old to be playing a college student, so that kind of ruins the movie right there.  Freddie Prinze Jr. is getting too old to be in movies such as this, plus both are way to mature for such nonsense scripts such as this one also. I'm not sure exactly what Jason Biggs is trying to do, but his small film time, is almost like cameos instead of a full blown role.  That, and the fact that he's not very funny also.  In whole this movie is horrible.  It's not even worth the 2.99 you'll pay to rent it.  Avoid it at all costs! "},{"Title":"100% Crap","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was totally duped into seeing this movie cause of the commercials for it. It showed Jason Bigs in a room with several Victoria Secret models. That scene was not shown until the credits at the very end of the movie! This was absolutely the crappiest movie i ever saw in a theater. There was absolutely NOTHING funny in it except for Jason Bigs's character changing his hair color constantly. Jason Bigs should fire his agent for putting him in this load of crap and Loser. Its a shame cause he is an up and coming comedy actor which is evident if you have seen American Pie.0 out of 5  "},{"Title":"This movie is a cinematic virus","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys and Girls is total teenage date movie waste-of-seven-bucks garbage.  Hollywood makes these movies because they know that they're trash but the opening sales will cover the cost of the production and still make a small profit.  There was no feasable reason why this movie would be made.  Did someone say hey, we need a movie that has attractive stars but let's not add depth, good plot, good dialogue or interesting funny parts?Well, maybe someone did say that, because that's what they got.  At least in When Harry Met Sally you felt there might be some small tiny chance that the two main characters wouldn't get together at the end.  Here's the spoiler, because I have to identify it once you see the first ten minutes you know how the film will end.  The film just plays with you and wastes your time, delaying the inevitable.  A lot of romance movies are like that, but this one doesn't have any good qualities, except maybe Jason Biggs, who really wasted his time on this.Take my advice.  Never see this film. "},{"Title":"An awful movie with one slighty redeeming quality","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why does Freddie Prinze Jr. keep making predictable and completely idiotic teen movies?  His acting was a little shady in this movie, but he could be a good actor if he just chose his parts more wisely.  Maybe movie executives need to realize that teenagers like me will not trade quality just for a hot guy that can't act.Claire Forlani and her character were both annoying. I still can't understand why Freddie's character liked her!  All in all this movie was disposable except for Jason Biggs.  He is the reason that this movie got a 2 instead of a 1 from me.  He obviously had a lack of judgement when he agreed to be in this piece of trash, but he made the best out of what he was given.   "},{"Title":"Was i awake, or in the bowels of hell for 90 minitues?","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a good thing the sweatshirt I was wearing had a hood.  I had to shield this film from my eyes.  I found that this film had ended about six times before the credits ran.  It wouldent end.  90 minitues turned into 90 days. The dialogue was run of the mill dawsons creek teen crap and the actors stared at the camera on numerous cameras.  I dont know what I was thinking when i purchased my ticket.  Avoid this movie like the plague. "},{"Title":"BAD","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not good. It was advertised as a teenage sex comedy in the style of American Pie, but instead it was a horribly made romantic comedy. It tried very hard to be witty. The entire movie was made up of attempts at clever dialogue, similar to when Harry met Sally. Unfortunately a combination of bad acting, bad directing, and a bad screenplay all come together to make a sad attempt at wit. Jason Biggs is the only good part of the movie, providing some light-hearted humor irrelevant to the plot, but he is not a big enough part of the movie to redeem it. The reasons I don't like this movie have nothing to do with it being a chick-flick. Even the girls in the group i went to see it with hated the film. "},{"Title":"nothing like the commercials...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the commercials for this movie made it look like it was something worth spending my nine bucks on. man, was i ever mislead. it was as predictable as movies get. (gee, the nerdy guy and the hot chick are friends and they claim to not love each other, yet the spend every waking moment together.  i wonder what could happen?) the only fun part of the movie was counting the number of hair colors that jason biggs had (was it 6?) and making fun of his name (hunter/steve).  anyway, if you want to see the *one* good part of this movie, wait til it's over and then you can see the part with jason biggs and the lingerie models during the credits. "},{"Title":"Just not funny, but maybe it was not a comedy","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Went to the movie expecting a funny comedy and was disappointed. Where the movie set up a scene where a joke was expected, what was offered was weak and flat. The whole movie had a been there, done that feel with no real saving graces except the female lead, she was good.The rest of the actors were okay, but nothing special. This was the first movie in a long time that I was sorry I went to. The script seemed to need another once over and a lot of the scenes should have been done again.The best part was the fact that all of the students in Berkley went into San Francisco for fun and frolic.The best and one of the few funny parts came at the very end and had nothing to do with the story.The whole movie had a John Hughes 1985 feel to it which may explain the Sixteen Candles and Breakfast Club posters which pop up in the movie. This film is more like them than American Pie, but not as good as the 1980's films. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have walked out of very few films in my lifetime. I would have gladly added this film to the list. However, my wife liked the scenery of the SF Bay Area, perhaps the film's sole redeeming value if you can get past the geographic implausibilities (which I couldn't.) A waste of time and Jason Biggs' talent. "}{"Title":"Slow-mo romance","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ads for this film make it seem like a laugh riot in the same style as AMERICAN PIE. However, it is an excruciatingly slow off-again, off-again, off-again romance with the two main characters spending literally years talking and emoting but not getting anywhere.Yet the scenes with Josh Biggs pick up the pace and give some genuine fun to the film. Biggs shows us that he has a real flair for understated comedy, thus proving that his success in AMERICAN PIE wasn't just a fluke. "},{"Title":"I want those ninety minutes back","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me just say I didn't want to see this movie. I was very adamant in my unwillingness to see this movie. I was supposed to see Shanghai Noon again. Unfortunately, the cards did not play my way.So this movie is bad. Really, really bad. A supposed, 'romantic comedy' I laughed twice during the movie, once where a guy was hit in his ----- by a pool stick and the other when an audience member yelled something mildly amusing. Also, I was sitting between two girls - two girls I had gone with - and yet the romance was so unromantic that I actually was waiting not for a moment alone with one of the chicks, but for the movie to be over so I could run out as quick as possible. Which I did, I assure you.OK. I'm sure that the people involved at least TRIED to make this move watchable. Yet it's horribleness lies solely upon two souls - the writers; Andrew Miller and Andrew Lowery. Credited as 'the drews', these writers such an inept tale that I told, with utter truthfullness, to the girl beside me that, in my sleep, I could have written a more engaging movie. And I have.The story, a 'friends fall in love out love in love story' is so boring. It has no driving force. IT has not momentum. All the scenes, save maybe five, take place while the characters are just ambling around San Francisco. I mean, toss us a subplot here and at least give someone some motivation! Oh, and there are the obligatory 'bar scenes', but then the rest of the scenes (the other five) take place there or in a cafe! Wow.Alright, so a minor gripe. But when all the movie is  characters walking and talking and complaining, well, after five minutes, it gets boring. The only thing maybe worth any of my money was Jason Biggs who had the only semi-funny lines in the whole film.So, overall, this movie is not worth your money. It is SOOOO not worth your money. It also, coincidentily, is not worth your time. YOu will, most likely, walk out going 'well, in that time I could've watched one and a half episodes of The Sopranos or seen Sixteen Candles or the Breakfast Club, far superior teen films, again'. So just relax, don't do it, and you'll get through it. "},{"Title":"If you're expecting American Pie or She's all That, stay home.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't remember the last time I ever gave a movie a bad rating, because nearly every film has SOMETHING to like (or look at). But this one was so boring, I wouldn't even recommend it as a rental. The story is bad and disjointed, the beautiful people are purposely made to look uglier, and the only funny scene was an outtake at the end (the one you see in the commercial). Skip this one. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of the year","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One word - horrible. Don't waste your money, spend it on something else. This movie is dry, boring and even with Jason Biggs, it can't be saved. Very very poor script, the acting was as good as it could have been, with this pathetic script. Too bad maybe next time. At least they had nice scenery of San Francisco. Very predictable. "},{"Title":"A TERRIBLE chick-flick. Jason Biggs was the only good part of the film.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jason Biggs, is definitely an emerging star, and he was hilarious! but this movie was horrible. Prinze Jr may be beloved by the women, but to me being a guy, he was nothing special. This had little plot, and was your standard romantic comedy, with an EXTREMELY predictable triumphant get back together in the end... So.. to sum this up, if you are a guy, do NOT waste your time with this movie.Also, the preview/trailer for this movie, had Jason Biggs and the 4 chicks when they say have you ever been with 4 women before? this was clearly to get guys to watch the movie... BUT this part was not even in the film.... "},{"Title":"Will we see originality in this genre soon?","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Freddie Prinze Jr. serves up yet another 20-something romantic comedy. Is it just me or do you get the feeling we have been there and done that? Freddie Prinze Jr. stars as undergrad Ryan who seems to keep running into sexually confused Jennifer (Claire Forlani) every times he turns around. Ryan slowly starts to become Jennifer's friend and as in all romantic comedies it always leads to more. I had many problems with `Boys and Girls'. Why do friendships in movies always lead to sex and eventually a break-up? I didn't believe for a moment that Prinze and Forlani actually had more than friend feelings. Why couldn't they be the 20-something version of `When Harry Met Sally'. Is the lesson here if we can't be happy with someone lets be miserable together? Their dialogue was drab and bland. Where was the humor that usually happens when the sexes start talking? My savior in this film was the very dense character played by American Pie's Jason Biggs. This guy was hilarious in so many ways. And if you plan on seeing this film you have to watch the credits at the end because the biggest gut laugh is there. Isn't it strange they placed it in the credits? I would have found some place in the film to put this scene.I guess my belief in that we can find originality in the `romantic comedy' makes me want to see better films than `Boys and Girls'. Will we see originality in this genre soon? I have faith that this summer's `Loser' starring Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari will be a lot better than this. (2 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"yawning is more entertaining than watching this movie","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Where should I start? this is probably the question when the people wrote the script. The story just goes nowhere. After the 'so called' comedy Down to you, Freddie Prince Jr. tortures us with another uninspired, boring, I have to watch it through the ending just to bash it on IMDb-Type movie, it's just terrible.It rips off the cult film When Harry met Sally. The two truly bad actors meet each other several times through the years and discuss every topic from A like relationships to Z like relationships. Nothing else happens in this movie and it's just painfully boring to watch Freddie Prince Jr. and Claire Forlani getting philosophical on each other. The directors actually thought this was entertaining and... funny. The comedy aspect is nowhere to be found. So they hired another terrible actor called Jason Biggs, you might heard of him, no what I'm talking about? Of course you heard of him, these days bad actors are more famous than good actors. He gets even more idiotic than in American Pie and leads to me shaking my head due to his clown behavior because I know there are many people who think that he's funny. Maybe I just haven't kept with the time and it's the new humor that I don't get, even though I'm only 20 years old.It's very predictable how this movie ends, like all the other teen movies, so that the little girls can sleep well at night.I suggest that you ignore this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"this movie is an insult to humanity","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To call the acting in this film as competent is a gross overstatement and an immense sign of disrespect to the craft of actual acting. The one thing Boys and Girls does have going for it is an unprecedented combination poor acting and laughable acting as well as the dubious distinction of being the last known sighting of Heather Donohue. It is, admittedly interesting to see the turns and twists the writer and director do attempt to throw at the audience, but the fact that the story is pathetically predictable from the get-go trivializes their attempts, however poor they might be. The characters are one-dimensional, the dialogue is flat and at times ludicrous, and the creators would be doing mankind a favor if they could somehow hunt down every copy of this movie that exists and destroy them. Do yourself a favor and take the two hours of your life to learn harmonica. "},{"Title":"this movie is an insult to humanity","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To call the acting in this film as competent is a gross overstatement and an immense sign of disrespect to the craft of actual acting. The one thing Boys and Girls does have going for it is an unprecedented combination poor acting and laughable acting as well as the dubious distinction of being the last known sighting of Heather Donohue. It is, admittedly interesting to see the turns and twists the writer and director do attempt to throw at the audience, but the fact that the story is pathetically predictable from the get-go trivializes their attempts, however poor they might be. The characters are one-dimensional, the dialogue is flat and at times ludicrous, and the creators would be doing mankind a favor if they could somehow hunt down every copy of this movie that exists and destroy them. Do yourself a favor and take the two hours of your life to learn harmonica. "},{"Title":"For the love of God, please stop Freddie Prinze Jr. from making another film!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BOYS AND GIRLS (2000) 1/2 Freddie Prinze, Jr, Claire Forlani, Jason Biggs, Amanda Detmer, Alyson Hannigan, Monica Arnold, Heather Donahue, Lisa Eichhorn, Raquel Beaudene, Brendon Ryan Barret. God-awful romantic tiffle with Prinze, arguably the most bland person on the screen today, and the beguilingly easy on the eyes Forlani, as two inane collegiates who've been meeting cute since adolescence and obviously made for each other a la a poor, poor man's 'When Harry Met Sally&#133;' (such blaspheme!) The whole damn movie is boring, contrived, badly executed and excrutiating to sit through especially Biggs who has my vote for most annoying new presence in cinema today. Written by the 'mysterious' duo The Drews, who I nominate should have their hands chopped off so they may never attempt to 'write' again! (Dir Robert Iscove "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most boring movies I have ever seen.  Literally.  It was a romantic comedy, but unlike most, had no twist.  Sort of like 'When Harry met Sally', which I thought was overrated, but at least had charismatic stars.  I think the fact that I saw this movie when I was about fourteen, at the height of my FPJ crush and still didn't like it, really says something. I can't imagine what I would think if I saw it now.  The acting wasn't stellar, since the material sucked so much.  Even Jason Biggs and Alyson Hannigan couldn't save it, although JB was funny.  Claire Forlani was okay, but forgettable, and Freddie, well, he was his usual self.  Apparently the guy can act when given good material (He was in Kenneth Lonergan's 'This is our Youth' in the West End), but unfortunately none of his movies so far have been able to evidence that.  The guy seems to have about four expressions  bewildered, dumfounded, just plain dumb, and something resembling constipation.  At least he's pretty though, right? "},{"Title":"if you've seen Harry and Sally, you don't need this one!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As predictable as it was, it was kinda fun to watch. As i mentioned befor it's more or less like the old story of Harry and Sally...but if you want to spend some time without thinking to much, then go for it... "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER!!!!!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boys And Girls is the worst movie i have ever seen in my life. it was horrible! I saw it in the movie theaters (don't ask why???)and i couldnt even sit through it. I can't point out one positive thing about it. for anyone who likes this movie (if there is anyone). dont get offended. BUT THIS MOVIE IS PATHETIC! "},{"Title":"Take 'Harry Met Sally', use poor teenage characters, poor dialogue, poor scripting and average acting et viola &#150; a poor movie","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ryan and Jennifer first meet when they are sat together on a plane and make a memorable impact on one another. Years later they meet again in high school while Ryan is seeing somebody else. Years later again they meet up at college and start to become friends despite their history &#150; using each other as a friend and a shoulder to cry on. However over time their 'friendship' changes and becomes a strange relationship that confuses them both.Despite the fact that I couldn't think of a single good reason to watch this film, I had 90 minutes to kill and thought I'd watch it. From the annoyingly silly opening through the time jumps, the plot is pretty much Harry Met Sally but with teenagers. We know this basic idea works because Harry Met Sally was a great film &#150; however here things are different and it isn't any good at all. First of all the plot offers a series of meetings and it is only college that is longer than one scene but yet we are expected to believe that Ryan and Jennifer have a friendship like they do. The film continues with the predictable 'friends fall in love' stuff but the characters are not well enough written to make it believable or even interesting. Ryan is a major pain or geek for the first half of the film but then, when the film needs him to be a romantic lead, it suddenly makes him a normal guy.The script is weak in delivering a story that is told over 15 years in a believable fashion but it is also weak in terms of dialogue. The lines are pretty poor and it damages the majority of the scenes by being clunky and unnatural. This isn't helped by the fact that the cast are mostly average (at best). Prinze is a king among bad actors and he retains his title here.His material is bad but he does nothing to make it better, his performance just merges with all the other poor performances he has given in other similar romantic movies. Forlani is very attractive but she has no expression in her voice; she is supposed to be some sort of free spirit but her voice should like a ditzy blonde. Her lines are bad but her delivery makes everything just that little bit worse. Biggs cannot 'do' crazy and he is miscast here, to the further detriment of the film. Singer Monica has a strangely unimpressive cameo and there are minor appearances for Hannigan and Donahue.This is not an awful film but it is not a great one either. If you are after something ditzy, without a brain, to just waste 90 minutes then this is passable if nothing else. However if you want it to be 'good' then you'll be disappointed as the characters are poor, the dialogue weak and unnatural, the plot unconvincing and the acting generally poor. Passable if you're in an undemanding mood but why watch this when Harry Met Sally is freely available on video and DVD?!  "}]