[{"Title":"Fairly clichéd but still quite enjoyable","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having failed to catch a serial killer who finally murdered a woman he had been sleeping with, Joel Campbell moves cities and lives his life on benefits suffering from migraines, heavily medicated most of the time. This painful but quiet life is shattered when the killer follows him to the city and begins a game of cat and mouse with him - sending him a picture of a woman 24 hours before he kills her.  Joel rejoins the police in an effort to save his potential victims as well as catching him.I, like many others, wasn't too bothered by this film when it was released - it looked like it would be yet another serial killer movie, and it was! The plot requires the usual gimmick and here it is the old chestnut of the cop and bad guy needing each other and the killer having a sort of respect and need for his pursuer.  None of the film will surprise you but it still moves forward reasonably quickly without being dull and it is reasonably enjoyable.  The action scenes are not great and the film never really has a real air of menace or tension, but it is still slick enough to watch - even if it is almost impossible to be emotionally involved.The director managed to get his timing right to get Reeves in the midst of a reasonable cast; he shot a few videos for Reeves' band years prior in exchange for Reeves doing this film which, despite hitting it big with The Matrix, was a promise he honoured.  However as a director his music video roots are heavily showing here with far too many flashy visual tricks that stick out from the body of the film and actually take away more than they bring.  However, getting Reeves was worth him having the chair for his star does surprisingly well to step out of his Neo role and into a mean, playful role.  No, he's not doing anything different with it from anyone else who plays this type of serial killer role but he is still charismatic enough to make a difference.  Spader is also pretty good and has more to work with than Reeves, but Tomsei is almost totally wasted with very little to do to justify such a well known actress.  To be honest none of them have much to work with above the norm, but they still add to the film by their names.Overall I did quite enjoy the film but I will be the first to admit that it was nothing new and really didn't do anything different or unusual with the basic premise and material.  The director tries to liven it up a bit with the odd visual trick, but it only serves to make the film look a little desperate to be different.  The end result is an average thriller that has a better than average cast (for this type of thing) and will pass the time without annoying you if you know what to expect. "},{"Title":"Fascinating psychological portrait","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"53 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Joel Campbell (James Spader) is an FBI agent on leave. He literally left his home base in Los Angeles, defeated, because of a particularly hairy case involving an unusually devious, crafty and risk-loving serial killer who went by the name of David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves). The Watcher begins with Campbell resettled in Chicago, trying to put his life back in order. But what will happen when Griffin shows up in the Windy City? This is an unusual film in many ways. Although on one level it's a fairly standard thriller with Reeves playing a subtly twisted baddie, it's really a complex psychological portrait that focuses more on Spader as Campbell.Campbell's life is a mess in Chicago. He can't work and he can barely take care of himself. He looks and feels miserable. His apartment reflects his life--though sparse in content, it's extremely unkempt and unhealthy looking. He is having continual nightmares. He has to inject himself in the stomach with prescription drugs to get over panic attacks and to enable at least a couple hours sleep at night. Of course Campbell is making regular visits to a psychiatrist, Dr. Polly Beilman (Marisa Tomei).He became such a wreck because of being wrapped up so long with the Griffin case. Griffin regularly toyed with Campbell, communicating with him and even giving him clues so that Campbell would be able to almost but not quite beat Griffin to the punch. Amusingly, director Joe Charbanic portrays Griffin as more well adjusted and much more focused than Campbell.As Dr. Beilman discerns, Griffin was Campbell's raison d'etre for so long--almost his sole concern--that abandoning the case resulted in Campbell effectively abandoning his life. Thus Charbanic gives us a clever, ethically gray twist. Griffin may be beneficial to Campbell; he may be the only one who can get him back on track. Likewise, Griffin is shown to be a bit lost without Campbell. It creates a fascinating psychological dependency in a twisted relationship that mirrors the two other male-female relationships that propel the plot, providing a subtext about co-dependency and slightly off-kilter, questionably healthy relationships in general.Although Reeves is often criticized for his acting ability, The Watcher is an excellent example of what that is unjustified. It's not that Reeves doesn't have range. It's that he's extremely subtle. He's not an actor to chew scenery. His Griffin is really just as psychotic as, say, De Niro's Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver (1976) or Jack Nicholson's Jack Torrance in The Shining (1980), but Reeves isn't usually one to maniacally chop down a door with an axe and crazily intone Heeeere's Johnny, you have to watch him closer than that to see the character. Even when he's in full action mode, either as a killer, as he is here, or as a superhero, as in The Matrix (1999), Reeves is all about a kind of quiet control. It's not a better or worse style than De Niro or Nicholson, just different. Spader also gives a finely tuned performance. As the character requirements have it, he's a fine complement for Reeves, somewhat paralleling Reeves' style, somewhat providing a counterpoint.The film has interesting things to say about anonymity in modern societies, especially big cities. Griffin is able to play the games he does only because so many people are faceless and ignored.Charbanic films The Watcher with a unique visual style can be arty--especially during the flashbacks--and conventionally build suspense at the same time. He's also aided by a great score (including a couple brief snippets of Reeves dancing to Rob Zombie) and attractive production design.The Watcher isn't the typical 10 out of 10 film, as its surface gloss is more pedestrian than the usual film of that caliber. But if you dig just a little deeper, you'll find gold. "},{"Title":"The Watcher portrays the somewhat symbiotic relationship between hero and villain and it explores the peculiar means of communication that develop between the two.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After being identified and harassed by the elusive serial killer David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves), the distressed FBI agent Joel Campbell (James Spader) moves to Chicago from Los Angeles in order to secure his own safety and peace of mind. However, tormented by the anguish of past failures, Campbell is unable to ameliorate his physical and mental health and his bruised existence is again challenged by Griffin's reappearance in Chicago. Amused and motivated by Campbell's compassion toward all female victims, Griffin (who spies on lonely women and then kills them) heightens the stakes of his hide-and-seek game with Campbell by sending him a photograph of the intended victim of the day, thus testing his ability to save her. However, when Griffin's final defiance involves Campbell's psychologist (Marisa Tomei), the two test each other's limits.The Watcher follows its two main characters intimately, often detailing the mechanics of Griffin's moves through Campbell's point of view as an observer who must solve a mystery. By depicting Campbell's dependence on painkillers, for example, The Watcher successfully transmits the deteriorated mental and physical state of this protagonistic character. The Watcher is most intriguing when it attempts to portray a society that --through its indifference-- creates its own victims and delivers, so to speak, the loneliest and most vulnerable to their executioner. The Watcher uses this notion of people's unwillingness to help and builds its suspense by simultaneously emphasizing the protagonist's struggles to beat the murderer's deadline. Furthermore, The Watcher successfully defines both protagonist and antagonist as the watcher of the other, thus suggesting a somewhat sado-masochistic bond between the two. In spite of this success, The Watcher relies on an excess of repeated flashbacks in the form of highly stylized, often blurry, shots that depict Campbell's previous interaction with Griffin. This choice weakens The Watcher's attempts to establish realism around both characters' past connection, and loosens the otherwise tight pace of the plot.The watcher hits on both a realistic level, and an entertaining level never before reached with a movie starring Keanu Reeves. "},{"Title":"Not Predictable","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Really enjoyed this movie.  It is not in the least bit predictable, as so many thrillers seem to be.  Fast paced & lots of action.  Kept me on the edge of my seat the whole way through.  Many threads are woven throughout and they tie up towards the end of the movie so that most of our questions are answered.Casting is great.  Spader, our hero, is far from perfect & his obsession with catching 'his' man has had a disasterous affect on his life.  He is a complex character who is introducted to us in stages- as the story unravels so does his life.Reeves surprises in his portrayal of a psycho serial killer. He plays this guy with an eerie realism that see him really well cast here.  We hear so many poor reviews of this guy's acting but I can't figure it.  He is really believable in this role and shows once again that he can take any character and 'become' him; whether it is Neo in the Matrix or the lovable Ted from Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure.We enter the world of the serial killer & get to see his version of our reality.  We follow the agent in a chase against time to stop the madness.This movie is not run of mill.  It is different & provocative.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"This is one to watch.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" RatedPG   Runtime94mins   Release Date2000Federal Agent Joel Campbell thought leaving behind his old life would mean leaving behind his worst nightmare, but unfortunately for Joel Campbell, his worst nightmare didn't want to leave him behind.The Watcher stars James Spader as F.B.I. agent Joel Campbell, an elite special agent who always got the job done. But then along came his worst nightmare, serial killer David Allen Griffen (Keanu Reeves in a surprisingly solid performance), an elusive and brilliant serial killer, who preys on innocent women at night and seemingly can't be caught. He's a methodical Killer who knows his work. He's detailed at everything his work involves, including the ins and outs of police procedure. After a year of trying to outsmart this sophisticated killer and always being one step behind, Joel decides to give up and head to Chicago. Here he hopes that maybe he can forget Griffen and his nightmares. But Griffen doesn't want to forget, so he follows Campbell to Chicago to continue their relationship and the killing. While trying to cloud himself in a haze of dependant drugs and self pity, Campbell is forced back in to the game of cat and mouse when Griffen starts sending him pictures of the women he's going to kill. Only this time Griffen puts a new spin on this particular game. Now, instead of just murdering the women, Griffen gives Campbell a chance to save the women, by sending him pictures of his potential victims twelve hours before they actually become his victims.The Watcher isn't a first rate, edge of your seat thriller, but that's okay because I think making it a well made and stylish thriller was the actual intent of Director Joe Charbaniz. This solid mid-budget (by Hollywood standards) thriller boasts some great performances by star Spader, and Academy Award nominee Marisa Tomei, who in the film stars as Spader's psychiatrist, Dr Polly Bellman. But it also has Keanu Reeves showing the best acting display of his carrer in my opinion (maybe because he doesn't have many lines, I'm not really sure), as the demented killer, Griffen. Now for me, and I'm sure for a few other movie fans, there is an added bonus of having Ernie Hudson in it as a Police Chief. I find this an extra treat because I haven't seen Ernie in many A list movies lately, and I find he just has a way of sprucing them up. Charbaniz also used an innovative cat and mouse style due to the fact that it's not so much chase scenes, but duelings of the mind. However, I did find some of the slow motion camera work they used while Reeves was stalking around to be a bit much.Writers David Elliot and Darcy Meyers put together a well made story with the underlining idea that good is nothing without evil, using two men as the message. It also has a few good encounters between Spader and Reeves in which you're actually able to see how these characters are driven in to the relationship they have with one another. I do, however, have to discredit one bit of the movie, where Spader and the police force are looking for a woman who is intended to be the next victim and no one seems to know who she is, or have even seen her for that matter, even though she works in a huge shopping mall where thousands of people dwell everyday. Especially corny is a scene in which they are in the mall looking for her while she is literally standing right beside them, but not one of the ten or so officers turns his or her head for even a second to actually see her.Aside from being bogged down by a few minor details, this fast paced thriller, with style to spare, does work on many different levels and in my opinion is certainly worth a rent. It's a little more sharp then most of its preceeding thrill movies (including Kiss the Girls) even though it's storyline is not overly original. However you can sit through this whole movie and not have a bad aftertaste left in your mouth, which is a lot more then I can say for most of Hollywood's recent releases. So, if you want a little excitement from your entertainment for the evening, don't expect too much from the Watcher and just watch it.Overall Rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The interaction between Keanu Reeves, James Spader and Marisa Tomei make this film","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The relationship between the characters in the Watcher sets it apart from other serial killer movies. In fact, I would have liked another 15 minutes in the movie to bring out those relationships even more.  I would have liked a little more elaboration on what happened in the past between James Spader and Keanu Reeves.  Also, I wish the movie had shown part of the session between the Psychologist, played by Marisa Tomei, and the serial killer, played by Keanu Reeves.  Marisa Tomei's facial reaction to Keanu Reeves' comment prior to the session was perfect.  Do clients come to see you because you are good or because you are very pretty.  (Line by Reeves to Tomei - maybe not verbatum) Keanu Reeves plays David Griffin very well. This is another example showing how Keanu Reeves can take any character and make it both believable and likeable to some extent. Both Reeves and Spader display the need for each other by the end of the film. Yes, I did detect at least a professional need by Spader for Reeves in the Watcher.  So did Marisa Tomei I think. This movie had both a good balance of a crime drama, with the police and car chase scenes, and strong character development.  My only complaint is like others have said on this board, I felt it was rushed.   "},{"Title":"Weird movie","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a weird, weird movie. Basically, Keanu Reeves plays a serial killer who becomes so obsessed with James Spader (the FBI agent who is trying to catch Keanu), that Keanu kidnaps Spader's girlfriend, who ends up dying. The killer actually even says that he does this because he thought the FBI guy was spending too much time focusing on her instead of him (!). FBI guy then has a nervous breakdown of some sort, quits the FBI, moves across the country and lives on disability in what is probably the most depressing apartment ever. James Spader really gives this role 110%. He looks like he's in excruciating pain all the time.The killer tries to get on with his life, even trying to form a new relationship with the new FBI agent assigned to track him down, but it's just not the same. So the killer follows Spader across country and mails him pictures of girls he is going to (and has) killed, in order to coax the former FBI guy back into tracking him. When this fails to get the attention of Spader (he's a total basketcase and doesn't open his mail), the killer SENDS HIM FLOWERS, along with a picture of the girl Keanu is going to kill in 24 hours unless Spader can find her first. This effectively breaks the basketcase away from his new full time job of staring at the walls of his bleak apartment and gets him back in the swing of hunting the killer.Up to this point, the movie is actually really good and engaging. I cared about this broken shell of a man who is trying to recover from his mental breakdown caused by a maniac who refuses (for what appear to be rather taboo reasons) to leave him alone. But about halfway through the film, the movie seemed to just sort of give up and degenerated into a fairly run of the mill cat-and-mouse type thing. Usually, when a movie starts out quirky, it stays quirky. Or if it's going to be mediocre, it starts out that way and doesn't change. This movie could have been something really special if the filmmakers would have had the guts to follow through on the set up and what was REALLY going on between the killer and the FBI guy, instead of just letting the movie devolve into a boring rehash of just about every other cop-chasing-maniacal-killer movie we've ever seen. "},{"Title":"it is Predictable and the same situation is repeated over and over. ** (out of four)","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE WATCHER / (2000) ** (out of four)By Blake French	A serial killer wreaks havoc on a large city while playing mind games with an FBI agent who is desperately attempting to save his targets before they meet a horrifying death. Sound familiar? It should. Joe Charbanic's The Watcher is another rehearse in Hollywood's obsession with serial killer films that call for big stars and bloody murders. Just a few weeks ago, Urban Legends Final Cut was released, also detailing a psychopath brutally murdering young adults while teasing potential victims with cruel gimmicks. I am getting very tired of the same old recycled material found in this kind of production. 	All serial killer movies have a gimmick; this film's is the protagonist's involvement with the killer himself. The main character, Joel Campbell (James Spader), is an FBI agent who recently moved from Los Angeles to Chicago to escape the stress and recollections of his experiences tracking down psychotic murderers, specifically David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves), who's trademark includes strangling young women with piano strings. Campbell's past has left him with severe migraine headaches and a dependency on prescription medication, both problems he and Dr. Polly Peilman (Marisa Tomei), a young psychiatrist, are trying to solve. 	 It isn't long before Griffin discovers Campbell and begins playing cat and mouse games again. Griffin mails Campbell a photo of his next victim and allows 24 hours for the police to find and rescue her. With the help of two other detectives, Hollis Mackey (Chris Ellis) and Mitch Casper (Robert Cicchini), Campbell is determined to bring down this mad man.	The movie is over the top in most elements. The style teases and interrogates, but is also boastful and distracting. The protagonist's personality is also exaggerated, supported by blunt dialogue (supporting character That is gonna be hard. Campbell Life is hard.) and filled with familiar clichés including personal tragedy involved with the killer and his own family. But the killer himself lacks successful development. The movie lazily introduces Griffin through voice-over narration and silhouetted images; we never really receive a description, but instead intuition and implications.  	A big problem I had with the film is that many of its murder sequences consist of a brainless victim screaming helplessly instead of attempting to defend themselves. The victims stand out more than the main characters here, so they should have much more priority in their murder sequences. They also need further examination so we actually care about someone in the story. There is a lengthy, exciting, and suspenseful sequence in which a homeless young woman actually puts up a fight to escape the clutches of Griffin, developing tension and one of the most insinuating chase scenes all year. Too bad there were not more of this type of incident in The Watcher. The performances are actually better than the movie deserves, as is some of the suspense. Perhaps the biggest controversy found within this movie is Keanu Reeves playing a villain. After being in movies like The Matrix and Speed, audiences come to expect him to save the day, not brutally murder women. As Griffin, he makes more of the character than the film provides; I liked his effective performance, although he does not include the psychotic touch that actors like Vince Vaughn and Christian Bale have. James Spader comes off as his usual stale, boring self in a role that is way too oppressive for his capabilities. 	The Watcher is a one-line script it is predictable and the same situation is repeated over and over, sagging its line of tension. It concludes in a predicable, expected outcome that is explosive and action packed, but lacks a satisfying feeling we normally experience in this kind of movie. The Watcher is simply another serial killer picture made with the hopes of grossing millions of dollars, which probably explains why there are so many things wrong with it.  "},{"Title":"James Spader and Keanu Reeves....it doesn't get any better than this!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  James Spader in an outstanding performance as a cop tormented by many demons, both in his mind and on the other end of his telephone.  Keanu Reeves is every woman's nightmare---a charming killer with the face of an angel and the soul of a demon.  Tense, twisting plot, great ending.  Gotta own it on DVD...satisfying for both men and women. "},{"Title":"Believably tragic characters without over-the-top performances.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect to like this movie as much as I did. The plot was written in a way to make the characters very believable and real. Spader plays a tragic hero that needs the bad guy (under-played to perfection by Reeves) to come back into his life in order to find closure with his past and come to terms with the present. Neither Spader nor Reeves played to stereotypes common to this genre, and as a result, their performances were gritty and powerful without coming across as over-the-top.  Stereotyped performances are a common weakness in many other similar movies, which are also good movies, but they rely on star performances from their marquee actors. This becomes a troublesome thing when the acting tends to define the movie and hides weaknesses and implausibility within the script. Recent examples of this are seen in The Bone Collector, Copycat, and Kiss The Girls. I liked each of these movies for different reasons, but The Watcher was more real to me because the actors weren't playing a type. Spader showed a reluctant vulnerability and a controlled intensity that was very true-to-life in my experience. And Reeves was so spooky as the serial killer because he tried to show a small sliver of his Evil each time without ever overdoing it. Another great surprise was Tomei, who came out of semi-retirement to also give us a dead-on performance as Spader's psychiatrist. She, too, acted emotionally in a way that filled the role without ever becoming a movie stereotype. Visually, her hair, make-up, and clothes helped downplay her character and allowed her to become just another real person who arbitrarily became involved in things. I think this was a great choice for her. "}{"Title":"Bill & Ted's Homicidal Adventure","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie. I really did. Some people don't like Keanu as an actor, but I love a lot of the movies he's done (Matrix, Street Kings, Speed, Bill & Ted, Constantine & Devil's Advocate off the top of my head). That being said, this movie could've been so much better if they had casted ANYONE ELSE as the villain. Keanu's acting style does not fit the role, and it ends up becoming a worm hole that sucks the movie down. Also, the end features a particularly horrible use of CGI (trust me, you'll know it when you see it) that would've been acceptable if it came out in the 80s or early 90s. But considering this came a few years after The Matrix, there's no excuse. I give it a 5/10 for the writing and good casting for 99% of the roles. In short, don't spend money on this one. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's hard to decide what exactly is the worst thing about this attempt at a crime mystery movie the jerky, indecisive cinematography; the intrusive alternative soundtrack; terrible acting; the completely cliched script or the general frustration one has in trying to watch this movie that is truly an insult to one's intelligence.The story follows a burned-out, pill-popping ex-LAPD cop played straight out of the cliche handbook by James Spader. He relocates to Chicago where he lives in a terrible apartment, complete with an empty fridge and a water heater in the kitchen. He is haunted by the memories of a serial killer, who prayed on young women.Keanu Reeves is that killer, and he follows him to Chicago, because apparentally he has nothing better to do, and he doesn't seem to have to work either. After taunting James Spader with two more young women who quickly become victims, and extending the movie length during the first forty minutes, Keanu finally makes it personal by targeting Spader's psychiatrist played by a confused, and noticeably weary, Marisa Tomei.By this point, I was exasperated and shut the movie the off. Not only is this final chain of events so predictable, but soon after Keanu and James share an elevator ride together - after a flashback sequence indicated that Reeves had once targeted Spader's wife back in Los Angeles AND SPADER HAD SEEN HIM.The Watcher is about as predictable, scary and haunting as a jack-in-the-box.  "},{"Title":"What a pile of badly compiled clichés--just thin, badly made yuk!!!","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher (2000)Wow is this a terrible movie. It uses every worn out cliché in the psycho serial killer book. 1) It abuses women. 2) The cop in pursuit is a psychological wreck. 3) There is a taunting relationship between cop and killer. 4) There are deadlines and timetables. 5) There are car chases and explosions. And, to top it offKeanu Reeves is still a bad actor.Luckily the leading male is not Reeves, but James Spader, who is decent (hence more than one star rating). The other billed actor is Marisa Tomei, who has a small and actually pretty dull role (she gets duller with every movie for some reason). Spader is not intense or psychologically tormented enough to make his role successful on its own, however. He's fine, but there isn't much to work with here.Maybe the filmmakers knew they had a weak movie (though that does give them a lot of credit) because there are some face-saving gestures that also painfully fail, like inserts of jerky footage, or other footage in a digitally processed excess that ends up each time being one of Spader's dreams. There is no love interest romance thing going on here. Just a cop chasing a wacko killer.Do not, I repeat, do not watch this movie. Almost anything is more interesting, better filmed, better written, better acted. "},{"Title":"This film rates a permanent Razzie.","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Check the budget and earnings of this colossal turkey. The numbers speak for themselves. Half that budget must have gone to the first reviewers -- all paid shills. And how in God's name did they ever get stars of this caliber to actually sign the bottom line? What a terrible waste of perfectly good film stock... unless they shot it digitally. In that case, what a terrible waster of TIME. Now, dear friends, compare my review with the first, glowing reviews. This proves three things. Number one, money trumps truth. Number two, everyone is a professional critic. And number three, people today don't know the difference between The Transformers and Stanley Kubrick's 2001. And therein REALLY lies the rub. "},{"Title":"A good example of bad","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This dreadful film is one of the best examples available of Hollywood crap! In place of an intriguing plot, there is gee-whiz camera work. Instead of crisp dialogue, there are pointless shifts from positive images to negative colour. Instead of catchy drama, there is mindless and sensational violence and a head thumping soundtrack. Technically, it is well done. But then impressive high technology is not unique to movies. It's also used effectively in the processing of garbage, where this DVD most certainly will find its deserved fate. I bought the DVD at a garage sale. Better had I spent my one (Canadian) dollar on the leaky ballpoint pen or the scratched up Mitch Miller LP. "},{"Title":"The Watcher is the Writer","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's nice to see cops and feds cooperating without a cliché pissing contest. It's nice to see a manhunt in which the good guys get progressively closer to the bad guy through credible, dogged police work, without any serendipitous clues or leaps of mystical cop/killer psychic-bond logic. It's nice to see a guy use a commode to steal a car.It's nice to see James Spader in a leading role. It's nice to see Keanu Reeves not have to carry a whole movie. It's nice to see Marisa Tomei in anything.It's less nice to see a burn-out detective hero with addiction issues and a dead lover. And her killer as a pen pal. And a god damned lady shrink.And it's not at all nice to watch a police procedural written by someone whose entire idea of police procedure comes from watching police procedurals on TV. I mean, a cop calling in an APB on a two-door sedan? A better cop displaying his superior detective skills by pointing out the very, very obvious? A muted-palette FBI office decorated like an art gallery with expensive evidence blow-ups? Pseudo-hip music dropped in whenever possible? Where are we, CBS? All you need to make a movie is a story and a camera. If you start adding stuff, like actors and dialog, that's fine as long as you don't display pandering or incompetence. This movie's not particularly insulting. It's not smart enough for that. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly effective thriller","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw The Watcher in the movie theaters with my dad and sister, in 2000, I think this was my favorite film. Watching it now, I still enjoy it very much, despite some questionable moments, I think this was a very well planned thriller that sends chills down your spine and makes you watch your back to make sure you are not being followed. Keanu Reeves as a villain, actually, in some sick way, it works, he does have the creepiness vibe down. I mean, this is Keanu Reeves we're talking about and he's actually pretty good in this film. I would say him and Marissa carry the film very well together. James Spader does an alright job. But the story is a very good one that I'm sure you'll like.Joel is a detective who has just moved to Chicago to get away from some bad situations where he used to live. Mainly to get away from a love who was murdered, but the murderer he was investigating follows him to Chicago. The murderer, David Griffin, studies females, memorizes their schedules, tortures and kills them. But now he's mocking the police when he gives them a picture of a girl and gives them 24 hours to find her, but they keep failing. David wants Joes to admit that they are one of a kind and that they need each other. He even goes as far as to attack Joel's psychiatrist, Polly, who is close to Joel.The Watcher was by no means film of the year, but I felt like it was an intelligent thriller. The only thing I didn't like about the film was the whole situation with David giving the photos to the police, them broadcasting it across the news, and yet somehow they fail? No one recognized these girls? It just seemed a tad unbelievable. But other than that, I would recommend this film, I thought it was good and if you enjoy thrillers, I think you'll like it too.7/10 "},{"Title":"predictable, yet enertaining","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher will not win any awards for originality and unpredictable storylines. This is not to say that The Watcher is a bad movie because it isn't. I'm not huge fans of James Spader or Keanu Reeves; however, that didn't stop me from watching this film. I'm glad I went because not only did I enjoy this film, I have come to enjoy Spader and Reeves as actors.Keanu Reeves takes a departure from his usual good guy persona to portray a serial killer. He does such a great job, I asked myself why was this the first movie he portrayed a villain because he was so good at it.The Watcher offers nothing new in way of plot but it does have performances turned in by Reeves and Spader that will keep viewers on the edge of their seats. While predictable, I was on the edge of my seat hoping certain scenes would not evolve the way they did; even though, I knew what was going to happen, it was enjoyable to watch how it would unfold. I found the methods that the serial killer used to be incredible because of the unique way he went about carrying them out. Overall, The Watcher was a movie that can be summed up in one word EXCITING. I give this film a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Really Good","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Some might say, Keanu Reeves is not a good serial killer. But so what, he played his part well. I do not think this movie was that scary, but it had a good plot. There were even moments of some small comedy.The Watcher is about a retired detective (Spader) who moves to Chicago. But he does not know that his favorite serial killer (Reeves) has followed him. Now, he has brought the retiree out of retirement.When I went to see this, my friend said, now she felt like someone was watching her. But than I told her, do you really think Keanu Reeves would come out and kill you. I think that eased her nerves. Shouldn't really scare anyone, but definatly a bit nerve racking.Rated R for violence. There wasn't really much language or blood to be found in this movie. Sexuality was far from The Watcher. Definatly worth a 'watch.' "},{"Title":"Keanu Reeves/James Spader, what's not to like?","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First off, while I don't think the movie is gold, I don't think it is absolute crap either. What it is, is an entertaining movie, period. Nothing more, nothing less.James Spader plays a burnt out FBI agent to perfection. Marisa Tomei, played a character that most closely resembles Dr. Melfi of the Sopranos. And Reeves well, brought Griffin to life chillingly.I found the dynamics between Griffin and Campbell's relationship the center and easily the most interesting part of the film. Griffin kills women to bring Campbell closer to him. He only shows passion when a woman came into Campbell's life years ago, and he had to kill her in order to, in his mind, keep him and Campbell together.I wasn't expecting the critics to like the film. And you know what? I don't really care. I enjoyed this movie, it had me from the beginning and it's stayed with me afterwards. "}{"Title":"Odd casting, but strong acting","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" James Spader as a sympathetic character and Keanu Reeves as a psychotic one indicates that whoever made this movie put their balls to the wall. Lucky for them, it paid off; as Spader's yuppie malaise translates into gumshoe weariness in this role, and Keanu's desire to break type-casting molds translates into calculated homicidal mania. Furthermore, far removed from her My Cousin Vinny fame, Marisa Tomei lives up to her hype as a psychiatrist who encourages Spader's character to go back into the fray.You'll find yourself at odds with this one as you watch it, but if you stick with it, you'll find the movie's quite rewarding. Your gut response to the casting will reverse itself about halfway through when this film's pistons really start to turn. At that point, you're hooked--much as you are to a cheesy drama or daytime soap--and the end pays off.Spader and Reeves both play well against type, giving them both points for true acting chops, and Tomei takes her career a step further very quietly in this role. The first half hooks you with curiosity. The second with intrigue. It's well worth a look, and even worthy of a second one to make one marvel at how the makers pulled it off in the first place. "},{"Title":"One of Keanu's Best Performances","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this film expecting to be disappointed. My last movie outing (Highlander Endgame) was a ho-hum-why-didn't-I-wait-for-the-video experience. I entered the theater this weekend expecting more of the same. Imagine my surprise! This is not the greatest serial killer movie ever made but it's very entertaining.  The actors save this film. Keanu Reeves delves into his dark side and pulls out a winner. I will admit that I'm a Keanu Fan. I enjoy his work and disagree with all the nay sayers who cannot get past one role in his varied repertoire. Keanu uses his smile and eyes in this film much the same way Jack Nicholson did in The Shining. Keanu's smile, which is usually so engaging, is much extremely menacing here. His eyes are chilling. The windows to Griffin's soul are hard and cold especially when combined with the smile. He brings an element of subtle, gleeful danger to the character of Griffin. He walks with an arrogant swagger. His interchanges with James Spader are a seductive waltz as he tries to lure Spader's burnt-out agent closer to the homoerotic, symbiotic relationship that they only share in Griffin's mind. Subtlety is the key to all the performances in this film. Spader and Reeves refuse to go over the top even in the most visceral scenes. Neither actor took the easy way. Marisa Tomei was also excellent. She showed nuances in her acting that I had not believed she was capable of expressing. Overall, this movie is a must see.  "},{"Title":"Don't Watch It.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher (2000) Dir Joe Charloanic / Cast Keanu Reeves, James Spader, Marisa Tomei, Ernie Hudson, Chris Ellis Horror misfire about an evil presence prevailing over innocent victims. James Spader plays a cop who is haunted by the memory of his girlfriend's burning death. Analyzing the situation he finds her tied to a chair. He removes the tape from her mouth then pursues the suspect. While she burns to death I got to wondering why he didn't untie her while the going was good? He moves away and seeks therapy from Marisa Tomei whom we can guess will be his next rescue mission. Keanu Reeves is sighted as the killer so that viewers can avoid any surprises. He sends photos of his victims to Spader and allows him until nine-o-clock to locate them. One girl has her picture posted everywhere yet nobody notices her even when she walks amongst them. Lackluster directing by Joe Charloanic with drab production. Reeves is miscast and downright laughable as the villain. He is one of the most boring villains ever conjured up for a film. Spader is just as bad in a cardboard role of hero. Tomei spends her biggest scenes bound to a chair in a lame reference to the film's opening. Ernie Hudson also appears as well as Chris Ellis as a detective whose first clue should have been to find a better script than this. An exercise in exploitation and stupidity at its worst. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"hated the cheesy '90s effects","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves) is a meticulous serial killer. Joel Campbell (James Spader) quits the FBI in frustration and moves to Chicago. Joel is a nervous wreck and sees psychiatrist Polly (Marisa Tomei). A neighbor of his is killed and then he finds pictures of victims in his old mail. Griffin continues to taunt him with a picture of his next victim, and he reluctantly returns to the investigation.The movie is doing this bad '90s slo-mo blurry flashing thing. It's intended to be stylish, but it looks very cheesy. A lot of this movie is trying to be cool but ends up being hokey. It's trying too hard.I like a lot of the actors here. Keanu Reeves makes for a charming pretty boy serial killer. James Spader is always good especially if he's a little bit damaged. The serial killer cat and mouse game is pretty good. But I just can't get over the cheesy effects. "},{"Title":"James Spader pursues serial killer Keanu Reeves who wants to be pursued","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The overall IMDb rating of 5.2 is about right. It means that this is a below-par effort.The story line of cop pursuing serial killer is easy to follow. By now it has become standard, as in many westerns the plots revolve around land disputes. The question is how well it is done and what new twists occur or new insights. In this one, there are two main themes. One is the dependence of the cop's (Spader's) life on pursuit and apprehension of this killer (Reeves) who has followed him from LA to Chicago, since he also depends on Spader to provide him his jollies. The second theme is the atomization of people in a large city and the difficulty of communicating with them on a personal level. Few want to get involved in identifying a threatened person, and those that do may be providing silly information merely to get attention.Yet somehow the first theme of Spader-Reeves symbiosis doesn't come across as convincing. That's one fault. Another is that the Reeves character is not convincing. The movie tends to drag after awhile. Even the obligatory chase scenes seem as if they are not from the heart, despite their decent enough staging. They seem by the numbers. There is something curiously uninvolving about this movie.As in other movies that fall short, I blame the script for failing to introduce sufficient dramatic scenes whereby the nature of the characters is brought out so that viewers understand and engage with them. It's what the script writers do not put on the screen, instead putting wasted scenes on the screen, that matters. It's seems clearer and clearer that Hollywood could use a few top flight script doctors. If there really is a symbiosis, it shouldn't be shown by talk or by the insight of a psychiatrist, it should be shown by activities of the two principals.David Elliot and Clay Ayers did the screenplay. They didn't shine. The movie had a slew of producers, maybe too many for anyone to be able to shape this movie into something beyond the average. The director was unable to lift the project by his contributions. He might have been able to do so. The film editing had some good spots, but editing alone cannot change the script. Overall the result is a good try at an unusual theme but coming out rather undistinguished. "},{"Title":"  The dark loneliness reminds us how pathetic we are when we're alone ","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Directed by Joe Charbanic, this movie's screenplay written by David Elliot provides a solid platform for Keanu Reeves to shine. The story concerns a burned out F.B.I. agent (James Spader) who seeks refuge in Chicago when he fails to apprehend Griffen (Keanu Reeves) a demented serial killer. Unfortunately, the ghostly murderer follows him to the windy city and once again begins killing women. Barely existing in between his nightmares and his medication, Dectective Campbell is drawn back into the dark demented world of his elusive suspect, when he seeks help to understand his mental anxieties. With the help of Chicago police detectives, (Ernie Hudson) the game of death takes on a double urgency when the killer begins sending photos of his intended victim 24 hours prior to murdering them. Difficult as it is, audience members must get past the fact that Reeves usually plays the hero, but here he is the heavy. Reeves is a superior actor and is convincing as he plays against Spader. Both are superior thespians who allow this black drama to rise above the mundane to entertain us with exciting car chase scenes and murderous mayhem. Marisa Tomei plays Polly a mental health therapist who finds herself a potential victim. This is a special film in many respects, the most important being that our cast does well to mark this movie as a milestone for Reeves and Spader. Recommended. **** "},{"Title":"Unoriginal And Completely Unbelievable","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For the first couple of minutes of this film it looked as if we were going to be treated to little more than a Keanu Reeves dance recital. How painful would that be! Thankfully, that bizarre dance-like scene didn't go on any longer than the first couple of minutes (although there was a mercifully brief reprise near the end.) The problem is that even with Keanu's dancing gone, the movie didn't get much better. It's another story about a serial killer (Reeves) playing a cat and mouse game with a cop (James Spader) that he develops something of an obsession with. In this case it's FBI agent Campbell, and in a ridiculous plot point, Campbell is haunted by his inability to catch the serial killer 3 years before in LA. He's now moved to Chicago, he's on disability, he's popping pills, he's suffering severe migraines, he's seeing a psychologist and - from what he tells her - he seems generally unable to function in life. So, of course, with that background and all those problems, when the killer suddenly reappears in Chicago, Campbell is not only asked to help with the case - he's put in charge of it! That makes sense! We spend a significant amount of time watching cops handing out posters with the picture of the killers' next victim on it - because part of his game is sending a picture of who he's going to kill to the cops and giving them a day to try to find her. The dialogue is pretty limited although the performances from Reeves and Spader were OK. There's a bit of a startling revelation when we find out why Campbell is really haunted by the LA murders (and, probably, why he moved to Chicago.) On the other hand, you can predict almost from the beginning that the psychologist (Marisa Tomei) will eventually be targeted and become the focal point of the final showdown. For a brief moment at the end, after the killer has thrown himself out a window and into Lake Michigan while he's on fire, I had a bit of a sinking feeling that this was going to be a killer who should be dead refuses to die so that there can be a sequel moment. Thank God there wasn't! 3/10 "},{"Title":"A True Balance of Good and Evil","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The hero confides in a therapist, seeking help, but this act catches the attention of the killer. She becomes the chess game's queen, and her life or death will fall to the hero. But for him to save her, he may have to sacrifice himself, and the villain is ready for him.A masterpiece of cat and mouse, good versus evil is depicted in this film. The hero and villain are truly defined by two driven actors,James Spader and Keanu Reeves, and with every twist and turn, their characters pull you further into their struggle to win over the other. And the music captures every moment of this movie. The ending delivers closure to the storyline but leaves you wondering, Will good triumph over evil, or will the hero fall? Time's up. "},{"Title":"Do you think... some of your patients might pay to come see you because... you're very pretty.","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was getting very depressed about the financial news so I turned to this instead. It's a depressing movie, but it held my interest for a while and let me forget that the world was falling apart.This was James Spader before The Practice and Boston Legal. I am not really a fan, although he did a good job with Ione Skye in The Rachel papers. He really didn't impress me here. Antone could have played the part as well as he did.Keanu Reeves is always fun to watch. he probably did this before The Matrix and they released it while he was hot. To me his best will always be Speed and The Devil's Advocate. He played the part well and made the film somewhat interesting.Now, Marisa Tomei is ALWAYS worth watching, whether it is an uncredited part in The Toxic Avenger, or as Vinny's cousin. She had a small role her, but it was fun.Not a bad movie if you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"I'll give this my brand of approval","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this film, Keanu Reeves plays a very twisted and stalker to the extreme kind of Serial Killer. The film follows Keanu (as the Serial Killer) hunting victims. Keanu gives our hero the FBI Agent pictures to try to find the victims before he kills them. You find, that the Killer and FBI Agent as the Psychitrist in the film says, Are what the other person lives for. I really enjoyed this Thriller because it actually kept me guessing as to what was going to happen next. Also, it was just an overall decent Serial Killer film. The only two reasons I gave this film a 9 0ut of 10 instead of a 10 Out of 10 is because A.) I thought it could've been a bit longer, and B.) I wish the ending had been slightly better. Beyond that, I'd suggest this film if your just in the mood for a Non-Gore infested, Thriller about a Serial Killer. Thus, this film The Watcher gets my Horror Cowboy Brand of Approval ~Dave, The Horror Cowboy "}{"Title":"The scary aspect of Chicago on film","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Definitely worth seeing if you are either a native of Chicago or have lived here before. It portrays the city as extremely dark, dirty and very urban. Very interesting sets here -- the sets almost make the movie worth watching. I enjoy the scenes where Griffin gets chased through the streets of Chicago; they are well-thought out and well directed. The movie must have been amazing on the big screen. Unfortunately, I only saw it on video and had never heard of it.Particularly fun is the soundtrack by the virtually unknown Marco Beltrami. Opening credits are very interesting, as are the chase scenes. Very orchestral and guttural. I enjoyed the music soundtrack immensely and watched it on video twice because of this. Beltrami is a composer to keep our eye on. He is particularly good at emoting terror and suspense.Keanu Reeves was mediocre, at best. In general, he has not been much of an actor and it seems he was miscast. He is not too good at being a heavy in film. Marisa Tomei was OK -- nothing to get excited about.James Spader did have interesting psychological moments and I enjoyed his performance very much.My main complaint about the movie was that the ending was so contrived and cliché'd. After building up the suspense, the ending really fell apart. Other than that, this movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Be Careful, You Are Being Watched","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher is an interesting movie. The promos for it were what looked cool. Is this worth watching?(Bad pun I know) yes.The Watcher is about a serial killer that tormented a L.A. detective for months and killed his girlfriend. The detective(James Spader) is now relocated to Chicago to get away from the pain of the loss. His life is falling down fast. Then the killer(Keanu Reeves)suddenly returns to start another spree. This time to further torment the detective who left in the first place.The plot is good. Reeves starts a cat-and-mouse game with Spader to see if he can stop him in time. This becomes a thrilling set of scenes that lead on some exciting investigating. The other thing is that Spader has never seen this killer ever before either. He has no idea what he looks like. He only has heard his voice, so to him, It could be anyone! Spader gives off possibly his most passionate performance to date. He has powerful conviction and raises the bar a lot. Reeves is convincing as the cold-blooded killer that prefers the quiet kill. Reeves is really good here. Only drawback is a few times his surfer accent is a little loud, otherwise, his facials are great when he finds his prey.Another drawback to this is Maris Tomei is somewhat wasted talent here. Shame. She is good here though. Also there is a decent car chase scene here too. It's not the Bourne Surpremecy, but it's not supposed to be. It's fun.The Last Word Chilling. Spader is giving an acting clinic here. Reeves was clearly enjoying his role as the villain. I enjoyed this movie. It's fun. "},{"Title":"Spader helps preserve the cheese from spoiling","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Formulaic stalker thriller stays afloat by the thankful participation of James Spader, playing a cop tracking a serial killer who stalks his victims, who, in any role, always manages to breath life into even the most vapid of lines. Even the wooden and usually predictable Keanu Reeves proves there is some range to his skill set as he creeps out his victims and his hunter as the weirdo, underdeveloped Watcher. While the action scenes themselves are usually filmed in a boring and ugly slow motion format, the pace does retain it's entertainment value throughout the predictable fare with it's constant cat-and-mouse antics. Thankfully, a few sharply observed themes of abandonment add to the bland theme and hopefully, with the aid of it's lead performance, catapult this film from pure forgettable fluff, to slightly memorable stuff. "},{"Title":"Cliché but not bad.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Straight out of the mould of the serial killer movie handbook, nothing new or creative here. Very contrived flick as former FBI agent, James Spader tracks down serial killer, Keanu Reeves who has a slight obsession with Spader and a serious obsession with killing women with piano wire. Spader is of course, plagued by nightmares from his past and Marissa Tomei is the psychologist trying to help him.The good points of this movie Spader, Spader, Spader. He is great in this role and his I don't give a **** attitude will charm you. An underrated actor, much in the same fit as William Petersen, he needs that big role to give him star power. There are also some really genuine scenes between him and Tomei, and Spader's candidness gives the scenes depth.Also, I don't know how the director gained so much star power for such a low budget movie. James Spader, Marissa Tomei, Keanu Reeves, Ernie Hudson... not bad. It certainly doesn't hurt the movie. And there is a great chase scene...Drawbacks very, very contrived. Plays like a made for TV movie. Some of the actors are very wooden in their supporting roles. Also, the direction relies on some out of place, slow motion and strange camera tricks to try and give the movie some flare. The movie would have benefited from some plain, gritty camera-work that matched the subject matter. This isn't Miami Vice or a John Woo flick.Neutrals Keanu Reeves. If Reeves had have changed his appearance as he did to play the bullying husband in The Gift, it would have added a whole lot more to this flick. Instead, I couldn't see past his surfer image. He's not bad in this role, but it could have been so much more.As a whole, this movie could have been great but was ruined by shoddy direction and a low budget feel. You get the feeling it was pushed out there with the star power to draw audiences instead of the movie itself. Still, a little disappointing when you realize, with a little passion and more creativity, this movie could have been great. Still, there are worse ways to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"You can always torture the squeamish with this.","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For the most part, The Watcher is another serial killer movie there's a psychopath killing people and a detective has to stop him. But the three-way relationships between the killer (Keanu Reeves), the detective (James Spader) and his psychiatrist (Marisa Tomei) add an extra, more interesting dimension to it.I probably should remind you that this is NOT a movie for the squeamish. Maybe movies about serial killers never are, but the way that they play everything out creates another feeling altogether - then again, you can always torture a mealy-mouthed wimp with this movie. You may be uncertain about whom you can trust after watching this.So are YOU ready to go home alone? "},{"Title":"Tight suspense without gore","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoy a movie that refrains from big effects, and still manages to create tension, suspense and a dramatic acceleration. This one does.The way it avoids closeups on murder victims, even the moments of murder, reminds me of the Hitchcock principle of less is more. It is very elegantly done, if such a word is permitted in this circumstance. At the moment when our horror of what is about to take place is at its peak, the camera moves away. Other scenes, with a more complex emotional content, are allowed to play out.Played out competently, I must add. Both Keanu Reeves and James Spader perform with sophistication, creating a rare psychological realism. Their faces seem like clean of make-up, like those in Rembrandt paintings.Many more things about the movie are both intelligent and original, such as avoiding to have primitive aggression played out between police officers, although Spader plays an outsider to the force, and not a very polite one at that.There are some weaknesses as well. Primarily, I would have liked to see the relation between the main characters - the hunter and the hunted - explored further. It needed to be anchored in the story, from the beginning of it, and processed to its own dramatic conclusion. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not a bad movie. A Good, exciting thriller. James Spader plays a troubled, desperate FBI agent well, haunted by his inability to capture a taunting serial killer in Los Angeles. He makes a move to Chicago, continually wracked by severe migraines, only to find that the serial killer has basically followed him to take up his craft in a new locale, and to taunt Spader's character some more.Keanu Reeves is very good and effective as the menacing serial killer.POTENTIAL SPOILERReeves' killer will stalk and watch his prey, sending Spader photos of the intended victims, challenging him to catch him. It is up to Spader and his team to attempt to identify clues in the photo to try and determine how they might try and prevent the murder.Not awards material by any means, but an effective, entertaining movie, with good character portrayals. "},{"Title":"Good try but 5/10","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'The Watcher' has a hard job to do at the outset. It has to breathe new life into the serial killer genre in the same way 'Silence Of The Lambs' did and where 'Copycat' tried to but failed.The main weapon the film uses is the fact that Hollywood 'rent a goodie' Keanu Reeves is the serial killer. That is not giving it away as you find that out very early in the film. And herein is the problem. While I truly believe that Reeves is a good actor who has really shone in previous movies ('Much Ado About Nothing', 'Speed' etc.), here he fails to convince.His nemesis is Campbell, played by James Spader. Here things look up. Spader is very good (despite looking about 23 years old) as the stereotyped 'cop with problems' - in this case its medical.Despite the obvious flaws, the plot is interesting. Griffin (Reeves) sends Campbell a picture of a girl who he will kill at 9pm that day. Therefore, Campbell must locate said victim and attempt a rescue. The film really satisfies during this period.Unfortunately, the end is classic 'save the female' and feels very much like you've seen it all before... many times. This has to go down as a plot that was wasted and a film that would have been much better had it been in the hands of a more talented director. Well maybe anyway. And an actress as talented as Marisa Tomei is crimminally underused and given rotten lines to say. The hour and a half running time is also far too short and gives the film a rushed feeling.Still see it... and then watch 'Silence Of The Lambs' to see how it should be done.5/10 "},{"Title":"Thrilling, entertaining and realistic","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher, which stars James Spader, Keanu Reeves and Marisa Tomei.  is an entertaining and realistic look into the life of an ex FBI agent Joel Campbell (James Spader) who retired from his duties due to health problems caused from being tormented by a serial killer, David Allen Griffen, (Keanu Reeves) for three years in Los Angeles.  Campbell moves to Chicago in hopes of escaping this psychopath, but Griffen locates Campbell and attempts to start the game cat and mouse all over again.Campbell, burn out and afraid, sees therapist Polly Beilman (Marisa Tomei) in order to get things off his chest and figure things out.  Griffen sends Campbell pictures of two different women.  One is a young girl who lives alone and works in a photo store, and the other is a teen who lives on the streets and Campbell and the Chicago police force and FBI agents have 24 hours to locate them.  Sadly, they find neither girl.  But, it becomes even more personal to Campbell when Griffen sets his sights on Beilman.  The Watcher is a movie not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Squandered potential by a first time director","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This psychological thriller doesn't quite come together due to various flaws in the script and poor orchestration by a rookie director.  Director Joe Charbanic's prior experience is with music videos.  This is his first feature film.  It is reported that he landed the project at the recommendation of Keanu Reeves, who liked his work.  As is the case with many music video directors, Charbanic is extremely creative with the camera.  He uses innovative camera angles, close-ups, jump cuts and strobe photography very effectively.  Along with veteran cinematographer Michael Chapman (`Taxi Driver', `Raging Bull', `Rising Sun', `Primal Fear'), he brings some very compelling imagery to the screen.  However, this is only part of the director's job.  He must also pull the story together and eliminate any inconsistencies from the script.  Most importantly, he must get the actors to properly interpret their characters.  In these areas, Charbanic is far less capable and it hurts the film.The initial workup is intriguing.  David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves) is a serial killer who has developed an obsession with Joel Campbell (James Spader), the cop who has been pursuing him.  When the cop retires from the force on disability and moves to Chicago, the killer follows and resumes the killings there to torment his adversary.  Griffin sends Campbell pictures of his victims in advance and dares him to try to find them before he kills them.  The story is fairly tight to this point, but unravels totally after Griffin lures Campbell to a graveyard and they meet face to face.  From this point forward, the absurdities are piled on to the point of silliness.The acting is problematic.  Keanu Reeves is an excellent actor, but he is miscast as the killer.  He is just too nice a guy to be a sociopath.  Actually, it probably would have been better if they flipped the leads because Spader would have made a very believable killer.  Normally dynamic and energetic, Marisa Tomei seems almost comatose in her dialogue with Spader during the therapy scenes, although she is great as the terrified victim after being abducted.  The entire cast seems flat and subdued, the responsibility for which I put with Charbanic.  While Charbanic's images crackle, the actors are soggy.  Although images are important in a suspense thriller, they cannot make up for flaccid performances.I was disappointed in this film.  I rated it 6/10 on the strength of the photography.  It had a great deal more potential that was squandered. "}{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  We were very excited to have an opportunity to get this movie in our local video store, since everybody are anxious to see this movie. The first part of a movie is very tense, and it is the best part of movie. Linear development of the story is suddenly abandoned at one point James Spader meeting Keanu Reeves at the graveyard. Why? Which motive? Why do we see Keanu Reeves there? Police has been after him for almost 3 1/2 years without any clue of his identity. A police chase is very poor and shortened. It is hard to imagine that anyone can get away from Police without any scratch, eventhough he was monitored from the air by a helicopter. James Spader, main brain from FBI is totaly out of shape, hard to belive. Keanu Reeves is outstanding as a bad guy. "},{"Title":"Intense and Compelling","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent film! I've always loved James Spader and he shines here as usual. His portrait of the haunted Joel Campbell is emotionally compelling and believable. Keanu Reeves also does well here -- his Griffin is incredibly charming in a very creepy way. The other thing that makes this movie stand above other serial killer films is the focus on the interaction between the two men - killer and detective -- and the fact that the obsession is played both ways. It's not just about Reeves being obsessed with Spader; it's about Spader being obsessed with Reeves as well. The scenes between them together at the end were outstanding; but way too short. The only complaint I have about the movie is that we were short-changed on the pay off at the end. After an hour and half of homoerotic tension and emotional intensity, a longer scene between the two men was desperately needed for full impact. Even so, I was completely caught up in the movie from the beginning and I will definitely see it again...and again... "},{"Title":"Binary Opposition","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Joel Campbell (James Spader) and David Griffin (Keanu Reeves) are like binary stars that revolve around a common center of gravity. Each man needs the other for a sense of identity. They function as a single entity, even though their motives are in moral opposition. Actually, it's a rather tired film concept.In Chicago, Campbell introduces the story premise about serial killer Griffin who preys on young women, and uses his killings as a game to be played out with Campbell, who has no choice but to participate. The film's structure relies on tons of flashbacks to Campbell's previous involvement with the killer in California.The main problem here is that the film's plot depends on multiple film clichés. You've got your standard police chase scenes with flashing lights and screeching tires. You've got your standard melodramatic TV news, repeated over and over and over. You've got a killer who can miraculously overcome every obstacle thrown at him. The film's final twenty minutes are nothing but a string of cinematic clichés.You get the feeling that the filmmakers used a tried-and-true money making film concept as a template, hurriedly wrote a script, then attached well-known box-office actors to rev up the financial bottom line, for quick megabucks. If that was their plan, I don't think it worked. For many viewers, including myself, the film comes across as stale, insipid, and uninspired.The acting is not convincing. Both James Spader and Keanu Reeves sleepwalk through their roles, emotionally uninvolved. The casting of lovely Marisa Tomei as a psychiatrist is not credible, in a role meant for an older intellectual. But, of course, as a beautiful young woman, Tomei fits in nicely as a handy target for the killer. And the film's contemporary pumped up rock music I found irritating and distracting. The color cinematography is adequate, if conventional.The Watcher is just one more cop and killer movie in a saturated genre. The film has nothing new or original to offer viewers. Maybe the two lead actors will be a tad more discerning next time when they select screenplay roles. "},{"Title":"Fresh contribution to serial killer-genre","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  O recently saw this film and I must say that it blew me away. It could have something to do with my expectations being so low for the movie after hearing how bad it was from everybody, but this film is a very original, atmospheric and well played. The cast was great, especially James Spader and Keanu Reeves. Spader is a master-actor and can bring the required level of intensity to any role. He is one the best actors ever and in my opinion cab easily be compared to Sean our Penn, Gary Oldman and James Woods.Keanu Reeve's portrayal of the serial killer Griffin is truly chilling and stylistic. I think it was Keanu's intention to make the killer larger than life and give him a flair of invincibility to make it interesting for the audience. Keanu's serial killer is one of the most twisted and merciless killers I have seen on screen. People don't appreciate Keanu's acting and say that he plays himself. NO! The thing is that Reeve's was chosen because the director knew that audiences are not used to seeing him in an evil role and hence would respond negatively when seeing their goody-two-shoes Keanu play a sick killer. Bravo Keanu. I admire you gut to break taboos and also your brilliant portrayal of the killer. Griffin feels real and that is what acting is all about, making characters seem real.  "},{"Title":"Beliveable thriller","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I heard about it I thought that it would be alright, but I found it to be really thrilling. Keanu Revees is really changing as an actor.After Devil's Avocate and The Matrix he's really growing as an actor. And James Spader as the Troubled hero wasn't the typical hero in turmoil. It was like the older thriller films they use to make "},{"Title":"Nice filming techniques, solid acting.","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher is the most recent addition to a long line of serial killer thriller films, and it does a somewhat commendable job in carrying out its plot. In reality, it is little more than a highly stylized showcase for all of the classic thriller clichés that have become so well-known throughout the last century, taking them and giving them an extra flare by using stunning cinematic tricks, a stellar cast and a pounding soundtrack. I am divided as to whether I like this movie or not I enjoyed the vast array of shocking and vivid images, while I tended to become a bit bored by the clichés it portrayed throughout. I can't say that I completely hated this film, yet I cannot fully like it, either. The movie begins when FBI agent Joel Campbell begins receiving phone calls and photographs from his arch nemesis, a serial killer whose last alias was that of David Allen Griffin. He takes special care in killing lonely women with piano wire, leaving the scene of the crime with no trace of his identity. Campbell has a personal connection to Griffin through his flashbacks, we see his attempt to rescue a woman trapped in a burning house, and his relationship to this woman as well as his involvement with Griffin will all be revealed in due time, one of the movie's attributes.Actors for The Watcher deliver quality performances that make the movie enjoyable. James Spader plays the delusional detective Joel Campbell, and he does a perfect job in delivering Campbell's emotions when it comes to pursuing his target. We are able to believe in his not wanting to give up despite the effects it may have on him physically and emotionally. Spader plays Campbell as a stern and aggressive character, the character to root for throughout. Keanu Reeves plays his rival, David Allen Griffin, and does one of his better acting jobs here. This is material he was born to play... he possesses wit and a certain twisted charm that is untypical to Griffin's character, and that makes him a better serial killer than most other movies. Oscar winner Marisa Tomei plays therapist Polly Beilman, though she is not really able to display a lot of her talent in this film, as it focuses mainly on the two leads and their physical and psychological battle with one another.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The man's whole life is about killing","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Mix-up serial killer flick involving retired, at age 30, on a disability pension FBI Agent Campbell who gets back to work in trying to find this serial killer Griffin who seems to have gotten or developed a strong emotional connection or tie towards him. It's almost as if the two, Campbell & Griffin, were soul mates or Siamese twins without being psychically connected to each other.Campbell has moved to Chicago from his hometown in L.A to get his mixed-up and confused head back together which has Griffin travel there as well in order to keep up his relationship with him. This all stemmed from a murder that Griffin committed back in L.A, that we see in a number of flash-backs, involving Campbell's girlfriend Lisa Alton whom he was having an illicit, she was married and he wasn't, affair with. Now back in business killing young women Griffin gets Campbell involved in his new string of murders by sending him Fed-X envelopes with photos of his intended victims who's murders Campbell as well as the Chicago Police FBI and local SWAT team are to try to prevent.The movie really goes nowhere with Grffin doing his thing, murdering young women, and being totally immune from capture. Even a number of his on screen victims, Ellie & Jessica, don't as much as even get a hint that their being targeted by Griffin! Even though their photos, those that Griffin sent Campbell, are splashed all over the TV and newspapers as well as police posters. Don't they ever turn on the TV news or read the newspapers? what's even more fascinating is that no one on the street or knows the two, Ellie & Jessica, don't at all recognize them either as Griffin's intended victims. That despite all the publicity they've gotten by the news media to find out who they are and save their lives! ***SPOILERS*** It seems that Campbell's psychiatrist the pretty Dr. Polly Bellman really got under Griffin's skin in him getting jealous of Polly and suspecting that his soul-mate FBI Agent Campbell was having a romantic relationship with her. This has Griffin drop his guard and leave himself open to getting caught by kidnapping Polly and then, by invitation only, having Campbell come to his rat and roach infested hideout, a deserted warehouse on the Chicago South Side, so he can watch helplessly as Griffin sets her on fire and burns her to death! Just like he did to his previous girlfriend the late Lisa Alton back in L.A!Explosive ending with Griffin getting the worst of it when the whole warehouse where he's holding Polly hostage blows up with him becoming a human torch in the process. Campbell-who together with Polly-escaped the carnage but he, after ending up drenched and almost drowned in the chilly waters Lake Michigan, ends up looking as dry as a camel's bone in the Sahara Desert! "},{"Title":"Between killing the human communication and killing oneself laughing !","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Back when this movie was released, I read someone who wrote this  If my cat ate bad dinner, then vomited it, her vomit would be better than The Watcher ! Well, when I had the opportunity to watch it, I knew that it isn't that ugly after all.It's the fashion at the moment  the thrilling hunt for that smart, energetic, and completely crazy serial killer. After 9 years of it, (The Silence of the Lambs) was still swaying. Most of its following had nothing more than the dark atmosphere and the action. However this time, and a la the original, the relationship between the officer and the criminal produces a meaning. The movie points out sadly to the fact that people became too many and too busy to look to each others, so love became hard to find, consequently life became out of sense. It's distinct to have a movie of that kind while being not out of sense itself.I hated slight points like that FBI agent who dislikes the returning James Spader. That line didn't affect anything later, so why to make it in the first place ?! Then, the coincidence of being, out of all places, in the same mall which one of the victims works at. But, whatever. That wasn't the problem. The problems though were else where.Let's declare the always concealed, or twisted, or not spoken about much truth  Keanu Reeves doesn't know how to act. He acted in one movie, ironically one of his first, (Speed &#x96; 1994). Strangely later, and in a precedent, he turned into worse actor, and worse, and worse as he aged !Supposedly Reeves acts as the evil nuts while being terrifyingly frozen. Ultimately he just did nothing but reading his lines with dead puffed up face, managing to be terrifyingly frozen, yet as an actor ! At one point I said to myself he doesn't have to slaughter the girls. All what he has to do is acting, or dancing, for them a little !. I deem the scene of his crazy dancing as one of the silliest images ever captured on film at all. No kidding ! Then, the director  Joe Charbanic. I don't know the guy, but according to the way he handled everything I believe he is, or has a passion to be, one of the masters of the V movies' crap. Nothing was tense about the movie. At the first phone call between the lead and its antagonist, see how he films Reeves from 2 angles with still cadres and dull cutting. The acting assures that he doesn't know a lot about acting. And the damn special effect, which he used while the actors' running, made them like idiots chasing each other in a comic silent movie from the 1920s. I couldn't stop laughing in front of that. Here's the cat's vomit. Truly, pedantry is evil !Spader did it good. But he doesn't have the charismatic glow. Despite the shortness and the usualness of her role, Marisa Tomei could be memorable due to her so expressive tearful eyes. Some of the soundtrack's rock songs did soothe the atmosphere or stir it up. I loved the one played during the search for a victim. Its lyrics harmonized with the somewhat deep sad core, embodying &#x96; even swiftly &#x96; the movie's case of desolate cities, and state, we live. As a script it's nice. It has thrill and good meaning to it, and that's rare if you ask me. As a movie it is not that nice. Wanna know why, then ask yourself why our dear director had to picture everything Reeves sees in the psychological doctor's clinic like it's an electronic image seen from The Terminator's point of view ?! Albeit Reeves as a robot sucks too ! I think that moment summarizes the answer to my question and the whole movie.As you see, (The Watcher) has 2 killers, not one ! "},{"Title":"Solid if unspectacular thriller","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The novelty angle of The Watcher is that it tries to underscore the point of how invisible people are in this fast paced and uncaring world - and even the breakthroughs of modern technology can't save the future victims of The Watcher despite him sending a picture of his would-be-victims a whole 24 hours beforehand to the police.Therein lies the killer's fascination with an FBI detective (James Spader) who's come the closest to catching him. The killer (Keanu Reeves) thinks he's made a friend of sorts in that Spader needs him to continue what he's doing in order for his existence to have some meaning. In short; Reeves feels that Spader needs him. And that's something Reeves likes very much. In the beginning of the film it's actually Reeves, who's relocated to the city the agent has moved to, who is responsible for Spader's resurrection of sorts when he starts killing again.Lofty ideas and solid social commentary may have been part of the aim in The Watcher but a clumsy script with some very silly dialog at times, huge loopholes, a very unconvincing performance by Reeves, cardboard supporting characters, annoying frenzied editing, way too experimental photography and a rushed ending keep the film from achieving anything special.Reeves can be quite good when the material suits him but here the primary focus seems to be making him look cool and hip (and very dashing) rather than authentic. He has some very bad lines to work with as well. It just looks like he didn't strain himself too much. Fortunately Spader is terrific. His character is a bit eccentric and Spader practically has a PHD in eccentric characters and he easily walks off with the film. Tomei, an excellent actress, is neither here nor there as a psychiatrist.To the film's credit though; it's fast paced, has a great chase scene halfway through and manages to build a reasonable amount of tension at times. The Watcher is a decent enough time filler on a slow night. Just don't expect something great; apart from a stellar performance by the reliable James Spader. "},{"Title":"Despite what you may have heard, it's actually worth a watch.","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Keanu Reeves is woefully miscast as the villain of this movie but that's not to say that there is no fun to be had watching his character taunt and tease burnt-out agent James Spader as he begins to send him photographs of his prospective victims, allowing him a set amount of time before he will strike. It's a standard cat and mouse thriller with an entertaining relationship drawn between the baddie and the goodie (who has enough on his plate just trying to deal with his problems on the couch of his shrink, played by Marisa Tomei).While there's nothing at all original here, with the exception of Reeves' casting, it's all done well enough and the script is surprisingly witty in places when providing exchanges between Reeves and Spader or just letting Spader loose barbs towards whoever is in his vicinity at the time.And I must add that while I have said Reeves is woefully miscast, and this is true for the most part, there ARE a few moments when it works really well to see his laid-back, friendly demeanour used to lure unsuspecting innocents into a false sense of security.Panned by almost everyone when it was released, I think that the movie was treated a tad unfairly and actually enjoyed it much more than many other thrillers that were praised by genre fans. Yes, there are a few scenes to make you cringe (not least the very beginning and an implausible escape sequence) but the movie carries you along with some decent tension and wit.See this if you like Kiss The Girls, Taking Lives, Red Dragon. "}{"Title":"Underrated crime thriller that's mind tingling with an A list cast.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Just watched this after many years of it's release and for the first time of seeing The Watcher, I must say I was pleased as I knew with it's well known cast of Reeves, Tomei, and Spader that the acting would be in top form. And since it was a crime thriller which is a genre of film I like it helped that the theme was that of a cat and mouse game of a serial killer which made the film even more enjoyable. James Spader is Joel Campbell a down on his luck and depressed FBI agent who left L.A. behind to move to the windy city of Chicago to start a new life and new work schedule. Joel thought he had escaped the days of him being in pursuit of a serial killer named David Griffin(Keanu Reeves). Only soon just as in L.A. Joel starts to receive the taunting phone calls and pictures of women that are gonna be targeted victims, as one by one all over again these murders start to happen. It's so cunning too how Griffin plays the cat and mouse games with Joel as he leaves a timetable of death for each victim. And his methods are cruel and sadistic as each female he abducts he ties them up tapes their mouths with duct tape and mocks them before their deaths. The only comfort that Joel can find is in the form of a counselor played in a good supporting way by the beautiful Marisa Tomei. This really is a good film the action is pumping as each scene is heart pounding and the chase is intense as this dangerous killer is tracked in a cat and mouse style. Watch The Watcher sometime it's an underrated guilty pleasure film. "},{"Title":"Watch it if you dare","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Despite actor Keanu Reeves being against the part he was forced to play, or end up getting sued by the studio for millions, of serial killer David Allen Griffin his performance is far better then the many previous roles that he had including his 1999 multi million dollar blockbuster The Matrix.A number of young women end up getting murdered in Chicago under the exact same circumstances that 11 women were murdered in L.A a few years earlier. It doesn't become apparent to burnt out FBI Agent Joel Campbell (Jack Spader), who's also known to his friends as Captain Barbiturate, that it's the work of a serial killer that he was involved with in the past David Allen Griffin.It in fact was Griffin himself who cued in the drugged out on anti-depression pills Campbell to his murderous actions by sending him FEDX envelopes with photos of his intended victims, one who lived in Campbell's apartment house, before he actually murdered them! Campbell being so out of it and not bothering to open his mail, for as much as weeks at a time,had in a way let Griffin get away with the murder of two of his victims. Getting his head back together, by reading his mail, Campbell suddenly realizes that the MO of the killer is that of Griffin whom he was trying to track down back in L.A. In fact Griffin himself, by mail and phone, makes that very obvious fact known to Campbell if he can't, due to his addiction on prescription drugs, figure that out by himself!As you watch Griffin in action it becomes very obvious that he's somehow hung up on Campbell and needs him to play this deadly cat and mouse game with him that he stopped playing after he got a section eight, mental disability, from the FBI. Campbell now raising to the occasion, by getting himself reinstated in the agency, picks up where he left off, back in L.A. in him tracking down and and trying to bring Griffin to justice. As things turns out Campbell doesn't quite have the stomach in confronting Griffin that he had back in L.A. before he suffered a serious mental breakdown.Sending Campbell photo's of his latest victims Griffin gives him, and the local police and FBI, all leeway he needs to not only stop Griffin from murdering them but also be able to capture him. Still Campbell together with the cops are just too slow, or Griffin is just too cunning, to stop or capture the elusive serial killer.It soon becomes very apparent that Griffin is angry at Campbell for ignoring him after, in Griffin's mind, all the fun they had playing the game of FBI Agent and Serial Murderer back on the West Coast. It's when Griffin finds out that Campbell is taking twice a week, with the US Government or FBI picking up the tab, psychiatric treatments from Dr. Polly Beilman, Marisa Tomei, that he completely freaks out feeling that she's replacing him as Campbell's personal playmate! The Campbell/Griffin/Dr. Polly strange relationship is not that far fetched at all in that it was another woman Lisa Anton, Yvonne Niami, back in L.A who made Griffin get out of just murdering his victims for fun but for personal jealousy. Feeling that Dr. Polly is breaking up his strange and bizarre relationship with his protagonist Joel Campbell Griffin has in store for her what he did to Miss. Anton. Griffin now plans to set Dr, Polly on fire and force her, what Griffin thinks, lover Campbell to watch! "},{"Title":"Predictable, but a nice change of pace...","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When FBI agent Spader burns out in LA & moves to Chicago, he enlists the help of a psychoanalyst Tomei, who turns out is being stalked by serial killer Reeves.This plot line has been done so many times in the 90's that it's become predictable. There's no way that anyone who's a fan of these types of movies can't guess what's in store for each of the main characters.But the surprising part of this film, to me, is who plays the roles. When I first heard of the movie coming out and who was starring in the film, I thought James Spader would have the dark, brooding, bad-guy role, such as the part he played in Secretary, or Bad Influence, and I thought Keanu Reeves would play the good guy, like he did in Speed. So that switch, in itself, was a nice change of pace to where, if you like either of these actors, you'll like the movie, in turn. "},{"Title":"Tragedy","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Firstly, I was upset seeing Keanu Reeves by playing bad man. After I had seen Sweet Nowember, Speed and the others, he didn't fit a series killer role because we're used to see him generally in doing good actions. I didn't look at the history of vision date before I write the comment, but it isn't important, it isn't easy to approve that role whose owner played for the Messiah.Examining the subject of this, series killer subjected films have been dealed with in white screen many times. Searching the differences with others, there is no curiosity for the end of film. There is no unusual facts about it.Let me say some words James Spader, too He is too passive to play detective role.Brief of those words, it is mean-class TV film and doesn't deserve more than five points to me. "},{"Title":"It seems like Crime and punishment","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well... not a very good movie but certainly one which is worth watching. ----------------------------------------------------------------- It seemed to me that is somehow based on the crime and punishment's (by Dostoievsky) protagonist who has a very alike interior conflict as this movie's hero. Though, in the movie, the one with untidy conscience is the policeman. ----------------------------------------------------------------- Anyhow, I recommend this psychological movie to everyone who's interested in human perception about life in certain parts of the world. ----------------------- In my opinion a better movie of that type is Seven, where the action is more complex. "},{"Title":"A killer that listens to Rob Zombie can't be all bad.","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Alright, I liked the idea that the cops had till nine pm to locate the victim or else. Created some good suspense that made me yell out the window, Hey, this movie is 'tickle me Elmo' fun!Keanu is somewhat convincing as the bad guy, and Spader is somewhat convincing as the good guy. Personally they should have killed each other at the end- maybe holding hands as they jumped out the window into the bay. Another thing, Spaders role should have been a drunk. I think the movie would have been better if Keanu played the good guy and Spader played the bad guy, i think maybe.I would like to see a prequel, it could be called THE WATCHER IN THE BEGINNING.  "},{"Title":"I watched the watcher!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie.  Spader, Tomei, and Reeves all shined.  It was great to see Reeves play a villian again; his first since 'Much Ado About Nothing.'  In that, he gave a fine performance as Don John.  In this, he plays David Griffin very well too.  There were points when I actually liked Griffin, then he'd start killing again.  And Spader played a good guy, a first for him.  He should do that more often.  Tomei has never been prettier in a film.  I wish we would see more of her.  She is very talented.I reccomend this movie to anyone, but especially young women living alone.  Although this is a work of fiction, every woman out there should take precautions so not to become a victim.  Always be aware of your surroundings, and never talk to strangers.  Unless it's Keanu Reeves.  ) "},{"Title":"'I KILLED FOR YOU'","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"          A serial killer returning the the arena to pull the police in depression back.Does he do it for the police or for himself?It's a good irony but movie does nothing to get into the deeper,psychological side.I don't think movie is successful about entering into criminal mind.But it should do this.       Because the things happening in the movie,they are all directed by the killer.He pulls the policemen where he wants,he lets them know what he wants.But still we don't really understand what's the point of the murders.Actually we don't know anything about how and why the killer made Joel Campbell such an obsession like this.What we see is a chase (Another questionWho's chasing who) in which killer puts his reasons into a psychology about the cop.And the scenes that we see things in the eyes of the killer,I don't think they're enough to build the connection.That's the biggest missing point.      During the movie there are lots of clishes.Besides movie doesn't achieve the goal that getting into the criminal mind,there is a lot of well-known things in the progress.And I think the point,that no one knows or cares about the victim in spite of all the news,is not logical.So no achievement,lots of clishes,lack of deeper side but there is something in this movie to be watched.       First,there is a rhytm in the movie.It's not long so it doesn't make you bored much.I think the writer couldn't keep the screenplay longer.So for a simple watcher it's satisfying.And the color and the technical stuff like this is good.Because Joe Charbanic is a music video director,it's clear that he knows well about this side.       Then,the cast is surprisingly good.It seems like Keanu Reeves played in this movie just because he knows Joe Charbanic from a video of his group;Dogstar.I don't think he really wanted to play in this movie.and there is not much chance to watch James Spader and Marissa Tomei in the big screen,especially in big productions.There is not an acting-feast but but it's nice to watch them,especially together.       Finally,I think 'Blood Work' is better than 'The Watcher' in the 'killing for' killing idea.However it is good just as it is.But I think some movies have to be deeper because of their structure or story.The ones which miss this point are just 'movies'.And this one adds nothing to thriller,criminal genre and holds nothing to make it remembered. "},{"Title":"I question the technical quality of the film.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am astounded by the number of people commenting on this film.  Those who didn't like it spent a lot of time writing about it.  My surprise is that none of these many writers mentioned that most of the film seems not to be in sync.  Am I really the only person to notice this?  Or is my VHS the problem?Spader is one of American films' finest actors.  Is he happy with the parts he chooses? "},{"Title":"Wannabe serial killer","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wannabe serial killer Keanu Reeves watches women and kills them apparently for no other reason than the attention from traumatized-former-killer-hunter James Spader. Eventhough there is budget for this cast, SWAT guys in cool choppers along with some nice explosions this is not enough to put 'The Watcher' above average entertainment value.I recommend seeing 'Manhunter' (1986), 'Along Came a Spider' (2001) or 'The Bone Collector' (1999) instead. But should you find yourself in a position where 'The Watcher' is the only option it not a complete disaster. Don't get your hopes up. 5/10  "}{"Title":"Not as bad as I might have thought","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Some of the reviews for this film didn't exactly stoke my fire for seeing this, but my mom rented it, and I rarely opt out of watching a movie.I'm not sure why, but it seemed like this film went by fairly quickly. Still, it wasn't too bad of a movie. The storyline is unconvoluted and simple to follow, and is for the most part well-rounded. Spader is great, and probably the most interesting part about this film is the interaction between him and Reeves. Though they are enemies, their conversations are casual and without much tension at all, almost like they're two brothers, or two people discussing business. Reeves' slo-mo dancing scenes seem a bit out-of-place, but that doesn't make it a waste of an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Less Thrilling and More Boring.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"       The Watcher was NOTHING like I expected. The movie was very boring and scarcely entertaining. Marisa Tomei made probably the best performance throughout the film. Who wrote this movie? The movie was meant to thrill you and keep you entertained, but it mostly bored you and made you want to go to sleep. I give The Watcher a 4 out of 10.  ( "},{"Title":"Tortured souls.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spader plays a tortured FBI agent whose wife was killed in a fire by Reeves' character. Spader gets his man in the end.The greatest torture was sitting watching this. Reeves did not need the money he got from this.The Chicago PD got bad publicity in the inept car chase that sees Reeves escape leaving 3 cops dead in a gas station explosion.I would say it was formulaic for a typical cat & mouse movie but even formulas have a purpose - this did not.Reeves was too moody for this role when he excels at playing enigmatic characters. Spader was too buried in his medical problems to surface much.Both actors have done better. "},{"Title":"Gritty thriller with interesting value exchange sub plot.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The excellent Spader plays a cop we can all sympathize with, while Reeves is perfect as the villain we love to hate. Stereotypes are subverted through the introduction of a clever sub plot which has Spader using cash (a physical monetary instrument) as a medium for value exchange in order to obtain some goods he requires. This break with existing paradigms kept my interest alive in what might otherwise have been a cliche-ridden thriller. "},{"Title":"Miscasting, camera tricks and music.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I felt that the movie could have been a little better if Keanu Reeves and James Spader had switched parts. Reeves could have done the intensity of the cop beautifully and Spader could have played the killer with a coolness and that would have made the character more chilling. And how about toning down those camera effects. They started giving me a headache.Everytime someone started to run, the speedy effects made me want to run to the aspirin. I also didn't like equating the heavy metal music with serial killers. "},{"Title":"after the fact","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While sitting thru this movie I was not really frightened at any time by what was happening up on the screen. It seemed more like it would really be if a FBI agent where hunting down a serial killer.Also you knew when every killing would take place and where. You knew he wouldn't get caught, only almost caught until the very end. But all that aside, for days now I have had flashes of Keanu going thru my mind. His character had such pride such confidence. He so easily charmed his victims and yet you knew there was something missing. Call it no heart call it just plain evil. But he was able to charm you and make you feel creepy at the same time. I will definitely buy this DVD when it is released.  "},{"Title":"Several suspenseful scenes, but the film wasn't as good as I'd hoped","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher was a movie that when I saw the trailers, I knew I wanted to see.  So call me a fool believing the for misleading advertisement, but the film didn't meet my expectations.  First off, Keanu Reeves could play not a serial killer character.  He just didn't seem to have that ruthless cold core, or evil and brilliant mind, but was actually kind of hollow and unrealistic.  I also would've preferred that the film have been longer and had more murders to make it interesting.  The ending felt kind of cheap ad added on in a hurry.  But despite all of these things, I still think the film had it's suspenseful scenes where you want to cry out, He's right behind you!.  Joel Campbell (James Spader), the sickly and obsessive detective trailing the killer, David Allen Griffin (Reeves), seems to have some depth to him, but Ernie Hudson's appearance as Ibby just made me laugh.  All-in-all the film was not that scary at all, and you can definitely watch it alone. "},{"Title":"Despite what the critics said, i liked it","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie.  Of course I am a sucker for anything fictional about serial killers.  Despite what everyone said, I went and saw the movie anyway and I liked it.  I understood the relationship between the serial killer and the detective(which is evident in lots of stories I've read).  What I really enjoyed was him watching him constantly hence, the title, The Watcher. The one thing that really freaked me out was after I saw the movie(at night, alone) and walking out to my car in the parking lot, I wondered if there was someone watching me at that time. If I had seen that movie with someone else, it probably wouldn't have that effect on me.  So actually now it was probably was an excellent movie to have affected me that way. "},{"Title":"Classic Follow The Leader ...","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let's start with the good stuff shall we, this in my opinion was Keanu Reeves' best dramatic work to date. Reeves' serial killer character leads the Chicago Police Department through a rather simplistic maze of clues to find him. As the movie moves along it becomes very evident that the serial killer wants to be caught to renew his special kinship with Spader's FBI character. Spader and Marisa Tomei played their characters nicely, though I thought they should have been better defined. The foundation of this movie was very strong, but the ending  seemed over simplified and without a lot of creativity.  Just as a side note keep an eye out for all of the overtly obvious product placement, soft drinks, cell phones etc. "},{"Title":"watch what....","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  although i did not think that he could do it...keanu reeves pulls off a villain in this latest attempt at a serial killer thriller that leaves nothing to the imagination.there was nothing surprising about this film and although movie moguls are coming up with new and twisted ways to kill people and create deadly villains, the stories are all the same and the watcher is no exception.the story ended itself right in the beginning because right away it was so predictable.  you knew who the killer was, you knew his motives and you knew whom the last victim would be and why right in the first twenty minutes of the film.true it was gory at times, but even the watcher would not waste his time watching something like this.  i would rather rent silence of the lambs again than sit through this wanna be of a thriller. "}{"Title":"Don't think.  Just watch it and enjoy it for what it is.","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with some of the IMDB critics.  The Watcher is contrived and just like every predictable psycho-killer thrilller I've seen.  You know what's going to happen, yes.  However, after already figuring out this movie, I just sat back, stopped thinking clearly(since all the answers were all fed to me) and enjoyed it for what it was.  The Watcher can actually be a lot of fun if you watch it this way.  I thought the electronic soundtrack was great, and although the gimmicks echoed Oliver Stone's movies, they still made the film cool to watch.  I wasn't bored with The Watcher, let me tell you that.  It also didn't drag or waste precious time.  It was alive, awake, and hyper!  It didn't stop it's pace for a second!  The source material for The Watcher is lame, but the way it's pulled off is great!  It's interesting to see Keanu Reeves as a villain.  The Watcher may be trash, but it's fun trash and good trash.  Watch it and have fun! "},{"Title":"Choppy and formulaic","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a waste of good acting.  This was an entirely disappointing film.  The order, pace, and sheer number of scenes was distracting and made the film boring.  The script and story line must have been 'fill in the blanks'.  There were no surprises.  They had the great sets and the spooky atmosphere wired.  The actors nailed their predictable lines but couldn't save this pile of garbage.  Who ever edited this movie either was not on the same page as the Director or purposefully tried, and succeeded, to ruin this movie.  Do not waste your money.  Go rent The Omen or Seven.  When Reeves follows Spader to the office I walked out.  That was predictability at it's worst.  I felt insulted.  I came back for the last fifteen minutes.  I was hoping to see a twist or some depth to any character; It did not happen.  I give this a 2 out of 10.  Great sound track. "},{"Title":"The weak ending destroys an otherwise intriguing film","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was not a suspense film about who the killer was -- we knew who we was from the very beginning -- but rather a suspense film about how it would end -- it's climax.  Unfortunately, in an otherwise interesting and intriguing film, the climax was the weakest part.  I was able to forgive some of the minor plot holes (why was Campbell in Chicago in the first place; did the mistake happen in Chicago or L.A., etc.) and some of the more non-believable scenes (Keanu survives the gas station, successfully escapes from the abandoned building), but after all the build up, the final scene was, well, weak.  Couple that with the minor complaints already mentioned and I give this movie a 6 out of 10 -- worth seeing once, and only once. "},{"Title":"a pretty good movie","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. It was different 2 see Keanu as the bad guy. But he did a pretty good job at it. It was good 2 see James Spader back in action. His last good movie was STARGATE. I was never a M. Tomei(?) fan but she did a good job as well. If u like Suspenseful serial killers movies, then this is a movie for you! The fire in the end was kind of fake--stupid CGI crap, it da*n near ruined the movie. CGI almost ruins ever movie, but its still worth seeing & its going into my precious collection.  "},{"Title":"If you're looking for a thriller with some substantive content...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Keanu doesn't say Whoa, but I did a couple times -- but I've done a lot of research on serial killers and the people who hunt them, for various projects. This is a decent film. It's not a great film, but it's an average-to-good film, depending on that upon which you focus. Its biggest weaknesses are so-so direction (there are a couple nicely done scenes, but for the most part, I found the direction annoying and pretentious) and by-the-numbers plotting and pacing. But there's some meat here, too, that most of the critics seem to be missing -- perhaps because they =don't= know the psychology of serial killers and their hunters, or perhaps because they were turned off by the direction. Some lovely, lovely psych stuff in here that rings true with everything I've learned on the subject of this particular breed of serial killer, though Hollywoodized.Spader's performance is excellent.  Reeves is ok-to-excellent --there are a couple rough spots that I suspect were first in the filming sequence, before he was really in the character's head. Tomei doesn't have a lot to do, but delivers what there is just fine.  Robert Cicchini's performance is also superior.If you're looking for a thriller with substantive content (albeit intellectualized and mainly through subtext) and like to get inside people's heads and take a look around, and can overlook directorial choices that belong back in the first year of film school, this is a good flick. You'll know each twist, each plot progression in advance, but in a way, that's a good thing here, because it leaves you free to focus on the subtext -- and there's one hell of a lot of subtext here, including homoerotic.  Good matinee choice.  "},{"Title":"Poof!!!!","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The inevitable influence of MTV and Music Videos on Mainstream Movies is glaringly evident in this hyper-kinetic Serial Killer Film that is nothing if an attempt to stimulate the synapses with razzle-dazzle beyond belief.A Casting reversal is haunting as things unfold in this almost average presentation of pomp and circumstance that is inconsistent and at times, especially in the end, incoherent. Spader would have been a better choice as the charming Serial Killer and Reeves would have been more at home with his limited Acting chops as the Detective.It is not bad but nothing memorable. How many of those dated Music Videos from MTV's Golden Age are lingering in the Mind. So here it is, a Video influenced Movie with little depth of field, bright and shiny, Whizzy and Bangy, images separating and splintering, with light trails everywhere. But in the end it just goes Poof, gone like a smoke ring. "},{"Title":"flawed but psychologically powerful atypical thriller","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first thing to note, importantly, is that the victims are not sexually assaulted in any way (no touchy no feely). This film doesn't rely on gratuitous uncomfortable and horrific ordeals to notch up the fear-factor despite Griffin (Reeves) being a prolific serial killer - unusually the murdered girls are more or less incidental and his particular interest in what he does is never disclosed. You do feel the tension, and it is a gripping and tense thriller, where less is more for the nasty bits. The plot centres around the sadomasochistic reliance between the serial killer and the cop Campbell (Spader). For Campbell, the fallout from chasing Griffin, and giving up and moving away, has ruined his life so completely that rather than Griffin being his raison d'etre, he is all he has been left with; his hatred, guilt, insomnia, night terrors and prescription drug dependency for debilitating migraines keep Griffin in the centre of his world albeit unwelcome and from which he is unable to escape. Conversely, Griffin's psychopathology for some reason has evolved to require Campbell as an addition to his efficient killing theatre; he doesn't seem afraid of being caught, and takes increasing risks for proximity with Campbell. The psychology here would be interesting, but it is glossed over other than brief mentions of past events (ie the involvement of Campbell's girlfriend) and Campbell's Psychiatrist Polly (Marisa Tomei) falls into the Hollywood trap of limiting psychology/psychiatry to clichéd questions which shed little light. Despite her implausibility but predictable involvement, it is she who voices that they need each other &#x96; Griffin describes Campbell as his best friend and brother, and alludes to deeper significance between them and it is a lack of a clear explanation that I feel is the gaping hole in the plot but the film works well without it, it's just ME who's interested in forensic psychology and wants to know why. Marisa Tomei's performance is good but the screenplay limits her potential, and Spader and Reeves overshadow her. Spader is one of my favourite actors, he is terribly underrated and, like Reeves, his screen presence and acting method lies in the minutiae of a performance and Spader shines as broken, exhausted and desperate and it is unusual for him to be in an action role. Reeves is charming, friendly, a little flirtatious to be beguiling as Griffin, and as dangerous as a smiling crocodile. Unlike most cop dramas roles are reversed, Reeves is both beautiful and hideous in his portrayal, remarkably well adjusted and secure and Spader is the addled victim in free-fall. The clock is constantly ticking, and it's tense watching the police desperate to win, and always they are so agonisingly close - which the audience sees but the characters can't, which is clever. The cinematography is a melange of styles and devices to narrate the story - dream-sequences that tell back-story that are repeated with increasing revelation, blurred images, romantic bright montages, slow-motion, staccato frames, and grainy black and white and heavy breathing heard over the soundtrack &#x96; none are original but are used here in abundance and confusing. The music too is controversial and sometimes incongruous, yet again, and as the viewer you are very aware that all these are being used deliberately and they seem too contrived but I'm not sure whether they are successful &#x96; I quite liked them but some saw them as amateurish. The film sets up its predictability, but then in a cop vs killer film there is little that can be truly original. It is a rather satisfying film, but perhaps the Director was trying too hard by over-reaching with a mediocre screenplay or by overuse of too many styles and not having the gumption to know whether they were doing drama, thriller, chiller, action film or even a dark comedy as there was some humour (especially Chris Ellis as other cop Hollis) in there. It seems to flail a bit, and reaches too far and misses to be excellent. It's a good film but the performances of Spader and Reeves hold its head above water. "},{"Title":"A boring, predictable disappointment.","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Movies do get worse than this, but not by a whole lot.There are only so many components that make up a good movie, and this film is lacking in all of them. Watch this, and you'll see serious flaws in casting, directing, and editing. The soundtrack is horrible. The characters are empty and have absolutely no depth. The story is paint-by-numbers predictable. There's no suspense, thrills, or climax anywhere in this movie.This is as bland as it gets. Some bad movies are worth watching, and even some of those can still be rather entertaining. I was looking forward to seeing something that, if not memorable, would at least be watchable. Watchable this movie is, but after you're done with it you'll be asking yourself, Why did I just watch that? "},{"Title":"You Gotta see this! Keanu Reeves completely diverse!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As soon as i read about this movie, i wanted to see it, Keanu Reeves the cool, laid back, Surfer dude, playing a serial killer, was totally different and diverse, and Keanu Reeves proves to the audiences, he can play a really nasty character! He's a classic! I was totally surprised by him, he's mad, and insane, with some sick 1 liners! and James Spader was well worth watching! he put in a good performance, some parts of his acting needs brushing up, but on the hole he was the right choice for the role! Marisa Tomei didn't have a huge part it was mainly Keanu/Spader but she was the subject at the end, which slotted in the beginning to make the end! i now like her and will look out for her! great effects, explosions, and intensity, which makes this a hit! "},{"Title":"Great serial killer flick, that's really entertaining, and suspenseful, with a good story, Keanu is very effective as the serial killer!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a great serial killer flick, that's really entertaining, and suspenseful, with a good story, Keanu is very effective as the serial killer!. All the characters are cool, and it had some great stalking/chase scenes as well, plus Keanu Reeves is simply amazing in this!. James Spader plays a great lead, and it actually had a few surprising moments as well, however the only thing I didn't like about Keanu's performance was his laughable dancing. It's very well made and written for the most part, and I loved the finale as well, as it was quite thrilling, however Marisa Tomei looked bored, and barely had anything to do. All the characters are extremely likable, and while it wasn't all that violent, it didn't really need to be, plus I liked the flashback scenes involving Spader, Reeves and his killed girlfriend. The ending was well done, and another one of my favorite scenes is when Spader's character gets a surprise visit from Griffin (Reeves) at the cemetery, plus I think this should be higher then 5.2. This is a great serial killer flick, that's really entertaining, and suspenseful, with a good story, Keanu is very effective as the serial killer, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Joe Charbanic does a great! job here, with good camera work, adding good atmosphere, excellent angles, and lots of other cool shots as well, plus he kept the film at a pretty fast pace. The Acting is excellent!. James Spader is great as the lead, he is very likable, vulnerable, played a cool character, had a cool scene with Reeves, and his low key performance worked. Keanu Reeves is amazing as always and is amazing here, he looked extremely cool, was actually quite menacing, as he had a good charm, had fun with the part, the only thing I didn't like was his dancing scenes, other then that he was perfect! (Keanu Rules!!!!!!!). Marisa Tomei is OK, but nothing more, as she barely had anything to do, and looked bored, she is gorgeous though. Ernie Hudson and Chris Ellis do well as the cops I liked them. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Watch this film","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In an unexpected and surprisingly great performance, Keanu Reeves has turned evil in The Watcher.  I'm not huge fans of James Spader or Keanu Reeves; however, that didn't stop me from watching this film. I'm glad I got the chance to rent this movie because I did not enjoy this film, I have come to enjoy and appreciate Spader and Reeves as actors.Reeves' departure from his usual good guy persona to portray a serial killer was outstanding. The Watcher offers nothing new in way of plot but it does have performances turned in by Reeves and Spader that will keep viewers on the edge of their seats. While predictable, I was on the edge of my seat hoping certain scenes would not evolve the way they did; even though, I knew what was going to happen, it was enjoyable to watch how it would unfold. I found the methods that the serial killer used to be incredible because of the unique way he went about carrying them out. Overall, The Watcher was a movie that can be summed up in one word EXCITING.  "},{"Title":"A great thriller!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one heck of a movie. I really liked this one. It is so much better than all those other 'cop tries to find serial killer' movies. No, THE WATCHER explores the feelings of the two and how they do what they do. How the killer can commit such horrible acts of violence and how a detective can stomach to put up with it. This is much better than that crap movie HANGMAN which was one of the worst movies of all time. This one is better than you may expect.*POSSIBLE SPOILERS* After a year of hiding from a vicious serial killer who calls himself David Allen Griffen (Keanu Reeves), Detective Joel Campbell (James Spader) is drawn back into the game when Griffen tracks Campbell down in Chicago, where he has secretly been hiding for the past year. Griffen is the type of killer who fits into the Boogeymen category with the likes of Freddy Kruger and Jason. Only this guy is flesh and blood, not super-human. Marisa Tomei portrays Campbell's female psychiatrist, with whom he begins to develop a relationship with.The ending is a good one. I liked the way it was executed. I won't give it away, but lets just say that it'll blow you up. I even liked the opening scene where we hear the sounds of Rob Zombie while seeing the cops preparing for the man-hunt. See this one, you'll be impressed greatly. THE WATCHER 5/5. "},{"Title":"You can run, but good luck in hiding.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Very intense thriller with a very strange relationship between two tormented souls. A deranged serial killer(Keanu Reeves) plays cat-and-mouse with a burned out detective(James Spader)by sending him photos of future victims. The detective moves to another city and the killer follows him and continues the terror. The detective's therapist(Marisa Tomei)becomes a future victim and things really get personal. This movie takes a strangle hold on your nerves. You have trouble deciding where to place your compassion. The killer just wants to feel needed; sorry about that.Tense finale leaves you satisfied. Also in the cast are Ernie Hudson and Yvonne Niami. "},{"Title":"Flat, empty, predictable, pointless....","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Normally I wouldn't weigh in on a movie this inconsequential, especially when my impression of it has been so adequately represented by previous comments, but I wanted to go on record with this one. The direction ranges from tired to inept, the script is generic, the dialogue is banal, the casting is ridiculous (Keanu Reeves), the characters two-dimensional and completely under-explained and Marisa Tomei, an actress whose work generally runs from workmanlike (The Paper) to wonderful (Unhook The Stars, My Cousin Vinny) is reduced to playing the damsel on the train tracks - the role shouldn't even have been first billed as it barely rates a cameo.Bottom line? Keanu had a buddy who directed a few rock videos for his band dogstar and threw him this very meagre bone to direct. And he did an appalling job. (In his defense, he had very little to work with.) Don't quit your day job, Mr. Charbanic.   "},{"Title":"Good acting, but....","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My girlfriend and I saw it last night and our only feelings for the movie was bewilderment.It was about as predictable as peeling a the skin off a banana and finding a banana underneath.Keanu Reeves lives up to what you expect of him as an actor and James spader is good as a burned out FBI agent, but sadly it has the feeling of a movie where they shot two thirds and ran out of money and had to end it in a hurry./Steelsky  "},{"Title":"cat and mice","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is a nice movie for people who love cat and mice films. the story is not that geniue and very short to tell, but i dont want to spoil the thrill. keanu reeves is not that good in this movie. it looks to me as if the story was writen around keanu. the plot seems to me a little bit short. the end is very clear from the begining. there are no real suprises.all in all this movie is neat to be seen but only for fans of keanu reeves. the rest can be put aside. "},{"Title":"A must see thriller!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher is a great mystery and thriller which kept me on the edge of my seat until the very end. Keanu Reeves is brilliant is his turn as a villian- and so is Spader as the detective and Tomei as the innocent therapist. This movie is very exciting and hip and in style- a movie which all 21th century films should now become like. This movie did not hold any 90s crap in the past with horror flicks like I Know What You Did Last Summer or Scream- it holds its own plot and sticks with it. The music downplays the eerie feeling of a strangler and serial killer- it has it all. But the only problem is the short running time of 96 minutes- it easily could've been longer and better- but this movie was for a 'now' basis anyway.Out of four stars- I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"Very Exciting!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found The Watcher a very exciting film to watch. It's one off those films where you're at the edge of your seat waiting to see what happens next. Keanu Reeves is brilliant and very believable as The Watcher. Not forgetting James Spader who is great too. This is a film which you could definitely watch allot. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  All people have seen this movie says Terrible Waste of time Horribly boring...etc. Then I went to video rental shop, there weren't anything worth to rent.This film was not that boring than I'd expected. It had some thrilling chase scenes, and a Good actor James spader. I like Keanu Reeves so much but he seemed like a fish out of water. Maybe it's just my opinion, because I've always used to seeing him in lead roles, not a serial killer.What was his motivation of serial killing? Probably Keanu's character feels so lonely, he needs someone to pay attention to him. Not that bad to think this one as a Horribly boring. "},{"Title":"A charming killer","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am Keanu's fan, which is the only reason that I went to watch this movie. I found that this is a quite exciting, entertaining movie. It catches audiences' attention from the beginning to the end. Even though the ending is too sudden.If I am not Keanu's fan, maybe I will feel scary. But even when he kill those girls or he try to be cool, I still think he is sweet. In fact I enjoy it very much, I am not scared at all. )James Spader is good.  "}{"Title":"Watch it and enjoy!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everybody keeps giving this movie bad reviews, but I really liked it.  It seemed a little short and I have seen better dramas, but it's worth seeing.  Joe Charbanic did a great job on the visual effects.  They were effective, but not overdone.  I would recommend this movie to anyone.  Although, I must admit that I am a bit partial.  My friend can be seen in the first ten minutes of the film.  Still, it is a great movie and I think the critics are wrong!  It's dramatic, suspenseful, and even humorous in some parts.  Watch it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"An unexpectedly good movie.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I heard Keanu Reeves was going to be playing a character with depth, I groaned.  His previous roles have all been notoriously similar, and he's never shaken the Bill & Ted image.  I was unprepared for good acting on his part.  Most of his more recent sci-fi roles he has succeeded in because of his image--he just fits it perfectly--and this may also be the case for serial killers.  Keanu Reeves' and James Spader's characters both advanced through the story, and there were several wonderful lines.  I wasn't fond of the credits, but I like any movie that opens up its action with a Rob Zombie song. "},{"Title":"Please Mr. Reeves!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Was Keanu Reeves in his right mind when he accepted a part in this film? I feel asleep halfway through this film in the theater, my girlfriend had to wake me up about 5 times before it finally ended! Scouts honor! The story of this film is about as thrilling as an insurance seminar! I am amazed how this script was actually picked up and then developed? And I was chocked to see that the cost landed on 30.000000$!Do not waste your time or money on this very cheap and boring one in a dozen film! "},{"Title":"TOO UNDERRATED THRILLER","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw it already twice with my wife on DVD. I found it even better than the first time two years ago. The story accelerated the suspense till the end and there were some scary moments you wish to close the eyes.Very interesting the bad boy role of Keanu Reeves. He got better and better in his first psycho-murder character performance. It is a pity that the murder is very soon known and sometimes the movie is not very realistic.I think this one could work anyway if you like little action packed thriller with a touch of suspense. All in all a too underrated thriller. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Laughably awful 'thriller'","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Holey moley. Where to begin... Was this up for any Raspberry Awards ? Because it should've swept them. James Spader and Marisa Tomei, oh yeah you *had* careers. A long time ago or they wouldn't be offering you parts like this. I note that the director hasn't worked since, and as such you could consider the release of this movie to be a public service.Deadly dull, boring anaemic characters. Not one thrill in all of it. Keanu Reeves wasn't the least bit scary - whoa dude! you're supposed to be a pyscho! Although the director didn't help you out much. A travesty. "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST SERIAL KILLER FILM TO DATE!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think what makes this film stand apart from the other catch the killer films is the emotional way the victims are portrayed. Most films you see the murder happen or often with the police finding the victim... right? In this film the killer gives police a day to find victims. During that time it is sort of like getting to know them. When the time comes that they must die or triumph over the killer, you really care! Not like most films where you wait for the death in anticipation. In this one you really want them to survive.   James Spader and Keanu Reeves give EXCELLENT performances. Keanu in particular has blossomed as an actor. He deserves an Oscar but will never get one because of his past films(Ted) and because of the type of film this is.It is a must see! "},{"Title":"i was amazed by keanu reeves' talent in this movie...","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i thought this movie was well filmed, the actors were amazing, especially keanu reeves who was charming, creepy, and made you hate him and be intrigued by him all at the same time. i thought he did an excellent job. the movie was a bit weird at points but all-in-all, i thought it was really good. "},{"Title":"The Plan 9 from Outer Space of serial killer movies","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm really not bothered by the fact that The Watcher is one giant cliche from beginning to end.  I'm bothered more by the fact that it's a badly executed cliche.  Actually, in a sense, The Watcher is an amazing accomplishment because, let's be honest, it's got to take effort to make a movie this bad.Okay, I'll be honest with you; I'm having some trouble thinking of what to say in this review because, well, there's so much wrong with The Watcher that I just can't think of where to begin.  Or perhaps my mind has been permanently damaged by the incoherent and constant use of flashback in the movie, not the mention the slow motion.  Don't get me started on the slow motion!  Look!  Keanu's dancing to Rob Zombie!  Better shoot it in slow motion; it'll make him seem reeeaaal scary!  What's that?  A chase screen?  Whip out that slow motion, raise the dramatic bar, yeah!  Huh?  Keanu's looking at someone?  Make sure you use that slow motion because everyone knows that serial killers don't view the world at normal speed.  Seriously, like half the movie is shot in slow motion, which only seems to make The Watcher seem even longer than it already is.  And when you want a movie to end as badly as I wanted this one to end, you just don't want that, let me tell you.And let's just leave the ridiculous plot and terrible acting out of this altogether and talk about the soundtrack for a moment.  A lot of the film is filled with your pretty typical scary movie type of music, and it's overused and annoying in of itself.  But what's up with all the techno rock stuff?  In the middle of some really important, climatic scene, where someone's about to die or something, I'm not thinking it's a good idea to whip out the drum machine and turn up the bass.And what's up with that phantom police car?  I'm not kidding, at one point, James Spader's in the middle of a chase and a cop car appears out of nowhere, door open, keys in ignition, siren on, and Spader just hops in it and goes.  Where did that car come from?  I demand to know!Well, needless to say, I hate this movie in a crazy, angry kind of way.  There were points in the movie during which I was literally shaking my fist at the screen from the sheer irritation of it all.  I should have just left the theater, and I'm not sure why I didn't.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Watching the The Watcher with Open Eyes--Worthwhile (spoilers)","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" SPOILER WARNINGAre You Watching The Watcher? Keanu Reeves once said that you can go far in life by the simple act of paying attention. To paraphrase Morpheus in The Matrix, I would ask critics, Are you watching The Watcher? Or are you looking at the woman in the red dress? Are you seeing what is before your eyes, or bringing all your preconceived distracting notions to your viewing of the film?Jettison preconceived notions about film technique being self-indulgent on the part of the director. You think a film has to be all in focus, on tightly matched stock, and with principle actors always lit? Oh you might make an exception for Blair Witch and Martin Scorsesse, but otherwise they blow off techniques as intrusive.  You enjoy Hemingway for his clear, clean, crisp prose. So, you'd blow off Virginia Woolf or Shakespeare because they demonstrate verbal exuberance and intricacy of technique?The Watcher is exuberant in technique and therefore exciting--something is happening visually every minute. Like The Matrix used special effects, The Watcher uses photographic techniques, always pounding forward. This movie doesn't veer off the track of it's story, it doesn't mess around. That's why it can pack a wholloping story into 97 minutes. It's an odd word to use in the context, but this movie is PURE. PURE as in CONCENTRATED, 99 & 99/100% pure storytelling--in images & characterizations conveyed not just in words but strongly in the visual realm. Hey, one picture worth a thousand words; one sound-enhanced, talking, moving picture worth innumerable densely worded scripts. And Jettison those preconceived notions about Keanu Reeves. He's playing Ted dude over the top, you say. He's wooden, walking through the movie? Where you paying attention? I think not. When he seems like Ted dude, he's playing off the persona. You say wooden, but I see subtle, playing off the everyman, ordinary guy quality he so effortlessly embodies. Reeves brought out multidimensions--he could make you laugh while you felt absolutely creepy.  He looked charming enough to fool the girls, but with something not quite right about him--perfectly in character. And that dancing Reeves did--lithe and rhythmic, but at the same time skin-crawlingly CREEPY. Think Nicholson in The Shining. You want backstory on why Griffin kills? Check that notion. You want to spoil the core of the piece--the serial killer as an irrational, not-to-be understood force of human nature. This is how we see them, how they come to us over the wires and the airwaves--without their story told.Jettison those preconceived notions about Spader's career crashing. Did you see the sympathy evoked for his in the camera, just by his demeanor and the way he speaks his lines. And yet, as with Reeves, there are resonances at play here too, with the not-so-good, the downright bad roles, Spader has played. The director, Joe Charbanic, said he wanted actors who could have interchanged the Griffin and the Campbell roles. He definitely got those actors. Casting can be an art too.You critics said, it made so sense for Campbell stop pursuing his nemesis. He lacked motivation for quitting and then taking up detecting again. Hello? Did you get the intelligence of the script in just suggesting (not spelling it out) that for Campbell, in his awful professional detachment, pursing Griffin was just like a challenge, a game that kept him sparkling and alive. Until Griffin got jealous and murdered close to Campbell's heart, killing his enthusiasm for the game. It's more than both characters wearing surgical gloves that links the characters together. There's some depth here, something to think about, if you're paying attention.The actors don't look good you say? There's faded glory there in Spader and Tomei, as the director intended. There's a charm oozing up from Griffin--heck, I'd dance with him as he was in the photo shop or on with the homeless woman.  Your idea of beauty must be a very shallow notion.There was some falling out with the director.  Did that distract you? Oh, I think it did. When obviously Reeves is acting his heart out here, when obviously the director and cinematographer are enhancing every nuance of that performance by their art.  And checkout the homage to The Matrix. Betcha didn't even see it. Oh maybe you caught the Rob Zombie song, but did you see the odd picture on the wall in the head detective's office (of a keyboard, reminiscent of pictures on the wall in the Metacortex building); the very evocative graffiti; the reflections in glasses; and the greenish phone that rings (not buzzes) waking a lonely guy from sleep in his narrow single bed in his cluttered solitary apartment. This is the kind of allusion to and influence from The Matrix that is a joy to see.So to critics, are you watching, The Watcher? Or are you thinking about what you plan to write in your review? "},{"Title":"Watch this film","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In an unexpected and surprisingly great performance, Keanu Reeves has turned evil in The Watcher. I'm not huge fans of James Spader or Keanu Reeves; however, that didn't stop me from watching this film. I'm glad I got the chance to rent this movie because I did not enjoy this film, I have come to enjoy and appreciate Spader and Reeves as actors.Reeves' departure from his usual good guy persona to portray a serial killer was outstanding. The Watcher offers nothing new in way of plot but it does have performances turned in by Reeves and Spader that will keep viewers on the edge of their seats. While predictable, I was on the edge of my seat hoping certain scenes would not evolve the way they did; even though, I knew what was going to happen, it was enjoyable to watch how it would unfold. I found the methods that the serial killer used to be incredible because of the unique way he went about carrying them out. Overall, The Watcher was a movie that can be summed up in one word EXCITING.  "}{"Title":"Just some good ol' fashioned serial killing fun.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher tells of a serial killer (Reeves) who plays cat & mouse with a burnt out FBI agent (Spader) by stalking him and sending him photos of his next victim, all young women, 24 hours before killing them. Slammed by the critics for not being heady enough for their cultivated cinematic tastes, this little flick is a surprisingly enjoyable mix of good versus evil with a delicious babe (Tomei) caught in the middle of a psychodrama which begs the question which is cat and which is mouse? The film doesn't get too graphic, is always busy with no filler, has summa-dis and summa-dat (no sex), is unusually free of plot holes, keeps you awake and thinking while still being a no brainer, and wraps everything up neatly in a 5 minute bomblastic conclusion. An excellent sofa spud watch circulating on cable. (B-) "},{"Title":"Very exciting Retro Crime Thriller. Quite entertaining in both performances and technique...  Rewatchability Very High  Blu-ray Excellent  A10  V10","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" BRIEF BLU-RAY REVIEW This Blu-ray is SHARP! Yes, they likely did some DNR (digital noise reduction) since this is one of the earlier Blu-rays, but not detrimentally so. The picture is sharp, clean and very nice looking. For a 2000 film it looks awesome, and the sound is very good too.Now, to the film...I sure don't understand some of these very nasty and negative reviews. This was quite simply a riveting, well made, well acted Crime Thriller. I honestly don't know what more you could want or ask for in a film of this type. One person here said something about MTV and 'Frenetic Editing'...??? WHAT...?! It was exactly the opposite. YES, the film and visual techniques are indeed stylized, but there is absolutely NOTHING 'Frenetic' about it. Watch the 2nd and 3rd 'Bourne' films if you want to see what frenetic editing looks like. There is a total absence of palsy-induced, shaky camera work. The shots are classically structured and edited. The style comes in with some nice colouring effects thrown in HERE AND THERE and I personally REALLY loved the soundtrack. Yes, it is from it's time, but the songs are very effective and there is a nice blend of original scoring too that fits the film quite nicely. Technically, to me anyway, the film is flawless and looked and sounded great (especially on Blu-ray )Whether you like Keanu or not might have a bearing as to how much you like the film. I felt that for the part that he played that he pulled it off nicely and his characterization was perfect. I have always really loved James Spader (platonically ) I think he is the living $h!tz of cool. I've just always really dug the understated and low- key, sardonic slant that he gives his characters. All the other supporting actors / actresses did a fine job that also fit in very well with the tone and feel of the film.It is a Classic Serial Killer / Police Thriller with great action, excellent pacing, and a nice time-appropriate feel and style. I really liked the director and the way he did the film very much. I was quite surprised to see that he did not go on to make very many more films. For this Genre, I felt that he delivered a very effective movie. It certainly is not just Mindless Action as so many others are. There is a very real soul and believability to the characters and why they do what they do. I think that the mood and overall feel of the film is perfect, with a well suited soundtrack. Oh, without giving anything away, I LOVED the scene at about 37 minutes as the cops gather briefly in the mall to look for the current victim. Truly Classic!I don't know... maybe people are all into the current trend of Dark, moody Noir Thrillers that are coming out now. And, granted, I love those too, I really do. BUT... I guess even though this was made only about 15 years ago, it's look and style might be considered kind of antiquated compared to newer films. That may be true. But, in my lowly and wretched opinion, I feel that that is NO reason to dismiss this highly entertaining and involving Thriller just because it comes from a slightly different era. Some jaded numbnut snobs here glibly state, Full of '90s clichés That just simply is not true. There are a TON of very blah, pointless, and NON-entertaining Crime Thrillers out there, believe me. But, THIS is most definitely NOT one of them...FWIW, here is my take on movies in general. And, I PROMISE not to go on and bore you to death... Simply this No matter WHAT the style, time period, or Genre, a Movie is a Movie. It is either a good movie or a bad movie (or many times something in between) Now, there may be certain TYPES of movies that you just don't like. For example, for me I find no entertainment value in sadistic Torture Porn films. Others may really like them, but I can say that for me personally, categorically I just do not like them. Okay... Some say that the first 'SAW' film was very clever and a new approach to Horror. Fine... I can acknowledge that for that type of film, it is probably one of the best. But, I just don't like those types. So, the same may be true about this film here. Maybe you don't like the more glossy, somewhat stylized Crime Thrillers that were made 15-20 years ago; maybe they just go against your grain and aren't your 'thing'. well, in that case I would say then that it is likely that you may not enjoy this one, unless you really happen to like either or both Keanu Reeves and James Spader.Bottom line... If you happen to like the style of Crime Thrillers made around the this time, it is one of the more entertaining and well made ones. I personally found it quite gripping and it really drew me right into the story. So, if this is your kind of movie, I really don't see how you can miss... It is not especially 'Weighty' or profound, but then neither is it mindless. To me, it sits solidly in the middle where probably the broadest entertainment value is for most people.So... if you are looking for a good, entertaining, well acted and well directed Crime Thriller and you are not just exclusively interested in the newer Darker, moodier Noirish style that kind of predominates Crime Films at the moment, and you can just sit back and enjoy a good Cop / Serial Killer story, then you probably will have a LOT of fun watching this one as I did. "},{"Title":"Very watchable thriller,  with a much miscasted psycho","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Here's a nice side dish of a serial killer thriller, in spite of an inadequate performance in role of the title, although we weren't expecting Oscar glory here. The premise is good, although borrows little parts from other movies of this ilk. Taunted ex cop, Spader has moved to the windy city, on the count of a case involving a serial killer, David Allen Griffin (Reeves) who's tracked him down, and come back out of hiding, ready to begin a new f with you game, cat and mouse, what have you. Reeves's character, void of any emotion, quite an easy thing for this actor to play, plays a cool and cold nutter who watches women for weeks, jots down their routines, studies them, then on that big night, strangles them mercilessly with piano wire. This time around, Spader has Reeves sending him fed ex's with photos of intended victims, then gives him a time ratio to track down these women, solely relying on the evidence of photo, before they're a bloody memory. Pity Spader doesn't check his mail everyday, where Spader's propelled right back into action, teaming up with other authorities to try and nail this psycho, his partner looking like Freeman's good friend from Kiss The Girl's, and Along Came A Spider. The Watcher I must say, is quite an involving psycho thriller, just not as good as the others, but fans of the genre will love it. I really enjoyed this movie. It's very suspenseful in portions of the film, and is bloody too. You really feel sorry for the young women who die at Reeve's hand. Reeves is truly miscast. He's unbelievable and is about as scary as a cool draft. It's one of the worst casting decisions ever made, but there a story behind this. Spader's really good as the taunted cop, the meeting between him and Reeves in the cemetery, funny and interesting, my favorite scene, something you wouldn't expect. For Spader, it's the first time he sees this killer as remaining faceless for his past years in his taunting. I must say, I liked the car chase, and Marissa Tomei as the shrink was solid, but really deserves better material than this. I did really enjoy The Watcher though, but watching Keanu play psycho, is taxing, if torturous, his dancing, throwing a bit of relief into it. "},{"Title":"A thrilling and refreshing watch","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This thriller kind of seems old hat or may'be it came a little too late, but whatever, it's a refreshing serial killer pic. We see less and less of them now, and back when it came out in 2001, in the chronological footsteps of Hannibal, it was an open relief, there was another serial killer pic on standby. The Watcher is fun and totally entertaining, despite a terrible performance from Reeves, as a demented twisted nut who strangles young innocent women, loners, strays runaways, with piano wire, his motives kept under lock and key here. Enter retired and haunted Detective Spader, who was working the case, now reduced to what little life he has, in his new city, seeing a shrink (Marissa Tomei-the best out of the three leads) and dining at the same lousy Vietnamese restaurant. But guess who's back in town on the taunt. Pulled back into action, Spader now works with the cops in tracking down Reeves, who's sending him photographs by envelope of intended murder victims, and so begins a race against time, where Spader's given so many days to find them. Spader's off to a good start as he's not a daily mail checker. By photo, he has to make out the location, then doorknock, etc. There's moments of great intensity, amidst some lashings of heavy gore at times (remember piano wire can really cut deep) and we see Keanu waltz with one of the chosen, before the young stray senses this guys odd, and makes an exit. There's something definitely odd about Keanu's performance. He doesn't even come across as a serial killer, his straight hair that gives him more of an ordinary look. It's probably one of the worst casting decisions I've ever seen in my life. The Watcher does have bits of great suspense, plus an explosive, you would say and cool car chase, that really proves what this nuts capable of. Spader later is summoned by Keanu to a cemetery that provides some funny moments. When Tomei becomes in danger, Spader must save her and kill Keanu and finally puts his demons to rest. A highly entertaining serial killer flick, of course not in the same vein as Hannibal, and with such helpless victims here, who've never done any harm to anybody, it makes you wanna get up and shout at Reeves, and tell him to actually get a life instead of taking one. "},{"Title":"James Spader's Best Film To Date.","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you are a James Spader fan and haven't yet seen this film, I suggest you BUY this on DVD because it's worth every penny spent on it.Keanu Reeves plays his role in the film to perfection. This is a side of Reeves you have never before seen in his other films.In the film Reeves plays a serial killer who sends the police a picture of his intended victim and then tells them to try to find out who the victim is before he kills.Spader plays a retired FBI special agent tormented by Reeves to the point that he is hooked on antidepressants. Spader gives us his best acting in the film and I think overall he is the best actor in the film.Brilliantly directed by Joe Charbanic, The Watcher is a relentless thriller that never slow downs but keeps up its pace till the final conclusion. "},{"Title":"One of the better serial killer movies","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is unique in it's approach towards the serial killer story. Does it draw you in? Yes it does. Does it give you a dark, foreboding and sinister story? Oh you bet it does! The Watcher is an extremely entertaining if not almost borderline on brilliant film making on a rare and unique scale. This film embodies a certain flare and style that you have to be open minded and somewhat of a serial Killer thriller lover to really appreciate this film style and grandeur of it to see the murky and dark brilliance that lays beneath it all.This movie is not a particularly mind blowing SK thriller but it does have it's moments that it really jumps out at you and there are a few moments in the movie that you just jump in fright and that's when you know your watching a good thriller. Keanu( Who I thought was good in this as the SK but not quite good enough.) turns in a rather impressive performance as David Alan Griffin a man who lives to kill, a man who thrives on taking away another' s life. A man who lurks in the shadows and watches you and admires you like a cat before he kills a mouse Keanu's serial killer was ingenious in his planning and his methods were very smart and clean but what lacked here was the fact that none of his victim's had an adverse affect on the story, that was the only let down but besides that it was interesting to watch him work.James Spader plays a very convincing cop in this film, but not to convincing there are some scenes where you see almost no emotion or empathy for the victims of Griffin at all but that is easy to put to the side what redeems Spader in this film is his relentless chase of Griffin and his iron determination to bring him down. That's what saves Spader and that's what makes it fun to watch him work.Marisa Tomei this film could have done with out she really lowered the standards with her bland and very bad performance as the compassionate Psychiatrist( I mean she won an Oscar for crying out loud!! She can do better than than this!) she really made it almost a drag to see her on screen (but hey at least she's nice to look at.) all in all she was the main weak point in this film not Keanu.When you over look the main outer layers of the story and get dug and see the inner layers you can fully comprehend and see the near greatness of this film and the great style it brings to the the thriller genre all in all The Watcher delivers great edge of your seat, blow out the lights entertainment you can't over look. Basically this film flat out rocks. "},{"Title":"Formulaic thriller.","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm beginning to wonder if the serial killer story is not becoming a genre unto itself, like the Western or the 1950s Big Bug movies or the patriotic war films of the 1940s. It seems to be developing its own facile conventions. The killer communicates with, and taunts, the person pursuing him. Sometimes he may leave clues behind -- based on, let me see, Alice in Wonderland, the seven deadly sins, the methodology of previous serial murderers. The cop's girl friend is dragged into the plot by the hair.It's all very familiar by now and bears as much relationship to reality as the fastest draw in the Western. The ludicrous conventions enter and become embedded in public consciousness. I mean it. Thumbs up/ thumbs down was invented for a silent movie about Rome directed, I think, by DeMille. Nobody on the set knew the proper signals, so they were made up on the spot and now everyone believes them. (Actually, I think the signals varied from one venue to another.) I've heard people who ought to know better attribute to Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto the line, I fear all we have done is awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve. Great line. Invented by the writers of Tora Tora Tora. This uninteresting entry into the serial killer genre has David Spader as the Chicago detective, slightly unhinged by a previous experience with the same killer (blandly handsome Keanu Reeves) in Los Angeles. The pursuit involves multiple car chases, a musical score that pounds the viewer into insensibility, garrotes, an uncannily intuitive murderer, blossoming fireballs, frantic cops, rooftop marathons, and the rest of the usual elements. The girl friend is Marisa Tomei as an unconvincing clinical psychologist, just along for the ride.At one point, Spader the detective lectures Reeves the egomaniacal murderer -- Do you know how many serial murderers are operating in Chicago right now? Five. In the Midwest? Twelve. Why, serial murderers are as thick as fleas on a hound dog's back! I don't really care that they're becoming a cash cow for the movie industry. Some examples, though still restricted to the formula, can have aspirations. Just as there have been good Westerns, there have been good serial murderer movies -- Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer or Seven. Most, like most Westerns, are no more than commercial junk.What really gets me edgy is the possibility that they are altering public beliefs, our entire culture. The Western was irrelevant because it was set safely in the past, but the serial killer may be the guy who drives the diaper truck or that creep who seemed to stare blankly at you on the bus. Is this the sort of thing that will provide us with our arousal jags for years into the indefinable future? Or, let's put it another way. Don't we have enough REAL things to worry about? "},{"Title":"subpar in every way...","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Upon seeing the opening credits - my thought was, bad opening credit production - maybe the movie will be better....The Watcher is a formulaic, underwhelming attempt at a thriller. The first thing that struck me was the blurry, amateurish camera work. The chopped up action sequences were few and far in between - and that might have been a Godsend because every time it happened I got a headache.If it wasn't the camera making me sick - it was the sheer stupidity of the characters and the production in general. I could throw out a litany of plot mistakes(here one minute gone the next etc).The under-development of every character not played by James Spader is inexcusable. When it comes to serial killer films I think the single most important thing is to give depth to the killer. Michael Mann did it in Manhunter... Demme slammed it home in Silence of the Lambs(and he barely had to show Buffalo Bill to do it)....We don't know what makes Keanu demented.... it's been only 12 hours since I watched the movie and I can't even remember the serial killer's name(that's not a good sign)...I know he liked to dance(to bad music mind you) and I know that he is perhaps the dumbest serial killer of all-time.... If the director here did a little research he'd realize that he not only needs to make the killer unique but he needs to give him an I.Q. over 70.This is NOT a good choice. This seems like an average made-for-TV film... the production value's are weak... the character's are weak... I cannot recommend this to anyone. Spader's performance isn't bad but he's given a terrible vehicle here. 29/100 "},{"Title":"Did you spot the mistake?","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In the Watcher, did you notice the mistake in the movie? well, in the scene where the F.B.I agent is talking on the phone with an anonymous phone caller about the missing girl Ellie. If you look at the computer screen at her desk, you'll see a picture of the 2nd girl they will be looking for, Jesse. During this time they are looking for the girl named Ellie. I must also say that i loved Keanu Reeves and James spader in these roles, but i wonder what it would have been like if their roles would have been switched. Im just wondering, what do you think David(Keanu) means about what he said about the way he felt earlier in the movie when he's in the bathroom? "},{"Title":"Impressive rendering of a tormented man coming together again","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the kind of film a commercial TV channel shows around midnight, that I happened on when I should really be off to bed. At once I was completely stuck. I had to rent it and watch it again. Unlike the violent, foul-mouthed cops Hollywood produces 13 to a dozen we are presented with the vulnerable wreck of a man who is asked by his therapist if he wants to live on disability even though he's still young; and then, when his past catches up with him, he's transformed, totally focused. His calm fascinated me.I found the script intelligent, brilliant (if it was based on a novel I would like to read it). For instance in the way they give us small pieces of the catastrophe three years earlier and then leave us to put the jigsaw together, somehow caught up in the stream of consciousness of the hero's mind. And the editing wonderfully underscored the way dreams of past horrors become intertwined with the horrors of the present. Seeing the film for the second and third time I realize how certain themes are hinted at in the dialogue, and how cleverly they let him comment on what is shown -- dreams? past events? what's actually happening? -- even as he speaks. Nothing is irrelevant -- you really should take notice of everything, which is impossible and which is why the film can be seen several times before you catch it all. Or nearly all.What is totally lacking though is an explanation as to how the villain has become the monster he is -- I do like Keanu Reeves, but for this kind of role I think a real actor is needed, like John Malkovich, who plays psychopaths so convincingly.So in spite of this flaw I gave the film the highest vote, for the script, the editing and for the performances of lovely Marisa Tomei and vulnerable James Spader. Simply wonderful.Oh, and I must add, having skipped through the 15 pages with the 142 comments preceding mine, that this seems to be a film most appreciated by women. So for the man thinking of seeing it, be sure to be interested in the psychological side of life before watching. And as a female I see no bonding whatsoever between Campbell and the serial killer, as has been hinted at in other comments -- Campbell only says what he has to say in order to save a life -- he's simply controlling the situation. "}{"Title":"Good movie,BUT.....","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Keanu is my favorite Hollywood personality of all times and I really liked this movie. Keanu is like wonderful in it and very sexy as always.It shows what variety he has in his acting and I was glad to see him do such an awesome performance. The man can play any part and be amazing at it,but I just don't like watching him play a person like this. <---laughs.I prefer seeing him play romantic,comedy,drama,and action rolls where he is the good guy. If he would have played the cop in The Watcher then that would have been more up my alley.<---laughs. I do own the movie however and I do watch it on occasion. Is there anyone else reading this who feels the way I do? "},{"Title":"Failed attempt.","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It appears as if this movie was an attempt at a spin off of a Sherlock Holmes - Professor Moriarty relationship - - whereby Holmes reverts to a drugged state (Cocaine) - when not stimulated to action by the evil deeds of Moriarty.  Keanu Reeves plays the Moriarty character (pure evil) and James Spader plays the brilliant detective who has descended into a perennial drugged state - - with Marisa Tomei playing a Watson like biographer - - only this time using audiotapes.  James Spader's character is drugged to the max - until a serial killer from his past hits town.  In a flash - all vestiges of drug dependency are gone - - and a brilliant no nonsense detective takes charge.Although not necessarily the fault of the actors - this film fails at both character and plot development.  Not really worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Wannabe SE7EN without the talent! more like a TH3EE","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Common indeed is the complaint that Keanu consistently plays himself on screen (and why NOT, John Wayne made a good living out of it?). Personally I think Spader is a one-turn actor. From WOLF to CRASH to this.....same guy!Derivative and artistically self-indulgent in the extreme, I've still seen way worse films than this. Sure Spader's flakey FBI agent is only a couple of PROZAC short of being unhinged himself, while excuse me while I laugh serial killer Reeves follows him to Chicago coz he just wants to be friends with his long time nemesis.Light-on in the graphic-death area, intelligence and realism THE WATCHER still manages to be a half decent loopy killer flick. Even a bit for the CGI team at the end.A tad pretentious but hey, it TRIES to be meaningful! "},{"Title":"a formula thriller that offers no surprises","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A serial killer with a strange fascination for piano wire and a FBI agent on the wrong end of a nervous breakdown could easily be the stuff for an interesting film. But not here. From the moment James Spader (who gives a good performance by the way) appears onscreen the formula kicks in. one girl killed in each act. We know they are going to die because we have already met the last (and only surviving) victim in reel one. We just have to wait for the serial killer to get to her.It's a hollywood movie by the numbers and as such completely avoids any indication of suspense or tension despite the cast trying hard - even Keenu and he's not known for knocking theatrical socks off.No wonder it did poorly at the box office - still it's not terrible, just not much good. "},{"Title":"Very odd film","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film was odd but was alright i have only seen it once. I got it DVD a couple of months ago and will watch it again someday. The story is pretty good the cast is alright. James Spader did good as the Cop. Keaun Reeves Did very good as the Man who tormented James Spader. And and apperence from Erine Hundson(Ghostbusters 1&2)was good to see "},{"Title":"1.5 out of 5 stars","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Clichéd, repetitive serial killer `thriller' with no originality and little idea how to create suspense.  A serial killer (Keanu Reeves) follows a FBI agent (James Spader) from Los Angeles to Chicago so they can continue their cat-and-mouse game while several more young women die strangled deaths.  Reeves may be the most likable and polite serial killer ever portrayed in film; he has feelings, no sexual malice, and even an appreciation for candles and sentimentality.  Spader, on the other hand, is tough to buy as a worn-down FBI agent trying to escape his unsuccessful past through a high dose of drugs and frequent visits to his psychologist (Marisa Tomei).  This film follows in long line of films where the killer is more interested in engaging the cop on his trail than in killing his victims; Reeves spends a few minutes with every victim and days planning his next move against Spader.  First-time director Joe Charbanic brings nothing new to a tired, overdone genre.  The film struggles uphill for 90 minutes and then falls flat on its face with a grotesque, ridiculous finale "},{"Title":"good","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie ranks as a good suspense movie, as serial killer Keanu Reeves follows detective James Spader after the latter moves. Reeves starts tracking down and killing victims, tantalizing Spader with clues as he does.One weakness the plot never goes into detail as to why Reeves has singled out Spader, or if there is some type of relationship or past event to trigger their obsessions with each other.Still, the performances and suspense are good. I liked it when I saw it, and you might like it too.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"So-so thriller","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The trailer for this movie held more suspense than the actual movie did. Movie felt like it had been heavily edited so you could never identify with any of the characters. Can understand why Reeves didn't want his name used for promotion of the film. "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful, Awful....","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Where do I begin...? In seeing it's short theatrical run, and reading the reviews I was prepared for bad with this stinker. I just didn't know how really bad, Bad could mean. Even as cheap pulp, this movie fails. From the two miscast stars (with Spader over acting in his role and Reeves napping through his),... predictable plot twists,... a wasted Oscar winning talent,... bad special effects, poor editing... the list goes on. I guess the if any word came to mind while watching this movie... frustrating.James Spader as the tortured cop seems tortured all right. My guess is he slipped too far into his method acting or he just hated the script. Although Keanu Reeves should be applauded for trying new roles, his confidence, conviction and character seem wholly unbelievable. Is he supposed to be a serial killer or a super-hero? Worse the vague connection between the two, re-told in a series of confusing flashbacks leave the audience caring about niether character. Marisa Tomei, although a great comedic talent, doesn't seem convincing enough to portray a licensed psychologist (think Bruce Willis in The Color Of Night).That being said, acting isn't the piece that haunts The Watcher the most it's the direction. The worst formula directing I've seen in a medium budget picture in a long time. Chase scenes that aren't thrilling, plot points are predictably laid out, and the film seems flat stylistically. This whole flick screams straight to video.Watching The Watcher wasn't pleasant. Save yourself the pain and rent Manhunter instead.  "},{"Title":"Good rental. Better than expected.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spader's better than usual performance surprised me. A few glaring oversights in plot. I did like the question of who needs who to find meaning. No twists or surprises. The cinematography was interesting throughout. The atmosphere held my interest. Overall a good rental. Not much gore. Not much sexual content. Suitable for teens. "}{"Title":"As basic as a serial killer movie can be. Is it good or bad thing, I can't tell.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are lousy serial killer movies that hardly keeps you awake and there are those really good ones like The Silence of the lambs and Seven that keeps on shocking every time. And of course then there are the ones left in between. The Watcher is one of those films. It isn't actually that terrific but not necessarily bad either. Nothing makes it a masterpiece but I can't think of anything so bad to say about it. I can tell that it won't give you nightmares...and one thing is for certain it includes nothing we haven't seen before. Still, this the director Joe Charbanic's debut movie. It's not all that bad to start with, I'll give him that. Maybe his next will be even better.Keanu Reeves plays the notorious serial killer David Allen Griffin and even though we are used to see him as a good guy (Jack Traven in Speed, Neo in The Matrix... actually Much ado about nothing is the only film I can think of right now where Reeves plays the villain) he does nothing surprising - still the same Keanu as always. Someone might still say that Reeves steals the show. I don't agree. James Spader was a big surprise for me because I wasn't that familiar with him yet. If something, his role is a reason to watch this film. I guess for most people this flick would be a rather easy one to forget. If your plan is to see The Watcher, go ahead and catch it in a movie theater like I did. Although it's not filled with special effects and action I don't know if it would work at all in a small TV screen. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie just not a particularly interesting one","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really like James Spader and Keanu Reeves alot and I wanted to like this movie, I really did.  However, it just didn't spark an interest in me. The acting was okay (though a bit unemotional) but I think it is more the fault of a poor script than poor acting. Keanu's part was not over-the-top enough for a crazed killer, and he was certainly not scary. James Spader does a good job as the strung-out cop, but his character was written very inconsistently (e.x. He doesn't want to track Reeves anymore and moves away to avoid him, but when Reeves shows up in Chicago, Spader barely hesitates to get back on the case. He's in the FBI, one would think they could re-locate him somewhere where Reeves couldn't find him if he really wanted to be away). The relationship between Reeves (killer) and Spader (cop)is strange and unclear and way too unemotional (e.x. The graveyard scene Why was Spader so autistic when finally face-to-face with this killer who has been haunting and destroying his life for years?? He doesn't act the least surprised or show any emotion. What's worse is rather than shoot him, Spader gives the killer his gun and gets in the car with him?!?! What the hell??). Marisa Tomei is an academy award caliber actress, yet she is reduced to a screaming ninny; a worn out cliche of the damsel in distress. Her talent is completely wasted. I never felt myself getting lost in the movie or gripped in a moment of suspense or even once said Wow to a scene or situation while watching this movie. The cinematography was competent enough. Its obvious the movie had high production values and the movie included several nice shots of a Chicago areas. The director attempted to be flashy but came off a bit contrived and the movement seemed more like a music video at times rather than a feature film. The music was pretty horrible throughout.However, the main problem obviously was the complete lack of originality in the plot. A wash-out cop with a troubled past and something to prove tracking/maintaining a personal relationship with a killer he has a vendetta against...a cat and mouse game ensues culminating in final showdown, where cop redeems himself and saves the damsel in distress. How many times has this tired plot been hashed out?? Its not a bad plot, it just has been ran into the ground. I suggest rent/buy a better more original movie in the genre like Seven, The Silence of the Lambs, or Citizen X before renting/buying the Watcher. This movie doesn't do anything particularly wrong but then again doesn't do anything particularly new or original with its over-used plot vehicle. MY RATING 5/10 A completely ambivalent experience. Fans of the thriller/serial killer genre might enjoy, but I think most would find it pretty mediocre. "},{"Title":"A movie that has mediocrity all over it","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As the movie went along, I could only think of one word mediocre. Everything in this movie is mediocre the predictable plot, the characters, the acting, the music... nothing, I mean NOTHING was either better or worse than that. There's nothing downright laughable, but there's absolutely nothing that raised even a little bit my level of interest. Spader plays a totally clichéd FBI agent, the kind that keeps only old junk food in his refrigerator and has nightmares, plus a bad story that keeps haunting him. Something that Leslie Nielsen was already spoofing twelve years ago. Reeves the psychopath -- an absolutely unscary one, by the way -- that needs to be stopped. Tomei the caring psychiatrist of Spader. I won't spoil the movie, but it needs absolutely no effort in telling how the plot will go without even seeing it. Why is a movie like this released today? Does it really take that much effort to write something just a little bit original?4/10 "},{"Title":"In one word Platitude","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A very classical movie... Characters you'll think to have seen times and times before... Keanu Reeves is more known for his action movies, and maybe should stay with them, because he's not really acting good. Go finish the next matrix! Really bad thriller, not even fun. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment, expected better!!!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was expecting a good movie.  Gosh, you would expect better from James Spader and Keanu Reeves.  Spader and Marisa Tomei haven't had much going for them lately, so they obviously were hard up, but no excuse for Reeves.  Blame it on the SCRIPT and the DIRECTING too.  I was so intrigued I was torn between cleaning a toilet and watching the movie.  The whole plot was hard to swallow, but you know what?  When Spader handed over his gun to Reeves (after 3 cops had just been killed, not to mention numerous women) I just about choked.  Do you feel safe with your FBI protecting you?  After watching Spader and Tomei's meager attempts at acting, I can see why they don't make a lot of movies.  And Keanu was just coasting through this one.  The FBI should sue for defamation of character.  What a joke of a movie....  Sad.   "},{"Title":"As Generic As Its Title","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One wonders who green-lighted this movie. It's not that it absolutely without redeeming qualities, but the only difference between it and half a dozen other movies made in perhaps the last year is the title. Keanu Reeves, a lovely but limited actor who plays baddy a lot more effectively in 'The Gift', is serial killer David Allen Griffin, a dude with a jones for strangling women with piano wire. His nemisis is FBI agent Joel, played by James Spader. Also on hand is Marisa Tomei, an occasional delight who unfortunately seems to be sleepwalking through her part here as Joel's therapist. Joel is burned out and taking 3 or 4 different medications for various mental problems, so he moves to Chicago to get away from L.A. and the killer who murdered his married girlfriend and continues to evade him. Problem is, ol' David is kind of attached to him and follows him to the Windy City, determined to continue their game of cat and mouse. He starts sending Joel pictures of his next victims, and Joel has a set amount of time to find them. And that's basically it. I can't say it was awful, as I did watch it until the very end, but the only people I'd recommend it to are die-hard fans of the leads.    "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, despite of not being one of Keanu's best movies","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Of course this is not Speed, nor The Matrix, nor The Devil's Advocate but anyway this is quite good. It has some interesting lines and some interesting plot ideas too. Keanu once more shows that he is one of the most talented actors on Hollywood and this is quite a good movie for him to acquire even more Knowledge than he already has. Maybe the greatest problem here is the direction that sometimes, hand in hand with some parts of the plot, becomes a little boring, and what is done in 10 minutes could have been done only in 4 or 5. After all it is a 7 out of 10. See it, enjoy it, but don't get sick of two parts in the movie, the first one with the nail and the second one Keanu's burned face. "},{"Title":"Lacked Cinema Quality","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My wife and I saw this film on impulse when we noted such actors as Reeves, Spader and Tomei in the cast.  What a waste of time the film proved to be. Spader offered some entertainment.  Reeves appeared out of place as the bad guy and Tomei..... well what can I say her performance was lifeless and unconvincing.   And how can we seriously follow the plot when the police SWAT team appeared like Keystone Cops. No more impulse viewing for me. Next time a little more research. "},{"Title":"This film is awful","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen a lot of bad slasher/serial killer flicks in my day, but this was simply a miserable film.  I cannot believe Reeves actually agreed to do this one.  I don't have a lot of respect for his acting, but at least his film selection is usually fairly decent.  I found the character development to be uncommonly weak.  And the thing that really made me want to just turn the damned thing off right away was Reeves' victim from the photo shop.  Do you mean to tell me that in Chicago, a city of millions of people, they can pass out flyers and paste someone's face all over the TV for HOURS, and not ONE person recognizes the girl?  Not one?  The entire story seemed far-fetched to me and the special effects in the closing sequence were laughable.  George Lucas did effects for Star Wars 24 years ago, and they looked 10 times better than the stuff in The Watcher. "},{"Title":"Conveyor-belt serial-killer thriller for the MTV generation","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher is a conveyor-belt serial-killer thriller for the `MTV generation'. Slow motion, time-lapse photography and video effects will make a lot of youngsters feel very much at home. This production is a classic case of a film being saved by good, and in this case very fast, editing. The pace of the editing &#150; and certainly not the wafer-thin storyline &#150; keeps the audience just about interested. And wherever you see more than three writers'  names in the opening credits, you'll know the story has been continually rewritten by `scriptdoctors'. In which case you're bound to ask yourself how bad the original idea was.The name that dominates all posters and trailers for this film is Keanu Reeves, even though James Spader has far more screentime. Reeves here plays the bad guy, and he is, well, utterly unconvincing. He is miles away from the deadpan hacker of The Matrix, a role that effectively saved his career. All of which means that his career highlight remains Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure.And then there is the ending embarrassing special effects leave a bad after-taste to what is ultimately a disappointing effort. The Watcher is director Joe Charbanic's debut feature, and judging by the overall style of this film, you have to conclude that this somewhat obscure film-maker must have come from the world of advertising or videoclips. "}{"Title":"Not great; not bad.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Fairly decent timewaster.  I actually bought Keanu as a serial killer, he had the look and the charm.  This movie joins the ranks of other like films (see 'Striking Distance') in that sub-genre I call 'drugstore movies.'  They're the equivalent of drugstore novels that you take to the beach, in that you don't have to pay all that much attention to get the gist of the story and they provide enough fantastical element to satisfy the escapist in all of us that consumes entertainment by the barrelful.  The direction is stylish enough, if not uninspired, to keep your attention.  My one big gripe is that Marisa Tomei is completely wasted.  You know this was a paycheck role for her!  Other than that, not much else to say about this.  It's one of those movies where you say , Gee, glad I didn't pay $9.50 to see that in the theater. "},{"Title":"another stupid copy","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie so horribly contrived an ripped-off from other movies like Se7en and The Silence of the Lambs that it made my toes curl up into my shoes.The story is virtually non-existent. This is the umpteenth time that people are trying to copy classic serial killer movies. Keanu Reeves is totally unconvincing as this menacing killer who stalks his victims and them kills them with piano wire. His stiff-as-a-board acting is becoming annoying (if it wasn't already).There are two good things about this movie James Spader, it is always a pleasure to see him on the big screen. He is one of the great actors of our time. I wish he wouldn't do movies like this, but he has to put food on the table too and good scripts are hard to find. Number two was the humour. About 2 1/2 times I had to grin or laugh (and I don't mean at the stupidities of the story) at some jokes. Keanu firing Spader's gun into the ground to see if it is loaded, and the sarcastic police officer working next to Spader on the case had some laughs.Overall a very disappointing (but then again I wasn't expecting much) movie that should be forgotten and put into the ranks with other movies like The Bone Collector.3/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is pointless, predictable, boring, with a tiny to non-existant perve factor...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Basic plot outline Not too sure if a plot existed in this film. Something about a serial killer being tracked down by a cop blah blah blah *yawne*. Possibly the only suspense thriller I have ever watched without a single suspenseful moment or thrill.Review Piece of cr*p, waste of time. Keanu Reeves looked fat (made himself that way to suit the character ? I think not.), and his acting sucked.  Eric Stoltz was good (although if they had cast HIM as the killer in stead of the cop, the movie  could possibly have improved quite rapidly. His performance in 'Two Days In The Valley' showed him to be a brilliantly twisted 'Bad Guy'). To sum it up  this movie is pointless, predictable, boring, with a tiny to non-existant perve factor  "},{"Title":"The Watcher as senseless as the serial killer it portrays","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was with stomach-churning apprehension that I entered the local cinema to see The Watcher, a movie about a serial killer who sends photos of young women to his favourite detective and gives him 24 hours to find them before they're strangled to death.Fortunately, the violence is handled with a degree of decorum. But beyond that, The Watcher holds little if any redeeming value, unless you consider Keanu Reeves revealing his dark side as some sort of cinematic event.The real star of this show is James Spader, who plays FBI agent Joel Campbell. In Campbell we're given, at least by Hollywood standards, a complex character, namely a burnt-out gumshoe who relies on barbiturates and psychiatry to deal with some traumatic memories.Said traumatic memories are courtesy of serial killer David Allen Griffin, played by Reeves, who, amongst the many other lives he's snuffed out,  managed to kill an acquaintance of Campbell's in a rather horrific manner back when he lived in Los Angeles. The event causes Campbell to move to Chicago, partly to be closer to the grave of his loved-one, partly to escape Griffin.Alas, Griffin tracks Campbell down to the Windy City and the tormenting begins once more.Although the photos and the deadline add a new wrinkle to the game, the pattern remains largely the same as Griffin starts small, taking the lives of a photo shop clerk and a panhandler, before moving onto a bigger challenge in Campbell's psychiatrist, played by a vulnerable Marisa Tomei.Nothing in this movie rises beyond pedestrian. Both the film-making and the acting are workaday, while the music borders on annoying. In keeping with the basic tenor of this movie, the Rob Zombie selection was ridiculously predictable.Director Joe Charbanic, who makes music videos for his day job, tries to get both artsy and spectacular resulting in a montage of scenes that are completely out of context. We get grainy flashbacks, wonky camera angles, and even grainier `looks through the eyes of a killer' interspersed with police helicopters racing across the city's night-time sky and over-the-top explosions at a gas station and a warehouse -- none of which have never been done before.Spader, meanwhile, sticks to the `hollow version of the man he once was' shtick, while Reeves does no more than hit his marks and deliver his lines. And Tomei's character is little more than a prop for Spader's, starting off as a crying towel and finishing as just one more thing that the two main characters can fight over.All the while, we're supposed to deal with the question of whether protagonist and nemesis can find meaning on their lives only when they're duelling with one another. As a bonus, there's supposed to be a underlying moral to this mess they call a story -- something about urban life, alienation, and keeping an eye out for each other.Whatever. A lot of warts could have been overlooked if a good reason could have been found to make yet another movie about yet another serial killer and the types who chase after these people. But The Watcher has failed to add anything new to what is becoming a very tired genre, and, ultimately, that is the biggest reason to not bother seeing this one. "},{"Title":"Get me my earplugs!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Don't even ask me if I enjoyed the storyline or the acting in this movie.  Ask me if I've made my appointment at my ear doctor yet.  This movie was such an assault on my auditory health, I may never be the same.  Granted, the theatre which showed this nerve test pushed the volume up beyond what was reasonable, but I know that if they hadn't, the affect would have been just about as detrimental.  My time at the theatre that day was spent attempting to ignore the psychotic, frenzied score in hopes of possibly gleening some sort of opinion of the storyline, the acting, etc.  I was not too successful...just when the noise factor would pull back and I could start to pay attention to the story again, some small, unimportant incident would occur in the script which would result in some unexpected BLAST put forth by what had to be a 500 piece orchestra!  Of course, just when you had about all you could take of the International Orchestra of Schizophrenics, they hit you with a little heavy metal just to see how much you could take.  Did I enjoy the movie, you ask?  I don't know...send me an email...I can't hear you. "},{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The performance of James Spader lacks luster.  He just does not fit being an FBI agent. The plot itself is rather poor and raher far fetched.  This is the type of picture that in order to be successful has to recreate real life but it fails miserably in a real life portrayal of both the protagonist and the antagonist. "},{"Title":"Pretty awful, despite the big names","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very disappointing movie.  I love James Spader, and he tries his best, but the story and miscasting of the other actors drags the whole movie into the toilet.  Keanu Reeves' performance has been described as wooden -- that's a good adjective.The story is so predictable -- your average made for TV movie is better.I would suggest Bad Influence if you want to see James in a great movie where he plays a good guy you can empathize with.Don't waste your money or time on this one.... "},{"Title":"Generally good, faded out to a hurried end","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's been a while since I've come out of a movie and said to myself 'Now THAT was a great movie'. This was not one of them (Private Ryan was the last). I was following along thinking there's going to be a jolt at the end, something really strange will unfold, a twist is nigh - but no, no such luck, just a totally unrealistic and boring, predictable ending - ah well! OK for a wet Sunday afternoon.C'mon Spielberg, give us another masterpiece! Enough of this so so stuff. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am normally a fan of Keanu Reeves's work.  The Bill and Ted movies are classics, in my humble opinion.  That is why I was so disappointed with The Watcher.  When I watched the trailers for this film, I felt that it had a very original and interesting premise, but the film had nothing to offer outside what they gave you in the trailer.  I knew all of the plot twists before the end of the opening credits.  James Spader, another actor who has gained my respect, disappointed me as well.  I felt that he could have tried to convey another emotion other than apathy and indifference.  There is once scene, I think, that he showed anger, but I could have been mistaken.  I also felt that it was trying to hard to capture the successful elements of Se7en.  If that was what they were trying to do, then they should have remembered that you don't see Jonathan Doe's face until the last 15 minutes of the movie.  Oh well, not all movies are winners. "},{"Title":"Dumb script, but Keanu is good","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Really stupid script. Things that were intended as suspenseful just turned out stupid. The cinematography is just another rip-off of SE7EN. (Can we please get some original visuals back into the movies please?) Keanu, normally one of the most beautiful men on the planet, looked puffy. Guess he's not in training for the MATRIX sequels yet. ) Rated 6/10. "}{"Title":"No surprises.  No suspense.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Plot never twists.  Suspense never builds.  For a serial killer, Griffin does not kill much in the movie.  Murder scenes fail to leave any impact. Woefully, short of Se7en's storytelling, fright, and intrigue.Keanu's miscast.  He needs to stick to the action movies.  The rest of the cast is good.  Spader's excellent.Beautifully filmed.  Nice use of effects and camera work to tell the story, except for the murder scenes which did not make much of an impact.  The young female victims looked fresh from the casting couch, and were not credible as a 1-hour photo employee or streetkid.  Could've used fewer Spader flashbacks, and more background on the other characters. "},{"Title":"Another Great Movie by Keanu","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I knew going to see this movie that it would be great but it was even better than i expected! I am a fan of Keanu and was very interested that he was playing a killer.  He delivered a wonderful performance as the killer and was creepy, but he did not over do it. The movie was also surprisingly funny (besides being very scary).  Keanu Reeves' had some very humerous lines that made the film even better.  I would without a doubt give this movie a ten, and even go and see it again. I recommend it to everyone! "},{"Title":"This thrill was never here...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  From the comericials, The Watcher seemed to be a promising thriller about a serial killer and the cop that tracked him. I had high hopes for this movie until reality set in. My initial thought when viewing this movie that it was a cable movie. The second thought was not only could I write a better script but direct this movie better than this. There were so many things wrong with this movie, they are too numerous to begin with. The Watcher could have been a good movie but it was not a well thoughtout or planned movie. Keanu Reeves, fresh from his role in The Replacements, was not chilling or convincing as a serial  killer. James Spader as an FBI Agent left something to be desired. Perhaps if the roles had been reversed or the script and direction had been well crafted, this movie would be worth the price of administion but with the numerous problems with this film, it would be lucky enough to garner an initial look without considering a second one. "},{"Title":"An 'unknown' director AND Keanu Reeves... I should have known better!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well I should have known better... seeing the previews of this movie I thought FINALLY... a Keanu Reeves movie I might actually LIKE! (in the preview, he doesn't talk much, does he?... THAT helps!) Alas, it was not to be! Poor James Spader's efforts (he's VERY good in his role) are overshadowed by Reeves and his by-now trademark deadpan, lifeless, in a total monotone delivery and character-free performance. The film descends in total stupidity in a scene where the 'killer' (just 2 murders in a whole movie!) meets the detective on the latter's lover's grave and... offers him a beer!!! What a bad actor... IF you could call him that! Why didn't they get Jack Nicholson, Nicolas Cage, James Woods or even Michael Keaton to play the killer? Why would anyone THINK that Reeves is convincing in ANY role? As for Marisa Tomei, she is hopelessly and criminally under-used and anyone could have played her character. My advice? Don't waste time and money on this. It starts promising enough and the first murder is pretty well-worked out, but then the movie runs out of steam and ideas in a disappointing final scenario. Don't say you weren't warned! "},{"Title":"Led on by good performances and suspense","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the more suspensefull films to come out this year.  The story to me seem a little mangled and not all in check, but with some good acting and mystery, it almost doesn't matter.  Almost.  The plot involves Keanu Reeves (actually quite good as a villain) as a killer who is trying to help a cop he knew back in LA (James Spader) who has moved to Chicago by giving him a picture of the woman he will kill and if he can find her, he won't kill.  Interesting premise is executed OK as suspense films go, but at least the actors try to act (and hey, you can't ever loose with Marisa Tomei).  Good to see, for heart pounding thrills, but as far as story goes, you might as well see Nurse Betty.  C+ "},{"Title":"New lows, what happened to Spader","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is for retards. Now let me explain, I do not mean mentally handicapped people, I mean retards. Retards are normal intelligent people who are lazy morons who refuse to evolve beyond the beer in their hand. Spader is really going down the toilet with these pathetic movies. Where can I start with this visual and mental trash - the acting was bad (except for the police partner), Spader gave his acting the energy level of a slug, Reeves acted as if he was performing in his first high school made-at-home movie with his best friend and their very first video cam. Plot, well there was no plot. The movie did score a 10 on the mean-and-depressing-o-meter. Investing 1.5 hours in this garbage is going to p*ss me off for the next week. "},{"Title":"Lame movie","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" sorry this movie is really bad not worth watching the watcherthe acting is awful and there is little to no plot. it was non imaginative. and led to the final obvious ending.I didn't feel that he played a realistic serial killer at all his acting was very bad and it just is not the role for him I would never have compared this to the shining the shining is a cult classic and actually an interesting movie.this is one of the worst movies i have seen i would compare it to the wicker man from Nicholas cage this past year that was also a stinker.If you want a good scary movie with a big Hollywood star try gothica at least there was some sort of plot switches.in my opinion this was his attempt to get out of his cookie cutter roles. "},{"Title":"Routine serial killer-thriller","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This tame chiller bases itself entirely on the FAKE premise that serial killers are obsessed by their victims' every move and that they actually get a kick out of the cat and mouse game they're playing with the cops. Yes, the successes of films like 'Silence of the Lambs' and 'Se7ven' has saddled us up with an endless series of lame wannabes. A quenched FBI officer (Spader) moves from LA to Chicago after being unable to solve a serial-killer case. The killer (Reeves) follows him and continues his uncanny hobby there. He sends Spader and his new team of coppers a picture of his next target and then gives them until 9pm sharp to prevent her from getting killed. This modus operandi is repeated a couple of times which is quite dull. Although 'The Watcher' features quite a lot of action sequences, there's almost no tension. Instead of tension, we get irritating MTV-style flashbacks and lousy references to Reeves' previous blockbuster 'The Matrix'. The overwhelming music by Marco Beltrami doesn't exactly increase the tension level, neither. On the contrary, I'd say&#133;. The acting is below average. It clearly shows that Reeves didn't really want this project and Marisa Tomei (as Spader's shrink) is wasted. The Watcher was the very first project of unknown director Joe Charbanic but I'm not really anticipating any further work of his. "},{"Title":"Don't watch this one!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Routine serial killer yarn where a distressed detective (Spader) fights against a psychopath killer of young women. Boring and with no originality, this movie goes on and on in a series of usual twists and turns until the marred ending. A good cast is completely wasted in a complete dispensable production. I give this a 3 (three).  "},{"Title":"Botched job","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Dog food.Everything sucks in this so-called moviea screenplay so hackneyed the average viewer must have seen the story a hundred times or more,flashy directing,poor acting from the leads,poor-as usual- female part whose only raison d'être is screaming.James Spader's wooden acting is absolutely awful.At the beginning of the movie,he's a deeply depressed man,living on acebutolol ,seconal ,you name it,unable to find the way back home (that's what he says to his analyst)and the following day ,he turns into a dashing,dynamic elegant cop.As far as the analyst is concerned,her only purpose is to provide the movie with an intellectual side.Keanu Reeves is totally unconvincing as the villain,,particularly when he dances.Some would be terrifying scenes look like spoofs on thrillers .Do not watch! "}{"Title":"Simply So Different For Keanu","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Saw the movie The Watcher and understand that it is number 1 at the box office this weekend. Keanu was just so completely different to watch in this flick. I am truly amazed that for someone who has never played such a role (always the good fellow), that he was just awesome to watch! The producers will be looking at him for more roles of this type I am sure! He seems to be moving in different circles these days displaying his art and craft in many different ways. I am truly proud of this movie for him. Sorry the critics didn't care for it. They usually don't when it comes to Keanu Reeves. Bravo Keanu! Loved this movie! Keep em comin! Loved James Spader and Marisa Tormei as well. So handsome yet so much talent coming through! Shine on Keanu!Sandy "},{"Title":"Who watches the Watcher?..... Sadly I do","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Detective Campbell (James Spader) must track serial killer, David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves) who has been playing a cat and mouse game with him even going so far as to move to Chicago after Campbell does so. Campbell, a broken mess, thanks to already losing a loved one due to his obsession with Griffin has to make sure that never happens again.If the police in this film were competent in the least they would've caught the perp in the first 10 minutes, thus saving me the next 87, sadly this is not the case as Griffin parades more or less under their noses right in the open. The ineptitude of these Keystoneesque cops almost had me screaming at the screen in utter disbelief. The acting which is mundanely mediocre did not help matters in the slightest. To top it off the whole mess was at turns extremely trite, contrived & cliché. I'm sorry I watched it.My Grade D- "},{"Title":"Nothing special.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher is set in Chicago & starts as burnt out out ex Los Angeles FBI agent Joel Campbell (James Spader) discovers that one of women in his apartment block has been murdered, he then opens his mail & notices the killer (Keanu Reeves) actually sent a photo of her to him. Campbell moved to Chicago from Los Angeles after the serial killer murdered a woman he was having an affair with & it seems the killer moved with him & begins to taunt him by sending him pictures of his intended victims & giving him several hours to track them down & stop him killing them...Directed by Joe Charbanic one has to say that The Watcher is a throughly average serial killer thriller along the lines of The Silence of the Lambs (1991), Se7en (1995), Kiss the Girls (1997) & The Bone Collector (1999). The script by David Elliot & Clay Ayers takes itself very seriously & is very unremarkable, the whole idea of the killer sending Campbell pictures of his intended victims leaving him in a race against time trying to track them down is a reasonable concept but the second time the killer does it plays out exactly the same as the first time & I must admit I lost interest as it just felt like the film was repeating itself. The pace is alright although I doubt it will make anyone's pulse race, there is just about enough dramatic incident to keep one awake although there are no major plot twists or surprises. The character's are poor, the serial killer is given absolutely no motive whatsoever or any sort of background other than he is a killer while the film tries to set agent Campbell up as a complex character it doesn't follow through on it. All the mental & physical health problems he has & are spelt out at the start are quickly forgotten about, he too isn't given much of a background apart from a short flashback that indicated he was having an affair with one of the killers victims. The whole film just feels so average & routine, the story about a cop trying to catch a killer is nothing new, the character's are stock clichés, the fact that the case becomes personal for the cop is par for the course & nothing really stands out, nothing really grabbed my attention or drew me into the story & while The Watcher is by no means the worst film ever made it's utterly forgettable & devoid of any originality.Annoyingly director Charbanic keeps inserting lots of flashbacks at seemingly random points which don't really lead up to much & they are irritatingly filmed as well with a very jerky frame skip type movement to them. In 2001 at the Toronto Film Festival while there to promote Hardball (2001) star Keanu Reeves went on record claiming that a friend of his forged his signature on a contract to do The Watcher & since he couldn't prove it & didn't want a costly lawsuit just did the film anyway. However there is one story that says Keeves agreed to appear in the film in a small cameo before his huge success with The Matrix (1999) at which point the script was rewritten to include his character a lot more which Keeves didn't like & tried to drop out of the film but couldn't. Who knows which story is true. The film doesn't have any real tension & it's not played for scares or horror either, at one point there's a somewhat out of place car chase which ends in a huge explosion.With a supposed budget of about $33,000,000 The Watcher is well made with good glossy Hollywood production values, actually filmed in Illinois in Chicago. The acting isn't that good, Spader phones in his performance, Marisa Tomei is terrible as the love interest while Reeves clearly doesn't want to be there & is just a poor actor to begin with anyway & was nominated for a Razzie award as 2001's worst supporting actor for his performance in The Watcher although he didn't win.The Watcher isn't really worth watching, it's a totally unremarkable by-the-numbers serial killer thriller that doesn't really shock or surprise or grip. Strictly average on all fronts. "},{"Title":"Miscast and lackluster","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" THE WATCHER (2000) ** James Spader, Keanu Reeves, Marisa Tomei, Chris Ellis, Ernie Hudson. Lackluster by-the-numbers serial killer thriller with pallid and boring Reeves as a nutjob who hounds beleagured FBI agent Spader (who is actually pretty decent here, his speech pattern suggesting that when he talks he's running out of air if he doesn't finish a sentence in time) from LA to Chicago and re-starting a killing spree involving young woman and sending Spader a photo of the next victim with a 24 hour period to stop him. Not so suspenseful and it would have been more beneficial had the two leads been cast in the opposite.(Dir Joe Charbanic) "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film started with a fairly good idea. The problem was that Keanu Reeves was in the movie. IT would have been cooler if James Spader was the serial killer and Reeves was not in it at all. James Spader= Wooden actor who can act and create interesting characters Keanu Reeves= Wooden actor (he weighs the same as a duck) who can not act and has only played one character in every movie he has been in.This movie was probably rewritten to suit the wooden acting of Keanu Reeves but it just sank in water instead of floating like lead, churches, very small rocks or gravy.Skip it unless you are a James Spader completist. "},{"Title":"Should've been called Dances With Keanu","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In what seems like a direct-to-cable subpar serial killer flick turns out to be one of the most laughable serial killer thrillers in years, thanks to the underrated comedic performance of Keanu Reeves. He dances, he kills, he dances some more with his victims. He's got the moves and the swerve to lure his victims to their deaths. Given the fact that we don't know why Keanu wanted James Spader to chase him (homoerotic undertones anyone?), we can just sit back and watch this trainwreck with ease. The film is unintentionally funny. Keanu is not a killer. He is Neo. Or better yet, Ted. Or even better than Ted -- that guy he played in Parenthood. ANYBODY BUT A KILLER! We all know Keanu has the acting talent of a totem pole, and to see him portray a killer is just plain funny. Spader isn't any better either. He needs to make a sequel to Stargate or something to erase this from our minds. And what the heck is Academy Award Winner Marisa Tomei doing in this trash? Does EVERYONE just wanna jump on the Post-Matrix Keanu Train? He's made about three bad movies after the Matrix (Replacements, Sweet November, Hardball). Let's hope he chooses better scripts and sticks to his strengths as an actor...Or Ted. "},{"Title":"Formulaic Watcher is devoid of thrills and suspense","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher (2000) Burned-out, drug-addicted FBI agent Joel Campbell (James Spader) tries to catch David Allen Griffin (Keanu Reeves), an elusive serial killer &#150; aren't they all? &#150; who sends Campbell photographs of his victims, daring the police to find them before he dispatches them. Spader is vigorous as the haunted detective but Reeves is unconvincing as the killer. Marisa Tomei has a thankless part as Campbell's psychiatrist. It's rather difficult to gather sympathy for the murderer's pending victims because they are portrayed as brainless idiots. One readily allows complete stranger Griffin to snap pictures of her; another is a seedy teenage vagrant cussing out those who don't give her their spare change. Gratuitous pyrotechnic displays are used in vain to add excitement to the bland climax. Since the success of the 1995 masterpiece Seven, nearly every psychological thriller has tried &#150; but ultimately failed &#150; to duplicate its formula, and this inept, punchless effort is no exception. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Strictly by the numbers","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  With the amount of critical acclaim festooning the video cover of this thriller, I almost expected it to be another Silence of the Lambs. It certainly wasn't...Spader is terrific as always, showing a hero who is refreshingly far from invincible, and actually quite vulnerable and human. Tomei is also great yet subdued in her role as Spader's psychiatrist. Reeves on the other hand....Yes, I know it was a new departure for him, playing a psycho villain, and I know that many people have said that it was his best acting yet, but I was quite disappointed with him. I mean c'mon, it's not like it would be DIFFICULT for him to improve on his past performances, they were hardly Oscar-worthy. Plus, I kept waititng for him to add the word 'dude' onto the end of every sentence. I did, however, find the idea that his choice of victims consisted of those people who we take for granted or never really notice very interesting, like the shy shop assistant, or the homeless girl- it suggested a message about society that it never really followed through on.All in all, a standard, not-bad cat & mouse/cop & serial killer tale let down by its lazy, predictable ending and failure to provide any real thrills.  "},{"Title":"Trying to hard","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a poor film trying to be very stylish, and compromising on charectarisation and quality. Flashy photography and a soundtrack featuring the best of British dance music prove this movie is to self conscience.The charecters are very poor. Keanu Reeve's is not a menacing seriel killer. Watching him move like a belly dancer in front of his strapped down victim was the funniest part of the film. I think he was trying to pull of a Jim Morrison style of attitude but utterly failed. James Spader's charecter had a lot of potential but was ruined by the fact that he looked remarkably healthy for a man addicted to injecting painkillers.There are moments of action in this movie that come across like a poor American cop show. Their are moments of style that come across like a bad MTV video.Dont watch this film, it wont impress anyone to say you've seen it "},{"Title":"e-gad, what was that?","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Keanu has played some great roles over the years. Speed and The Matrix are still some of my favorite movies. Keanu plays a great hero. He's got the face, the acting and the demeanor...but a killer he is not. There are many actors who can convincingly play both good and bad guys- Keanu is not one of them. Just as Tom Cruise played a terrible Lestat, Keanu plays a dreadful bad guy.Every time he said I'm going to kill you with his high-pitched voice and American-boy looks, I couldn't help but laugh. Spader was pretty stinky too.Save the $3- go grab a hamburger. "}{"Title":"Deeply average movie in a bloated genre","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is just yet another predictable and tedious Psychological Thriller/Slasher film with the only thing to distinguish it from the rest is the fact that is is worse than most.  James Spader is decent as the main cop, but he does a better bad guy on the big screen.  Keanu Reeves, well, what is he doing in this movie? He is totally un-scary, unconvincing as the villain, most of the villains in these films are pretty poor, but this takes the cake.  The movie starts poorly, ends poorly, briefly showing some good stuff in the middle as Spader chases Reeves' latest victim after being given a photo of her, other than that, totally average.  And Marisa Tomei is wasted as well. "},{"Title":"Uhhh ok","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was a fairly good made for tv-movie...what? It wasn't made for TV....Mr. Reeves was horrible in this. Spader tried to save it, but couldn't. Very average movie. Not awful, not good, not spectacular....just one of those things that fill the void of time.  "},{"Title":"Just terrible!!!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"   I had the terrible experience to watch this movie.Guys,this just one of the worst movies that I ever watch.First the director Joe Charbonic thought that doing a film with Keanu Reeves and a buge of middle-stars results in sucsses.Wrong!  All the actors are lost in their characters,specially David Spader!Marisa Tomei doesn't convinss and Reeves is just the most riculous men in the world.Nothing works with the detective that hunts the serial-killer,this one can do whetever he want because in the story FBI just can't get him.  Summerising run away from this movie!!!!!!!1/10 "},{"Title":"Squids in","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Thriller about a giant squid that menaces Chicago. James Spader and Keanu Reeves are too busy watching each other to notice the squid. A Spader performance is always welcome, here pulling off the difficult trick of being sympathetic while feigning indifference. A neat little character study of how passive aggression on ludes can benefit law enforcement is undermined by one absurd scene. Supposedly dazzling colleagues with his ability to spot details they miss, Spader does not notice a very shifty and jumpy looking man dressed in black standing next to him in a lift, a man who very slowly and deliberately turns to look at him with a playful, enigmatic smile. What more does he need, a spinning red bow tie and a flower in a lapel that shoots water at him? Then Reeves never was terribly interesting. His almost studied lack of menace coupled with a character that not even Aladdin's lamp could conjure up, sinks the picture.Marisa Tomei shows up. Both she and Spader get a little hot under the collar, so they decide to join Reeves for a swim to find the squid who had long since absconded with the script. Those who failed to see any squid the entire picture may have been susceptible to the flashing white light that obstinately appears with a thunderclap throughout, a curious trend that seems to have begun in trailers and infected mainstream cinema like a virus. Find a body *flash* BANG! Memory from the past *flash* BANG! Pick up an innocuous coffee cup *flash* BANG! There must be a reason for this just as there is a reason for Keanu Reeves but not being a theoretical quantum physicist, I'm damned if I can work it out.I paid a squid, I mean, a quid day rental for this and it's worth about sixty pence of it *flash* BANG! "},{"Title":"It's a good movie","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was a good movie but not the best i seen. I mean it does not make no point.Like really come on Keanu Reeves can do so much better and he's a good actor you have to say you know. Like I said it could be better but I like okie "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher isn't a BAD movie, but it's not a particularly great movie either.  James Spader does a credible job as the tortured FBI agent Campbell, but Marisa Tomei sleepwalks through her role as his concerned (and pretty!) psychologist, and Keanu Reeves is laughably bad as the scary serial murderer.  The plot is dull but serviceable and an interesting amount of tension is introduced when the serial murderer begins sending Campbell pictures of his intended victims.  Ultimately, however, the movie is dragged down by the absurdly filmed nightmares that Campbell keeps having about a previous encounter with the killer.There doesn't seem to be any genuine creativity thrown into the script - it just goes through the motions and dutifully follows in the steps of a million cat 'n mouse thrillers that have gone before it.  On the other hand, the movie doesn't do a particularly bad job with its well-worn plot, and you could do a lot worse for a rental. "},{"Title":"trash, garbage, awful, terrible, and really really bad","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher is a really, really bad movie.  It's a murder mystery with an absurd plot, bad acting, bad writing, bad directing...you know, it's bad.The only actor who doesn't embarrass himself and every other member of the acting profession is James Spader, but his character is horribly written anyway, so it doesn't matter.  (For the record, all the characters are horribly written.)  Keanu Reeves, playing the serial killer, subscribes to the no-facial-expression-equals-menacing-and-scary school of acting (if you can call it acting).The director makes it even harder to watch by jamming it full of random dream sequences and every cheap editing or camera trick in the book out-of-focus and shaky camera, slow motion, general blurriness, you name it. He either thinks he's being clever or innovative or engrossing, but he's neither.  Also, at least one blurred, camera-shaken chase scene through an alley may be ripped off Wong Kar-wai's Chungking Express (which, for the record is anything but a murder mystery).I just this movie to be Absolutely Worthless and Utterly Without Redeeming Value.Instead of wasting your time on this rubbish, go see a real murder mystery, with an intelligent study of a serial killer...you could try The Silence of the Lambs or Se7en, both superb. "},{"Title":"what a boring, predictable waste of time","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this  + bone collector and that terrible film with Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones must be just part of some B-rated tv series, as both predictable and extremely standard story line , weak acting and uninteresting photography make them look just like the standard TV bore. "},{"Title":"One of the most predictable films so far this year","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn´t like this movie at all. It talks about the same story policeman-killer, the same kind of chase and the same kind of murders we are used to see. I don´t care if the actors did it well or not. I was expecting a great plot, to sit tense in the movie theater, even to be surprised... nothing at all. The end is boring and it doesn´t show nothing that we haven´t seen yet. I just look for movies with unpredictable plot. This one doesn´t have any. "},{"Title":"nearly unwatchable","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film to be a dismal failure.   Keanu Reeves is not at all convincing as a serial killer and seems to know it; he's obviously just biding his time until the sequel to The Matrix.  (The scene which is an obvious ripoff from Reservoir Dogs made me moan with disgust.)  Marisa Tomei is utterly wasted, having nothing interesting to do in the film and not much screen time to do it.  But the worst is James Spader, whose clumsy, obsessed FBI man is simply not credible.  The film is very badly edited too; plot elements are thrown out seemingly at random. and all tension is drained from the film.  Several viewers (other than myself I mean) in the theater spent most of the film groaning and giggling.  Keanu will no doubt survive this bomb, but if there is  any justice, The Watcher will put an end to the grossly inflated reputation Spader has enjoyed since sex. lies, and videotape.  The Watcher is nearly unwatchable. "}{"Title":"It was completely predictable, incorporating some of the most trite characters in a movie today.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The plot actually sounded fairly reasonable.  I expected to see an intense thriller that forced me to the edge of my seat at every other turn. Unfortunately, the plot was torn to pieces by poor acting and an editing job that tried far too hard to make dramatic, artistic statements.  The dream sequences were ridiculously tedious.  The predictable nature of the film did not help its case.  Overall, it's good to watch if your desire is to waste 2 hours of your life and seven bucks! "},{"Title":"Definetly worth it to see Keanu as a bad guy","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  All right...I wasn't too impressed with the film...it was a by-the-numbers flick...but it was an action flick so it deserves my vote of 10... Keanu plays a villain and he is pretty impressive...although this cannot compare to the Matrix...don't even try to compare the two...  "},{"Title":"Absolute garbage!","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would hate to think that Keanu Reeves is going to start taking on film projects of this calibre because I know and think he can do much better than this.  The Watcher is essentially the same old story about a cops in pursuit of a serial killer,  and has been told many a time in made-for-TV productions as well as in theatre.  There was no psychology to this film,  it was predictable as they come and a turn off to the point where I saw a couple people exit the theatre half way through.   I also don't think Reeves suited this role as he doesn't quite come across as believable and that was a major handicap from the outset.  James Spade's performance was also mediocre and tiring and one has to wonder whether he too is getting desperate for work that he would take on a script like this.  I'm sorry,  but The Watcher isn't worth the price of admission to a theatre let alone a video rental.  Watch it for a laugh but when films like these are produced you can understand society's complaint with the direction Hollywood has taken as of late. "},{"Title":"not to be watched","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw THE WATCHER last night. You probably saw the preview, like me, and figured it would be scary and full of suspense. The first time I looked at my watch was less than half an hour after it started. Boring, long, and so predictable. Serial killer 101 !!!  Too bad. I was expecting a nice thriller, with lot's of suspense but this is far from it. This is more the story of the detective than the story of the killer himself. Too many things don't make sense also. The detective is sick like hell, but as soon as he gets back on the job he looks like he's never been sick. The filing in the shrink's office is not as per confidentiality rules, and more and more (can't give too many examples without saying too much about the plot)... you'll find out when you see it if you go. If you can go for free (or close), go. But if you have to pay a full $10, choose something else. Even SAVING GRACE is much better. "},{"Title":"Poor and predictable","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Oke, so around 2000 I heard about this movie 'The watcher'. 9 years later I check it out just out of curiosity. Im sorry I did. It was boring, full of cliché. The actors seemed bored and didn't really know what they where doing. I just had to say something. I've read some crappy reviews. And this movie probably got the most of them. I don't understand how anyone could possibly enjoy this film. it is nerve wrecking and dull. I think this movie is most of all for Keanu Reaves fans. And they probably don't know a thing about films (if there fan of Reaves films). So please never let the director of this peace of crap near a camera ever again. He is not worthy. "},{"Title":"It can bring people together","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes, this film has the power to bring people together, a perfect date movie (in the rare occasion you have somebody with an IQ of more than 84 next to you). When all else fails, when you have nothing to discuss, you can always think of a lame scene to bring up and get a few laughs. Awkward silences will be a thing of the past! A necessary DVD for nay conversationalist, chronic whiner.This film is the most pathetic, deplorable and vile 90 minutes caught on film. Jaw-dropping that it got made. It mainly consists of Keanu Reeves looking moody. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunities","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You know when a movie boasts and Keanu Reeves you're in pretty big trouble.Sometimes I go with the general flow when I put down actors. For example, Adam Sandler doesn't really bother me. He was perfect for Happy Gilmore (which I think is a great mindless comedy). But Keanu Reeves is one actor that I, personally, have never considered a great--much less good--actor. In Bill and Ted and The Matrix he's fine, yes, because he fits the parts given to him (new generation slackers).Speed is one of my all-time favorite action films, but not really because of Reeves himself.The movies in which he is supposed to display true emotions--such as Feeling Minnesota or A Walk in the Clouds--are the ones that bother me, because I know that there are better actors putting on school plays who aren't getting paid--yet he's raking in the millions. Many of his dramatic roles are rather dry and laughable. When it comes to *real* roles, Keanu just fails miserably.I'll explain why, since I'll probably get angry letters from Matrix fans and teenage girls with posters of him on their walls if I don't. My main problem with Reeves is that he's always the same. His face is always the same. His tone of voice. His expressions. His mannerisms. For the sake of comparison, imagine Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man. Now imagine Keanu Reeves trying to play Raymond Babbitt. See what I mean?In The Watcher, Keanu is a serial killer who toys around with an ex-FBI Agent (James Spader) whose lover Keanu killed years before in a fire. (Bad, Keanu, bad!) In fact, Joel Campbell (Spader) moved all the way to Chicago in order to escape his past, and even retired from the FBI.Now David (Reeves) is back in Joel's life, sending him pictures of victims a day before they are to be murdered. He has twenty-four hours to find them before David does.What a great premise. A pleasant twist on the serial killer routine, right? Err...no, not really. The direction feels like a long action-packed music video--from the opening titles blaring a loud Rob Zombie song to the end, complete with the stereotypical Killer's Point of View that was original in 1978 when John Carpenter's Halloween first invented it (and when it was indeed a very controversial filmmaking technique), but is now getting old since it's frequently being used incorrectly, particularly in the case of The Watcher. Keanu's character seems to see things through some type of strobe music video vision--perhaps that explains his love of music in the film. This is a good song, he says to one victim before strangling her.In all honesty, The Watcher isn't really a truly bad movie (in fact, I've seen much worse), but if I had to pinpoint the problems with The Watcher, it would be these three things1. Direction. Joe Charbanic, a first-time director with his outing in The Watcher, proves that he should never get behind a camera ever again. As I mentioned before, there are just too many moments when I felt that I was watching some music video or product placement commercial instead of a smart serial killer film. Some people just aren't meant to get behind the wheel of a moving car. The same goes for a moving reel of footage.2. The Script. What starts interesting and even compelling soon turns into a routine chase-the-killer film with extravagant car chases and bad character introductions. (Marisa Tomei's student psychiatrist is obviously there for two reasons--to fall in love with the hero and to be kidnapped by the villain. Take a wild guess if it happens or not.) In fact, this film had loads of potential to stand out amongst the rest of its kind by using the original plot--twenty-four hours to find the victim--but it is soon left forgotten and too many plot holes (why wouldn't the victim see herself on TV or on one of the millions of ads placed around Chicago?) are left unchecked.3. The Acting. James Spader is at the very least marginally convincing as a gruff I-Don't-Care-Anymore cop, but he's no Martin Riggs. Instead, he comes off as a whiny, selfish little creep who likes to inject drugs into his body to get a momentary high. This is are hero, folks.Also, is Keanu an invincible boogeyman or not? Lord knows that his mysterious character, David, is untouchable--he survives a foot chase without being seen, he manages to sneak past security cameras and cops and manages to kidnap/kill female victims; he survives a truly ludicrous car chase (that lowered my score for the film by a half a notch), gets shot, caught on fire, and STILL manages to jump out of a window on fire and into a lake? I half expected him to get up once more and give us all one last scare. Honestly, in Halloween, the insinuations of Michael Myers' invincibility were more than hinted at. Here, we are left to wonder whether or not the killer is some type of supernatural force or not. The film is too eager to wrap all the loose ends up without digging deeper into the material.Who knows, next year we could see The Watcher II David's Return. Maybe David will spring back to life as a burn victim's worst nightmare and wreak havoc on the lives of very distant relations. (Maybe we'll even see Freddy vs. Jason vs. David.) What will the tagline for The Watcher II be? Hmm.... How about, This time...it's even more personal than last time. No, thanks, I'll pass.2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Decent cast deliver a D-movie","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This looks as though it was thrown together in a few hours and the principal cast should be strung up by the toes with piano wire for such a shameless exercise in mercenary role-taking.What's wrong with it? The plot's so full of holes you could grate cheese with it, the soundtrack's awful, the camerawork's irritating, the car chase is a yawn, the characters lack motive, and Keanu Reeves is about as threatening as a granny with a custard pie.What's good about it? Not much, but at least it had the decency to end in under an hour and a half.Note to would-be serial-killer-thriller makers give your psychos a backstory - it makes them mildly interesting. A leather jacket is not a good enough indicator of homicidal tendencies. "},{"Title":"Did this frighten anyone?","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's been a long time since I actually paid to see a movie this dull, although I do recall forking over dough to see Eyes Wide Shut.I like Reeves as an action hero, but he's totally miscast in this film. His character wasn't convincing in any way, shape, or form. Ditto for James Spader as the tortured cop with something to prove. Everything in the movie is terribly predictable and fits into Hollywood's psycho-loose-in-the-big-city playbook step by step. There's just nothing original here, and most of the dialogue comes across as if it's being read by a junior-high drama class. No intensity. No emotion. No excitement. Nothing.Strange how things turn around. In 1990, I would have bet a pretty penny that -- in 2000/2001 -- James Spader would be a top cinema draw and Reeves would only be doing supportive stuff. Now, the opposite's true. "},{"Title":"Keanooo!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What could be scarier than being stalked by Keanu Reeves? Paying $8.75 for this movie. James Spader is the hero of this mess, a burnt out ex-FBI agent who can't work, can't sleep, is addicted to any number of pills, and has left the FBI because of his failed investigation of a serial killer (Keanu). But it turns out, the killer misses him (really) and goes to Chicago where Spader is prepared to live out the rest of his life on disability.  Keanu begins to kill again, wasting some very attractive ladies (Proof the serial killer is insane)! Of course, the FBI welcomes Spader back instantly, no questions asked, without even need of a doctor's okay. So he  quickly transforms from Dennis Hopper to become Jack Webb. After looking like a bum the first half of the movie, suddenly his shirts are clean and crisply pressed, his hair coiffed to Duchovny-like perfection. But I digress. Keanu sends Spader pictures of the victims before he kills them. The pictures are very well lit and expertly framed, suggesting his character might have a future in commercial photography. But no! He wants to kill women. Jerk. So Spader must race against the clock to save them.Besides getting the feeling we've seen all this before, obviously the filmmakers do not know Chicago very well. For one thing, they go looking for one of the victims at a crowded shopping mall at 9pm. Don't think so. Chicago is a working town. The malls are not packed at 9pm.  They are closed. At one point, Spader walks across the street and a car almost hits him. He expects the car to stop for him. Ha! That might be true in La-la-land, where people get tickets for jaywalking, but in Chicago they let you cross at your own risk. Anyone dumb enough to step in front of a speeding auto deserves what he gets. They also report the killer is hiding out 20 miles north of downtown Chicago, then show he's in the Wrigley Building. Come on! Proof the filmmakers could not write and chew gum at the same time.As for Keannu, he  must have lost a bet. He would have been better off preparing for Matrix II or III or VII. "}{"Title":"Pathetic film","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is terrible and pathetic.It has a lot of clichés and the ending is totally predictable.And you know who is the killer from the beginning of the film.It has no mystery.James Spader,Keanu Reeves and Marisa Tomei are good actors but on this movie they are terrible.Joe Charbanic is a terrible director.This movie is very terrible.Dungeons and dragons(a boring film) looks a masterpiece compared to this.I cannot believe that this movie was released in the cinemas.A script written by a 10 year old boy is better than this.And Keanu Reeves makes things that only the super heroes can make.This film is horrible.This is a shame in the history of the cinema.If you want to see a good thriller film see Identity. "}]