[{"Title":"A priceless moment in Australian Cinematic History","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"62 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The Dish delivers the way some of Michael Crichton's best novels do  Take a true story and build fiction around it so you can entertain the reader/viewer with technical accuracy and focus on the fictional characters, and the role they play. And boy, does The Dish entertain.First credit must go to Rob Sitch's absolutely brilliant direction. On one hand it comes as no surprise that part of the old D-Generation line-up (Rob Sitch, Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner, Jane Kennedy) wrote a comedy full of sharp wit in the tradition of the infamous Late Show that ran on the ABC (Ch 2) in 1992-1993. Glen's (Tom Long) question Who's the guy ?, when Al (Patrick Warburton) volunteers his admiration for Neil Armstrong and that he'll be walking on the moon is on a par with the Late Show It's academic 1993 sketch where the Santo/Rob/Tom Ivanhoe College team is faced with the challenge  How much change do you receive from 7 Dollars if you purchase 7 items at 98 Cents each ? - Rob's answer  What are the items ?  is unforgettable.That same team performed at its best yet when The Dish's script was written. The Dish is also quite unique as a movie that can be watched over and over again without the need to skip many parts of the story. This could mainly be attributed to the story's characters, and how we are compelled to care about each and every one of them, no matter how insignificant they might seem.The core of The Dish revolves around Neil Armstrong's first historic steps on the Moon at 1256 PM, Monday 21 July 1969 AEST. When 600 Million people (1/5th of mankind at that time) tuned in and witnessed the TV pictures from the Eagle Lunar Module, 3 tracking stations were receiving these signals simultaneously. They were CSIRO's Parkes Radio Telescope, Honeysuckle Creek tracking Station near Canberra and NASA's Goldstone station in California. During the first 9 minutes of the broadcast, NASA alternated between these 3 stations. When they switched to the Parkes pictures, they were of such superior quality that NASA remained with them for the rest of the 2 1/2 hour Moonwalk. Of course the audience knows the good outcome to the events, so the writers can fully focus on the fictional part of the story and remind us how human nature can marvel by putting a man on the moon and safely return him home.The Dish is so refreshing because it doesn't need to resort to adult themes, violence or excessive profanity to flag your attention to the townfolk of Parkes, their involvement in the mission and how they are over the moon about it.The film accurately portrays the spirit of Aussie people in 1969. I found the camerawork simply stunning at times, capturing the beauty of Parkes  the dusty road to the Telescope, the farmer with dog and sheep, the (empty) Fuel station and Parkes' sleepy shops. The wonderful soundtrack attends to the missing pieces with songs like Good morning Star shine and Come on. Dramatization is resourcefully completed by Edmund Choi's composition and direction of The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra (under Jane Kennedy's guidance).The Dish succeeds in a non-pretentious and honest way to convey its great emotion and charm to the viewer. Working Dog excelled itself and surely must face great difficulty to surpass this masterpiece. Frontline and The Castle were very clever indeed, but The Dish is perceived by me as the best Australian Movie ever made, a priceless moment in Aussie Cine history.Charles Bud Tingwell's cameo appearance as the Priest is the icing on the cake. The amount of research to realize the Dish must have been extensive, to adhere for example to the 2.2825 GHz Apollo 11 frequency, the solid minus 90 dBM signals etc. in the script.It is worthwhile to note that NASA delayed the Parkes pictures by 6 seconds before its worldwide broadcast, in the event of an accident. Australian viewers saw mankind's giant leap 6.3 seconds earlier than the rest of the world !! (A 300 mS delay for the INTELSAT satellite link from Sydney,Australia to Houston,USA was incurred).I still watch The Dish regularly and the movie, if nothing, conveys greater emotion than it first did. Highly recommended  great acting across the entire cast, almost flawless camerawork, fantastic soundtrack, fast paced yet non-engaging script, witty comedy. A treat for the whole family. 9.5 out of 10 !!! "},{"Title":"An opportunity to use the word nice in a positive way.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"43 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  As with all true story movies, I have no idea how much of this is actually true - particularly in relation to the crises just before the actual moonwalk.  But frankly, I don't care, because The Dish as a movie is a splendid experience.Being heavily promoted as from the makers of 'The Castle'  may get a few extra punters in the door - particularly here in Australia where the exploits of the Working Dog team are rightly well known and loved; but those expecting The Castle 2 will be in for a surprise.But a pleasant one.  This film is much more ambitious, much larger in scope. As is to be expected, the writing here is very sharp - a likeable group of characters are defined very well very quickly, the simple plot flows smoothly, and there is a constant stream of funny (and some downright hilarious) moments.  Much of the humour is distinctly Aussie, and much of it arises from the culture clash between the locals and the visiting Americans. Yet despite this, the film does not stoop to the level of Ocker cliché which plagues several other Australian films.  There is a core of simple humanity here which makes it very engaging.  It is for this reason also that I think the film will play very well in other countries.The cast is also very impressive, from the habitually sound Sam Neill, who projects an immense dignity, and Patrick Warburton as the pressured NASA official sent to oversee the operation, right down to the Mayor's son, reeling off technical details of the spacecraft to his bemused dad.  It is a credit to the cast, and to Rob Sitch as a director that I was rarely aware that I was watching a film, I was simply drawn into the experience.Those, like me, who wanted to be an Astronaut when they were little, and maintained an interest in the space program, will enjoy seeing the famous footage again in a new light.  Those looking for a comedy will find many laughs herein.  Those curious to understand the nature of being Australian will find some clues.  And those just looking for a film to make them feel good could do much much worse.  In short, The Dish is one of those rare movies which will appeal to pretty much everyone.  I can't really think of any serious criticisms, and left the cinema feeling... well, nice.  I have no doubt it will play well in Australia, but I also hope it does well overseas too, in the US and elsewhere.  I'd recommend it to everyone I know, and everyone else.When this one comes out on DVD I'll be getting a copy, and it'll be going straight to the pool room! "},{"Title":"Aussie humour at its finest, in a gentle, joyful piece of comedy.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  At a time when the comedy genre is saturated with the crude, lewd and unsophisticated toilet humour of the U.S ('See Spot Run', 'The Animal', 'Say It Isn't So'), it's encouraging to watch a film that really makes you laugh out loud without wanting to cringe at the same time. Like it's antipodean predecessor 'Priscilla...', 'The Dish' takes the best aspects of Australian culture and the Aussie persona and uses them to create the finest comedy of the year so far. Much of the humour is brutally honest, delivered in the kind of relaxed, conversational style which has become an Aussie trademark. Paired with a homegrown cast (headed by a wonderfully understated Sam Neill) and filmed on location at the satellite receiver station in South Australia, the film feels refreshingly natural and unconstructed.This sense of cultural identity gives 'The Dish' a surprising depth for such an uncomplicated film. Rather than resorting to the contrived, exaggerated Australian image of Paul Hogan, it revels in its roots without a hint of self-consciousness or compromise. Such an intense warmth towards its small-town location and everyman characters is shown that it is impossible not to share it, and from that grows a wonderful sense of intimacy. Despite the global importance of Apollo 11's mission, a real sense of the importance of it to the community and the individuals therein is present throughout. An American film may have made this subservient to the moon landings - here, the two are intertwined on an equal footing, and you care equally about each.And in that lies the secret of why 'The Dish' is such a damn good film. It's not the well-paced, extremely funny and well-delivered script, nor the quality of the acting, nor the great location or period soundtrack. It's because the film has a real sense of soul. It makes you want to care about it and it's characters. In mainstream film, that's a rare achievement indeed. Let's hope the Farrelly brothers are watching...8.5/10 "},{"Title":"What a Pleasant Surprise...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Once and a while a true surprise comes along. A film that is pleasantly surprising and enjoyable. Well, that's what The Dish is. It never takes itself too serious and never takes itself too lightly. It is just right.It is centered around the true story of the largest satellite dish in the world, found in the middle of a sheep paddock in Australia. The dish, at one time, broadcast the Apollo 11 moon landing to the world, and this is the story of the problems the men who ran the dish went through.Sam Neill and Patrick Warburton lead the group of four that manage the dish; the characters are all nice and pleasant and likable. No one is unlikable in this film.Sam Neill is a great actor; I've liked him in films since Dead Calm, but my real respect for his performances rose after he brought Dr. Allen Grant to life in Jurassic Park.Patrick Warburton, in my opinion, is one of the most underrated comedic actors in Hollywood. He always gets throwaway roles (MIIB, Big Trouble,=etc...), but in this film he gets a leading role (sorta) and handles it excellently. He proves he really can act--serious or comedic--in films.One thing that is so nice about The Dish is that it doesn't try to really prove anything extremely memorable. It's not trying to be the next big hit. It sticks to the facts while presenting some great actors and a twist of humor. And because of this, it is, possibly, one of the most pleasant film experiences I've had in recent years. Sometimes it's nice to sit back, relax and just watch a movie. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is a real crowd pleaser, which surpassed my initial expectations. I guess you could say that it falls into that little genre of world cinema known as the regional comedy.  Such examples might include Cinema Paradiso or The Full Monty.  It looks, quite lovingly, at the lives of several characters and their environment, providing subtle humour and a healthy dose of sentiment as well.  What makes this film particularly interesting is its take on the first moon landing of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin in 1969.  While usually covered in an American jingoistic mode of filmmaking, The Dish offers a fresh, outside perspective.  How did the world view it?  How were Americans viewed?  The detached perspective of the Australians is the source of much humour within the film, culminating in a few scenes where the responsibility of providing a relay signal from Apollo 11 to Houston is placed fully upon the small band of dish operators in rural Australia.  Perhaps the most profound thing about this film is that it is largely based on a true story.With an all-round solid cast, led by Sam Neill and Tom Long. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Little Film!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Most of us who were over 5 years old at the time, remember where they were when Neil Armstrong stepped foot on the moon. This monumentally emotional moment for mankind, albeit thoroughly superfluous scientific achievement, is the background for this beautifully constructed film.The thing that makes this film so special is the fact that there isn't a character that appears on screen that you don't care about, regardless how small the role. That takes true writing and directing talent!The entire small town of Parks, New South Wales, Australia is all atwitter, because their radio observatory dish has been chosen to be NASA's official link to the Apollo 11 mission in the southern hemisphere. The mayor's wife comments, while serving her joint of lamb, that man being moments away from landing on the moon makes their problems seem mundane... That's the beauty of the film, you care so much about these people; their problems are anything but mundane - you cheer-on the techno-nerd asking the town beauty to go out with him; you ache inside because the head of the observatory lost his wife a year ago and she can't be there to revel in his glory; you love the fact that the out-of-place NASA official is the only one who realizes that all the mayor's rebellious teenage daughter really needs to chill-out is an ounce of respect.This is the best kind of feel-good film. An absolute jewel that you'll want to watch more than just once.  "},{"Title":"A great feel-good comedy.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was extremely hard for me to get into, but once I got interested, I couldn't turn away. The performances were great the story was pleasantly refreshing. After I had seen the small town Irish comedy WAKING NED DEVINE, I was in the mood for feel-good comedies. THE DISH was the next best thing. But, as it turns out, I liked THE DISH far better.It is a small town comedy set in a rural Australian town during the days preceeding the Apollo 11 landing on the moon. When Neil Armstrong walked on the moon, it brought everyone on the Earth together. This film gives an idea as to what it must have been like to see that experience.The film was a greatly pleasant movie and I was totally delighted to have a film as heartwarming and truly great as this. Sam Neill (JURASSIC PARK) and Patrick Warburton (SCREAM 3, BIG TROUBLE) who I feel are both very good actors take the leading roles of this delightful movie experience. Surely a film that you will want to watch over and over again. I recommend OCTOBER SKY and WAKING NED DEVINE.THE DISH 5/5. "},{"Title":"A great story","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  With The Dish & their previous effort The Castle, the Working Dog crew show their innate ability to tell a great story.The direction, cinematography, the music & the acting are all A+ quality, but for mine that is not the strength of The Dish.  The main strength of this film is it's story, a beautifully told, heartwarming story about one of the most memorable moments in history & the role a small town in middle-of-nowhere Australia & its citizens played in this event.For those who see The Dish on DVD, check out the directors commentary with Rob Sitch.  In this commentary, Sitch shows himself to be a very thoughtful & intelligent director, which may surprise those who see him as the big mouth from The Panel "},{"Title":"One small step for man, one giant leap for Parkes.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish tells of a small group of people who operated a giant radio telescope in Parkes, NSW, Australia which captured the weak signals from the Apollo 11 1969 lunar landing and moon walk with its behemoth parabolic reflector. A light hearted and fun romp involving the scientists and the townsfolk, all buoyed by pride over their big dish and involvement with the historical NASA mission, The Dish relies heavily on the viewers sense of awe and nostalgia as the ...Giant leap for mankind is taken. A easy-going and somewhat austere film which manages a subtle and lovely sense of humor and heart, The Dish will have broad appeal but should play best with those who remember July 20, 1969. (B) "},{"Title":"Houston, we have a problem","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Parkes, New South Wales, Australia, became famous for its gigantic satellite dish in the middle of a sheep paddock. This dish was instrumental for communicating with the men of Apollo 11's mission to the moon. Neil Armstrong and his colleagues are about to land on the moon and suddenly the Australian tracking station loses contact with them. How could the people of the world react if they can't see the men taking steps on the lunar surface? It's something that the technicians in Australia will have to deal with to relay the images of man's first walk on the moon.The Dish, directed with folksy charm by Rob Sitch, shows how the people in Parkes, a remote spot, a simple dot in the map, rally for the biggest event in their lives. They are proud of being at the center of such a historical moment. At the same time we are taken behind the scenes to see what is really going on. Cliff Buxton, and his team are dealt a blow when they lose the signal to Apollo 11. Instead of panicking, Buxton decides not to tell Houston about the problem they are experiencing.Luckily, everything turns out all right.Sam Neill, makes an impression as Cliff Buxton. Patrick Warburton is equally good playing the NASA representative, Al Burnett. The Australian cast is wonderful in the way they capture the small time atmosphere in their moment where they are at the center of the world's attention.The Dish is an enjoyable comedy. "}{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable movie","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This offering from the makers of The Castle far exceeds its predecessor in every way.  Where The Castle verged on the hysterical, The Dish is laid back and in most instances avoids turning its characters into caricatures.Just how much of the story is true is doubtful.  Not the general facts-for Parkes certainly did feature greatly in the transmission of pictures from space in the first moon landing.  As one who was around at the time - and yes - we did sit glued to our TV sets - I remember very well just how much the experience took over our lives.Whether or not the actual story is true, the movie is greatly entertaining, the characters are believable and it gives to today's cynical viewers and idea of just how completely overawed and interested the world was in what was going on in outer space. I really recommend it as a gentle, humorous enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"This funny and touching true story shows what NASA always hopes would never happen","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The thing I enjoyed most about this film, aside from Sam Neill's performance is that the people were depicted just as people are really apt to be like. The mayor of Parks reminds me so much of small town pols that I have known. And the festival air they all strive for when a significant event happens in their little corner of the world. But it also points the nightmare that anyone working with technology faces with downright terror, that something will go awry at exactly the wrong time. The fact that the film is a good family film, mostly, serious but also funny is what makes this such a special film. If you haven't seen this little gem, rent it as soon as you can. "},{"Title":"A delightful comedy/drama","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" This film hooked me the first time I saw it. I have watched it many times since and never tire of it. My reaction is why don't we get more films from Australia here? The humor that comes across during this tense time is what holds this film together. The acting is first rate from Sam Neil all the way down the line. The town of Parkes is proud to be part of the moon landing, but all in all takes it in stride.Tayler Kane as Rudy was a delight. When he thought that Neil Armstrong was actually on his walkie-talkie, I really laughed. The scene was priceless. Likewise Tom Long as Glenn, the computer expert played his role to perfection. When he jumps to take off his glasses whenever Janine comes into the facility is too much for words. The final bit of hilarity came when Mayor Bob asks everyone at the dance to remain upstanding for the American anthem, and the band breaks into the theme for Hawaii Five-O. The looks on the faces of the American ambassador and Patrick Warbourton are priceless. It doesn't get any better than that.Yet, the seriousness of the mission still comes across and the pride felt by the crew of the dish is readily visible. When it looks like the wind storm might take them out of the mission, you really feel for Cliff Buxton and his guys. You know he's going to go for it because he earlier said that This is science's chance to be daring. This is one movie I will never get tired of viewing. It is funny, it is serious, it is poignant, all without being mawkish or overly sentimental. Having lived through the entire U.S. space program (I was 21 when Apollo 11 landed), I know the excitement shown by the characters in the film as Apollo 11 first lifted off, and then when Armstrong came off the LEM and stepped onto the lunar surface. It was an exciting time and the final point of the movie that I enjoyed, was that this event affected many people outside the U.S. This is something that is often overlooked and it was great to see how the people of Parkes and in particular, the crew of the dish, helped bring the pictures from the moon to the rest of the world. Well Done!!! "},{"Title":"Much more interesting than Apollo 13 if you ask me.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, the film Apollo 13 was interesting but this was much more engaging.  We often forget that astronauts, space scientist and the crews that support the Space Age are just regular people.  This Australian made film reminded me of the many people around the world who watched or listened that day in 1969.  I can remember some about that day and how fantastic it must have been for those in Park Australia to be struggling to make things work.  This is a must see for anyone interested in the Space program.  Also if you find the dish itself interesting we have a Very Large Aray (VLA) near Socorro, New Mexico that I have seen.  It is awe inspiring just to walk near one and see how huge they are. "},{"Title":"A great film with a superb score","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" A terrific blast of nostalgia for the late 1960's. This is my all time favourite film with great performances from all the cast - just the right balance of comedy and pathos. The recreation of the feel and optimism of the moonshot, together with the general look and feel of the 60's is extremely well done. For all of us who were kids at the time and remember watching the moon landing on black and white, grainy TVs in the classroom, this film will give you a warm and familiar feeling. No bad language, no gratuitous sex, no SFX and yet is captivating and entertaining to watch. It can be done! Thoroughly recommended. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Pleasant Movie","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I am a die-hard movie buff and I had never heard of this movie until my brother brought it to Thanksgiving. After watching it I was very pleased. A very fun movie with a great story and a delightfully quirky cast. The movie is worth watching just for Rudi, the security guard. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Truly Outstanding","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" WARNING If you are a 'techie' and you remember the Apollo program, DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!!! ...it is highly addictive!! This is not a great Australian movie; it is simply a great movie set in Australia (though the Aussies clearly did a magnificent job making it!). I watch very few movies - as I find most too boring and formulaic. The first time you watch this movie, you'll likely find it delightfully funny. The 2nd through the Nth time you watch it, you'll realize what an exceptional job the writers, cast, and crew do bringing the eccentric characters you'll find in almost any small town to life as they deal with the pressures of being thrust into the international spotlight.The film also brilliantly captures - and relives - the truly awe-inspiring nature of the first moon landing. It provides a glimpse of the world's complete fascination and almost child-like wonder with the enormity of the event.Now I watch it more for inspiration than entertainment (it still entertains after multiple viewings, though). These days when we all struggle occasionally with seemingly intractable technical issues, this film reminds us of the extraordinary achievements that can be accomplished through teamwork, persistence, determination and singularity of focus.A thoroughly enjoyable film! "},{"Title":"A profound affection for this film","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" As well as a cinema buff, I devour books on the US manned spaceflight programme before the Shuttle. I fondly remember sitting on my grandfather's knee in the UK hearing Apollo 8 talking to us from the Moon at Christmas 1968. So, not an utterly objective source; I read several academic books on the part of Australia supporting Apollo. This film (aside a credit at the end) sadly overlooks the part of Honeysuckle Creek. Yet... it would be a hardened heart - film buff or space historian - who could not embrace this truly lovely film. Funny, poignant, balanced, an eye for detail. Sets up stereotypes, but gives them life. The stuffed shirt NASA man - who comes to admire his Aussie colleagues. The Army cadet - the subtle anti-Vietnam subtext - who is basically decent and wins the girl. The American Ambassador who laughs at 'Hawaii 5-0'. An Australian Ealing Comedy, with heart, laughs - but care for the truth (i.e. with the characters, not at them), beautifully made and played by a perfect cast. I defy you not to leave this film smiling. (I drove from Sydney to Parkes on the back of it and smiled all the way back). "},{"Title":"A Great Microscosm Film As Humanity Explored The Cosmos","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Only having been four years old when the first lunar landing took place, I have no recollection about the excitement that surrounded this monumental achievement. So many men and women had dedicated their very lives to this one moment in time that it stopped the world (not just one nation) and allowed all of us the chance to see just how far human beings could go in their quest to reach that next horizon. And although THE DISH is about one backward country radio telescope in Parkes, Australia that beamed those first Armstrong-on-the-moon images to billions of people ...it is much more than that.Cliff Buxton (Sam Neill, JURASSIC PARK) is the director of the Parkes telescope, a sensitive piece of hardware surrounded by sheep paddocks. Seeing such a large array (this telescope could actually deliver telemetry, track the lunar module, AND send back television images) in an austere landscape made me pause several times during the film and marvel at the sheer beauty of this monstrosity against the setting of Australia's back country.Initially the film takes on the feel of something homey; a gentle side-trip down a path we all know too well (the first manned mission to the moon.) These hick-like folk are in charge of something as important as the lunar landing?! But the viewer gets pulled into the film in a very intimate way. We see that these ARE simple people, but ones who take their jobs very seriously ...but not overly so. The comedy, like the movie itself, is light and sprinkled throughout the relationships (even when the lose Apollo 11 as they approach the moon and lie to NASA about it!) I found myself getting choked-up as the world &#151; and this little microcosm of people in Parkes &#151; held their breath as those first pictures of man's footprint on the moon took place (during hurricane force winds that threatened to blow over the telescope and kill the men inside operating it; they realized the importance of that moment and were willing to risk everything.) If you'd like to take a trip down memory lane (ala 1969) but want a different road, THE DISH is a nice film to try out. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Feelgood Film","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Much has been made of what it was like to watch the Apollo 11 moon landing - I was only a few months old at the time so I didn't have that experience. However, watching this film on the big screen gave me an idea what it must have been like. Of course, there is more to the film than the famous lunar landing itself. Its a wonderful tale of the role played by the dish in Parkes, Australia. Images where being transmitted via two main dishes - the Parkes dish covered the times when the Moon was only in range of the southern hemisphere.This is a wonderful character film which demonstrates the pride felt by the people of Parkes and the professionalism of those at the dish. Its not all plain sailing though - as the dish is affected by a power surge which causes them to lose the link with Apollo 11 for a time. Then at the crucial one small step moment... high winds threaten the dish.One of the funniest scenes for me is the American national anthem scene which goes to show how TV can affect the understanding of another culture.This is a wonderful little film which I bought the moment it was released on DVD. I cannot praise it highly enough. If you want a break from high octane action movies and a chance to rest your ears from shootouts and explosions then The Dish is definitely worth a look. "}{"Title":"The word Delightful is defined by this movie","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I smiled the entire way through this movie. I tried to stop - honest, but couldn't. The humour is so pervasive and wonderfully subtle. Loved it! The characters are simply wonderful ...every single one, right down to the smallest part. It is possibly the most crafted and evenly balanced films I have seen in a while. The word that most describes this movie is delightful, and it is indeed an utter delight. You can watch it again and again and again and again and again ... and still i get overwhelmed by the whole event (which is great considering I wasn't there, this is as close as I can get to it) and get shivers and goosebumps all over my body when Apollo 11 takes off, when the Eagle has wings, on touchdown and the moon walk. Great job guys... and I mean everyone involved. Go get it on DVD! There's also great archival stuff on there that probably wouldn't have seen the mainstream light of day (thanks to NASA for the amazing access they gave the film crew - I wish I'd been there aswell). Though I wish there was a making of (which was apparently filmed) on there. I repeat these are not to scale ~ classic! "},{"Title":"This wonderful movie is a quiet work of genius.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This wonderful movie is a work of genius. My husband and I watched it two straight times in succession, alternately laughing and crying, especially at the end which is one of the perfect moments in film. Sam Neill, always perfection, is the linchpin of this fine cast. The other Australian actors -- Roy Billing, Kevin Harrington, Tom Long, Genevieve Mooy, Tayler Kane, Bille Brown -- are superb, as is literally EVERY person cast in this movie. Patrick Warburton and John McMartin are equally wonderful as the only American actors in this superbly written and directed movie.It left me feeling that I wanted to meet and know all these people.  If you haven't had the good fortune of knowing any Australians, you'll be planning your next vacation there in hopes of meeting people like those so perfectly and honestly portrayed here. "},{"Title":"Add this to your must see list.  A '9' or even '10'.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a rare find.  A wonderful, moving, funny film that anyone but the crudest of simpleton can enjoy.  Outside of a few mild curse words mumbled in anger at machines, this film proves Hollywood has it's head up it's 'machine' when it produces films accessible only to those that are sick, perverted or emotionally retarded.  And it's not only Hollywood.  More and more it seems many filmmakers are forcing their lifestyles upon their viewers.  Example 'Casablanca' has a very wide audience appeal, while 'Pulp Fiction' can only be enjoyed by those able to stomach the vilest of themes.  Case in point, I watched this film right after watching 'Billy Elliot'.  Though the acting in both films was superb, this film was everything 'Billy' needed to be, but was not.  It was subtle, humorous, dramatic and thoughtful.  While 'Billy Elliot' relied on strong language to communicate it's maturity, 'The Dish' relies on the strength of it's characters and story.  While 'Billy' hammers you over the head with it's I'm not gay... not that there's anything wrong with being gay!  message, 'Dish' allows it's audience to discover the message, (the one found in most great films... 'Every man's life makes a difference').  'Billy' had an annoying Speilbergesque obviousness to it, while 'Dish' flows timelessly, like listening to a funny friend tell a great story.  One of the things I like most about this film is the way it deals with those that are troublesome.  Rather than have an over the top bad guy (the cliché stuffy conservative) this film just allows the dumb characters to speak their mind and hang themselves, which is far more fun to watch. The highest of praise to Aussie Rob Sitch who directed and co-wrote.  Also, very beautiful and fun cinematography from Graeme Wood.  Great cast all around including a very funny Patrick Warburton.  Wake up Hollywood, this is what you could be making!    "},{"Title":"a real charmer from Down Under","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  You sure can't accuse the Aussies of not cherishing their homegrown movies.  Indeed, based on the numerous responses I have received to my negative review of `The Castle,' I would be inclined to employ the term `fanatical' in describing their passion.  I discovered from first hand experience just how vehemently they will defend their product &#150; and woe to anyone who dares voice a minority opinion.  For of all the 200 plus reviews I have posted on imdb.com and amazon.com, none has come even close to eliciting the kind of fiery responses generated by this one &#150; pointing to an intense cultural divide I had no idea existed.  Judging from the vitriol contained in the reactions, you would have thought that I had had the temerity to badmouth the Sistine Chapel or the Great Pyramids at Giza, at the very least.  Even today, almost two years after writing the review, I still get outraged emails taking umbrage with my assessment of a film that I have come to realize is nothing less than a cultural cinematic icon to a large number of the folks from the Land Down Under.  Some of the emails have even been quite clever and witty in their, shall we say `colorful,' way of setting me straight &#150; my favorite accusing me of being `brain dead' and unable to understand the English language when spoken with an Aussie accent!  (I sure understood the emails, though).  All this to defend a movie that, even by the standards of those who love it, can certainly not rate as much more than a pleasant, diversionary trifle.  One should know better where to stake one's battles.Thus, when it came to reviewing the latest feature by the makers of `The Castle' (`The Dish'), I began to wonder if maybe it wouldn't just be better if I skipped the effort entirely.  I felt as if I'd done enough to harm Aussie-American relations already &#150; and I really had no desire to further alienate an entire continent inhabited by what I am sure are damn nice people under other, less inflammatory circumstances.  But when you're driven to seek the truth, you're driven.  I had to find out if I was I as far off on my assessment of the earlier film as the Aussies seemed to think I was or if there really were no middle ground between what I found funny and what they did.  Ultimately, my perverse need to stir up the pot got the better of me so I finally broke down and rented `The Dish,' a true story about the small group of men working at a satellite dish in a remote section of Australia who, in July 1969, played a major part in helping to transmit the first live images of a man walking on the moon.I'm happy to report that `The Dish' turns out to be a world-class charmer, a delightful film that captures the high-spirited innocence and optimism of the space race era and vividly recreates a time when people from all over the world could do little but stare in spellbound amazement at the achievements of which mankind proved itself capable &#150; and feel the mutual pride and camaraderie that such events occasioned.  The makers of `The Dish' dramatize this feeling of universal connectedness by showing how even the most remote, seemingly `insignificant' people could be made to feel a part of an event happening half a world away and commanding the attention of most of the planet's inhabitants.  Here near the small town of Parkes, Australia, nestled in what is little more than a sheep pasture, looms the 1,000-ton satellite dish that will serve as the eye of the world for this event of monumental historic importance.  The makers of the film have chosen to take a charming, low-key approach to the material, focusing on the likable, decidedly offbeat people who make up both the team at the dish as well as the citizenry of the nearby town.  With the subtle quirkiness common to most Australian comedies, `The Dish' displays a real affection for its characters, showing them as flawed human beings who, nevertheless, learn to accept and cope with the differences that might otherwise separate them.  Thus, even the simmering conflict between the American hotshot from NASA assigned to the dish and one of the more sensitive Aussie specialists plays itself out in a believable and touching way.  Other characters defy the stereotypes that less gifted filmmakers might have enforced upon them.  The mayor of the town, for instance, rather than being a self-congratulatory blowhard (as we fear he will become in the early parts of the film) turns out to be a sweet, gentle, family-loving man who is as overwhelmed by the world's spotlight being shone on his community as are the common folk who make up his constituents.   Lending his star quality to the proceedings, Sam Neil gives a beautifully understated performance as Cliff Buxton, a recently widowed technician at the dish who manages to take all this hubbub in stride but who conveys, in gentle ways, the sheer awesomeness of the event in which he finds himself taking part.  In fact, it is this sense of ordinary people suddenly finding themselves a part of history that makes `The Dish' more than simply a clever, likable comedy.  We find ourselves genuinely touched and moved by much of what we see on screen.  Perhaps, after the tragedy of the World Trade Center attacks - during which people all over the world sat riveted in morbid fascination to their television sets watching that horrifying event unfold - the film attains an added poignancy.  It reminds us a bit of our lost innocence as we see the people in this film staring spellbound at their television sets 32 years earlier for a far different purpose &#150; to witness, as a united, worldwide community, the GOOD things mankind can do when he puts his mind to it rather than the evil.  By dealing so warmly and gently with the people who make up this little corner of the world, `The Dish' lifts the spirits and renews the faith.  So, just to make the record clear, I'm definitely WITH my Aussie friends on this one!  Time now to bury the hatchet?  "},{"Title":"A Space-In-Time Wonderful Story","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" There was a time in our past when the world suddenly became a lot smaller in a good way. That time was not so long ago either. Many of us remember it fondly from our youth. In fact, it's epicenter may well have been the Summer of '69 when we witnessed the greatest technological feat mankind has ever accomplished. Even though there was a controversial war going on, it seemed all humankind came together and rooted for three United States astronauts who were hundreds of thousands of miles away attempting history's first lunar landing! I can not overstate this, in my life I've never seen the world community so together on any other issue or thing. This was simply a galvanizing moment for all humanity.The Dish captures this time wonderfully. From the start, when we are introduced to a senior version of Sam Neil's character set against the Parkes beautiful countryside, this movie gives you that warm-fuzzy feeling. The story is excellent, even better because all the main ingredients were true. Though the story doesn't possess the life-or-death urgency of Apollo 13, it does tell an important story I, myself, was not aware of...And, it's even got a little tension.Details in the movie, for me at any rate, added to the joy of watching it. For instance...The great soundtrack had a gem that is just under the radar for the period, that being Something In The Air by Thunderclap Newman. Great song and tailor made for the topic! The cinematography was so Technicolor-Like and immediate I wanted to walk into almost every scene. The time, the story and the characters were so hand-in-glove perfectly portrayed in this movie, I just know if I could walk into this wonderful Australian township, with it's equally wonderful citizens, I would love it. Could it be this great in reality, probably not, but it's a movie about a time past and it's a complete success as far as that goes. If you enjoy a good life-affirming story don't miss The Dish. G'Day mate! "},{"Title":"Delightful mix of the large and small of human endeavors","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" A well written mix of comedy and drama surrounding the efforts of a small group to provide a key link in the broadcasting of the first moonwalk by Armstrong and Aldrin. The interplay of the small and the large scales in human endeavors is illustrated in various ways, while emphasizing the necessity for cooperation and respect between often widely disparate players. The small group running the radio antenna in Parkes Australia is contrasted with the huge operation of NASA that ran the overall mission. The contrast is also found in the small town of Parkes and the people who live there who become a focus of attention for a few days during the mission. Much of the humor derives from the small scale foibles of the personalities in Parkes, while we also are shown how very ordinary people can often contribute small but critical efforts in large human enterprises or historic events. The other main theme is one of daring, and perseverance in the face of various odds, from the disdain of the mayor's daughter for her would-be wooer, to unexpected weather, to the dangers of flying the mission to the moon and back. We are shown how we can all be both silly and effective all at the same time, how courage on small or large scales is still courage, and how occasionally risks are a necessary part of life. "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Had never heard of it when I picked it up on video the other day.  Within the first few minutes, I could tell it was going to be a very good story.  Wondered why I hadn't heard of it before.  Several characters were developed, and I wanted to know what would happen to each of them.  It's always nice to see a clean, simple story like this.  This was inspired by actual events that occured as Apollo astronauts did one of the most amazing things man has ever done.  Australia helped the US.  Residents of a small Australian community got to share in the experience knowing that they were a big part of it.  At the end of the movie, I was sad that it was over.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely charming film with plenty of nostalgia.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought this on VHS for our library, then got a DVD copy for myself it was so good.  My brother works with experiments on rockets and has been to Australia to do a launch and this was so like what he described. .    The story has suspense (a true story doesn't need to embellish much) a little romance (Glenn is so vulnerable) and comedy (politicians are the same the world over)and flows well from beginning to end. The nostalgia is well done with news clips in black and white from 69.  Takes you right back to that time.      The second time I watched it I realized that the actors playing Glenn and Kevin also play in Sea Change and Australian comedy currently on PBS.   This is a must film if you like to give kids something worthwhile to watch and it is great to remember those days. "},{"Title":"surprisingly entertaining","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I did not expect too much from this movie and was very pleasantly surprised by its quality across the board. My expectations did increase the moment I noticed that top billing goes to Sam Neill (The Piano, Jurassic Park, Reilly Ace of Spies). Don't hold this against the movie, but the true story of Australia's role in the first moon landing gives it redeeming educational value as well as  some suspense, believe it or not. I had no idea that the Australians were suffering from so many glitches that it was a miracle that they pulled it off. There are many funny moments in the movie such as when the likeable but clueless security guard, Rudi, says, Halt, who goes there? and after a moment you here a sheep bleating. Yes, the most sophisticated radio telescope in the Southern Hemisphere in 1969 was in the middle of a sheep paddock. Another noteworthy feature is the movie's soundtrack. I can say, having lived in 1969, that the movie reflects what people actually heard when they turned on the radio that year, as opposed to the usual best of soundtrack you hear in most movies set in the sixties. For that reason I couldn't recommend the CD of this movie's soundtrack if it exists. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is a wonderful film from the creators of The Castle and television shows such as The Panel, for Australian TV. The film starts off fairly hilariously, but kind of changes to drama half way through when gale force winds strike up or when they lose Apollo 11 in a blackout, with just a sprinkling of humour, but that full spirited hilarity returns for the finale. A truly wonderful film from that hum-dinger of a country we call Australia! "}{"Title":"An entertaining history lesson.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  They have taken a simple historical fact and made it interesting to watch. In its own way, it is an extension of the factual space films that we have seen, like Apollo 13.  It teaches us about a little known aspect of the space program.  I really got to know, and understand, the characters.  It's one of those rare occasions when I left the theater knowing the first names of all the major characters, and I felt that I knew them. "},{"Title":"600 million people watch TV","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  You must see this movie. The story captured the attention of 600 million people on one day July 20th, 1969. Neil Armstrong is the first man in human history to step foot on the moon - 385 million meters from Earth.The story revolves around a small town's participation in this monumental human event. Parkes, Australia's radio telescope (identified as PKS by NASA) is selected to relay the TV signal from the moon to Houston Control.This movie captures the excitement of the moment in all it's incredible amazement and relays the events surrounding the broadcaste from Parkes. The actors were amazing - I felt as a fly on a wall watching history unfold before my eyes. Sam Neill and the entire caste of the town made you feel right at home in this little, warm, charming town. And Patrick Warburton plays a marvelous role as a NASA engineer come to oversee the event at Parkes. 10/10.- ZafoidPS Patrick Warburton played his role exceedingly well. I was very glad to see him get a part very different from his baffoon of a character on the Seinfeld series. Kudos to Patrick ... and the ***entire*** crew of The Dish.- Z "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" This delightfully quirky comedy is based on true (Moon Landing related) events. I was not expecting this movie to be so good when I streamed it from netflix as I was keeping an eye on the kids. A little while later, realizing how interesting it had started to be, I actually had to stop the movie, so that I could see it without interruptions later on.This movie chronicles, with hint of comedy, the effects of the dish on a small town in Australia in 1969. The Dish being the NASA's backup transmitter for the Apollo 11 moon landing mission.Sprinkled through the movie were bits and pieces of all kinds of emotional spices like Comedy, Suspense, Drama, Love, history in the making etc. I thought it was just going to be this feel good flick until they get hit with a disaster (at their level), due to human error, they lose power and have a communication black out with Niel Armstrong. Somehow, interestingly, they manage to recover from it to end up in an unexpected storm, which threatens to dislodge the dish, and they are the only ones who can beam the actual moon landing pictures to the rest of the world.The goof up around the national anthem was hilarious (you will know what I mean when you see it).I love the story within story approach to, well, story telling. Where the bigger story (moon landing) is actually the back drop to the main story (effects of the dish on this rural community). Some famous examples being Titanic and Saving Private Ryan.I recommend you save this for a tiring and downer day, it wont be rip roaring funny but will certainly lift your spirits all the way to the moon ;-) This review was originally posted on my blog http//roundhayreview.blogspot.com/2009/11/dish.html "},{"Title":"A Refreshing Australian Treat","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" 'The Dish' is a delightfully refreshing little film. 'Based on a true story, it takes place in 1969 during Apollo 11 when Armstrong is about to walk on the moon. Sitch's direction and writing (with co-writers Jane Kennedy, Santo Cilauro and Tom Gleisner) is absolutely terrific. The sense of humour and element of drama is beautifully fused together and the attention to detail is astonishing. The dialogues are clever and full of wit. The characters are brilliantly written and easy to relate to. Every single character in the movie is of substance, no matter how small the role.'The Dish' is very much a down-to-earth film. It does not rely on the usual typical Hollywood formula of showing violence, sex or constant cussing. It kept me glued to the screen and I found it far more appealing than the somewhat boring Ron Howard film, 'Apollo 13'. The citizens of Parkes are portrayed as charming ordinary human beings and the excitement on their faces when Armstrong takes his first step is among the priceless sequences of the film. There is an intense warmth and feeling of oneness about it. The cinematography is captivating as it captures the beauty of Parkes and gives the title character a role of its own. The soundtrack is simple and yet incredibly effective. Sam Neill, Tom Long and Patrick Warburton lead the cast but everyone delivers authentic performances.To sum it up, 'The Dish' is a splendid treat and a down-to-earth comedy that is entertaining, educational and enlightening. It's gentle. It's authentic and it's refreshing. A wonderful movie experience that I plan to revisit. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, with plenty of laughs","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" What's this? A comedy without jokes about bodily functions, drugs or curse words? Instead, it uses situational humor, wit, and an intellectual spark? It's about dang time, if you ask me.This wonderful little tale about a satellite dish crew in Parkes, Australia, and their role in the Apollo 11 mission is a highly superior alternative to most of the American teenage comedies of today. All of the actors and actresses involved turn in wonderful performances, Sam Neil (Cliff) and Patrick Warburton (Al) chief among them. There are plenty of humorous sequences (When the band plays the Hawaii 5-O theme as the American national anthem for example) and wonderful one-liners (You just b*lls#!tted NASA.). There are also some touching scenes, which are played with a light touch of wit and emotion.I loved every minute of The Dish and would recommend it highly to anyone sick of the normal Hollywood fare of quote-unquote comedies. To those who have seen this film and want something else in a similar vein, go see Waking Ned Devine, another top-notch light comedy from outside of the United States. If you didn't like this movie, then you're probably not reading this review, so go away. "},{"Title":"The Aussies did it again","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Disney has lost its right of being the only one to make some good and decent family entertainment. With this movie, the Australian Rob Stitch, proves that there are more countries where they know how to make heart-warming comedies. And no, this isn't the exaggerated and overly positive comment of an Aussie that you are reading. I'm European (Belgian to be more precise) and have nothing to do with Australia, except for the fact that I like a lot of their movies...It's the present day when Cliff Buxton returns to the satellite dish, in the Australian outback, that was used as the only station on the southern hemisphere to stay in contact with the first Apollo moon mission. He isn't recognized by the technician that walks around on the site, but he worked together with a small group of Australian technicians and one man from NASA and made it possible for the world to see the very first human steps on the moon. As he goes back in time with his memories, we see how a satellite dish, once placed in the middle of a sheep farm near a small town, caused a lot of stress, but also town pride...What I like so much about this movie is that it uses a more comical look towards one of the greatest events in history and the differences in cultural attitudes between Australia and the U.S. This could have been a very dignified and formal movie, but instead they chose to make a comedy out of it. And I can only say that they were right by doing so. It works very well and that's the most important thing if you ask me. It has become a very nice comedy with some nice acting and a wonderful story, based on actual events, but never hard to keep interested in. As a conclusion I only want to say The Aussies did it again, I loved this movie and I give it a 7.5/10 at least. "},{"Title":"Simply delightful fun","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" A glorious blend of the history of these unheard heroes and the very ingenious Australian humor, one of the most authentic hilarious and at the same time emotional movies I have ever seen.The little town of Parkes becomes a major focal point for the Apollo 11 mission, in their own country, Australia. The radio antenna (the dish) nearby is assigned for nothing less that transmitting the moon walk of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin. A very particular team working in the dish is in charge of carrying out the mission. All the unusual events surrounding the mission, the untold story in Parkes is told brilliantly in this movie, with added traces of sympathetic local characters. Strangely, heavily funny, it's a joy of magnificent movie-making and a fresh breeze of originality and wit. I was particularly attached to the story for I've worked in telescopes where the environment is similar and you never guess what the next problem can be and when and how it can occur. Why aren't there more movies like this, that you can laugh out loud with no vulgarity, without appalling and abundant sex references, but simply home made jokes and teasing? This is the kind that elevates the human spirit with good will, hope, optimism and a lot of laughs! I felt 100% better (although I was not down) after watching it. The Major, the Mayor's daughter's pretender, the technicians and the guard on duty at the dish, all combined to provide us with this marvelous piece of art that you shouldn't miss! "},{"Title":"A Good Watch All Around","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Likable quirky characters, a story line that rarely falls away, good acting.  This is one of those movies that you thoroughly enjoy when diving right in without seeing too many trailers (As it almost SHOULD be with most movies... but enough about my Hollywood pet peeves).  Based on a true story about the largest radio telescope in the southern hemisphere providing communications support for the moon landing.  A thoughtful, warm comedy that leaves you satisfied and entertained. "},{"Title":"Dish gets Apollo 11, Dish loses Apollo 11, Dish gets Apollo 11 again.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Having gathered the above plot-line from the previews did not deter a huge Sydney crowd packing out the cinema for one of the first advance screenings of *The Dish*.  They had post-Olympic expectations of Rob Sitch's film, and were prepared to forgive a cast that included actors from *SeaChange* and *GP*, and Sam Neill the latter is a lot to forgive.They were not disappointed.  For those of us who were toddlers or not even born when man walked on the moon I was two at the time, crawling round in front of a black and white telly just a few miles from Forbes and Parkes where much of the filming was done, watching *The Dish* was just like being there in 1969.Actual ABC footage has been combined with an appropriate, upbeat sound track, and the comic script, superbly executed, has gags for the slowest to the quickest-witted.  Sam Neill is almost warm, and the continuity stands up to scrutiny.  If *The Dish* seems sometimes overstated to the Australian audience, it may seem underdone to the American block-buster audience.The fact that it is internationally marketable Working Dog deny that they filmed for an international market was not at the expense of its success here.  It has avoided the eternal dusk that *The Crossing* (filmed not far away about ten years previously) fell prey to, and the devices used to explain Australian slang fit fairly seamlessly into the dialogue.  The Australian putting on an American accent is most hilarious.Good entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Good hearted humor celebrating science","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't expect much from The Dish, but it really surprised me. Off hand, I cant think of any film that better celebrates the Apollo 11 moon landing. It shows a genuine, non-hollywood version, the really good-natured human side, of participation in such a momentous event. Best of all, the film is saturated with 1960's nostalgia, bringing one back and fully immersed in the setting of that moment. I highly recommend this film, especially to space and science enthusiasts, or anyone who enjoys refuge from typical, overproduced films.  "}{"Title":"Come and see the real thing. 11 out of 10.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS.The Dish (2000) is the real thing. It's the real story of how a lowly radio telescope in Parkes, in the southern state of New South Wales in Australia, was upgraded in 1969 to transmit live pictures of the Apollo 11 moon landing for NASA. At the precise time the landing was scheduled to take place, the direct line of sight was going to be with the Southern Hemisphere, not the North, halfway around the planet from Cape Kennedy. The country town of Parkes, not far from Sydney, still has the largest radio telescope in the Southern Hemisphere, 210 feet in diameter, but it's located in the middle of a sheep paddock to this very day. At the time, it was the most powerful receiving dish in the world.Working Dog Productions (comprised of Australian national icon raconteurs Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner, Jane Kennedy and Rob Sitch), despite their background in comedy, have captured the times with authentic 1960s music, opening with Russell Morris's The Real Thing, followed by Herb Alpert's Spanish Flea. The irreverent skewering of Australian smalltown pretentions could not have been successful without the playful soundtrack providing that sense of hope and excitement. Authentic NASA and JFK archival footage also allows The Dish (2000) to join some larger budget Apollo program movies on its own terms.The funniest scene is with the teenage band in the small town, who are experimenting with Jimmy Hendrix but have to answer to Mrs Pearce (Denise Roberts), who won't let them play too loud, and insists that the band learns to play the American anthem in 48 hrs, because the US Ambassador is going to attend the town for the lunar landing. What the band comes up with is totally priceless, and I'm with them. So is the Ambassador ! I only wish we could have heard more of it ...The five quirky Parkes dish operators are brought to life by the very funny Kevin Harrington as Ross 'Mitch' Mitchell, who maneuvers the dish, Tom Long as painfully shy Glenn Latham, the computer scientist, Patrick Warburton as prim but charismatic NASA representative Al Barnett, Sam Neill as Cliff Buxton, Parkes director and dishmaster, and finally, Tayler Kane as the lanky security guard Rudi who is so overly impressed by his increased security status. In the second most funniest scene a local yokel newspaper journo tries to interview them, and he observes that the Americans spent 10 years, billions of dollars to let us watch man walk on the moon, and in the end it falls to you blokes. How do you feel about that? Mitch (Kevin Harrington), ever chafing, retorts, -A lot better before you opened your trap.Everyone gets into the spirit of allowing Parkes to shine during its moment of glory, and the audience is dragged right along. When something goes wrong, Al, the prim and proper NASA rep, is also dragged in. ... What have I done? he muses as he buys the facility some time. -You bulls****ed NASA, comes the Aussie reply. The whole cast is a joy to watch, although the women tend to be just caricatures. Sam Neill has never been more tender as the recently widowed radio astronomer missing more than grieving his wife, who would have loved all this. Nothing is as frightening as regret, he quotes her in a quiet moment. Patrick Warburton, the same actor who voices Kronk in The Emperor's New Groove (2001), also has some soft-spoken tender moments as he begins to confide in his host and as he charms the rabidly antagonistic Marie (Lenka Kripac) with a single handshake. Comedian Kevin Harrington (Mitch) steals every scene, of course, and Carl Snell echoes our own humility as the space fan and Mayor's tiny son, Billy, who is probably the person really behind Parkes' nomination into the Apollo program.The most wonderful, quintessentially 1960s moment is when the chafing Aussie finally admits, to the man he'd been chafing against, that it was his own fault that the generator failed. The NASA rep, despite their long-standing feud, just says Well, these things happen. Better get to work. The moment makes you deeply regret that all it took for man to go to the moon was that kind of spirit and commitment. For the people involved, it wasn't about the cold war, it wasn't about which damn fool government got to plant its flag on another space body. It was the cooperation of people who had to relearn how to even speak to one another. It is the eternal shame of the human race that we could foresee a routinely functioning space station in orbit by 2001 but we couldn't pull it off for real, because of politics. At some point you realize that the funding concerns were always a red herring, because even the poorest families have to figure out how to both educate their kids and feed them. This was science's chance to be daring, a planetary opportunity the human race willingly lost 6 missions later. I wonder how those who killed the Apollo program feel now.It is to the creators', Working Dog Productions' credit that we get such a lump in our throat over the fact that this real CSIRO (Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation) facility is still a part of NASA missions to this day. It is a matter of public record that despite gusts of wind greater than what the Parkes telescope was rated for, the Aussies (pronounced Auzziez for everyone who continually GETS IT WRONG) provided the live TV coverage of The Eagle landing. How many of us wish we could leave footprints in that powder ! Many thanks to Parkes Radio Telescope staff  for having made this movie possible. We really did go in peace for all mankind, if only for a few priceless moments.Come and see the real thing. 11 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"More than sheep in that paddock","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I was fourteen when Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon in 1969, but I think most of us baby boomers paid little or no attention  the war in Vietnam was escalating, and the country was torn between those for and against it;  both MLK and RFK had been assassinated the year before;  Rachel Carson's Silent Spring had given birth to a new environmental consciousness;  and, whether deserving or not, Woodstock was still tingling everyone's senses as the most significant event of the year.  With all the talk about thrust and size and payload and uptime and deep penetration of space, Apollo 11, at the time, seemed nothing more than macho posturing against the Soviets.  And that's one of many reasons why The Dish is such a wonderful little film.  It reclaims NASA's space program for those of us who were too distracted to pay attention.  And it does so, not by placing it within the social and political convulsions of the time, which would be to assign it marginal importance, but by unfolding the drama of the Apollo mission from the setting of an idyllic little sheep paddock in provincial Australia, where the world's largest and most powerful radio telescope was charged with the task of receiving and broadcasting the event walk to the entire world.  This film is incredibly charming and innocent, with a keen sense of humor about otherwise obscure people suddenly thrust into the spotlight of world attention.  There's a particular scene that is emblematic The Dish's simplicity, charm, and wit.  Colorfully lit beneath a black Australian night, the enormous dish looks like a new form of life, its frame and skin and delicate but precise movements floating as gently as a butterfly, its circular, concave shape suggesting living organs of sight and sound.  As the eyes and ears of the world, it actually had a brief but mystical life of its own.  It's a singular skill to take such simple images, and make them sharply evocative.  You'll love this movie.    "},{"Title":"Lovely little film","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I got this out on video largely due to some favourable reviews and the fact that I'm a big fan of Sam Neill. It didn't disappoint. It's one of those warm, fuzzy movies that gently pulls at your heartstrings, rather than drowning you with sentimental treacle.Although the humour is a strong feature, the film's greatest achievement is conveying the sense of excitment felt as a result of the Moon walk. It kinda made me wish that I was around then to share in that excitment.Hopefully the success of this film will allow writer/director Rob Sitch the chance to create future well-crafted films.Note Those of you who've watched Neighbours will spot the girl who used to play Dani Stark looking very fit.  "},{"Title":"Best film of the year","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I went into the local art-house theater expecting to see Ammores Perros (forgive me for not spelling that right) but missed the showing by an hour. Luckily, I stumbled upon this wonderful film.  While similar in tone to films such as The Full Monty, Billy Elliot and Saving Grace, The Dish is one of the most unique and interesting films I've seen in years.  Funny, cute (not cutesie though), and genuinely warm, the film got to me without me feeling cheated or manipulated.  It did take a while to get into though - I simply didn't laugh for about half an hour.. But my american cynicism slowly melted away and the film makers unique sense of humor won me over.. This film will put a smile on your face and you may even shed a tear- it's a shame so many of us american guys would rather call the movie cliched and manipulative than really admit that it moved them (I had to personally choke back some tears since my gf was right next to me)...This movie has NO violence, no sex, no cliched villains and entertained the hell out of me.. While this is a very PG movie in my opinion, I wouldn't call this a family film.. The comedy is subtle and younger kids simply won't get it.   "},{"Title":"Geek movie that's funny and sweet and good entertainment","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Sometimes I feel sorry for the people who didn't get to experience the excitement of the early days of the manned space program. The miracle of space exploration is all so routine to them, it's hard to explain what the big deal was all about.This movie perfectly captures the excitement of the first manned moon landing, and does it from a point-of-view that most people never think about. It's funny we see the images on our TV, and most of the time we never even think about how they got there. It's just TV, right? It comes out of a box (or, nowadays, a flat screen), right? It just comes through wires or through the air.This movie is about one of the massive antenna assemblies that received the images from the Apollo XI mooncast, and about the people who made it work. And while that sounds more like something that you'd expect to see on a how it's made show on the Science Channel than in a movie, it's actually a wonderfully entertaining and funny movie about people who are engaging and funny, and who are doing a critical and fascinating job that made it possible for millions of people worldwide to watch, live, one of humanity's great milestone events. And another nice thing about it this is a FAMILY movie. There is no nudity, no violence, and although the movie has a PG-13 rating, I can't remember any language in it that was overtly offensive.Sam Neill stars in this movie as Cliff Buxton, the guy who is in charge of the huge antenna dish that gives the movie its title. Neill is excellent in this. He does a superb job in bringing out the nuances of the character and in working with the other people in this movie. My only problem with him is that in the sequence that frames the movie, when he has to appear aged, a truly AWFUL job of makeup was done. It looked like something that might be done in an elementary school play by kids who borrowed their mom's makeup kit. Please, please try to ignore this cringe-inducing look, because it's very brief and Neill looks fine the rest of the movie.The rest of the cast is also very good, although I don't think any of them are well-known or very familiar. They do well with the material, and there's a real sense of a group of people who like each other and care about each other, while at the same time occasionally getting on each other's nerves. They're mostly engineering/scientist types, which basically means they're aware that they're better with machines and numbers than they are with people. There's a little sub-plot involving romance that's very funny and sweet.The tension in the movie comes from the fact that the giant antenna assembly that receives the lunar transmissions had to be pointed very precisely in order to get the reception, and that certain kinds of weather conditions made moving the giant antenna very dangerous. While most of the world was sitting in front of their TV sets, expectantly waiting for the mooncast to begin, there were a whole bunch of people in Australia, where the antenna was located, frantically working and making some very tough decisions to make it possible.I have to say that the sequence when everyone is finally watching Neil Armstrong take his first steps on the moon really swept me back to when I was 12 years old and sitting spellbound on the couch in our living room, watching that shadowy shape on the TV screen make that giant leap for mankind. I'd like to hope that maybe, through watching this movie, younger people who missed out on that magical moment will at least understand how transforming it was for the entire world. We don't have many moments like that in history. I'm glad I was there for this one. And this movie captures that moment, when just for a few heartbeats while we watched the blurry black-and-white image of a man in a spacesuit slowly coming down a ladder, literally everyone in the world was riveted and united by a sense of perfect awe.And I'm glad this movie captures some of the magic of that particular event, and gives us some insight into what it took to bring it to the world on TV. That it almost didn't make it live onto TV was something I didn't fully appreciate until I saw The Dish. This is a great movie to enjoy with your family. I don't like to say family movie, because that conjures up something silly and trivial and kid-centric, which this movie is not. I really enjoyed it and I think anyone who is into the space program or who can identify with engineers and scientists will like it too. "},{"Title":"Terrific - with one disclaimer","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" I have to admit it, I can't judge a movie like this objectively. I was 12 when Apollo 11 landed, and 40 years later it's still one of the most inspiring events of my life. Apollo helped interest me in a career in electrical engineering, computers and communications. I've designed receivers for data that has crossed a hundred million miles of empty space. Even though I know how it works, there's still an element of magic and wonder in it for me.So a movie like this couldn't be more up my alley. It's a wonderful depiction of a few of the many thousands of unsung but crucial Apollo support people -- and the attention to detail is amazing. They even got the Apollo down link frequency (2282.5 MHz) and signal levels right, and when Sam Neill calls offset feed! at the beginning of the moonwalk I almost fell out of my seat.Some inaccuracies are of course unavoidable, but only one actually bothers me the detour into an alternate reality for the sake of some admittedly very funny comedy when a power failure scrambles the tracking computer. I laughed as hard as anyone during the American ambassador's site visit. But not only didn't this happen, it wouldn't have. People make mistakes and equipment fails. That's expected in any space mission. But lying about it as these guys did would be highly unprofessional. It's something you just don't do.Those who know this subject better than anyone have written about the other nits in this movie, and you can read about them herehttp//members.pcug.org.au/~mdinn/TheDish/But aside from all that, this is a thoroughly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A sweet-natured movie, well acted and amusing","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Terms such as charming, sweet-natured, gentle and good-spirited may mean the kiss of death for some movies. It's also possible that the movie in question just might be worth watching because it is well-made, deals with a genuinely inspiring topic and features some classy actors. For me, The Dish falls in that category. The dish is a 1,000-ton radio telescope plunked down in a sheep pasture close to the New South Wales town of Parkes. It's purpose, as part of a NASA network, is to help track Apollo 11's voyage to the moon and to relay television pictures of Neil Armstrong becoming the first man to set foot there. Sam Neill as Cliff Buxton heads the team running the radio telescope. There's also Al Burnett (Patrick Warburton) as a NASA representative, Glenn Latham (Tom Lang) as a young and excruciatingly shy mathematician and computer whiz, and Mitch Mitchell (Kevin Harrington), who's job it is to see that all the mechanical functions work without a hitch. We know Armstrong made it and we know television showed us his first steps. For those of us who were around, we also remember how amazing it all was. What we learn in this gentle comedy are the crises that happened. One morning, for instance, Cliff says, Glenn, come here. What? Al Burnett looks at Glenn. Every coordinate in this book has been changed, he says. Yeah... I changed them, Glenn says. Why? Because they were wrong. Why were they wrong, Al asks. Dunno, Glenn says. Latham steps in. What about them were wrong, he asks Glenn. Oh! Well, Glenn says, the figures NASA gave us were for the northern hemisphere... and we're in the southern hemisphere? I can change them back but then you'd be pointing in the wrong dir... Glenn, it might be a good idea for you to tell us these things, Cliff says. Oh, sure, I just didn't want to worry you... Cuppa tea, Al? There's the pride and enthusiasm that overtakes everyone living in Parkes, the visit from the U.S. ambassador and the Australian prime Minister that sends everyone into a tizzy, the near disaster that occurs when contact is lost with Apollo 11 and how an amusing appearance of imperturbability is maintained in public when everything from failed back-up generators, wiped-out computers and a gale promises one of the biggest let-downs -- no television broadcast -- for the entire world. For me, one of the reasons this movie works so well is because Parkes is an idealized small town where everyone knows each other, there are absolutely no secrets, and where the people have personalities which are calculated to be amusing but which aren't manipulated into becoming caricatures. Bob McIntyre (Roy Billing), the mayor of Parkes, is a fireplug of a guy who resembles Bob Hoskins. The technical aspects of what's happening may go over his head, but he's willing to give the benefit of the doubt to almost anyone. His relationship with his wife, May (Genevieve Mooy), is friendly, loving and pleasant to observe. We learn a little, and occasionally a lot, about the people of Parkes and we wind up liking them. This is comedy, but it's gentle stuff. When we smile at a person's puzzlement, dialogue or reaction it's because we appreciate the situation, not that we're enjoying our own superiority. Sam Neill, smoking a pipe and wearing a sweater, provides the steady center of the movie. He does a fine job. The Dish is more or less based on a true story and we're told at the end that the radio telescope is still part of the NASA tracking network. "},{"Title":"Small town boffins make good","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" This movie certainly gives an accurate impression of Australia in the late 1960's, especially the lack of sophistication and difficulty dealing with authority. It was a time of change though, and this provides an interesting backdrop to the events of July 1969.Edmund Choi's excellent soundtrack is paired with an apt selection of popular music, which will be remembered well by those who were around to see the live coverage of Armstrong and Aldrin walk on the moon. The archival footage of NASA etc are well utilised to support the action. eg the juxtaposition of Nixon talking to Armstrong while US Army guys watch the TV, possibly in Vietnam(?) There is a great depth to this little tale, and more to notice each time you slip the DVD into the machine.Sam Neill and Tom Long are wonderfully cast, and the Working Dog team display their usual panache in mixing the serious and the absurd to form a film which is uniquely Australian. "},{"Title":"Great movie, great soundtrack!","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is from the creators of 'The Castle' (see www.workingdog.com)...'The Dish' is about Australia's CSIRO Parkes Observatory, the largest radio-telescope in the southern hemisphere, and its role in the 1969 NASA moon mission...But I really just wanted to say that 'The Dish' has a great soundtrack. Apart from the contribution of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra there are many pop/rock songs from the sixties that really help this movie along.The standout song would have to be 'The Real Thing', written by John Young, sung by Russell Morris, and produced by Molly Meldrum. (I've heard that, at the time of original release, this song went to #1 in New York as well as in Australia.) Other songs include Good Morning Starshine (Hair), Magic Carpet Ride (Steppenwolf), Fly Me High (Justin Hayward), Something in the Air (Thunderclap Newman), Let's Get Together (The Youngbloods), Hawaii Five-O, A Taste of Honey, and You've Made me so Very Happy.The haunting 'Wings of an Eagle' by Russell Morris closes the movie. "},{"Title":"A great Australian comedy","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The test of any good comedy - or any good movie really - is how well it stands up to repeated viewing. If you were on a long, overseas flight and you saw it as an option among the movies you could watch, would you bother plugging in its number? Or would it find a place among your DVD collection? The Dish is a great little Australian comedy gem that garners a yes to all those questions. Written by the crack writing team behind The Castle and TV's Frontline, it focuses on the previously unheralded role the small Australian town of Parkes had in the 1969 moon landings. Parkes is home to The Dish - the largest radio telescope in the southern hemisphere. When Neil Armstrong and the boys were ready to walk on the moon for the first time, Parkes was an essential cog in getting those pictures back to Earth.That's the facts on which this comedy is based, and around those facts a lovely plot is woven that includes some memorably characters and performances. Sam Neill is great, as always, and Kevin Harrington is also perfectly cast. My favourite, though, is Roy Billing as the Mayor of Parkes. The man's timing is a lesson to all comedy actors. A good script, a great cast and a wonderful movie.  "}{"Title":"just plain fun!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I enjoyed the beautiful shots of the dish, I enjoyed the quirky but warm and lovable characters and I was only four years old when they landed on the moon but I really got a sense of awe and wonder along with the characters at the momentous occasion they were witnessing. I laughed out loud again and again and I'm not making a comparison to Forrest Gump but I was left with a wonderful feeling similar to what I feel when I watch Forrest Gump. "},{"Title":"Absolutely charming film with plenty of nostalgia.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought this on VHS for our library, then got a DVD copy for myself it was so good.  My brother works with experiments on rockets and has been to Australia to do a launch and this was so like what he described. .    The story has suspense (a true story doesn't need to embellish much) a little romance (Glenn is so vulnerable) and comedy (politicians are the same the world over)and flows well from beginning to end. The nostalgia is well done with news clips in black and white from 69.  Takes you right back to that time.      The second time I watched it I realized that the actors playing Glenn and Kevin also play in Sea Change and Australian comedy currently on PBS.   This is a must film if you like to give kids something worthwhile to watch and it is great to remember those days. "},{"Title":"very funny and sweet, makes you want to be there.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I had just finished reading Bill Bryson's In a Sunburned Country when I happened upon this film.  The combination of the book and this film really makes me want to go to Australia and experience the people and places so well depicted.  It's been a long time since I have enjoyed a movie this much.  The sweetness and innocence of that time is very endearing.  "},{"Title":"Charming film, and not just for space buffs.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  A beautiful little film where nothing explodes and nobody goes through horrible extremes, the Dish gives us a glimpse at an important footnote to history that might otherwise go overlooked.  The portrayal of the team that brought us live pictures from the first moon landing is wonderfully cast and you find yourself rooting for people doing things that have little or nothing to do with the moon landing or space.  It's so nice to see a film be so funny and endearing without being loud or forcing its emotion.  That being said, space buffs like me will find it a fascinating piece of history.  This is the exact opposite of films like Armageddon. "},{"Title":"A Lovely Little Movie.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Others have said much of that which I'd like to state, and with more grace. Therefore, all I'll add is that this is the perfect vehicle for an actor such as Sam Neil other movies have tended to accentuate his at-best modest talent, but here he is charming. Still dull, dry and wooden as ever, but this time we don't care, since - for once - he's supposed to be! Quite charming.And Patrick Warburton is wonderful as the big, uptight yank. An under-appreciated actor of great comic abilities - his timing surpasses most of the more renowned crop of current comedians - it was nice to see him at work again. In a just world, his side-splitting performance as 'Kronk' in 'The Emperor's New Groove' should have boosted his career prospects to stratospheric new heights. Naturally, we are still waiting...I can't recommend 'The Dish' highly enough, especially to fans of the gentle-but-never-dull school of comedy. "},{"Title":"Unexpected delight","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The term charming is over-used, but it fits this one too well.  Not what it may have been advertised as (a comedy in the sense us Yanks may think of it), but an amusing character-based story centered around a (for me) fondly-remembered moment in history.  Great use of music and visuals at various points.  Culturally enlightening view of how Americans may have been perceived at that time, from a long ways away (the national-anthem bit is actually quite funny).  Just rented the only (VHS - ) copy in my video store the other day, immediately ordered the DVD so I can really see it. Wish I'd known about it sooner.  No violence, no sex.  Minimal incidental profanity.  Excellent performances from the lead group--nothing over-wrought, nobody steals the show.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Uplifting","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an uplifting movie about man's indomitable spirit.  The real meaning of teamwork at its best.  When called apon, man can rise above obstacles and divisions to meet challenges in unusual ways.  It is filled with heart-warming quirky humour.  Outstanding performances from the main cast, you really believe that they are the characters they portray.  Excellent script, good dialogue, moves at a pace that never loses your attention.  A must for anyone who wants to know what Australians are really like...real good folk! "},{"Title":"Example of a Good Movie","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Quite simply, The Dish is an example of a good movie.  There is no sexual sitations, no violence, no profanity, no adult situations, etc.  This is an entertaining movie that can be enjoyed by all ages and politico-religious-cultural sensitivities.The next time Al Gore or Joe Liberman attend Hollywood a fundraiser and berate their campaign contributors for producing films that glorify violence, drugs, sex, and other non-family values, they should make a point of extolling The Dish as an example of a good film.This is not to say that I am bible-thumper or other wing-nut.  I also enjoy well-written action flicks (e.g. Air Force Once, Die Hard), terse thrillers (e.g the re-make of The Thing), and laugh-out-loud, gross-out comedy (e.g Something About Mary, Austin Powers, American Pie).  However, in all the rhetoric about Hollywood as a purveyor of filth, smut, and whatever word will win electoral vote, politicans overlook the good films that are also released released.I realize that The Dish was not written, directed, or financed by the Hollywood studios.  However, this does not detract from The Dish being a good movie. "},{"Title":"Ordinary people achieving extraordinary things","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish worked for me because I believed in the characters. They felt real and likeable while representing a cross-section of not just Australian, but Western society at the time of the moon landings. I especially liked seeing technically smart people who weren't portrayed as either amoral or socially dysfunctional, as well as a politician (the mayor) who's modestly ambitious but still genial and likeable.The comedy and tension in the film grew naturally out of these realistic, believable characters--their frailties and their hidden strengths make you believe that this story, based on true events, probably unfolded much as it did here. (In fact, the only character who didn't work for me was the over-eager army cadet, a one-note stock character who seemed to have wandered in from one of those old Carry On... farces.)The realistic characters tie into the film's moving conclusion and ultimate point that ordinary people such as ourselves, working collectively, are capable of extraordinary things.(Additionally, I can totally relate to this Australian film's home-grown pride about their part in the exploration of space. As a Canadian, I get the same warm-and-fuzzy glow whenever I see the space shuttle's robot arm--or Canadarm as we call it here, where it was designed and built.)Overall, a well-written and enjoyable comedy. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Charming comedy","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented The Dish along with Requiem For A Dream, which I'd been looking forward to for some time. The Dish succeeded on almost every level that Requiem failed, at least for me. The most important is an investment in your characters - after an hour of Requiem, I lost all interest in the characters and cared not a jot how things would turn out. Conversely, with The Dish, I started out knowing nothing about these characters and by the end I'm cheering along with them, feeling their sense of pride on this momentous occasion. You actually feel a part of the movie. Beautifully observed and typically Australian with it's understated, self-deprecating sense of comedy. And not one bad guy. "}{"Title":"Fun Enjoyable Movie","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  What a find this movie was. The Dish was an enjoyable, amusing, nice story. No guns, drugs, hookers or flaming blasts; needless to say, it was not a Hollywood movie. All performances were believable and fun to watch. Sam Neill and Patrick Warburton were very good. This is the type of movie Hollywood should be turning out not the pessimistic drivel they make. See this movie if you can.  "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  For anyone who was a child during the magical era of the moon shots this is the film to take you well and truly back !!!It's gentle, fun, friendly, no hyper effects nor mega marketing budgets here just a good fun film with plenty of archive footage too.The film of the year so far for me -) "},{"Title":"True Genius","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I've seen all of the space docu-dramas The Right Stuff, Apollo 13, From the Earth to the Moon (HBO), etc, but I have just seen the best of them all, in terms of the memories it brought back - The Dish.  I didn't witness Apollo XI in Australia (I was actually vacationing with my parents in Canada during that fateful week), but I was one of those people sitting in front of the TV, staring at history in the form of grainy black-and-white video and the quick sound-bites of technicians and crew members.  No other movie has invoked the feelings that I remember as a child as this one has.  The way that it was portrayed in the Dish was truly a masterpiece of direction. The scenes of the liftoff and the landing are not quick flashes of the exciting conclusion of the events, rather they include a great deal of the two-way transmissions that lead to the events, which builds the excitement as it REALLY happened.  This is how the world actually saw the events (except for the men on the other side of the cameras and microphones), and The Dish captures every bit of the feelings that I remember from that time 32 years ago.  The script, the scenery, the acting were wonderful as well, but the portrayal of the events stands out for me. "},{"Title":"More than a movie, an experience","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I have to agree with the reviewer who said it was an experience rather than a movie.  I truly felt I was going right along with the people in the movie. It was so nice to see Patrick Warburton in a really good part.  I think he's highly underused.  I liked his character and I liked the way he played it. They all worked well together.Probably the weakest character was the fellow who played the guard.  It was overdone, but then who know, perhaps that's just the way someone in that position would act.  It didn't detract from the movie at all. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Refreshing","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I am going to echo most reviewers' sentiments about The Dish by saying it is a great, wonderfully refreshing film. Don't get me wrong; I love car chases, explosions, gunplay, and gore, but this film is every bit as good without it. In fact, I found myself driving 114 miles to see this film, only to end up in a very small, very cramped, and non-airconditioned theater. It was an experience indeed, and one I would endure again! The film is simply wonderful! It's wonderful BECAUSE of its simplicity, because it is a character driven film, and because of its refreshingly clean quality. We rarely get the opportunity to see such character driven cinema, and because this film is such, we see some truly great acting. The cast is superb, the script well written, and Edmund Choi's screenscore is moving yet, not overbearing. A wonderful work of film... truly.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Sometimes, after seeing a lot of bad movies in a row, I kind of start to lose faith and wonder if I'm setting my standards too high.  Then I see something like The Dish and realize that someone else's standards must be too low.  I hate to use adjectives like quirky because that makes it sounds like only those who like films instead of movies would like it.  But I'm a popcorn-eating kind of movie reviewer and, although I'll pay good money to watch stuff blow up, I had a blast at this movie.  It's really funny without being mean, and it actually left me with a big smile on my face when I left the theater.  And isn't that what a popcorn flick is all about? "},{"Title":"Absolute Gem!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Perhaps it's because my wife and I had just spent seven weeks exploring the Australian Continent and its charming people or perhaps it's because I, too, was the same age during the Apollo 11 landing as Billy McIntyre, the space-loving mayor's son in the movie, but I found myself chuckling (and sometimes laughing hysterically) throughout the entire length of this movie. Everything about this movie just clicked for me from the opening scene right through to the credits. They probably spent one-tenth of what Hollywood spends on a typical movie, yet came up with a film that easily belongs on my list of all-time favorites.  The casting was absolutely superb!  Patrick Warburton (Puddy, of Seinfeld fame) was a brilliant choice to play the bespectacled NASA engineer and only Sam Neill could play the lead roll of the staid project leader. Every other roll, no matter how small, was instrumental to the plot and each was played to comedic perfection. I will proudly stand and remove my hat every time I hear the Hawaii 5-0 theme song from now on!  "},{"Title":"One giant step for the Australian movie industry!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  In the year 2000 Australia had two important events come to the land, one of course was the Olympics that people will never forget, with all the colour and excitement. Yet I wonder if people have forgotten about the film that helped us relive an important part of our history. I know I am guilty of forgetting about one of the great Aussie movies, The Dish.It is a date that will be remembered for all time, July 20 1969 - the day man set foot upon the moon. That one shining moment was witnessed by a television audience of six hundred million people across the globe. Remarkably, those immortal images came via a 'dish' in the middle of a sheep paddock in outback Australia. It may have been one small step for man, but for a handful of Aussie scientists, it was a giant leap. One that almost didn't happen........Well I can only give praise to the dish. The team that bought it to us works under the banner of 'Working Dog'. This team includes Rob Sitch, Jane Kennedy, Santo Cilauro and Tom Gleisner. They did a fantastic job in writing the script and bringing the movie to the bigscreen. Also the musical score in the Dish was fantastic, with credit going to music composer Edmond Choi, of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra. He also wrote the music score for the Aussie movie 'The Castle'. This must have been a demanding topic to research and remember, but I feel that we got a reasonably accurate story. I like the start and the end of the film and how we were seeing it through old eyes, plus how this story has many other elements within in it. The tension and the humour was added in a clever way which I will never forget. This team also bought to Australian Television one of the funniest shows in years, the current affairs spoof, Frontline, which I loved very much.The cast of this so big and talented it would take me all day to list out for you. There are basically 4 main characters. Firstly we have Sam Neill, who starred as Cliff Buxton, the leader of the extraordinary job to bring the footage of man first walking on the moon. His character was very likable, tense and humble. I especially love some of the lines he has to say. Lines such as This is science's chance to be daring and  Failure is not quite as frightening as regret  were brilliant. Neill has appeared in some great movies, including Jurassic Park, the horse whisper, dead calm and the gripping true story of Lindy chamberlain's, titled  A cry in the dark, which I can remember being an unbelievable film. The other Aussie main characters will be not be as well known, Kevin Harrington and Tom Long. Their characters were funny to watch and were very much Australian in their conversation and attitudes. I love how nerdy Tom's character, Glenn Latham, is and how down to earth Ross 'Mitch' Mitchell (Kevin Harrington's character) is. I love his line That's bullshit. You just bullshitted NASA!, just hilarious. The American role in the Dish was done very well by former Seinfeld star Patrick Warburton. His character Al Burnett was graceful and tolerant, especially in a crisis. The one face I do remember from the cast is the gorgeous Eliza Szonert as Janine Kellerman. She played Danni Stark in the Aussie soap 'Neighbours'. Look I could go on and on about the cast though, people like Roy Billing, Taylor Kane, Charles 'Bud' Tingwell, Genevieve Mooy, Denise Roberts and a cameo role by one Australia's favourite ladies, Colette Mann!The story of the Dish is one of great heart and history. Whether the story is completely true no one will know because it is only BASED on a true story, but who cares. This is a great look at what an historical event this was and how important Parkes was in bringing this event to everyone around the world. I remember when this movie came out in the cinema. It caused quite a commotion and rightly so. It was made by a talented group of people and if you haven't seen their other film 'The Castle', then you have missed out. I can only recommend the Dish and when you get the chance to watch it, seize it by all means. This movie will be added to my growing DVD collection very soon!Rating 5 Stars or 10/10. "},{"Title":"a good and original story","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Just wanted to add my comments about this movie. It was really refreshing to see a movie, that had an original story to tell, and didn't slip into a typical Hollywood movie. The actors and actresses, all played good parts, and some of the one liners, were hysterical. Not to mention that it was also very interesting to know some of the background on one of mankinds greatest scientific achievement. (also had a good soundtrack of 60's music, that fit the mood of the movie). well done. cyen "},{"Title":"A wonderful little movie that made me laugh and remember","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  When historic events happen we all tend to remember where we were and such. I was getting ready to go play football against the University of Arkansas when when November 23rd 1963 happened and on July 20-21st 1969 I was in my apartment in Houston with old friends gathered around the Television waiting  to see man walk on the moon. Until I saw this delightful movie last night I didn't realize how close we all came to not seeing it happen.Oh I knew or came to know that Armstrong and Aldren were down to 30 seconds of fuel when they landed,but I didn't know about a bunch of Aussies in a sheep meadow who risked their lives in 60 mile per hour winds to see the pictures get through. So I loved the movie if for no other reason that it so delightfully set me straight on these events. The humor is vintage Australian and we Texans love it. It's a nice story well told and you ought to go see it. "}{"Title":"A delight to watch","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Full of wonderful character studies, this Australian film had me laughing throughout and I left the cinema fully satisfied. In order to fully appreciate it though, I think you would have to share the same sort of humor as the British and Australians (very similiar) otherwise it will be lost on you. The only thing that I found slightly distracting was the soundtrack which was intrusive at times and out of place in some scenes. Sam Neill gives a very wonderful, understated performance and all the other characters are a joy to watch. I fully recommend this film to ex pats. (Australian and British in particular) and those out there that enjoy anything colonial and eccentric. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This is really funny.  I saw it a week ago, and the more I recall the amusing parts, the funnier I think it is.  I'm too young to be overawed by the moon landings part of it, but if you're old enough to have seen the TV pictures live then I think it would be even better.In tone it's quite similar to the Full Monty - a good mix of clever humour, sight gags, love story and a bit moving too.Not only should you go and see this, you should tell your mum and dad to go. I cannot think of anyone who wont like it "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is a sweet-natured (but not syrupy), funny, dramatic, and even awe-inspiring film.  I watched the moon landing live as a young boy, and this film managed to bring tears of rediscovered awe to my eyes at the audacity of man's undertaking.  It also managed to make me smile and laugh out loud at the personalities and goings-on in a small Australian town that is home to a critical, huge satellite dish used during the historic Apollo mission.Go out and find this movie (it is in limited release) and watch it, and you'll find that it is worth the effort.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Seen this film and loved it !","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw The Dish earlier this year at Sundance and couldn't wait to see it again at the cinema.The film is a gem - It's such a great story focusing on Australia during the 1969 Apollo 11 mission and the efforts of a small town called Parkes.We all know the incredible story of Apollo 11, but what we did not know was that a telescope in Australia was responsible for the first pictures of Armstrong walking on the moon.The characters are hilarious, especially the security guard 'Rudi'. Lookout for one particularly funny moment when our Ambassador visits the telescope.I was entertained the whole way through. It's a very interesting story told beautifully with both dramatic and comedic moments.There is heaps of amazing archival footage from 1969. Lot's of it I hadn't seen before, including some hysterical Australian news footage. The music is fantastic and I can't wait to check out the DVD.Go and see this movie if you like a great story and heaps of laughs. "},{"Title":"Australian humor always gets me","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  When my friend asked me to see a movie called The Dish at the local art house... I wasn't really that excited. However, my lack of enthusiasm was quickly switched to gratitude because I couldn't stop laughing. It was so funny at times that I was snorting (not very feminine to say the least). The Dish tells a true story by blending beautiful images of Australia with historical footage, recreating the moon landing for all of us who weren't alive to experience it. What I loved most about the film were the simple characters and their humor... which was emphasized by the presence of Americans who don't understand what the Aussies are saying. It was also fun to recognize these unknown actors and try to place them in previous work. The Dish is a simple movie with solid performances and beautiful cinematography. It is truly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 movie","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  What a change in seeing a movie that makes you feel good. No sex, no violence, stacks of laughs.Even though you know the story of the moon landing, the whole cinema was quiet during the old black & white tv footage, I even felt like standing up and cheering when those immortal words The Eagle Has Landed where spoken !!Excellent casting of all the characters, and Im afraid to say I will never be able to listen to the American national anthem again without a smile on my face (watch the movie to see why !).  "},{"Title":"Aussie Disney","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  It's the summer (for us in the northern hemisphere) of 1969 and the dish in question is a huge radio telescope located in the rural Australian town of Parkes. It's their pride and joy, especially the mayor who was instrumental in getting it located in Parkes. And now, the town learns that NASA needs the telescope to relay the initial television images from the first moonwalk.  If that's not enough pressure, the Prime Minister and American ambassador are coming to town for the historic event. Rob Sitch, the director, collects a wide swath of personalities to populate his story, each with their own stories that interweave with the moonwalk. There is the mayor, his wife, his teenage daughter, the NASA man sent from Houston to make sure all goes well, and the staff of the telescope. Throw in a mixture of small but compelling crises and you get a very well made feel-good movie that would make Walt Disney feel right at home.  "},{"Title":"Interesting movie.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought that this was quite a good film, and that it really brought home the amazing feat that the Apollo 11 mission achieved. It was also quite funny. I really enjoyed it. A very good film all around. I was also delighted to see Patrick Warburton in the film. It's good to see a usually comical actor doing a little more dramatic role. "},{"Title":"sweet, funny film with substance","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Oh how thin the line between science and luck, how close are success and disaster! This sweet, funny film--and I join the growing chorus of acclaimers for it--has a deep bottom. That giant step to the moon by Armstrong et al might have been lost as a momentous event, all for lack of a dish (or a spoon?) It could easily have gone down as a smeary image on a black and white T.V. screen showing to millions of frustrated viewers worldwide. It is this tension, the wide disparity between the awkward (star-cross-eyed) scientistic efforts of the aussies (led by a superbly underplayed Sam Neil) in an outback sheep ranch, that creates the huge sense of catharsis and relief at the end of the day. That first step might not have been redorded so dramatically, if it not have been for the heroic risk-taking of the zany (yet utterly sincere) Australian team. Sort of reminds one of the early American spirit, the pioneers who settled the west. Even the token American, pitched in at the finish to lend his support to even the worst of the bumblers. What do you do when your science falls apart? Point at the stars (moon in this case) and pray. Why not most scientific breakthroughs were accidents anyway? In any case a wonderful comedy with a wonderful strain of history, science, and story.  "},{"Title":"Are you telling me that NASA's prime receiving station has absolutely no idea where Apollo 11 is?","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The Dish is directed by Rob Sitch who also co-wrote the screenplay with Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner and Jane Kennedy. It stars Sam Neill, Kevin Harrington, Tom Long and Patrick Warburton. Film tells the story of how Parkes Observatoy, New South Wales, Australia, was used to relay the live pictures of man's first ever steps on the moon during the historic year of 1969. Not bad for a satellite receiver built in the middle of a sheep paddock!The Australians do it from time to time, knock out a cracking picture that turns heads in the right direction. With an appealing cast headed by a superb Sam Neill, director Rob Sitch (The Castle) offers up a side of the historical Apollo 11 moon landing that many would have forgotten; namely that someone had to be responsible for showing those live feeds as man took his giant leap for mankind. Here we become party to a small group of normal people working their hinds off to make sure millions don't miss the occasion.In the lead up to the landings the town of Parkes is absolutely bursting with excitement, thus the pressure on the guys at the observatory is from both NASA and Australia! It wont be all plain sailing, and for sure there's some artistic licence used for tension purposes, but the drama is effective whilst beautifully being cloaked in Australian dry humour. The technical parts of the narrative are kept to understandable levels, aided in impact by being delivered by such affable and humane boffin types. While the character development is first rate, rendering the comedy that is born out as being natural. Slight, simple, low-key, a film where not much happens and tagged as a heart-warming human interest tale, The Dish is all of those things. It's also an absolutely delightful picture that all cinema fans should let into their lives. 9/10 "}{"Title":"The Dish is a wonderful movie","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" This is a lovely, warm and delightful movie based on the role of the Parkes Radio Telescope, aka The Dish, in the televising of the 1969 Apollo 11 moonwalk. What makes the film so wonderful is the cast and the way they interact during both good times and when in crisis. Led by the wonderful New Zealander Sam Neill and supported by a great cast of Australian actors and American Patrick Warburton as NASA's representative in Parkes, the chemistry is just right. Enough warm, personal touches are included so that we feel as if we are there with them and I found myself rooting for Parkes and the crew of this large radio telescope located in a rural sheep paddock in the small town of Parkes, just outside of Sydney. Spoiler alert I am an American scientist and astronomy buff who remembers vividly watching the moonwalk with awe while I was still in undergraduate studies at Penn State University, but until I saw this movie I never knew that the first moonwalk photos were indeed sent from Parkes and not from Goldstone, California. Not only that, I had no idea that the Australian crew together with their one NASA representative had to overcome gusts of gale force wind which were over 65 MPH during the moonwalk and which nearly cost the world the great privilege of seeing Armstrong and Aldrin first set their feet on the lunar surface because the dish was shaking so badly. I was very, very impressed with the professionalism and enthusiasm of the Parkes team for their role in this worldwide team effort and in their refusal to give up and take the safe way out and not move the dish in the wicked wind. This movie also has wonderful moments of small town pride that hits this Australian town as their roll in the Apollo 11 mission grows larger and larger, and in the coming together of the town, the various dignitaries and especially with the dish crew during a disastrous power failure that they decided to hide from NASA, even though the NASA representative tells them that it is OK to tell Houston about it. Their pride is at stake, and they are determined to solved the problem themselves, and the crew really gels as the American representative takes their side and helps them in all sorts of ways, some very humorous, to reacquire the signal from Apollo 11 which was lost when the power failure knocked out their computers. One of the funniest deals with faking their way through a visit to the dish from the US Ambassador, who wants to hear Armstrong talking with Houston. How they solve that little problem and still keep their situation a secret is a wonderful and lovely moment about international teamwork. This is a wonderful Australian film that Americans will also enjoy as we all root for the 4 men inside the Parkes Radio Telescope as they televise one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century to over 600 million human beings all over the world while still retaining a small-town feeling. I highly recommend this movie to all who enjoy NASA true stories, to those who love Australian film, to all fans of Sam Neill and the other wonderful cast members in this film, and to anyone who would like to see a family film with a happy ending that will make you cheer and cry with joy. Kudos to everyone involved! "},{"Title":"Great Moment in History","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" While some of this film is fiction, it does convey the spirit that grabbed the world on July 20, 1969.The movie is of the Parkes dish in Australia which was the one chosen by NASA to carry the live pictures of Neil Armstrong's walk on the moon.The dramatization is great, especially the issue with the wind and the size of the dish. If the movie is correct, the dish nearly wasn't able to grab the signals because the wind was so strong.It's a great movie of a point in man kinds history that should live forever. I remember watching the actual live broadcast in glorious B&W on the momentous day in July 1969.I watched on CBS and Walter Cronkite who passed away on July 17, 2009 was speechless for the first time. He simply smiled and removed his glasses on this historic occasion We should all rejoice that man kind was adventurous enough to undertake such a dangerous exploration. Great movie, well worth watching again. "},{"Title":"40 Years Ago Today","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" It just seemed appropriate to chime in on The Dish today, July 20, 2009. It was 40 years ago today that the climax of this film actually happened. It's amazing that with all the hoopla going on, that nobody in the media has remembered the enchanting tale of The Dish and the vital role this small team of folk in Parkes, Australia, who enabled the world to witness man landing on the moon. What a memory and what a shame that it's being ignored. I would love to hear from Cliff and the boys today -- to have them share their memories 40 years later of their role in this historic event.Out of sheep farms great things come. "},{"Title":"Funny and creative","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" I am not usually excited about light-hearted, breezy comedies. Heavy or obscure is more my cup of tea. This lovely surprise from Australia made me rethink my movie-watching priorities. The characters are endearing and in just few strokes beautifully brought to life. Jokes are funny and creative and actors are masters of their craft. And to top it all, camera work is just perfect. It has the feel of warm, colorful summer of some long gone year that we preciously cling to in our memory. It really doesn't take millions of dollars in special effects and overpriced and under-talented movie stars for a good movie. Few ideas and lots of creativity usually win over. "},{"Title":"Over the moon","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" I'm sure that there are plenty of other comments about the plot and characters in this film so I won't repeat all that.I just want to say two things1) That since I started renting and sometimes buying DVDs this has been one of the ones that has had, and stood up to repeated viewing.2) The DVD extras are outstanding. I would buy the DVD for them alone.wrt extras NASA Footage of the flight; the JKF speech announcing the USA's intention to put a man on the moon; the famous landing radio link audio (so cool and collected that even today most people don't realise that the on-board computer of the Eagle crashed a couple of minutes before they were due to land but Houston just went ahead anyway and then they finally landed with about 30 seconds of fuel left after travelling 250,000 miles) and even the directors commentary over the NASA Footage is very interesting too. "},{"Title":"refreshing","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Perhaps it is just me, but this film was very refreshing. It wasnt insulting. It wasnt profane. It wasnt violent. It was fresh and with what I found to be a wonderful if slightly predictable story to tell. But, given the event it is portraying, it is no wonder that the big story is known already. I wish I could find more films like this that I think demonstrate that one does not have to be crude or base anymore and that a film can speak as the old films did, telling a story.  "},{"Title":"A surprising film indeed.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  My comments need to be set in context. Ordinarily I steer clear of Australian films. Without fail they make me cringe. It is kind of like the producers almost always need to have a kangaroo bouncing around somewhere in the movie in order to brand it Australian.That said, I think The Dish is one of the best Aussie films ever made. It is incredibly entertaining, with just the right mix of nostalgia, drama and humour (and that comes in a number of varieties). I left the cinema truly astounded. I only went to see it because it was a rare opportunity for my wife and I to go to the movies and it seemed the best of a bad lot. How wrong I was!If you have not seen this film then I suggest you hire the dvd and sit down and be thoroughly entertained! "},{"Title":"It surpassed my expectations","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I was thinking that this movie wouldn't be that good, because from what I had heard about it, it was boring. But when I watched it...wow! It turned out to be great.The plot revolves around one small town, Parkes, in Australia that has one unique feature it has the largest satellite dish in the Southern Hemisphere and possibly the whole world. Because of this, NASA has chosen it to broadcast the television scenes from Apollo 11's mission to the moon, the very first time any human has set foot on the lunar landscape. Problems keep popping up, however, as the quirky characters try to make their mission one to remember.What I liked best about this movie was that there was no deep trauma or conflict; it's all in good fun, and the characters gradually grow on you. Was the plot spoiled at all by the fact that we know Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin made it to the moon safely? No way! Since we know the outcome, we now have time to focus on the characters, and what interesting characters they are!I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Brought back memories of the pivotal event of my lifetime.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  As I viewed the film's portrayal of Neil Armstrong landing on the moon, my eyes welled up with tears.  As a 43 year-old male I remember watching this event on television like it happened yesterday.  I became emotional not out of happiness but out of sadness.  I truly believe that man's landing on the moon was the pinnacle of our technological achievements, one that I will never see surpassed in my lifetime in light of September 11th.  To remember where one was and what one was doing when an event that symbolized the best that mankind is capable of doing is a thing of the past.  I feel sorry for those that are too young or were not even born to remember the moment on July 20th, 1969, when mankind collectively felt proud of what they had accomplished. "},{"Title":"Fantastic,a definite must-see","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsWhy is it that filmmakers feel the need to shoot themselves in the foot the way they do?The Dish ,in the British classification system,could easily have got away with a PG,heck,even a U,had it not been for the sudden and totally unnecessary use of the f word in one part.It was totally uncalled for and ruined what could easily have been a fine piece of quality family entertainment.In fact,all the profanity throughout the film,including the two s words,just should not have been there.Other than this minor hiccup,this is a strong contender for the best film of the year.It's easy to tell this before you've even seen it,to be honest.It's hard to remember the last time when a true story,in this case,Australia's involvement in the first moonlanding, was told in such a fun and wholly engaging manner,with an intelligently realised running time of 97 minutes.The acting is also brilliant.Sam Neill is once again ace in his role,as are the fine supporting cast.If you haven't seen it yet,make sure you do.Amazing.***** "}{"Title":"Nice, funny movie...","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I like space and I like the glamour (?) of the original exploration in the 60's so I loved this movie.  For the most it was that 'bring a smile to your face' funny but a couple of times I was almost rolling on the floor - that might just be because as a Kiwi I love laughing at Australians.  Mind you the lead actor (Sam Neill) is actually a Kiwi!If you're in the mood for something gentle and well put together then this movie is just right... "},{"Title":"This original Australian film succeeds highly.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  THE DISH (2000) Rating 8/10From the creators of The Castle comes a fun comedy that tells an unusually true story about the heroes who allowed us to see Neil Armstrong walk on the moon. The film is accurate and entertaining, but not exactly the most exciting movie of the year. Frankly, as the film starts, its boring. But, as the characters develop and the story neatly unfolds, The Dish becomes a light, good ol' Australian experience. The film gives us comedy without being too in-your-face. It pushes all the right buttons with such experienced unforced flow it becomes almost impossible not to raise a smile. There is also a fabulous soundtrack and some mighty promising performances, most notably from Tom Long who plays the nervous but clever Glenn with a respectful and funny angle. The Dish may be slow to some people, but if you allow yourself to get intrigued in the story, I can assure you'll love this oddball comedy. "},{"Title":"harmless comedy that keeps you smiling","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This 1969 semi-factual tale revolves around the Sparkes, Australia crew chosen for the video broadcast of the Apollo 11 mission due to their unique southern hemisphere locale and large satellite dish.  Cliff Buxton (Neill) provides fatherly direction to his crew consisting of grumpy technician Mitch (Harrington), disarming math geek Glenn (Long), Clark Kent-like NASA liaison Al Burnett (Warburton), and somewhat inept security guard Rudi (Taylor Kane).  The small town is abuzz at the distinction of being a part of making history and beguiled by a bit of international attention.  Mayor Bob McIntyre (Roy Billin) is in the middle of all the fuss, juggling visits from both the snooty Prime Minister (Billie Brown) and space-buff American Ambassador (John McMartin), as well as the townspeople's gossip and the moods of his sullen teenage daughter Marie (Lenka Kripac).  It isn't long before one or two things go wrong out at the dish and the small crew are in a conspiratory huddle sweating bullets while assuring the NASA brass that everything is well under control.  But even at the most tense moments we are not too far off from a good laugh, as when the Ambassador stops in for a visit just after crew has lost their signal, crashed their computer, and are at their wit's end.  Mitch and Cliff's solution is quite comic (if a little unlikely), and demonstrates the kind of wild resourcefulness that springs from desperation.  Indeed it is in these minor catastrophes the film is at its most brilliant, putting the microscope to a handful of people experiencing the uncertainty, fear, and drama that accompanies decision making behind the 8-ball.The film makes a few jibes at the characters' expense, but if you're expecting a lot of Aussie bumpkin gags (ala Crocodile Dundee and Quigley Down Under) you'll be disappointed. As quirky as some of the players can be, they are all merely human, and it is only their accents that distinguish them from the rest of us.  The character interactions, coupled with the plot line of tracking Armstrong and broadcasting the mission, are charming if a bit cliché.  Will the shy, bumbling Glenn ask out his beautiful female admirer Janine?  Will Mitch finally accept Al as a good guy, rather than the arrogant American cowboy he appears to be?  We know the answers already, but it's fun to watch the interplay.  Even with a few cheap feel-good moments and banalities uttered now and then, the attraction of the story will win you over.  A warm and engaging comedy, The Dish is the perfect entrée for those growing a little weary of America's recent surge of toilet-humor thigh-slappers.  "},{"Title":"A movie that us so well-acted that you feel it is happening","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is an alternative type of space documentary film - refreshingly different.  Instead of focussing on the heroes in the space shuttle and their difficulties, we gain a peek into how Neil Armstrong's moon walk affected the lives of ordinary people...and not in the US but in a nest in Australia.  Naturally, this particular nest had a particular interest in the events, possessing the largest satellite dish in the world that was capable of transmitting the events on TV across the globe.  Yet, the viewer is drawn into the excitement of the time that must have been felt by just about everyone.The ordinary characters, the music, the clothes, the feeling that humankind was on the brink of something big, new and life-changing all draw you into the action and make those of us unfortunate enough not to have been there at the time share some of the excitement of the ordinary folk.Brilliant and funny, especially at the points where the film underlines just how removed Australia is to the US, both in tems of distance and of habits. Probably the funniest moment is where a young Australian band play the US national anthem to impress the visiting US NASA engineer and,not knowing any better, play the theme tune to Hawaii Five 0 instead!  The film itself is clearly also the opposite of a Hollywood production where the cameras would undoubtedly have been in the space shuttle and not firmly rooted on the ground.  Great stuff.   "},{"Title":"Simple effective comedy","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Everything about this film works well - simple believable plot and characters (except maybe the Prime Minister, but perhaps Australian PMs are really like that), with the action paced just about right and generally effective because of understatement rather than overstatement as is typical of American comedy.  It obviously didn't have a big budget but it didn't need one. Sam Neill shines in the lead role, but the other actors do well also. I well remember the school projects all about the space exploration program and the moon landing of 1969, and the excitement of listening to the big day in class on the radio...  Recommended. "},{"Title":"As smooth as the actual first moonwalk","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  There are many reasons for which I just loved this film. First, the mood it sets, it is delightful, simple, calmed, ride into the lives of the people from Parkes, and how this event in a way ¨ruled¨their lives. Second, the way working dog managed to make ¨the dish¨ a complete character with personality on its own, strong, colossal, but at the same time vulnerable and humane, an extension of the people that surrounded it. Third, this is a film that has all the elements to make you leave the room with a smile on your mouth and wishing for a little more. It might be a movie that is not really pretentious, nor a film that was made to make you change your mind regarding something, but it actually made me feel good all the way from the beginning to the end.I don´t know it all the event they put on it are real, I don´t know if the real operators of the dish cheated NASA, or if the wind event happened just before moonwalk, but honestly I don´t care, it felt real for me and I must say, it felt real for all the people there in the theater also. See it, it is by far one of the year´s best. "},{"Title":"Wish I was a Working Dog","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Everything good you've heard about this film is true. It's the kind of movie that people really want to see, but which rarely comes along.The Movie industry makes much of their market research, and they claim that they tailor movies to the polled wants of the public. If this is so, why is it that there is such junk released every year? Nobody actually wants to make a bad movie, but bad movies abound. One has to ask, how did the makers of The Dish get it so right? They're a group of Australian television personalities who have been involved in a string of popular but low-key shows over the years. How did they come up with such an unforgettable, marvellous, splendid gem of a movie?It's a typical Australian failing to give scant credit to our own, but I think the Working Dog team have probably put an end to that syndrome for good.As for IMDB reviewers like Smoothbean and Blues Doctor, I can only say it's a pity that their taste is apparently so coarsened by junk movies, that they can no longer enjoy quality movies. "},{"Title":"Yes I can remember a time when we did something really great.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Every great event has as its foundation the faithful efforts of an army of people. This movie chronicles the little bits of heroic effort that converged to allow us to actually see the human species leave the cradle live. It's interwoven with quirky Australian humor and the kind of love that makes life worth living.Very well directed and beautifully shot, this movie seems to be ignored by the chain theatres. It will be back with a vengeance when it's released on DVD. "},{"Title":"Best of the year, so far.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Needing a pick-me-up after one of those days where every little thing seems to go wrong, I decided to go and see The Dish to cheer myself up. Ninety or so minutes later, I emerged with all the crap that was in my head going into the cinema forgotten about. By that measurement, I would give The Dish a very big 10 out of 10, and say that it is probably the best movie I've seen so far this year.Now, I know by saying this that other reviewers will be encouraged to give this movie a thumbs down because of all the good reports they have heard about it, or all the great reviews thy have read. But that's the danger with a film like The Dish the earlier you actually go and see it, the more immune you will be from all the hype of word of mouth and box office success that goes with leaving off seeing it too late.All I can say is that this is a movie which achieves the onerous task of taking potentially stale subject matter and transforming it into something wonderful. The filmmakers (who also made The Castle, which I shall be watching tonight) have taken the slim notion of small-town Australia's involvement in the Apollo 11 Moon mission and, by offering numerous quirky, interesting and affable characters and incidents to flesh out their story, have created one of those movies which makes you feel good about yourself, other people, and mankind in general. Belly laughs follow on from real, humane drama, while little details beautifully observed spotlight the bigger picture of one of the human race's greatest achievements of the 20th Century.I don't want to give anything away because The Dish is full of gems which it would be cruel to tell anybody who has not seen the film for themselves about. All I can say is, if you're feeling a bit down, tired and depressed, just watch this it's a real tonic! "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Here is a movie for everyone! As an Australian living in the US I can relate to both aspects of this story of Aussie ingenuity and American knowhow! Sam Neill's character is a real treat as is the rest of the cast (especially the SeaChange boys!). This tale of ordinary people participating in amazing events is told brilliantly. Everyone from 12 year old boys to 90 year old grandparents will enjoy this story. There is no sex, violence, blood shed or serious bad language. It is just an inspirational film without being too sentimental. The music choices by Jane Kennedy are exceptional. Get out there and see this film! "}{"Title":"if it can go wrong it will","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Just returned from seeing this film at the art house cinema (Tyneside) - its a real pity that this is as far as the film distribution system in the UK is likely to to let it go because I really enjoyed it and think a lot of other people, given the chance, would too. The plot is basically a cross between Apollo 13 and your favourite small town soap not complicated but nonetheless beautifully done. To any engineer it conveys that sense of satisfaction in making a pile of inanimate machinery do what you want despite the inevitable fact that if it can go wrong it will and when it does go wrong you'd better laugh, lie and be creative to survive. "},{"Title":"one small step for cinema... but still fun","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  As all current English undergraduates know, being born in the 80's was a bit crap. While we are constantly reminded how our parents kept busy burning their bras, screaming at The Beatles and establishing the notion of free love, our collective cultural contribution as yet is Blur v Oasis, the birth of digital television, and the ironic recreation of Seventies fashion. We also managed to miss the most remarkable achievement in the history of our planet - man landing on the moon &#150; and 'The Dish' is here to rub our noses in it.The movie follows the little-known story of the team led by Cliff Buxton (Sam Neill) who ran the enormous radio telescope responsible for receiving those famous images of Armstrong and co as they completed their lunar landing. Somewhat unbelievably, the dish of the title was not located, as one might expect, in Houston, or Florida, but in the middle of a sheep paddock in New South Wales, Australia.The film does well at playing up the obvious humour of a small town in spasm at the prospect of a visit from the American Ambassador, NASA, and the Prime Minister of Australia. It's an ensemble piece crammed full with great supporting performances &#150; the young man obsessed with his Army training, the incompetent security guard who revels in carrying a gun, the politically rebellious Mayor's daughter determined to dampen everyone's enthusiasm &#150; and even Eliza Szonert ('Neighbours'' Dannii Stark, fact fans) comes out trumps in her role as local totty Janine.But where the film falters is that the main characters are also little more than well-rounded charicatures, defined by their jobs or their family, with only occasional glimpses of &#145;human interest' clumsily thrown at them in an effort to make them more complex. In a film such as this, where the real action is happening in outer space and the outcome is a forgone conclusion (we all know that man made it to the moon), what suspense there is must come from whether or not the individual characters succeed in their ambitions, and the gentle affection they provoke is, unfortunately, not quite enough to keep the audience on side.There are some hilarious moments of Aussie-American diplomacy &#150; the town band mistaking the &#145;Hawaii 5-0' theme for the U.S. National Anthem, for example &#150; but the full comedy of such situations is never quite realised, presumably to ensure no potential foreign audiences are offended. Indeed, 'The Dish' seems to go out of its way to be inoffensive to everyone, which some will find refreshing in the modern climate of comedy - but vulgarity, as we all know from 'Muriel's Wedding' and 'Priscilla', is what everyone expects from Australian cinema. Like its predecessor, 'The Castle', Rob Sitch's latest will not repeat overseas its incredible success back home, but one random Bank Holiday you'll see it on TV, and you'll like it. And thirty years later, you can make everyone born after 2010 feel sorry that they didn't see it when you did.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful, subtle movie","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is an absolutely wonderful, subtle comedy-drama that will probably (and unfortunately) go unnoticed by most of the movie-going crowd. Four scientists and technicians have the honor of being part of a team responsible for communicating between Apollo 11 and Earth. This is the kind of movie where discussing the plot would bore most and do a disservice to the movie. The character interplay is great, the comedy is timed great and doesn't really get in the way of the movie. There are some subplots which, in my opinion, did get in the way, so it's not a perfect movie.What it is is a movie that you'll watch with a smile on your face for most of the time, and then at the end, find yourself holding back tears watching the amazing walk on the moon. I am too young to have seen the actual moon landing, but watching this movie almost made me feel like I was there when it first happened and all the world was watching. The feeling is hard to describe, but it's a mix between awe, pride, and wonder. If you're tired of the same Hollywood crap, this is a wonderful alternative.Finally, two comments about comments from another imdb member 1) Quoted due to a sudden power outage which wipes clean its computers, the radio telescope looses the lunar space craft...until the US NASA rep looks up at the sky and gets the brilliant idea that they should just point the dish up at sky where they can see the moon. You have missed the point. The solution was *not* to point the dish at the moon, the idea was to use the moon as a reference point. They knew where the spacecraft was, they had a good idea of speed, they did not have a vector. The moon provided a direction. By the way, yes, sometimes when trying to find a solution one way, you miss the obvious.  They were trying to calculate current position using old position/velocity data, and forgot to realize *where* they were going to. Trust me and my years of math and physics that this happens.2) quoted The only other major 'crisis' occurs when powerful winds kick up on cue just when the moonwalk transmission is about to occur...but, oddly, later the winds completely disappear. This is not a movie about aliens or waging war in space. It is an actual crisis within the parameters of the movie. As to why it oddly disappears later, I'm not sure it did (thought you may be right), only that it wasn't the focal point of the movie at that time -- and rightfully so. But even if it did, it matters little because the focal point of that part of the movie was the moonwalk.Watch this movie. Too many movies nowadays are mediocre. They're not bad, just forgettable. The Dish isn't. 9/10. "},{"Title":"It's perfect!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is one of my absolute favorites. If you're not Australian, you're probably not familiar with the Working Dog team, who produced this movie, but they're responsible for some of the funniest television (Frontline, The Panel)and movies (The Castle) we have in this country.The Dish is the story of Australia's involvement in the moon landing, and how the television pictures were sent to Earth via the satellite receiving station at Parkes in New South Wales.Finally, though, we have a movie which displays the Australian sense of humour without resorting to the overplayed, cliched Crocodile Dundee garbage. It is simple, subtle and plays mainly on the difference between the uptight Americans and the laid-back Australians.It is beautifully directed by Rob Sitch, with lovely sweeping shots of outback NSW (Yes, it does look like that, so much space, and yeah, the Dish is in a sheep paddock!) The actors are perfectly cast Sam Neill gives a wonderfully warm performance as the director of the station, Patrick Warburton plays the rather uptight American, (but he does such the Australian thing late in the movie!)Kevin Harrington gets all the best one-lines, and delivers them with great timing, and I still can't believe how much Tom Long reminds me of a younger Guy Pearce. (see 'Dating the Enemy' for proof)All in all, I think this is the best movie I have seen for such a long time, either Australian or international.Do yourself a favour and see it now! "},{"Title":"This is REALLY what Australian film makers can do!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Forget time wasting rubbish like Jimoin's The Craic and see what Aussie filmakers are REALLY capable of. The Dish has genuine Aussie humour, which might stump some of the foreign viewers, a liberal sprinkling of 60's nostalgia, and small doses of Kleenex Juice. Like it's stablemate The Castle, this finely crafted and well acted film is a wonderful glimpse of Aussie larrikinism and 'can do' philosophy at it's best. It also shows that us Aussies can 'get on with it' when things go wrong and not make a big fuss about it. There's no gratuitous sex scenes, no mindless violence, no unbelieveable car crash scenes... it's just a simple story of an epic event, extremely well told. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A Sweet Surprise from Oz","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" As an American born in 1968, I wasn't cognizant of the hubbub surrounding the 1969 Apollo 11 moon landing. But now that I've seen The Dish, I have a new appreciation for the sheer wonder of it around the world and not just in America.Sam Neill leads this talented cast as Cliff Buxton, who directs the team in charge of The Dish. It's one of only a few satellite dishes in the world (in Parkes, Australia) that got the job of broadcasting the moonwalk itself. Along with Kevin (Mitch Mitchell) the wisecracking engineer, Glenn (Tom Long), the lovesick but nerdy electronics guru, and Al (Patrick Puddy Warburton), the NASA guy who is there to make sure all goes well, this crew kept me in stitches most of the time. Not to mention Rudy, the gung-ho security guard who can't keep his sectors straight.Some people may turn their noses up at the rather cute tone of this film, but I found it refreshing. Parkes' mayor, who has to constantly consult his young son about the science of the rocket launch, plays small-town bureaucrat with style and spunk. The whole town is agog at the prospect of having an American ambassador AND the Prime Minister visit.Watching Glen translate Australian slang for American Al is hilarious. So is Kevin as he plays cricket in the dish. Not to mention the numerous mishaps that surround the broadcast. And Sam Neill plays the role of Cliff with staid, gentle strength.However, I think one of the most interesting points in the film has nothing to do with the cast. After the landing, a montage of different TV reporters/experts from around the world is shown. Some are in tears with amazement that a man has actually landed on the moon. Including dear old Walter Cronkite brushing back a few saltdrops. As Cliff (Neill) says, It's a chance for science to be daring. And it truly was.  "},{"Title":"Superb!  Wonderful characters make this one a true winner!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the feel good movie of the year!  With absolutely excellent acting from every actor, this is truly one of the best movies of the decade.  It is amazing to believe that this story is true.  The slowness of the movie certainly doesn't detract from it at all, and the viewer is kept very entertained throughout.  Bravo. "},{"Title":"Another charmer from down under","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I'll see any movie which deals with the space program, and went to an advance screening of The Dish for that reason. I was pleasantly surprised to find a film which combines gentle humor, fine ensemble acting, carefully utilized historic NASA footage, and an iconic piece of machinery to tell an uplifting and warmhearted story. The plot is straightforward, and since we pretty much know the outcome, the pleasure is in the details, much as it was with Apollo 13. Add to the technical story the 'small town pulling off a remarkable stunt' factor (remember Waking Ned Devine, The Englishman Who Went Up a Mountain...., etc.) and a sprinklig of Aussie humor. This movie is also not only safe for kids, but will also interest all but the youngest of them. Of course, most adults will also love it. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is currently running at only one theater here in Dallas and deserves a wider release. It's inspirational like Apollo 13 with the additional treat of Australian humor.  The film makes one really appreciate what our techie forebears accomplished with such (now) antiquated technology. For some reason I couldn't help but wonder what our space program would have accomplished if it had been in Microsoft's hands. "},{"Title":"Genial, low-key comedy","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is a genial, low-key comedy about Australia's role in the television coverage of the moon landing and walk.  The wide variety of local and visiting characters provide humor for this lifetime event in the small town of Parkes.  Based on actual events, the film takes you back to the sixties and you relive (or experience for the first time) an exciting and historic event.  Grade is B+  "}{"Title":" A small film which brings the family back to family movies.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The Dish is another one of those easy paced, throwback style movies of an earlier era.  It is done using flashback, which in no way detracts from the message. In all of the world NASA has decided to rely on an Australian Satellite dish to be a part of getting the pictures of the first moon walk relayed back to the States for television viewing. So it is that all of Australia is puffed up with pride for their part in the first moon landing. In the telling of it we see how the villages and politicos are educated on space; and how no matter what can go wrong, there are times when man must decide to try to overcome nature and cultural differences to  work in an attempt to bring about a suitable solution. Sam Neal, plays his role in a style similar to an early James Stewart. The only other actor familiar to the American viewing public is Patrick Warburton who does a good job in this film playing the bee that is in the bonnet of the Australians.  Good acting, good writing, excellent production you won't want to miss this film, and take everyone in the family they'll enjoy it too.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful slice of NASA history through an Australian lens","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Capturing the feeling of the awe and wonderment of the NASA program in the sixties, specifically Apollo 11, is the province of this movie.  However, rather than a Houston or a small town USA perspective, we are privileged to share these feelings with the citizens of Parkes, Australia  - home to the only satellite dish in the Southern hemisphere capable of receiving television transmissions.It was a simpler time in 1969, and The Dish evokes powerful feelings of unity, brotherhood and national pride that were present at the time for anyone following the space launches during the sixties. The movie's music, though sometimes a bit overpowering and overused, taps into the emotional feel of this era. Even the playing of the US national anthem will bring smiles to the faces of even the most cynical!The story humorously focuses on the humble and proud people of Parkes - located 5 hours west of Sydney, beyond the Blue Mountains. One of the film's many delights is its use of dry Australian humor and wit, along with the opportunity to teach us all a bit about Aussie slang. Much like the characters in director, Rob Sitch's previous film, `The Castle', these good honest locals find a way into your heart. This is a story about the camaraderie, teamwork and tireless efforts of the men who maintain and operate the `dish', as it is locally known. And, it is one of the many little-known stories about the people who supported this incredible mission around the world.The living and working quarters at the dish are tight and so are the relationships for the three Aussies. Along comes a Yank from NASA sent to oversee this important mission. Add to the mix, the Mayor who campaigned to bring the dish to Parkes, the American Ambassador to Australia visiting for the historic moon walk, the Australian Prime Minister who hopes they won't mess up, the women who support their men, and a few assorted characters to round out this slice of life.Have a Kleenex handy, watch it with your family, and enjoy the film You may find yourself waxing nostalgic and yearning for the simplicity of that summer of '69. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie a must see.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw the movie on a plane trip to Melbourne. Despite the distractions it was a brilliant movie with wonderful acting and a great story. Very funny movie that also provides historical content in a humorous and interesting story. If there is one movie you see this year make this the one. Well done to all involved in the film. Though I am disappointed that it has not been released in theatres in my country as I would love to see it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Terrific Film","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Is this goodThe makers of The Castle, Frontline and The Panel, the working Dog team have a talent for making people laugh out loud. People should go along to this movie expecting to feel better after.The story surrounds the four men that work out in the giant Dish in the sheep paddock that will be used to transmit radio and television signals from the moon back to Mission Control. They include Sam Neil, as the Dishmaster and Patrick Warburton (remember Puddy from Seinfeld) as the American is there group.Every Australian has to see this. The feel good movie of the year! "},{"Title":"Best film of 2000","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie has ensured that it is now a well known fact that the pictures of astronauts Armstrong and Aldrin on the moon were transmitted to the world from the Parkes radio telescope. This impressive, absorbing, witty and overall engaging movie is easily the best film of the year. Sam Neill (DEAD CALM, JURASSIC PARK, CHILDREN OF THE REVOLUTION) stars with Kevin Harrington and Tom Long (both of SEACHANGE fame) as the technicians who operate the dish. Patrick Warbunton (SEINFELD) appears as NASA's representative at Parkes. The jokes come consistantly with brilliant execution. The first-class plot is dramatic and comic at the same time, and the memorable performances of the four leads, particularly Neill and Long, are nothing short of extraordinary. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Can't Pan The Dish. Warmer and Fuzzier than a Molten Brillo Pad.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  8/10. At first, we were put off by the trailer for The Dish, which makes it look like a culture-cringey mickey-take of Australian Scientists. I am glad to report that it is MUCH better than that.This is a sex-and-violence free, wryly funny, warm-hearted snapshot of life and politics in an Australian country town in 1969, and what happened when they got tangled with Very Big World Class Science and NASA. Sweet, nostalgic (soundtrack to die for), and non-cringey the chief Australian scientist is played with poise and presence by honorary Aussie Sam Neill, and though each of the team has his quirks, they are most certainly not a pack of galahs.Two points 1. this is a true story in spirit rather than fact, in that a lot of the crucial receiving was done not at Parkes but at smaller dishes in the mountains south of Canberra, which have since been demolished. The Parkes dish is still there, still does science, and is visitable by tourists. 2. The PM at the time was actually John Gorton, and is not named because JG is still alive. The character in the film looks, sounds and acts more like a composite of his three predecessors Menzies, Holt and McEwen.Despite a huge hype in Oz, the Dish does not seem to have been pushed much overseas. This is a shame, since I know it would do VERY well in the UK. "},{"Title":"The Eagle has landed","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  If you're expecting The Castle, then you will be in for a rude shock. The Dish, based on the true story of the Apollo 11 space flight and subsequent moonwalk is very funny, but it very different humour to what is seen in The Castle.The film details how Parkes a country town in New South Wales, Australia became the talk of the world when it's satellite dish (complete with neighbouring sheep) was used by NASA to broadcast man's first walk on the moon.A feel-good humorous film and a must for any person fascinated by space. "},{"Title":"To feel like you got a second chance to see the moon walk live!","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I was amazed at the end of it to realise that i had just watched people listening to the radio.In todays fast paced world it is  not often that you get a chance to see nothing much happen physically (though it was a lot emotionally)As a late twenties person i had missed out on the moon walk and only really seen 10 second video bites.  It made me feel a little of what it must have been like to see man walk on the moon. ... i mean bits of it were black and white...and fuzzy...the computer wasn't even one that took punched cards.....i liked the  USA anthem. "},{"Title":"The best Australian movie made","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie rates well amongst my top 10. Following the success of the first Working Dog production, The Castle (1997), the team returned to write and direct this great movie. The storyline is well written with the plot being easy to follow. The class of acting in previous Australian movies may have been mediocre but in this movie, it is only first class all the way. Great performances by Sam Neill and Seinfeld's Patrick Warbuton get the viewer emotionally involved. The directing is brilliant and if you only see one more Australian movie in your life, make sure it is this one. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A first-rate Australian film.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish, from the Working Dog team known for The Castle and the television show The Panel, have created the finest piece of Australian cinema I have seen.  The acting is tight and first-rate, with the  many lively characters in the small village of Parkes, where the film is set, being believable and having many familiar traits you may see in your friends and family. The movie itself, although pushing the 'culture clash' storyline which is usually dumbed down to generic humour (see Crocodile Dundee or any of Yahoo Serious's films for an example) is performed masterfully, and appears natural instead of the g'day mate, chuck a shrimp on the barbie tripe that we're used to.The film really draws you in and makes you part of it, and as a result you feel for the characters. This also helps to remove the feeling that you're watching a film, and it feels more like documentary footage at times.It would be quite interesting if the Australian Prime Minister and the rest of the parliamentarians were similar to these fictional politicians ^_^ "}{"Title":"Outstanding work from the D-Gen!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Another excellent production by Working Dog. The team who brought icons including The D-Generation, Frontline, The Castle, and The Panel have outdone themselves this time - despite a recent fetish for definite articles.The movie has comedy (Oz style), tragedy, suspense and a serious side. The period music is a little overstated in parts, and may have been better as background rather than as a vehicle. It still adds to the overall experience of the rural NSW town of Parkes and Australia as a whole, thrilling in their little mentioned involvement in the Apollo 11 moonwalk, and there's none of the God Bless insert-country-here that we've come to associate with race-for-space movies.It doesn't hide the fact there's a war on or give in to the propaganda machine, nor does it pretend the world is completely behind the effort, but it does show that it's an event that brought the entire Western world together to see IF it could be done. See this movie.  "},{"Title":"Cultural Cringe Free Zone","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Do not watch this movie expecting to see The Castle.  Do watch this movie expecting to be entertained.The folks at Working Dog have again managed to capture that certain unique something about Australia and show it in a way that doesn't cause you any of the cultural cringe you normally feel in Australian produced movies. Instead, you come away thinking how proud we should be of who we are and what we can achieve.It is a great movie with fine performances, and a wonderful story.  I don't know how well it will be received overseas, some of the 'ocker' might be lost on other countries, but every Australian will certainly enjoy it.Great effort guys, and keep up the good work! "},{"Title":"A screamingly funny Aussie take on the greatest moment in the 20th century","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Just how relaxed you would be if you had lost Apollo 11 on the way to the Moon, could almost determine what country you came from. In Parkes, NSW, Australia, when the moment arrives, there is a relaxed reaction after the event for the Australians. When Al Burnett (Patrick Warburton 'Seinfield'), the American from N.A.S.A finds out, he's all nerves, procedure and protocol. The Australians just focus on fixing the problem. The ubiquitous She'll be right.'The Dish' is a screamingly funny, foot stomping take on Australia's role in the greatest moment of the twentieth century. Landing two men on the moon and bringing them back to Earth. When you think about that, it seems like a pretty serious moment to joke about.The characters in 'The Dish' are so familiar that you laugh, first, in recognition, and then, laugh louder and longer when they are given things to do and say. The Australian running Radio telescope at Parkes is Cliff Buxton (Sam Neill 'Jurassic Park', 'The Piano'), an older recently widowed man of quietly spoken, and very few words. It's clear that Cliff can listen patiently, almost transcendentally, to others for hours on end. Then, summarise it all including the outcome in four sentences or less, and leave the others in the room amazed and speechless. It's brave writing to have a lead character with few words, but it's this character and Al that keep 'The Dish' from collapsing under its souffle construction.Al Burnet before this calamity is still all procedure and process driven, inflexible, he runs incessant drills, checks and re checks, and his thoroughness really starts getting under the skin of the Australians. The Australians see it as being un trusting and treating them like idiots, and Cliff's number two, Mitch (Kevin Harrington 'Sea Change') doesn't mince words about this. Kevin is your laconic down to earth Aussie male. Wise cracking, tells you what you think (usually with an analogy), whether you wanted to know or not. Mitch loves ribbing his mates about any failure or indiscretion. This is why, you could argue, that checking and rechecking for the Australians isn't a focus. For the Australians, letting the team down and stuffing up will provide decades of ribbing and stirring at your expense. The shame of failure is not just this moment, but with Australians, will haunt you for the rest of your life, rubbing your face in it gently from your mates, and less so from your enemies. No 1969 wasp male could hope to survive that.The last of the main 'Dish' team is Glenn (Tom Long 'Strange Planet', 'Two Hands' 'Sea Change'). Glenn is the 1969 computer geek prototype. Shy almost seven dwarfian 'Bashful' in construct, he seems a little slow on the social skills and overly keen to explain and please. Cliff and Mitch watch his attempts to start a relationship with Janine, who brings lunches in brown paper bags like the lunch monitor from school. There is also the security guy Rudi, who's on L plates, and renames the sectors he protects whenever muddled. It's a lovely part played well by Taylor Kane.The other major character in this large ensemble film is Mayor Bob McIntyre (Roy Billing) who's political savvy at beating Cowra for the Radio Telescope delivers his and Parkes biggest day when the P.M and the American Ambassador come to watch the Moon landing from Parkes. Bob McIntyre is just a brilliant piece of writing and directing, and Roy Billing gives Bob such wonderful moments, that he's simply adorable'The Dish' is the funniest film I've seen this year. Beautifully written, directed, cast and acted, it is an ensemble film with characters you immediately embrace and care about. The characters all have their little quirks, which make them so very human in this super human story. Jayne Kennedy has cast the tiniest speaking roles with first class character actors including Collette Mann, Denise Richards and Billie Brown. This for an Australian film is refreshing, and is a key factor in 'The Dish's success.Finally, the tech credits, Direction, Editing (the brilliant Brunswick girl Jill Bilcock) , Cinematography, Production design and writing are all outstanding. Don't let this stuff about Post Olympics mood thing colour your vision. This is a brilliant film. Sitch's direction is immaculate and his actors deliver killer one liners, one after the other without failure and with apparent effortless ease.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is quite simply the best movie of the year - Australian or otherwise.It is not surprising that such an accomplished piece of work has come from the most talented people in Australian entertainment (Working Dog Productions).  With the Dish they have taken one of mankind's greatest achievements and captured it through Australian eyes.It is also no surprise that the characters are all well observed, the jokes perfectly timed and the acting spot on (especially Sam Neill and Roy Billing).What is surprising is the production values.  In the past the Working Dog crew have let the story do the talking - seeing lighting etc as a secondary concern.  But here the cinematography, editing and sets are close to perfect.However they never lapse into the showiness that plagues so many Australian films.  And compared to other Australian films you get the impression that these characters can be found anywhere in Australia, not just in cafes in inner-city Sydney or Melbourne or merely characters from American films transported to a local setting.Along with Chopper, Two Hands and of course the Castle, The Dish represents a rare breed of Australian film - one that is actually entertaining whilst at the same time being genuinely moving.  "},{"Title":"Movie of the year... in my opinion!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Ever see a movie that before you see it, you have high hopes and then when you leave you're disappointed? Well with The Dish I went in with hopes and came out wanting to see it again. Having liked the Castle, which was made by the Working Dog team who also created The Dish (as the posters say in big bold writing), I knew the kind of witty, almost satirical humour this movie would have. It did have this humour as well as drama, emotion, love and of course the moon walk. Even though I had seen the footage of man walking on the moon before, when played under the beautifully orchestrated music, it left we with a lump in my throat. And even though I knew the outcome of the movie, I still went I wonder if they'll get out of this situation because it is the untold story of the moon walk. The drama's from the power going out to the winds being too strong, which can, if moved, make the dish (The satellite receiving the footage) collapse, killing everyone in it.All the performances in this movie are good especially Sam Niell but everyone, which includes almost the entire cast of Seachange... (well I wouldn't go that far) are all excellent. This isn't one of those movies filled with quirky characters that are too unbelievable to... well believe, it is filled with characters we come to like and some to love in the 1 hour 40 minutes running time. See this movie once, then twice and possibly thrice it is an excellent movie. My favourite for the year. And by the way the year's been shaping up let's all hope there are a few more movies like this at the box office soon.10/10  "},{"Title":"Poignant, beautifully crafted and intelligently done.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  My wife and I had the great pleasure of watching Rob Sitch's, The Dish, last night and I, as well as the friends that viewed it with us, thought that it was a brilliant film.As is so often the case with Australian movies, as opposed to those from Hollywood, the tenor or pace is considerably wound back the story unfolds softly and settles on the viewer quietly and envelopes them in the story almost as a participant rather than someone passively watching, popcorn in hand.The Director painted a sensitive, engaging portrait of a rural communities normally quiet population given its moment on the world stage and his insights are virtually a movie within a movie.  These minor characters are extraordinarily endearing and the little subplots touched upon by the script reinforced the unfolding climax of the main story.Perhaps I'm silly but I found the drama that occured during the two plot crises to be very tense and nerve-racking contrasted with the bucolic beauty of the countryside, it created a useful counterpoint.I would recommend this movie to everyone; it is as close to a must see movie as will occur this year,   "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and Funny","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The dish is an absolutely hilarious film. You can tell right off that the same people who wrote 'The Castle' also created 'The Dish' and the choice of actors is superb. Here is one of those rare movies where you really do love the characters and although they make you laugh - they don't need to tell jokes or do slapstick comedy - you laugh because you feel for them and can see the humour and what they say and how they act. The dialogue is well written and there is never a dull moment if there is less humour there is more action, if there is less action then there is more humour. If it's showing at the cinema go and see it. If it's out on video - buy it and watch it when you need to be cheered up or when you have friends around. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Working Dog team have not disappointed with this Australian perspective on the Apollo 11 moon landing.The film is centred on the Parkes radio telescope, and the small band of staff operating it, during the lunar landing mission.In terms of a history lesson, I (along with many other Aussies) was unaware of the role that this installation played in the broadcast of the landing images to the world.But - the joy of this feature is in the writing, direction, and acting which allows some very funny lines to be delivered in a very dry, laid back and very enjoyable way.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable whimsical drama but lacks the freshness of The Castle","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Anything coming from the Australian production company Working Dog Productions is likely to be a good watch -- and The Dish is no exception. The film is a whimsical look at the part played by Australia in Nasa's Apollo 11 mission, when man first walked on the moon. In particular, the movie looks at how Australia's Parkes Satellite Dish brought the first television pictures of Neil Armstrong walking on the moon to the rest of the world.However The Dish is a break-away from past efforts from Working Dog Productions (comprising comedians Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner, Jane Kennedy and Rob Sitch).If you are looking for another dose of rough-and-ready ocker comedy (like The Castle) you won't find it in The Dish. It appears that Working Dog was intent on creating a serious film for a world audience, and while it is an enjoyable, solid watch for the whole family, it lacks the biting humor of Frontline, The Castle or the d-generation.As long as you go into the movie aware that it is a slicker and more refined product, you will enjoy this movie very much.Some excellent performances (especially Sam Neill) enhance a very enjoyable script with some very funny moments -- and thankfully (or not, according to your perspective) it still has a go at the relaxed Australian culture of the day. (Who ever would have thought you could play cricket in a satellite dish).Working Dog has been responsible for other great entertainment such as the brilliant Australian current affairs satire Frontline (not to be confused with the American program of the same name) and the hit comedy film, The Castle, and popular Australian TV shows The Late Show and The Panel. "},{"Title":"Uniquely Australian - Funny, Poignant and Honest","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Although before seeing the film, I had never realised the part the Parkes receiving station had to play in the scheme of the Apollo 11 landings, it wasn't the story that I think 'The Dish' truly tells.Produced by a group of people (Working Dog) that many young Australians feel like they have known personally for years, through such shows as 'The Late Show (1993)' and 'The Panel (1998)', this intimacy with the audience has been fostered in telling a very uniquely Australian version of the events in July, 1969.Somehow, Rob, Santo, Tom and Jane, have managed to take the single greatest scientific achievement in the twentith-century, and make it a back story in the context of the film. The characters, their relationships and the informality of every Australian burns bright in this funny and beautiful film that every single Australian should see, let alone the rest of the world,Forget the Olympic games, The Dish is the how the world should see Australia. "}{"Title":"An excellent film, suitable for everyone, humorous.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is a nice little film about the Apollo 11 launch, and the role the Parkes radio-telescope played in relaying the transmissions from the astronauts to the rest of the world.The dish is located in Australia (and is still a working facility), and was selected by NASA to be a link in the communication chain for the Apollo 11 launch. Four (three Australian and one American) scientists man the dish and encounter a few problems.Along the way we meet the townspeople of Parkes, who are incredibly proud of the role their town is playing in the moon-landings. The American ambassador visits, as well as the Australian PM, and a number of parties are held in their honour.This film is very funny, and well worth watching. No violence, a bit of swearing, and some tight jumpers. The cast is very good, and features the guy who played Elaine's (Seinfeld) boyfriend David Putty(?), as well as Sam Neill.All in all, a top effort. "},{"Title":"took me back","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the film that really took me back to the day i was sent home from school to watch the historic moon walk.The settings,the old Holdens the people of the town of Parkes,NSW made up this memorable film about three normal Australians and one acceptable American who are given the task of supplying pictures of Appollo 11 landing on the moonThere are some great one liners in thereso you don't know where appollo 11 is at this stage asks the american which the slow witted aussie repliesyeah it's on it's way to the moonThis film is such a great Australian film and the direction of Rob Sitch who brings out the best in all the locals surely helps it to become the best aussie film this century. "},{"Title":"Valid!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Enlightening, enjoyable, and Australian.An interesting story to be considered after Sydney 2000. This year all Australia went through much the same experience as the country town of Parkes.A film for everyone we all have some concept of the moon landing and this is another point of view. It will remind or teach you how we felt knowing man could get to the moon and back. And you'll laugh a long the way. "},{"Title":"A must for all Australians, indeed all people.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This was by far the best work from the Working Dog Team that brought us such great works as The Late Show, Funky Squad, Frontline, The Panel and The Castle.This is an amazingly moving, touching and hilarious movie.  The characters are engaging, charming and make you care for them. the direction by Rob Sitch is by far his best work, and Jane Kennedy's casting is perfect.  The movie describes the role a small town outside of Sydney Australia (Parkes) had in showing the first steps on the moon.  In fact this satellite dish at Parkes was only one of 2 in the word with enough power to pick up the video signal from the moon....the other, just down the road.This is a must see for ALL Australians, I know as an Australian I had no idea that we were responsible for the world seeing images from the moon, I am sure MANY other Australians, and people over the world don't either.  I also know the moon walk has never particularly moved me, but the two times I have seen this movie, the footage makes me cry like nothing else.  It is an amazing movie, captivating and charming. "},{"Title":"Big things happen in small places","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie examines true events surrounding the Apollo 11 moon landing a small town in Australia has a strategically important role to play, as the site of a massive radio telescope. When NASA is unable to receive signal from the Moon, the town of Parkes plays a critical role in bringing the events from the lunar surface to the world. The experience is not without mishap, however, and the people of this small town race to prevent their time of glory from turning into a huge embarrassment. The interactions between the straightlaced NASA agent and the local Australians are particularly funny. The conclusion is stirring because of many unheralded actions, the world was able to see man on the moon, some of the most evocative images ever captured. "},{"Title":"The Vibe Continues.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  It's not every day you get invited along to a sneak preview of a film and actually get excited. Sneak peaks are always free and usually 'sneak peaks' because the producers want at least 100 people to see the film; they know no-one will pay to see it once it's released nationally. But with The Dish you know up front that you're going to laugh your pants off (and hope you know the person sitting next to you) and be quoting the dialogue for the next month.What I didn't expect to feel when seeing The Dish was the immense pride when the film opened with brilliant cinematography and a mood that started the giggle from within even before any actor had graced the screen. I loved The Castle and I had great faith that the film's producers, Working Dog, could 'do it again'.This time with a bigger budget, the true excellence of such a close and talented team of writers and directors has been able to reach its full potential and light up our hearts and fill a void in the Australian Comedy film genre. The Dish is a two down win for Australia's film industry and has once again proved 'the vibe' of success.Jodelle Binoue, "},{"Title":"Charming Little Story of Eccentric Small Town's Place in History","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The Dish is one of those amusing, charming Ozzie movies about idiosyncratic small towns down under (like Muriel's Wedding, The Coca Cola Kid, etc. with no dark undertones). This one pads out a bit the story of how an incongruous radio satellite in a sheep paddock played a crucial link for the Apollo moon landing TV telecast. Only a couple of things really happened to make any suspense, so eccentric characters are thrown in. Their irreverence and down-to-earth attitude, especially about politicians, keeps it from being schmaltzy.Puddy from Seinfeld does the NASA guy quite nicely.It's odd for an American to see a movie about the Apollo mission with only a brief shot of Walter Cronkite as he's so synonymous with watching all the space flights on TV.(originally written 4/14/2001) "},{"Title":"A fine little Australian film, highly entertaining with a historical significance.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  If you are an unknown Australian in 1960, minding the dish (radio telescope) in a sheep field outside an unknown small town, and as the relay point for the biggest world-wide TV event in history, you carelessly lose the transmission from the lunar lander and don't know how to get it back, what do you tell NASA?  What anyone would do in that circumstance, you lie!I would never have watched The Dish had critic Ebert not trumpeted its virtues. And I'm glad he did, for it not only gives us a fascinating peek into a world we otherwise would never know of, it is a well-done comedy to boot. Sam Neil begins and ends the film as an old man back to visit the dish base he commanded 40 years earlier, in between the story is told as one continuous flashback. He never identifies himself to the young guard who curiously says, You look familiar, have we met? Undoubtedly the portrait of the younger man was hanging inside the building.The core story could have been told with 15-minute film. But this version includes the curious townsfolk and their back stories, the budding romance between the shy electronics whiz and the girl who delivers lunches to the dish, the local politicians who see this event as a propeller for higher office.Well, we all know the rest of the story. They did regain the lock on the radio signal in time, helped by the by-the-book NASA man onsite, and the whole world witnesses live man's first steps on the moon, taken by the American Armstrong. Not the same Armstrong who just won his 4th consecutive Tour de France bicycle race, but I'll bet they are kindred spirits.  Good stuff, all of it.The Dish, a fine, historical, and entertaining film, see it if you haven't already.  I found a copy of the DVD at my local library. "},{"Title":"A great film which leaves you feeling warm & fuzzy all over!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This is probably the best film I've seen all year. THE DISH really captures the beauty of the human spirit. This is a 'small' film -- no big budget or special effects. Rather it concentrates on the personalities and work of of the scientists, engineers, and townsfolk at Parks whose efforts made it possible for the world to watch the first moonwalk live on TV. Because Parkes Radiotelescope is located in a sheep paddock in a rural area, there is plenty of folk humour provided by the locals. This is a film for the whole family. It rings absolutely true -- it even made my spine tingle. But there are no explosions or car chases, so unfortunately most Americans may never get an opportunity to see it. My advice is to search for it, and see it while you can. THE DISH left me feeling all warm and fuzzy. Twice. "},{"Title":"Understated and very Pleasant","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The Dish is not a film you'll be shouting about afterwards, but it's certainly not one you'll be complaining about. It's about a small Australian community hosting the TV recording of the moon landings from the Southern Hemisphere. The film focuses around the four guys who run the giant dish that's being used. The film is very lightheartedly funny throughout, and it makes the film very watchable. I found the film very well scripted, with the jokes not coming across as over scripted or over performed. Similarly the film doesn't go overboard on exposition, giving hints, but lacking the common overindulgence of backstories. All the characters feel real, because nothing is really overblown. It's all very refreshing.On top of all that, the shots of the dish are absolutely fantastic. They're lovingly and inventively done, and necessary to a film that takes place primarily indoors. I also really loved how they actually put the real moon landing footage in. There's nothing mind blowing here, but it's a really nice tale and a really enjoyable watch. Everything about this film feels lovingly handled and it doesn't feel forced. "}{"Title":"A charming little film","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" A remote Australian radio telescope plays a key role in the 1969 Apollo 11 moon landing. The team must deal with power outage, and wild windy weather.It's a charming nice little film staring Patrick Warburton and Sam Neill.It's mostly cute and quaint. That goes for the pace, the humor, and the story. It doesn't really have great intensity. What it does have is charm coming out its ears.It takes a little known part of this historic event, and finds the human drama and joy. "},{"Title":"Parkes Gets Put on the Map","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The Dish is set in July 1969 in Parkes, New South Wales, Australia, a community of population about ten thousand, approximately 150-200 miles northwest of Sydney. Its affable prescient mayor, played by Roy Billing, is reaping a reward for his maneuvers to get a radio telescope observatory sited locally, in a sheep paddock not far from town. The reward, putting Parkes on the map, is the facility's assignment to help NASA in Houston with telemetry and communications signals for the Apollo 11 moon voyage and landing.Well-known actor Sam Neill (Jurassic Park, etc.) plays Cliff, the contemplative pipe-smoking director of the dish-management crew. Taylor Kane plays Rudi, the comical security guard who's on the alert for threats that aren't really quite there. Tom Long plays Glenn, the not-really-so-nerdy whiz kid who's the junior member of the team. He has a crush on Janine, Rudi's sister, played by Eliza Szonert, who has a crush back. Kevin Harrington plays Mitch, the wise-cracking Aussie who's second in command to Cliff, at least domestically. What tension there is, aside from that of the moon mission itself, derives from Mitch's discomfort with Al the add-on from NASA, played by Patrick Warburton. Mitch considers Al an annoying know-it-all presence, representative of an American arrogance that the Australians can't be trusted to be competent but have to be monitored.John McMartin plays the American ambassador who is greeted in Parkes with the, uh, U.S. national anthem. He visits the dish and is impressed at how the astronauts sound like they're just a few feet away.A light comedy-drama gem, this one. There are cameo appearances by John F. Kennedy and Walter Cronkite. "},{"Title":"A gentle charmer","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" After the joyfully funny The Castle, The Dish is a bit of a disappointment first time round the sheer good nature is still there, but too often the jokes aren't. Set in the runup to the first landing on the Moon, it centers on the various characters in the small Australian town of Parkes which houses the huge dish that will - power cuts and miscalculations notwithstanding - beam the live TV pictures to Earth. Or at least that's the plan. It starts off well with a number of scenes that manage to mix cleverly exposition with character-defining humor, but it's not long before you notice that the film is spending so much of its running time setting up the situation and filling in all the background details needed for the jokes to pay off that you begin to get impatient for them to just start the story. Yet second time round it's much easier to see the film's appeal and take it to your heart as it celebrates the best in its characters without belittling them, with Edmond Choi's score managing to beautifully underline the aspiration of the era. It's big on charm and likability and makes great use of the Parkes' dish itself, which still resides right in the middle of a sheep paddock. "},{"Title":"Let's hear it for the Mayor!","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Earlier comments have accurately conveyed the charm of a seemingly modest film that nevertheless has much to teach many film makers. As someone has noted, The Dish involves its audience without pyrotechnics but rather through its keen eye for human nature. This despite the fact that its characters are caught up in the greatest technological achievement so far managed by the human species. In fact it is exactly this tension between recognizable human traits and technological wizardry, the ordinary and the exceptional, that gives the movie its soul and its humanity. This is a tribute to the scripting and direction as well as to the actors who convey the essential humanity in many fine performances. Sam Neill and Patrick Warburton have already established themselves as fine actors but their restraint and confidence here plays off the fine work of numerous supporting actors. I found the work of Roy Billing as Mayor Bob McIntyre virtually a constant joy - and one of the reasons, as has been noted, that one can watch this film again and again in its entirety and still find something new to enjoy, almost as if it transcended the label and conventions of film as entertainment, and instead riveted the audience with the commonest human feelings and frailties, conveyed with a deadpan sense of humor that is warm as well as wry. As several have already noted, Parkes is in New South Wales, solidly in the Murray Darling Basin which has been for a century the bread basket of Australia until being knocked sideways by a decade of drought and misapplication of its diminishing water resources. It's not the outback - at least not yet - and it's not South Australia. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie about  the Aussie technicians who manned the satellite dish bringing one of the greatest deeds in history","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" This agreeable story is based on a true events, it tells the days before the July 19, 1969, and concerns about a group of local Aussie scientific. NASA was working with Australian technicians , as they manned the satellite dish responsible for bringing to Television sets around the world the first moon walk. But the receiver in United States became useless and the Aussie bunch goes into action. Despite wind guts of over 60 m.p.h. ,the crew of Parkes, along with their colleagues at Honeysuckle Creek provided an uninterrupted flow of pictures from the moon. Parkes remains a part of NASA mission to this day and it's still in the middle of a sheep paddock.The film packs the spectacular event about Apolo 11's flight path that marked mankind's first steps on the moon , adding local customs with comedy, good feeling , emotion, and dignity. Furthermore, explores the differing cultural habits among Aussie and US scientific and authorities . The movie includes various deeds, such as a blackout, a botcher band music, an agreeable romance, the US Ambassador's visit, among them. Casting is frankly well,though unknown for the great public with exception of Sam Neill, as acting splendidly players as Patrick Warburton as the NASA scientific, Billie Brown as Prime Minister and Roy Billing as the Mayor. Atmospheric and emotive musical score by Edmund Choi. The motion picture is well directed by Rob Sitch, getting nomination for Academy Award. He's a nice Australian director, working usually for television series  Thank God you're here, Front line, Late Show and occasionally for cinema. "},{"Title":"An Australian space movie. What more could you want","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" I am a big space buff and an Australian Film makers and this movie does the best of both worlds. Funny, quirky and typically Australian. Sam Neil played an amazing role as Cliff Buxton, the way he makes you feel as though he is the real character not just a movie is outstanding. The role that Patrick Warburton was excellent he pulled it off with flying colors, He has come along way since Seinfeld. Rob Stitch has Written many great things and this movie is one of many great films Written by this man, I give this man 8/10 for his writing skills. This movie has great cast of great Australian actors and actress. A top movie in my eyes. It is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"If you love this movie you must have the Sp Ed dvd.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  It's great to hear lots of people have discovered this gem of a movie but you guys in the u s should be aware you have been badly short changed on the dvd over there. In australia we have been treated to an awesome special edition of this film.If you have a pal capable system i strongly urge you to get it.I added this to my collection about 6 months ago and only just got round to exploring the extras this weekend. I am truly stunned by the loving care and attention to detail the guys have put into this dvd.There is even an 1.10 hours of archival footage related to the subject,a must have for anyone even remotely interested in one of the defining moments of the last century.Not to mention 2x comm,featurett,story boards.You really do get a feel of the research and care that the filmmakers put into this project.One of the jewels in the crown of my collection and a bloody good film too. "},{"Title":"quietly rocking","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Like its unprepossessing setting, _Dish_ sets about quietly to lure you into where eye of its own storm on July 20, 1969, when Parkes satellite outside Sydney, Australia, transmitted the first TV broadcast of men on the moon.  The characters are phenomenal, the soundtrack moving, the outmoded and clunky computers worthy of wonder  -- a movie to show your children, not just to show that a little longer attention span really pays off but what life was like when almost every eye in the world made a momentary agreement to put aside all differences and watch American astronauts step onto lunar soil in the name of humanity....... "},{"Title":"Adorable and funny! Do not miss.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I have not laughed this hard in a very long time.  Just about anyone can see it.  The characters are marvelously quirky.  The story is touching, and easy to relate to.  A small town puts on its best dress to be seen by the world. The characters that populate this town are memorable, all of them.  A must see. "},{"Title":"great entertainment that could have gone on longer","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I know a film is good when my wife doesn't keep asking how much longer?. In this case, the only occasion we looked at the time was at the end, and were amazed how quickly 90 minutes could pass - you know what they say about time flies when having fun etc....If anything, we wished it could have gone on longer, and this would have to be the only film where we sat through the credits (listening to Wings of an Eagle by Russell Morris). It is also the only film in which I've gone out and bought the soundtrack.If I wanted to be picky, I probably could have dwelled on possible flaws etc..., but who cares when you've more than received the entertainment you paid for!  I haven't encountered anyone yet who didn't enjoy this film thoroughly!!! "}{"Title":"Sweet, Charming, a feel all around good movie!","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This was an unexpectedly sweet movie.  The characters are quirky and charming.  The story moves along at a good pace and there is a sense of world pride that is conveyed in watching the Apollo 11 landing through the eyes of these endearing characters.Go see it if you can! "},{"Title":"Aussie humour done like a dinner","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  It's not clear whether the makers were trying to send up or celebrate the  Australian character, but in the end they have produced a kind of antipodean Ealing comedy where a bunch of unlikely ordinary people have pulled off something unusual. In `Whisky Galore' it was hiding a wrecked shipment of Scotch on a Hebredian island, in `The Dish' it's ensuring the pictures of the first men on the moon in 1969 get back to earth via the Parkes radio telescope despite nationalism, bad weather, technical glitches and human error.I personally don't care how true all this was (apparently some long demolished site in the ACT actually did the job) but while some of the characters were charming in a familiar kind of way the whole thing lacked any real engagement. These Australians had a very bit part in this particular historical event &#150; its success did not ride on their efforts - and it was difficult to get really involved. Sam Neil did his middle-aged angst number, Tom Long was one of those bumbling young men it's hard to dislike and there was a gallery of well-known actors in the minor parts, Carl Snell's Mayor MacIntyre being very good, though I kept on expecting to see Bill Hunter appear. I wonder what non-Australians think of this rather ethnocentric number. I watched the thing as an in-flight movie and I noticed the Asian passengers around me switched it off pretty quickly. I guess Aussie humour doesn't travel all that well, even on Qantas.  "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was fantastic. I, like many of my fellow Australian's went to see this Aussie film on the day of its release and were amazed. Make no mistake, this is a character driven film and does not rush anything. Some people may say the film is slow but really the film is about the relations of the town of Parkes and how you can't beat an Aussie. This film is fantastic because it is head and shoulders about some of the c**p that America put out this year (The Grinch anyone?). This film had what many films now days are sorely lacking, heart. This film, much like Working Dogs first film The Castle are about family and relationships and can't be missed.  "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed The Dish. The wind sweeping across and around the area of the dish at Parkes, the cars of the era, and television footage all so true. I remember watching in awe when they touched down on the moon wondering if they would be able to get off again and what contamination they would bring back to earth and would it be detrimental to the astronauts health. This movie brought the memories flooding back - even to the wonderment of will we get pictures this time or just fuzzy snow on the television as many of the live space flights had difficulty getting pictures in the windows open to us in Australia. A truly enjoyable, entertaining movie. See it for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Really Great Film","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this film in a packed cinema at a preview night.  Everyone laughed through the entire film.  It is a very inspiring story.  Its great to see Australian History being explored in such a laconic way.  It was also very nice to see Australian History that does not revolve around a war. I really enjoyed it.  If you liked The Castle, then you'll love this.  I gave it 10/10 and I think its the best movie I've seen this year.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and informative","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Have just seen this movie, and recommend it. The dish is the Parkes (NSW) radio telescope in Australia, and was involved in tracking the craft involved in the moon landing some years ago,and is still used by NASA today. The story is a documentary (to some extent?) of the persons who manned the telescope. It's a good movie, as it has humorous moments, dramatic ones, together with some romantic aspects.  The local citizenry are involved at all times. While the idealism of the whole event is emphasised, the basic motive (to beat the Russians in the space race) doesn't seem to get a mention.  But this is a minor point.  "},{"Title":"Spot on!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  The Dish is a great film, charming, funny, perfectly played and paced, distinctly Aussie yet universally appealing.  One doesn't even mind seeing quite a lot of archive footage at the climax because it is so well presented in context.  Very stirring stuff.  Also contains the BEST old-age make up I have ever seen on film.  Seriously.  A must see for everyone.  That's all there is to say.(10/10) "},{"Title":"A must on Everyone's Table","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Well the makers of The Castle have out done themselves with this creation. From the beginning to the end the movie is full of one liners, awesome original NASA footage and a beautifully shot film. The Australian cast deliver a wonderful performance and the only American Seinfeld's own David Puddy, Patrick Warburton is surprisingly great in his role. The cinematography is outstanding with the good old Australian sheep farm a great backdrop for The Dish. Working Dog the creators have really set themselves a high standard, an absolute must see. You'll be licking everything off your plate. "},{"Title":"Agreeable Forsythian Flick","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  A delightful small movie that will surely please fans of BillForsythe. The Dish is a sort of down under Local Hero.  Lots ofsmall visual jokes on top of amusing slices of life set against thebackground of the 1969 moon landing. It's a little more breezilypaced and occasionally literal than Forsythe's pictures, butimpossible not to put in the same utterly agreeable category.  "},{"Title":"Apollo 11 from a slightly skewed angle!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought movie this based on Sam Neill's earlier work, which I thoroughly enjoyed.  The story is based on the Australian involvement in the communications with the Apollo 11 crew.  Parkes is a small sheep farming community that built the largest communications facility in the southern hemisphere.  This appear to be the ideal communications station for NASA during twelve hours of daylight over the US.  What happens during this critical mission is fascinating. "}{"Title":"Apollo 11 from a slightly skewed angle!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I bought movie this based on Sam Neill's earlier work, which I thoroughly enjoyed.  The story is based on the Australian involvement in the communications with the Apollo 11 crew.  Parkes is a small sheep farming community that built the largest communications facility in the southern hemisphere.  This appear to be the ideal communications station for NASA during twelve hours of daylight over the US.  What happens during this critical mission is fascinating.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Castle","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" The boys from 'The Panel' try to emulate the success of The Castle with this nostalgic look at the role Australia and a Dish in the middle of a sheep paddock play in making sure mankind got to see the famous ( or should I say legendary ) moonwalk. Sam Neil as always , puts in a fine performance. The NASA specialist was also great in that film. Unfortunately , I felt that the film in places , lost some of its thread. The local mayors daughter and the soldier next door....what was that all about?The underestimated dry Australian wit was good , but that really isnt a challenge to most Australians , because that form of wit is so natural to their own surroundings.I feel that the power cut that affected the Stations operations could have played more of a feature. The Ambassadors visit to the station was good comedy , but an opportunity was missed .If only they added the Australian Prime Minister into the mix , the potential of better drama and comedy would never have been missed. I feel that the freak weather was an add on...again an example of how  the thread was lost.I feel the sub-plots didnt add anything to the film , the love interests didn't er er love...The Australian Prime Minister was only one of two that swore in the film. Im sorry , Ive been to Australia and the people , especially in that part of the world are just a little bit more colourful with their language than the boys from 'The Panel' served up. Perhaps they had an eye to the safe middle-American market in which the success of the film aspired to catch? Unfortunately, they only succeeded in compromising the portrayal of Australia.I dont wish to sound or be harsh about this film. In fundamental essence , it was good , but now Ive seen it , I wont be naffed off if I ever missed it on National TV. The boys from 'The Panel' can do much better , as The Castle proved . Perhaps they should be bolder and be willing to experiment more. I simply make this plea to 'The Panel' , we dont all read The Daily Telegraph or The Mudgee Guardian. Be daring , make us laugh , make us cry but more importantly , make us think.Again , not as good as The Castle.  "},{"Title":"Just one of three movies that I really like in the space age.","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Other two being Apollo 13 & The Right Stuff.  And this one was made in the  Outback.  It hardly looks it.  Great cinematography.  Good use of the vintage film.  I congradulate them on one fine movie.  Take the family out to see  it.  You'll reward yourself later.9/10Quality 9/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good shooting, but not a bulls eye","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This was a fabulously original movie. The cast was OK.  I loved being taked back to my teens and college years in the 60's in such a great way; well done.  THe down side is that the astronomers were portrayed as too stupid and clumsy. I am a prof. astronomer and I can assure that my breed did, indeed, do such heric things, but not as donkeys. "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Finally a movie worth seeing.  So far this year we have dealt with mostly crap from the so called Hollywood giants, and with Miss Bridget Jones finally arriving on our shores, I might start using some of my free passes again.The Dish is excellent.  Its not exciting, its not spine tingling, but it is beautiful, well constructed, and brilliant.  The plot may not be that strong, in the sense that it is apparently what happened in the days leading up to the moon landing, but it is full of warm and real characters, who you would have met had you walked through any Australian country town in the 1960's-70's.However, I can see why some people don't like it.  Firstly, it ends, you don't a 30 minute segment of what Bob and Jack did after the left the project blah, blah, blah.  Had it done that I would have been disappointed in it.   It is a great film with a fantastic story.  I think its about time the American Film Industry accepted that just because they are the biggest, they certainly are NOT the best.  Score One-Nil to the rest of the world on this one.Brilliant10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"great humor!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  It takes imagination to make a story out of a radio telescope but they do a great job!  The characters are entertaining and the writers are perfectly willing to laugh at the national foibles.  The audience laughed all the way through.  Tired of action - with no interest?  Go see the dish! "},{"Title":"This is the best the Aussie film industry can do?  I hope not.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Filled with schmaltzy characters and dull, humourless storyline.  Intent on over-exaggerating every potentially perceived Australian characteristic. Perhaps I went into this film expecting too much.  If this is the best the Working Dog production company can come up with, I'm disappointed considering some of their previous work.Very laboured.  What a snooze fest. "},{"Title":"It's a shame","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Although a lot of Australians would claim this to be a movie that can only be understood by Ozzies, and therefore has no chance in Europe, I would claim that this is a great movie and would perform perfect against some of the stuff we get over from the States. It contains humor, romance, great photography, no violence, no sex, and has even a great storyline. In other words all the stuff that a lot of other movies are missing.  "},{"Title":"Never let the truth stand in the way of a good story.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Like so many movies based on a true story', the writers of The Dish didn't let the truth stand in the way of a good story.It was the Honeysuckle Creek Radio Telescope (30 km south of Canberra  that received the first moon landing signals, not the one located at Parkes. However the Honeysuckle Creek site is now nothing more than some old carparks and building foundations while the real dish is now located some 20 km south of Canberra at Tidbinbilla.I would say that the story also benefitted from the Parkes Radio Telescopes close location to Parkes. Honeysuckle Creek was nestled high in the Brindabella Range quite remote from any towns. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Given the litany of positive comments below, I almost feel guilty saying that this film isn't all that great. But it isn't.It's most definitely a cute film, and it's most definitely got an interesting little historical story to tell. But as a story, it goes nowhere and as a comedy, it has considerably fewer laughs than The Castle.It's probably easiest to cite the things the screenplay hasn't got. It hasn't got significant character development. All the characters, including Mr NASA, are there when we arrive. Apparently Mr NASA has ruffled a few feathers at the station, although we have no idea how because there's only one fairly minor altercation shown to us. The romance plot barely advances at all. The vague references to Sam Neill's character being married... followed by a dramatic pause suggest a big plot twist that never arrives. For all the rhetoric spouted by the characters about how bloody marvellous this whole mission is, it doesn't seem to change them. And the tension surrounding the various technical hitches is fleeting.This film has its moments, usually when it goes for straight out laughs - the mayor and his wife, Rudy the security guard and the poetry reading are very good - but there's a lot more of those moments, and the characters share the laughs more evenly, in The Castle.Perhaps The Castle or the film's publicity led me to expect too much, but this subject matter could've been dealt with so much better. In view of all the positive comments, I'd have to say it's worth a look, but you might want to wait til it comes out on video. "}{"Title":"A witty, amusing snapshot of a memorable event.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Set  in the late 60's at the time of Apollo 11, this filmdemonstrates the wit of the Australian psyche. The humouris typically Australian, and it is delivered smoothly and withno jarring or slapstick. For those who like the  music of the60's, you will enjoy the little cameos that appear throughoutthis movie. The task that the Parkes Radio Telescope hasin communicating with Apollo 11 is demonstrated (with  some  obvious artistic license) and the marvelous  research done by the Working Dog Film group is framed bythe archival footage from Australia and NASA. Those of usold enough to remember Niel Armstrong's small step findourselves transported back in time to recount our own  memories. There are quite a few real belly laughs in thisfilm. I saw it  in a large theatre with only a handful of spareseats. In at least one instance, the WHOLE theatre eruptedin completely uncontrolled laughter!! A sure sign of somegreat writing and acting. In closing, I'd have to say that theAmerican National Anthem will from now on take on a  whole new meaning! "},{"Title":"Delightful nostalgic and entertaining","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I loved this film - it was delivered in a non-patronizing way (to the Aussies) and provided great entertainment. I was around in 1969 and sat up (in England) in the early hours of the morning, watching the landing. We were all enraptured. - I had no idea that the pictures were being picked up by this far away place called Australia. Now I live here....... This film is well worthy of 9.5/10. It brought the memories flooding back and gave me a smile from ear to ear.WELL DONE! "},{"Title":"What A Great Film!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Working Dog have done their stuff again! This film is funny, moving, inspiring, funny, enjoyable and funny!Possibly some of the jokes will be lost on non-Australians, but I was almost rolling in the aisle during some parts. Carrier pigeon!! A big thumbs up from the locals!! Good Stuff! "},{"Title":"A dish in a sheep paddock...that changed the world!","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Everyone knows that on the 20th July 1969, Man took its first steps on the Moon. But, what you may not be aware of is the circumstances behind the actual transmissions. If you think it was all overseen by the Americans, think again. It was down to a telescope, smack dab in the middle of a sheep paddock in Parkes, Australia that transmitted Neil Armstrong's most famous walk.The Dish is one of the most gracious films to emerge this side of the millennium. A charming, very enjoyable re-examining of one of the world's most important events. Its enjoyable for the way it tells a story just a little off to the side. A story that neighbours the main event, but is no less compelling.The Apollo 11 Moon landing is the underlying theme and dramatic thrust of the film, and its this that ties the major plot points of The Dish together. But instead of seeing Mission Control and the astronauts, the film focuses instead on dramas of a more personal level.The town of Parkes has the largest telescope on the Southern Hemisphere, but up until now, its only been used to survey the stars and not much else. That is, until NASA chooses Parkes as the backup relay for the Moon landing. They're only a backup if something should go wrong, but they don't care. To them, this is a momentous day not only for Parkes, but for all of Australia.The team of technicians chosen to oversee this is chief scientist Cliff Buxton (a quietly dignified Sam Neill), Glenn, who's in charge of plotting the telemetry of the dish, and Mitch who's job is to make sure all the equipment does what it's supposed to do. As well as a NASA representative Al Burnet (a milquetoast Patrick Wharbuton), and the dish's inept security guard Rudi, the five of them have to work around the clock to get the dish up and running in time for the Moon landing.If that's all there was to The Dish, it would run out of steam pretty quickly. But director Rob Sitch makes sure that doesn't happen by not allowing the technicalities of the mission to steal the show. That's just a convenient hook to hang the story on. Sitch wisely allows the performances of the cast and the emotional strengths he draws out in the process to carry the show.And it has to be said Sitch has assembled a fine cast. At the head of the line is Sam Neill, who is excellent as always. Its a subtle and underplayed performance, but he handles the changes in his emotions expertly. Making sure things go to plan, and keeping a cool head even when they don't. And there's quite a lovely scene when he discusses the loss of his wife on the outside of the dish while its being readjusted.There's some fine ensemble playing from the staff of the dish. Glenn is a fumbling maths genius with a crush on the prettiest girl in Parkes. Mitch is the nuts and cogs of the mission, even if he's missing a few screws from time to time. And Rudi is so terrible at what he does that I think he's kept on just for moral support.But its Patrick Wharbuton who shines among the supporting cast. He does wonders with what could have been a very clichéd character. He's the Yank among the group. Who doesn't always get along with the Aussies. I like the parts when Glenn has to translate Mitch's colloquialisms for Al's benefit. Al may be a steadfast, All-American boy but when the chips are down, he supports the team. And the success of the mission couldn't have happened without him. When they're faced with a potentially crippling problem, the solution he comes up with is so simple you feel like slapping yourself for not thinking of it earlier.And outside of the staff, Sitch creates some extremely endearing townsfolk. In particular the Mayor of Parkes, Bob McIntyre and his wife Maisie (Roy Billing & Genevieve Mooy). Bob could have been played as a pompous bureaucrat, but Billing turns him into a likable opportunist instead. Because its not every day something this momentous happens in Parkes. So he capitalises as much as he can possibly get from it. He still fumbles things a bit, especially when he mistakes the theme tune of Hawaii-Five-O for the American National Anthem.Sitch attempts to introduce some tension into the mix as well, such as power cuts and high winds that jeopardise the mission. Even so, Sitch still gets some comic mileage out of them. I love the part when they lose contact with Apollo 11, and when it coincides with a visit from the Prime Minister, Al and Mitch have to pretend to be Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin over Rudi's radio to offset suspicion. After all, they don't want the plug pulled on their moment in history. And who could blame them!?There is also a wonderful selection of tunes and backing music to sift through. Sitch has picked some of the 60s greatest hits. Especially when he has the realignment of the dish accompanied to the sound of 'Classical Gas'. Its quite a lovely and strangely exhilarating moment that reminded me of Stanley Kubrick's use of music in 2001 A Space Odyssey.Despite some of the obvious hiccoughs that threaten to derail the mission, in the end, we know it will succeed. And so it should. These people deserve their moment in the Sun. The saddest thing is their involvement in one of mankind's greatest achievements went unnoticed by the public. But for every person that discovers The Dish, Parkes will always have a place in your heart. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  not bad, but a little too tame","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Like some British and Irish comedies I've seen, The Dish is a mild comedy about small town locals rather than a crazy Monty Python movie. It was sweet and well-acted, but dragged a little. There were a few genuinely funny scenes, but the film played out more as a drama than a comedy overall.I'm sure keeping the film true-to-life cut down on the amount of wackiness they could have thrown in there, which is a shame.Who should see this film-- drama lovers-- comedy lovers who don't mind the mellow approachI'll give The Dish a not bad, nothing special 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"CHARM OFFENSIVE","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  An old-fashioned type comedy, that hits all the right notes with it's charm offensive. A more universal tale than it's stablemate production The Castle. The strength to this film are the supporting characters. They are all well-written and amusing, and you feel the story could veer off in one of their directions at anytime. Probably the best satellite film you'll see this year.   "},{"Title":"The Last Great Working Dog Production, Flawed But Fun","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" In July 1969, the sleepy Australian town of Parkes leapt into the pages of history when the nearby radio telescope provided the clearest signal worldwide of the Apollo 11 astronauts' moon landing. So good was the Parkes signal that nine minutes into the broadcast, NASA decided to stick with it for the remainder of mankind's arrival on an alien world. 'The Dish' chronicles the events leading up to the broadcast, focussing upon the individuals responsible for bringing the world those memorable moments, and the impact it had on the local community, keen to bathe in the reflected glory of the event.Realistically, the Parkes story is one of a group of astrophysicists flicking switches, calculating trajectories and talking via satellite to NASA - all of which translates into their worthy achievements in helping televise a key chapter in human history, but not exactly the stuff of cinema. Therefore, much of 'The Dish' is highly fictionalised and speculative, with Working Dog painting the affair in nostalgic sepia and providing a fairly romanticised view of a rural Australian community, replete with sixties pop songs and the kind of cheeky and amusing Australian characters that exist only in film. The waters of schmaltz ought to drown the whole effort in its cheesiness, but it doesn't. The makers of 'Frontline' and 'The Castle' are in 2000 at the height of their powers, and although 'The Dish' doesn't have quite the same depth of the former or the emotional resonance of the latter, Working Dog are too skilled to descend into Disnification.Rob Sitch's direction ensures that the softer approach is never two-dimensional and that the fictionalised elements of the film don't eclipse the central story at the observatory, but rather complement it as an engaging backdrop. Credit here should go to the Working Dog team as a whole, who as usual crafted their script together, bringing the same unity of vision their earlier successes enjoyed. Real media coverage of the Apollo mission is blended in seamlessly, helping the viewer to really get into the spirit of things.Jane Kennedy assembles a capable cast, headed by Sam Neill as observatory director Cliff Buxton. The film's lightheartedness does not present Neill with a real test of his abilities, but within his character's back story, there are occasional depths the veteran actor subtly brings to the surface. Fresh from their Pearl Bay success, actors Kevin Harrington and Tom Long are on hand for comic relief, Harrington tasked with evoking the insecure rivalry between the Australian contingent and NASA, in the form of Patrick Warburton, in a more restrained performance than usual. Comment should also be made of the always-reliable Roy Billing as the town mayor, very much aware of the benefits the observatory's success will have on his career, yet sincerely fascinated by and appreciative of the event's true significance. Essentially, the principal characters of 'The Dish' are likable and inspire you to cheer for them in their moments of difficulty.For all this, 'The Dish' however lacks the depth of story that would justify feature length. In their attempts to bolster the tale, Working Dog add elements of romance and conflict, but their own desire for lightheartedness prevents either of these elements from really developing into anything powerful enough to fully warrant their presence. One gets the sense that this is the producers' deliberate attempt to avoid sensationalising their story, but once introduced, the sub-plots are there and have to be properly acknowledged. The Working Dog approach may have been better suited therefore to the short film genre, cutting out the half-developed side material and sticking with the central plot. This is essentially the difference between a story centred around the technical achievements at an observatory and one centred around the plight of a family trying to keep their home. 'The Castle', with its solid human core, had far more material upon which to draw a feature-length story, and every plot element came into being organically, rather than needing to be grafted on in order to *find* human interest. Ironically, with its focus on 'loveable rednecks', 'The Castle' will not have the more widespread appeal of 'The Dish's softly-drawn characters and sleepy-town charm, and they are very different beasts.It's important to state at this point therefore that I did enjoy 'The Dish' a great deal. Its subject matter is no less deserving and it is well-crafted despite its faults. It simply isn't as good as Working Dog's finest, and their standards in the 90s were very high indeed. It's a great shame that 'The Dish' is to date their final foray into cinema a decade on and they should by now have had a string of great Australian film classics rather than the often mainstream and lacklustre television efforts they have produced instead. Yet despite its faults, I would cite 'The Dish' as the last of a decade of excellence rather than a harbinger of the fall that would swiftly follow. It may not be quite up to 101 minutes of runtime, but it's still a worthy effort I can recommend to others. "},{"Title":"A warm and lightly comic drama","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" While America prepares for the Apollo 11 moon landing, a satellite dish in rural Australia gets the call that it will be the point of contact for the mission in the Southern Hemisphere. The small town of Parks suddenly finds itself the focus of the world, with the Mayor becoming a local celebrity, meeting and greeting American and Australia dignitaries alike. With the pressure on and a NASA manager in Parks to oversee the mission, the eyes of the world must rely on a small group of Australians managed by facility director Cliff Buxton.I'm not sure how entirely accurate and factual it is (certainly there are some glaring omissions and additions) but this film serves as an affectionate record of a small part of history in an unassuming corner of the world. I half expected a Aussie spoof with the usual broad caricatures and so on and, to a degree this was the case but the vast majority of the film was a gently comic drama with its foundations in fact. I found it a bit distracting not knowing what exactly what was true and what wasn't but gradually I settled down into it and found myself quite engaged by it. The story itself is light drama &#150; important in a bigger context perhaps but still worries over wind etc, so it is a credit to the film that it makes an engaging story out of it where it could have fallen flat. The comedy is also a light touch and there are some nice digs at the perception of Aussie life but it is never to the point of making them the joke or being cruel.The cast are fine with this approach and turn in mostly straight performances that allow the laughs to just come out from their characters rather than being attacks on their characters. Neill leads the cast well with a gentle leader role who does provide a solid heart to the film. He is well supported by a group of actors who aren't as good as him but are enjoyable with their own small characters. Warburton is stiff as in Seinfeld but he is good nonetheless while Harrington, Long and others provide solid supporting turns.Overall this is not an amazing film but it is gently engaging and amusing. It isn't hilarious at any point and it isn't the tensest drama you'll ever see but it is warmly fun and I quite enjoyed it. If you can get into the light mood of it then you'll probably get it too. "},{"Title":"When you have nothing better  to do...","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" I started watching this with condescension. Although I truly admire the project of telling a story about the moon landing that is little-known outside of Australia, and as much as I believe that this era of space exploration was the absolute high point of practical science in a United States where creationism is still taught in half the States, I also had serious misgivings about the Australian way of making a popular film depiction of human frailty in a middle-of-the-road cute sort of way, overt sentimentality, viewer manipulation, populist reliance on can't miss pop hits on the soundtrack, etc. This was somewhat alleviated by the use of the aria Lorsque vous n'aurez rien à faire from Massenet's opera Chérubin during a space montage. The lyrics of this pastoral aria are about love and have absolutely nothing to do with space explorationWhen you have nothing better to do, call me to your side. The paradise I prefer is a cushion at your knees. You won't notice me, I won't talk, I will keep from breathing if my breath troubles you. For spring to replace winter in my heart, I need so very little a smile once in a while, or if that is asking too much, just a look may transform me. Because, even if I don't say so, I love you as much as one can love. At the time when the film is set (1969), this opera still hadn't been taken out of the cobwebs like it would be later in the 70's, 80's and 90's. In other words, the only reason why this aria was used at all was its absolute musical transcendence, as far removed from the ambient Australian folksiness as possible, and the fact that it was written by Massenet, an opera composer whose incidental music and orchestrations are still being studied by film composers today. Since I am a fan of Massenet, my better judgement was absolutely overwhelmed at this point, I got a lump in my throat and I was absolutely willing to let myself be engulfed by the story. What a sucker I am! "},{"Title":"A lovely film","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" I found it a thoroughly enjoyable film free of all the sex and bad language which pervades most present day films. Films I enjoy are such as Pride and Prejudice and The Titfield Thunderbolt as well as old world films such as those following the second war. The acting might be hammy but the themes are lovely and I put The Dish in the category of the Titfield Thunderbolt but somewhat better performance. I wish they made more films like this today, free of foul language like the Full Monty and similar. Films depicting homosexuality I find totally disgusting and should be banned. The Disc is a lovely film and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good yarn. "}{"Title":"A little gem","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  It is somewhat ironic that Australia, known more for it's beer and somewhat rough customs and manners, makes delightful films, full of memorable quirky characters and very droll humour, such as this. Wonderful acting.  "},{"Title":"One For the Slide-Rule Crowd","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"   As bad as         it gets. For tools for whom high adventure is getting the         settings right on their color monitor. Aussie quartet of techies         manning the world's largest radio antenna, are thrust into the         world's eye by having to serve as the world's eye, that is by         being called upon in July 1969 to receive the transmission of         man's first walk on the moon. Add 1) several tablespoons of 60's         nostalgia--you know, hair-do's, fashions, vintage cars, and tacky         pop tunes; 2) a cup or two of archival news footage of the real         thing; and 3) cute small-town sit-com caricatures; shake and         bake; and you have an instant cake of manufactured history,         nostalgia to go.        Get this due to a sudden power outage which wipes clean its         computers, the radio telescope looses the lunar space craft.         After covering up their problem to NASA back in Houston, the crew         of brilliant scientists stay up all night, racking their brains,         calculating feverishly with slide rulers, only to realize, come         morning, that they have nothing; that is, until the US NASA rep         looks up at the sky and gets the brilliant idea that they should         just point the dish up at sky where they can see the moon.        The only other major crisis occurs when powerful winds kick up         on cue just when the moonwalk transmission is about to occur. The         geeks sweat and balk at the risk because the dish wasn't built to         withstand such high winds and is therefore untested under these         conditions; but at the last, during their one big moment, decide         to tough it out, to meet the challenge of destiny. Of course,         they receive the transmission without a hitch (no spoilers are         necessary since everything in this movie is a foregone         conclusion), but, oddly, the winds completely disappear.         Throughout the moonwalk, which is the movie's climax, the winds which were supposed to be such a big hazard to the dish, are         suddenly gone. So much for continuity.        One minor quibble the male lead's hairpiece is so bad it's         distracting.        This movie is highly recommended ... for nursing homes. "},{"Title":"It hurts to say No.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" In 1969, when Neil Armstrong was going to the moon to be the first human to set foot there, the radio telescope outside of the small village of Parkes in Australia was chosen to relay the television signal of the moon walk because it was the largest of its kind in the southern hemisphere. So here was a chance for the Little Guys to triumph. Now, nobody does lovable, quirky eccentrics like the Australian film industry and this film is filled to the brim with them. I really wanted to love this movie and the movie wanted me to love it. Alas, it was not to be. Syrupy music intrudes constantly. There are not really any surprises. The acting is mostly on a TV sit-com level. Everything seemed manufactured. It is a shame not to be able to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Good, not groundbreaking","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I'd love to have given this movie a higher recommendation than the following words but the fact is that it just didn't try to be anythin special. It is a small story of a huge event which is loveable, really loveable but just not enough. It has obviously had a small budget and that is very apparent, but for all its smallities it is a great film. The story itself is in no way depleted from, not even in the possibilities of national heroicism. The cast is made up from almost unknown actors, with the obvious exception, I say unknown, but that is limited to the amount of irregular movie-goers, for it is made up from very capable character actors, who have been sorely mis-used over the years. That is the films true striking rich gift. None of the actors try in any way to over-shadow the others. Even the smallest roles are executed perfectly, with enough comic timing to applaud. However, as I mentioned, that is the movies downfall. It never tries to be too challenging, the plotting is slight, which lends itself to being a character led comedy. Whereas the volume of material is never really too substantial, the delivery of lines is almost perfect. There is a definite knack of how to give the line and reward must be given to the director for this. The acting, aside form the comic elements are fairly accomplished.The bottom line must be brought back, once again, to the fact that there is never too much to focus on. Leaving the theatre you are sure to be saying to yourself that there was nothing wrong with the movie, which is true. However, there are many movies that have nothing wrong with them, but at the same time do not try too make much all right.Go away from the cinema realising you have seen a good film which will, within a few weeks just blow away and hardly anyone will see.Its a shame that suck movies are neglected but in the age of the block-buster you need to push boundaries. "},{"Title":"Something of a disappointment","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Well, that's two hours of my life I won't get back... seriously, The Dish wasn't as bad as all that, but it certainly won't be making onto any Best Ever list I might choose to assemble.I'll just say up front that I think the Working Dog crew are a talented bunch and I've truly enjoyed most of the things they've turned their hand to, from the D-Generation onwards. The one exception to this to date is the outfit's movie output - The Castle left me cold, and The Dish, while streets ahead of its predecessor in terms of production > values and photography, is quite possibly even less engaging.This movie fails on so many fronts the script is leaden and obvious, rife with stock-standard situations (big smoke vs country attitudes, American/Australian conflict) and not-terrifically-creative dialogue. Some truly broad acting performances were turned in by the supporting (though not, I must stress, the principal) cast. The soundtrack suffered from Forrest Gump disease - studded with pop tunes that may evoke wonderful memories in the minds of those who lived through the era, but just seem like empty window dressing to the rest of us. What purpose do the subplots that go nowhere (eg, Lenka Kripac and her army-cadet, would-be boyfriend) serve? Surely not comic relief? And why has Tom Long been asked to give a virtual repeat performance of his SeaChange hesitant-suitor role? He does it well, and it's funny and, yes, kind of touching; but it's not new, for him or us.Like a lot of Australians my age, I grew up watching Santo, Rob, Tom and the others on the TV, and I suppose I, like many, take a kind of proprietary interest in their careers. So my message to them is - ignore the half-truth of big box-office receipts and please try harder. We all know you can. "},{"Title":"Apollo 13 spin-off (ironically)","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" A thoroughly pleasant film that takes over the dramatic gulfstream of Apollo 13. There's lots of mileage in the moon landings (ahem) especially when something goes wrong though Apollo 11, the mission in this film, was a success, there is drama a-plenty to be had in the parochial-and-proud Aussie outfit that was co-opted by NASA to broadcast the TV pictures the mission was sending.Sam Neill plays Cliff Buxton, the team leader of the local team. His is the avuncular role, equal parts easy-going and ill-disguised nervous wreck. Patrick Warburton is the NASA rep Al Burnett who doesn't help matters with his over-officiousness Kevin Harrington is the dial-an-Oz loudmouth and the Tom Long the witless naive who also has a romantic subplot to keep things moist. The drama works on the basis of race-against time cliffhangers. It's good humoured, charming and disposable. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Why not tell the real story?","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm waiting for the big movie  `Apollo 11', (with Tom Hanks, of course) about Bob `Skyman' William's historic landing on the moon.  It's full of thrills and chills as they battle meteor storms and a Russian plot to destroy the craft on the ground which is averted at the last minute by a commando operation led by.  Oh, come on, you say.  They would never do something as stupid as rewriting the history of the Apollo moon landings, even changing the names, right?  Actually, Hollywood has a habit of rewriting history all of the time.  This movie is a good example of this (for the most egregious and ridiculous example, see Memphis Belle, which only resembles reality in the name of the aircraft).  In `The Dish', all of the names are changed, the personnel are different, the structure of the project is different, and `exciting crisis' are added.  So, you don't get to know what part of history is correct (the high winds) and what part is bogus (the power failure).  You miss the idea of what part Parkes actually played and the technical achievement it took.  You get the idea that this was some small operation that got `invited' to help, missing the huge infrastructure they had to build to support the operation.  You don't see the incredible skill of the operators, some of whom did not get to see the very landing they were helping relay the video from because they had complex jobs to do. Truly fascinating stories, such as the inadvertent destruction of the scan converter and its rebuild using scavenged parts, are omitted in favor of things like the project director's `dead wife' plotline (also fiction; in reality, she was the one with the picnic baskets).  This is a fun movie to watch, but imagine how much more significant it could have been if it had chosen to tell the real story. "},{"Title":"Don't tune in for laughs or thrills, or moments, or interest...","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Criticising this film feels a bit like aiming a boot at a puppy dog. It desperately wants to be liked and will do anything to get there. Lead character not noble enough? - make him a recent widower. American a bit frosty? Have him reassure us that he's doing it for the betterment of the project. Have we made the mayor too superficial? lets put his heart in the right place at all times.I am a huge fan of The Castle, but it did not seem to have the same need to have everyone seems so perfect. The Dish, however does and as a result the film is not funny. It's slow, there's virtually no conflict, there's little in the way of comedic or dramatic set-pieces - it just washes over the viewer like warm air - pleasant but entirely forgettable.   "},{"Title":"Didn't do much for me","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Perhaps if I had really good memories of the moon landings, I'd be wallowing in nostalgia and really enjoying this film.  But unfortunately I don't and it left me cold.The humour is of the charming variety rather than being fall-off-your- chair funny.  In other words, you can just about muster a smile at most of the jokes.  There isn't really any tension in the plot either  the outcome is never in much doubt since we know the pictures of the moon landing were broadcast.All were left with at the end is the single joke that a one-horse town in the Australian outback was crucial to the success of the NASA space program. Which frankly isn't enough to carry a film. "},{"Title":"For historians or space enthusiasts only?","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":" Recap Based on the true story on how the observatory in Parkes, Australia, became the primary link to Apollo 11 and a vital link in bringing the TV-pictures from the moon to the entire moon. Sounds easy. But when the antenna is run by a little but odd collection of men and the mayor, the American ambassador and the premier minister all taking an interest.Comments An most average comedy. I liked it but it wasn't anything special, not at all. Why not? It's a nice story, but for it to really take off, the story needs something more. Here I think it being based on a true story is a little constricting. For real life it sure would have been eventful and stressing, but it doesn't really cut it for a good comedy.However, what can make it a lot better, and give it some lift is if you're a space enthusiast or want to remember one of the world's greatest events, where for a few moments the entire world connected around a single event. For me, being too young to have been there, it was a nice movie. Not so much for the laughs but a rather rare and fresh perspective on a piece of history.5/10 "}{"Title":"Houston &#150; No worries!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  There were these two flies, playing football on a saucer.  One turns to the other and says.  You had better buck up your ideas.  We're playing in the Cup next week!Not really funny.  But makes you smile.  And priorities were different then. Ron (Viewed 20May2001)  "},{"Title":"I expected more....","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  As an Englishman who's been living (and thoroughly enjoying my time) in Australia for the last 10 months, I saw 'The Dish' recently after it was recommended to my partner by her Aussie work colleagues.And what a disappointing film it turned out to be.  Not that it was a bad film as such - after all I've seen far far worse come out of Hollywood in the last 10 years - it's just that 'The Dish' never raises itself above the level of a reasonable one-off BBC Sunday evening TV drama, and a film of that nature is going to have a very hard time measuring up to the hype.4/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  This film came highly recommended as an off beat classy low key story about a crew at a satellite relay station during the first lunar landing. It sure was low key. Between the slow, boring pace and the Australian accents that were sometimes as hard to understand as Midlands accents in an English film, it put me to sleep. "},{"Title":"ZZZzzzz...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  Another aspect of the Apollo program... yes, but it would be as boring as learning what the janitor was doing at the Goddard Space Flight Center or what women were doing while men walked on the moon... another bad movie. The few puns present in this movie fail to raise the level of boredom. "},{"Title":"Trivial theme, trivial movie..","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, History","Review":"  There are enough  comments so i won't repeat them..The essential problem of the movie is the lack of importance of it's theme.. Like the characters of the movie showing their surprise that somehow they are helping nasa but without really believing they are important enough, you can't help but feeling that the whole theme of the movie is not so strong a premise to hold the burden of a whole film.The semi-romantic and humor moments can't save the day either.The performances are  basic and the successful  result of the mission to the moon is well known before the viewing of the film..There are no spectacular visual  effects or any real tension to compensate the viewer either.Good enough for  t.v maybe but not for cinema.Waste your time if you must, just don't expect too much.. 4/10    "}]