[{"Title":"Bland little film that forgets to include the most important element of a kids film - fun","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With evil engine Diesel back on the track and looking to get rid of the old steam engines.  Mr Conductor is put in charge of using his gold dust to jump around the area and keep an eye on Diesel - but his supply runs out and he finds himself stuck.  Meanwhile Diesel is looking for the steam engine that got away from him in the past - the same engine that was repaired and hidden by Grandpa Burnett many years ago.Being a reasonable fan of Thomas in my youth I decided to watch this film to see what it was like.  The first problem of the film is that it doesn't resemble the UK version, with characters and sentiments added for the American audience.  This isn't a major problem - only that it affects what I remember from the original series.  The plot is very fragmented and is far too hard for very young children to follow; the basic is good but the addition of various characters and such just complicates things.  The issue I had with the story was the fact that it is almost totally lacking in any sense of fun or wonder; I don't mean it should have been hilarious but it should have been at least enjoyable.  Instead, there is no sense of fun here - it is very plodding and makes it nigh on impossible to stay with.The animation is basic but is more or less true to the original series; downside of that is that the trains all look rubbish - with the eyes being the only bits that move (constantly).  However the film straw is the fact that the cast are pretty poor.  The voice work on the trains is very simplistic and it just made all of them sound the same.  Peter Fonda is awful and can't even muster the energy to deliver the most basic of lines (when his granddaughter returns he says `Oh Lily. I'm so glad you're back' with all the emotion of a man reading out his shopping list).  It's like he got drunk and woke up to find himself contractually obliged to do this film and decided to not even put in a little bit of effort.  Baldwin tries hard and is actually OK because he is at least putting in effort; more than that, considering his tough guy image, this was a strange role for him to play and he does do it pretty well although I would have liked his character to insert more of the wonder and fun that he hints at rather than delivers.Overall this is a pretty poor film that never really goes anywhere.  The plot is weak - too complex for tots and too convoluted for adults to bother with.  The acting is roundly poor and the film manages to be totally missing any sense of fun.  It's easy to tire of kids films that are full of knowing humour but this is one film that was crying out for a bit of silliness or tongue in cheek humour. "},{"Title":"Too Americanised.","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Where is the English charm? Why are all of the Engines now American? I watched this movie as I thought it would be a good tribute to Rev.W.Awdrey's life long work.  It's not at all.  The engines just sound annoying and the plot doesn't work at all.  Has Britt Alcroft decided to go behind his back completely.  Surely if Awdrey were alive today he would not be impressed at all.  I am not a child but I still think that children should be shown a sense of consistency from the TV series.  It's a bad film.  The Island of Sodor makes no sense.  Thomas is a British masterpiece and this film has ruined it.  The producers should be ashamed.  That's all I have to say. "},{"Title":"Up for the Worst Screenplay Ever Written award","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I understand that this is a kid's movie, and that it's intended to simply be fun.  However, that's no excuse for the wreck of a screenplay provided by Britt Allcroft.  Some day I may be compelled out of sheer obsession to document the many problems with this movie, but the most fundamental flaw is the continued use of the Shining Time additions to the Awdry stories.  Didi Conn is the only thing shining in Shining Time, created for US TV audiences to stitch together the excellent model railroad Thomas stories.  The only thing is, they didn't need to be stitched together, as they stand up just fine on their own in book and video.  Worse, the Shining Time portions on TV are excruciating to watch...and now the whole premise is brought to a movie.Now it seems there's some kind of magic railroad connecting a mythical British island railroad to Shining Time, clearly in the USA.  In fact, it must be in Lancaster, PA, USA, because the Strasburg Railroad locomotive #475 makes a few appearances in the movie (in Strasburg and Harrisburg, PA) and I doubt it's ever been across the Atlantic.Anyway, to make a long and painful story short, there's almost no motivation for any of the characters in this story to do anything at all.  Somehow Mr. Conductor (not an Awdry creation) is running out of gold dust, which will somehow make his universe fall apart.  There's no mention as to why supplies would dwindle to nothing when it's the only thing holding Sodor together - Mr. Conductor is pretty irresponsible if you ask me.  He summons his idiot brother who is no help at all, and together they and the rest of the characters stumble on the answer and save the day in a completely underwhelming conclusion.The gold dust emergency happens to coincide with the apparent return of a diesel engine intent on destroying steam engines.  The whole evil-diesel and his predictable sidekick-duo are completely unnecessary and just scare the little kids (like my two-year-old).  I assume that the marketing folks needed a few more new characters to work into the merchandising mix because there's no excuse for the plot damage caused by the diesel.Your kids may enjoy the railroad scenes, but don't watch this movie unless you want your brains to leak out of your head and turn to mush.  The models are great, but the acting and writing are ridiculous.  Avoid at all costs!!!  "},{"Title":"A wasted opportunity!","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is stunning that in this day and age of movie tie-ins, that the creators (or better said owners) of the Thomas the Tank Engine franchise couldn't find a better major movie outlet for their goldmine. Face it, if they would have put 2 seconds of thought into this clunker it would have been huge. Basing it on the Shining Time Station theme was the first mistake. Why not have a nice little movie about the Island of Sodor and its engines? Why insult the audience by creating human characters that are DREADFULLY acted? Again, a simple little movie would have made a mint.It has been 6-7 years since this movie came out and I wonder why another attempt at a Thomas movie hasn't been made. This is the most popular character for children ages 2-6. Parents (like myself) would kill for a decent big screen adaptation to take children to. Seems like somebody is missing the boat here.As for this movie, it has all been said within the previous comments. The acting by Peter Fonda is downright embarrassing, and the storyline is confusing. More focus should have been put on the engines and less on wooden human characters. It gets a 3 from me because despite all its flaws, my 3 year old loves it, therefore giving daddy a much needed rest from time to time.Time for another try at a Thomas movie. Anybody up for it? "},{"Title":"Dear Lord almighty,...","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For those parents who are considering buying this movie, please don't. For those who received as a present, you now know who of your friends wish you to go insane. I am writing this review from the inpatient psychiatric unit after being made to watch this movie by my three year old. On the 453rd time I broke and ran down the street believing I was being chased by Naughy Diesel #10.This movie in a word...terrible. My wife and I sit in the car during trips and recite the HORRIBLE dialog to each other. It has so many plot holes it is amazing. I am thinking about taking a roll of Kodak super-8 and running between the butt cheeks of a horse with the scoots, and selling as the sequel to this movie, It would surely be less of a piece of crap on film. "},{"Title":"For The Kid In All Of US","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I took our 3 year old to see this film and we all enjoyed it. In the age of lots of shoot 'em up and Pokemon crap Thomas was refreshing and light. For all those who have slammed this film as being the worst of 2000 I can only imagine that they have no sense of wonder and either don't have kids or don't read to their kids. Take your little ones, leave your synicism at the door and be a kid again. Its o.k. to enjoy a kids film!! )  "},{"Title":"Great for 2-7 year old","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My son loves this movie. We rented the DVD and then he saved his own money to buy it. He still loves it 2 years later. Although It is a little bland for adults. Kids eat it up. That is really all I have to say. but they require that this comment be 10 lines long. My point is that all of the comments I read were really negative about the movie. When in fact it served it's primary objective. And the at was to entertain children. I don't think that anyone made the film wanting to get nominated for any awards. They just wanted to entertain children and make some dough in the process. The end. I have met the 10 line minimum. I give it 3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Holy Craploa was that bad... Laughably bad.","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My top 10 Problems with this movie...1 Peter Fonda looked like he was on 'ludes the whole movie... especially when his missing granddaughter turns up and he blurts lily. i'm so happy to see you. I've never seen a actor emote less.2 Alec Baldwin. Not that he is bad in this. He seems to be about the only actual actor trying to act. But all I could think of was GlenGary Glen Ross. I was dying for him to scream YOU THOUGHTLESS LITTLE PIG to the Lily character. I wonder how far they got into shooting before Alec realized what a major piece of crap he was involved in.3 Was the Native American driving the train supposed to be some sort of lame joke? You know.. an injun driving an engine. What was he even doing in this movie? 4 The Yahoo Serious brother or cousin or whatever. Simply annoying. Although the Shell Phone joke was good.5 What exactly are the rules about who shrinks and who doesn't when they travel thru the magic railroad. They're definitely not consistent.6 How exactly did Patch get all that coal to the cave? 7 The engines are barely in this movie at all. And when they are, some speak with a brit accent and others don't. WTF? Plus the engine with the most lines (Diesel 10) isn't even one of the main Thomas and Friends characters.8 What was Diesel 10 doing there in the first place if he was such a pain in the a..? 9 The opening sequence at Shining Time with the James Taylor-ish music and the juggler was simply lame. At least it was big waving red flag at the beginning of the film alerting me to keep my expectations low.10 What was with Lily climbing on things? Was it foreshadowing some event that never happened? 11 The whole Gold Dust concept confused the hell out of me. What it's for, where it comes from, all of it... was frustratingly unclear.Well I could go on and on. I'm not going to cheap out at this point and say but my kid liked it like everyone else. Yeah, he'll sit and watch it. But he'd sit and watch just about anything that had Thomas in it and it is a shame that they totally squandered an opportunity to make a decent feature movie with some beloved characters. Too bad. "},{"Title":"You Know You've Watched Too Much Thomas When...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... you watch this movie and wonder why the Thomas universe was screwed up so much by it! In short, the film is good enough to keep my kids riveted. They, who are already fans of Thomas, took the movie in stride. All they really cared about was watching the trains.However, there are other aspects to the film that ruin it completely, and pretty much separate it from the rest of the Thomas universe. As far as I've seen, Diesel 10 was never really evil before now (or afterwards, I'm not to sharp on the whole Thomas Chronology). The whole magical connection and making Sodor some quasi-hidden land of magic trains comes completely out of left field.The saving graces are the models and sets used for the models, as detailed and wonderful as ever. On the acting side, Baldwin makes up for Peter Fonda, who's acting makes me think that he's coming off of a bad trip, frankly.What counts, in the end though, is that the kids enjoyed it. let's face it, they aren't as nit-picky as we are! "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I took my two girls to see this yesterday, and I was very disappointed. The trains have little to do with the (confused and disjointed) plot of the film, they give what can best be described as extended cameo appearances, which presumably are meant to prop up the wooded acting performances (of all but Didi Conn). The film seems to have been edited at random, several plot lines just suddenly disappear. The children just about enjoyed it, but not as much as they usually enjoy a childrens' film. "}{"Title":"nice pleasant diversion for the adults and fun for the kids,","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" at least i thought so.it's a magical fantasy adventure which for about 86 minutes should make you forget about you problems.and most kids should eat it up.there's certainly nothing objectionable here.while i was viewing it,it kept m,y attention and sort of brought me back to the days when i was a kid.this show wasn't around back then of course.all we had were Saturday morning cartoons.but if you try and view this with a child's perspective,you might appreciate it more.and if you do drift off,at least the young ones are watching something that won't pollute their minds.for entertainment aimed at children,you really can't go wrong with this movie.from that perspective,it's a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great for kids, but still a bad movie","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Both my 8 year-old daughter and 2 year-old son, esp. the latter, absolutely love this movie. I enjoy the TV shows, but I really thought this movie was very poorly done. The acting by the kid who plays Patch, and by Peter Fonda, is particularly poor. I know Fonda's character was supposed to be depressed, but his subdued monotone delivery was just horrible. And I agree with the comment that someone posted on the message board that the continuity between scenes is just terrible. It seems as though the movie had the scenes made individually, then cut them up and pasted them almost in random order. This movie has the worst flow to it of any that I can remember. Much of the dialogue and sequencing of the action simply makes no sense. A pitifully bad movie.Fortunately, the plot and acting don't seem nearly as important to kids. They just like that there are tank engines in it, and they like the colorful set pieces and the music. So despite its many flaws, I still must reluctantly recommend it for younger children, who clearly love it - just be forewarned that as an adult you may have a very difficult time sitting through it over and over again, even if you are a kid at heart like myself. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie that captures the imagination of children","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I also agree that this is a wonderful movie for very young children. My 2 year old daughter has just recently been bit by the Thomas bug. I wasn't sure if a feature film would keep her attention. However, my fears were unfounded. From the moment she heard Alec Baldwin's voice she didn't move. There is a nice balance of live action with the trains, and the music is wonderful. This movie is a 10 in my books. "},{"Title":"A Rather Big Guilty Pleasure.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is based on the acclaimed shows Thomas The Tank Engine and Shining Time Station. The film tells the story of Mr. Conductor, who is looking after The Island Of Sodor and is low on gold dust. Meanwhile, Thomas and his friends run into trouble from an evil Diesel who wants to destroy the steam engines for good.I saw this movie in the theater when it came out back in 2000. I am a huge fan of Thomas The Tank Engine (the classic series at least), and I also really like Shining Time Station. Personally, I rather enjoyed this movie, it's a rather big guilty pleasure of mine. By no means it is a masterpiece of film, or is it as good as the TV shows. But nevertheless, I found myself enjoying it. Thomas And The Magic Railroad is a fun film with laughs, fun, and more. Most of the complaints aimed at this movie are that Thomas was Americanized, but is it any worse than what HiT Entertainment did by replacing the classic stories and models with idiotic plots and CGI? And hey, this movie is for kids, it's not supposed to be one of the greatest movies ever made. While some adults may be turned off by the child appeal, I found it to be an enjoyable experience all the same. And in my opinion, whether American or British, Thomas is Thomas, and let's leave it at that.There were many funny scenes in the film. Among the funniest include a bit where Diesel 10 is underneath a coal chute, and he hits it, causing coal to pour down on him, then there was also the bit where Mr. Conductor threatened to pour sugar into his tank, in which Diesel 10 gave a hilarious expression. The office scene where Mr. Conductor falls down with a picture of Sir Topham Hatt's wife and puts on the latter's top hat in front of a changing picture was also quite funny. In fact, I really enjoyed Alec Baldwin's performance. Baldwin seemed to be like he was having a good time and the movie was not supposed to be taken seriously. Although he wasn't as great as Ringo Starr or George Carlin, I thought that Baldwin did a good job at playing Mr. Conductor. The only real problem I had with this movie was Peter Fonda, he came off as very emotionless and depressed, as if he was taking this movie seriously. Oh well, when you have a somebody like Henry Fonda as your father, it's hard to live up to your dad's reputation.All in all, although I did like the TV show better, I do have to say that I really enjoyed this film, I was nice to see them combine to shows that were big favorites of mine as a kid into one. Although the film could have been better (and considering all of the executive meddling that it went through by the way), I still thought that it was good. For once, just turn off your mind and enjoy this film. Don't think of it as being a masterpiece of cinema, or as a film that's Oscar-Worthy. And hey, if you like Thomas, and if you like Shining Time Station, then you will probably like this movie. The bottom line is that there is nothing wrong with liking this movie, as there are times when it is good to be a kid again.9/10 "},{"Title":"The best Thomas film to date","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thomas the Tank Engine is a precious memory that many young adults and older parents hold dear to their youthful days. Either if it was narrated by Beatles' drummer, Ringo Starr in the U.K. version, or by comedian, George Carlin in the American version, the show was, and still continues to be a wide success among aging toddlers. So it is of no surprise that at the beginning of the 21rst century that the cheeky steam engine was given a theatrically released film. Sadly, Not many people have found it appealing; however, I am one of those few people who actually did.Shocking to me, I don't understand why so many people hate this movie. Yes there are a couple of areas that were not perfect before the filming began, but don't all great projects have their setbacks. And really, there are only a couple issues. But I'm going to forgive it because this film should not be trashed for such small errors. The movie is also partially narrated Mr. Conductor, Alec Baldwin, the third most recognized conductor to tell of Thomas' adventures from the TV show.The problem is that Mr. Conductor starts losing the magic in his gold dust and he must find it quickly. The gold dust is what keeps him from traveling between his world and the Island of Sodor (Thomas' world). And the only people who can help him uncover this secret is a girl and her grandfather. The little girl, Lily is played by the no more in showbizz actress Mara Wilson. Her grandfather, Burnett is played by veteran actor Peter Fonda. And let's not forget that Mr. Conductor has a relative, Jr. (Michael E. Rogers), who joins the crew as well. Even Didi Conn from the original Shining Time Station (1989) TV show, which aired the Thomas and Friends adventures, reprised her role for this movie.There are other actors like Russell Means who doesn't have a big role but do add to the nostalgia of the film. What ticks people off about this film is the acting and characterization. And that's just the human part of the film. I didn't find it out of place at all. Baldwin is considered to be at his worst but I found him fairly entertaining. Fonda is bashed for being to down in the dumps, but I found his performance quite emotional because some people become depressed when losing a family member; it happens. I sympathized with him.Lily and Jr. were thought to be of no importance to the story at hand either. But to me, I found Lily a character that children could connect to. And Jr. may not have been the most convincing character but he did have a number of funny moments. The other thing viewers and professional critics alike did not enjoy were the trains themselves. Apparently audience wanted to see moving mouths. But why do that? The TV show wasn't like that. Why would you want to change something that's classic to bad? Ever hear of If it ain't broke don't fix it? It's good that they kept it that way, otherwise it probably would have done worse. Of course, NOW the new series of Thomas and Friends have moving mouths so I hope all of you mopes are happy.The reason why the mouths did not move was that Britt Allcroft, who also happened to be the director of the popular TV show, also directed this movie. I mean, what more could a fan ask for? I give credit to Allcroft, I believe she put in the most effort into making this film as good as it was. She even provided a voice to one of the trains. Speaking of which, this is the last thing people were not happy with; one of the Thomas' friends does not show in this film because his physical train model was not available and the trains all have different voices instead being narrated by Mr. Conductor. Guess what? Not everything's perfect.Actually, the voice actors do a swell job being the trains. Edward Glen as Thomas was a good match. His voice didn't sound too old or too young. Neil Crone as Diesel 10 was a good match too. In fact, Crone's voice made Diesel a very comical villain. Kudos to them! And the film score by composer Hummie Mann was done brilliantly. Mann is able to combine all the right tones with each scene and it even includes The Shining Time theme song in his tracks as a reoccurring theme. It helps the movie a lot.As the only theatrically released film of Thomas the Tank Engine, it should be respected for its good performances and storyline. The characters a very likable and the music excels it to the max. "},{"Title":"An abomination - God Bless the real Thomas","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without doubt this is biggest lot of manure ever put on celluloid,not only bland and banal but an insult to the intelligence of the three-year olds it was intended to exploit.I remember seeing it vividly when it first choo-chooed into the cinema, children actually cried out in pain 'where's Thomas and all his friends' that they had enjoyed watching on the telly, what remained was the worst attempt at fraud since The Boston Strangler claimed he was a misunderstood faith healer.The perpetrators of this abomination should like Alex in A Clockwork Orange have there eyes nailed open and forced to watch this insipid rubbish until The Cubbies win the World Series and Hibs win the Scottish cup!Even though we watched this with free tickets, the recurring nightmares after almost ten years far outweigh the saving of £15. How this joke of a film fails to get a mention in the bottom 100 on IMDb is a travesty. Do yourself a favour don't watch this bilge, go and do something more interesting like counting all 20 million pixels on the latest mobile phone!!! "},{"Title":"What's that noise?  It's Wilbert turning over in his grave!","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was brought up on the Thomas books - the original ones. Wilbert Awdry's stories had a whimsical charm and a warm, moral heart to them, and evoked all the very best of an England which almost existed once. It is amazing that it took so long before they were adapted to another medium and merchandised.When the first TV series came out I thought it was a marvellous adaptation of those books, complete with Ringo Starr's lugubrious narration. The later TV adaptations, coming into being alongside Christopher Awdry's extension of the book series, wandered somewhat further afield from the feel of the originals, but were still recognisably on-model even though I am aware that Wilbert became somewhat frosty towards Britt Allcroft for deviating from his vision.It was pleasing that this piece of Englishness appealed to US audiences. It was less pleasing that it required to be adulterated via the Shiny Time halfway house for US audiences - I'm sure they could have coped with it as it was.And it is not pleasing at all to see this piece of garbage from Ms Allcroft. It is, in every respect, a travesty - a betrayal of trust on the grandest scale. I am only glad that Wilbert Awdry is not alive to see what has been done to his delightful creations, and I cannot imagine what his poor family feel.Still, I imagine the loot consoles Ms Allcroft. How gratifying that the thing bombed at the box office. "},{"Title":"Thomas and the Coma","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" We bought this disaster movie on video for our daughter when she was only two and into Thomas and Co. She loved it. It was frequently the only thing that would send her to sleep. After watching it about ten times, or more, it began to become something you could not tear yourself away from. It's hypnotic. It got to the point where we could recite the script to each other to relieve the monotony of long car journeys. It's almost like watching a car crash. You know you shouldn't watch, but you can't help it. One time we had a family party, had too much to drink and put the video on again. It was hilarious! My daughter is now eight, and thankfully hasn't seen it for a while. By the way, our son (who is a BIG fan of Thomas) hates it. Go figure! "},{"Title":"It's Thomas the Tank Engine!!!!! And he's in a movie!!!!!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, this movie is getting close to Bottom 100 status, so let's give this an early analysis, shall we?Okay. Thomas and the Magic Railroad is a feel-good, happy-go-lucky children's film that is based on the long-loved Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends (now simply Thomas and Friends) series of shorts.When my little twin brothers started watching my old Thomas VHSs at age two, I thought to myself, Wouldn't it be great if there was a movie version of Thomas? A year later, my wish had come true!!!!! So, in summer 2000, not only did Nick Jr. bring back my old PBS favorite Shining Time Station, but this movie came out in theaters. This was my little brothers' first movie. Yes, it was so good, that heck, even I loved it!!!!! For the years after, we have seen this on the two home mediums of VHS and DVD, and it was even great then!!!!!The only bad thing about this movie are the many negative reviews it had received. My first movie was Disney's Beauty and the Beast, and it was one of the greatest films ever made. Sadly, my brothers' first film, this, was one of the worst films ever made, but I won't let that count! It's England, It's Thomas the Tank Engine, and It's A Really Useful Movie!!!!! "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 3-year old has been in love with the Thomas series for over a year. We read the original stories constantly and watch the videos. It is one of the few series I allow him to watch. In this age of Pokemon and other wham-bam short-attention-span animation, there is something really pleasant about the simplicity and gentleness of the Thomas stories. Perhaps I am too old to understand the new brand of really awful Japanese animation that seems merely like random flashing lights and gives me a headache. However, I feel like I am young enough to enjoy Thomas and the Magic Railroad.I was quite leery before taking my son to see this film. Everything I had read thoroughly ripped it apart. About half way through the movie I turned to my wife and said, This isn't too bad. I kind of like it even! Call it a guilty pleasure.Sure, the movie has problems. It ain't great art, but my son was thoroughly entranced. It's very sweet and gentle, with the exception of D-10 Diesel, who frightened my kid at first. (There is nothing that menacing in the original Thomas stories.)There is some atrocious acting, especially by the little boy in the film. Does a toddler care? Nah. Is the plot complicated? Not really. Just a bunch of magical events and talking trains. I was pleased that all the familiar engines are present and have some funny moments, too.If you have a little kid under 6 or so, take him to see Thomas and The Magic Railroad. This demographic is rarely represented by the movie industry. This movie is quite different from the videos and the original stories and should be treated on its own merits. How wonderful it is to see gentle characters, morals and a relaxed pace in a modern children's' movie. I like the fact that they didn't use computer animation to make the engines talk. I like the magical elements and I like the goofiness. It is refreshing to show a movie like this to my son and to have him enjoy it so much. "}{"Title":"This Movie is Good!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm 12, but I really like this movie I don't see why everyone hates it so! It even has my favorite actress in it, Mara Wilson! Anyone who hates this movie is mad mad mad! I think they are even hinting at another movie! 'Cause on the web site, they said,No one knows where Diesel 10 is, but you can be sure he is up to no good! Ha! How do you like that,you non-Thomas and the Magic Railroad fans, you!!!! Ha! Ha Ha Ha! I love Thomas!!!! Wha ha ha! Tee hee hee! Ah, I have calmed down. I was pretty annoyed when I saw all those bad reviews, so it took me a little to calm down, as you can see by how my writing has changed from angry to nice and calm. Anyway, good movie! I give it 8! D "},{"Title":"Loved it as a kid and still do. Only a few flaws but still excellent","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I may get lots of haters after this review but how and ever. Thomas and the Magic Railroad is a movie by Britt Allcroft. It was universally panned by critics and some fans for Americanizing Thomas which I find bulls***. People outside of America were also unaware of the Shining Time Station characters. Who cares? The mystery is in the movie, you'll get to know them! Some of these reviews aren't accurate as it says kids want special effects and cute characters, this movie has neither. Yes, it does have both. The special effects is the magic dust coming off Lady as well as the gold dust coming out of Mr. and Jr. Conductors' whistles. Cute characters include Lily, Lady and Thomas at times. The adventure was so done up. While it may confuse very young kids though it is suitable for them, they'll understand it in a few years time. The main thing I absolutely ADORED though was the soundtrack. Hummie Mann is a genius! Maren Ord absolutely sings her soul with the lovely song 'Shining Time' and don't get me started on Dayna Manning's ravishing ballad 'I Know How the Moon Must Feel'. The soundtrack is absolutely amazing and that's what made me mainly love this movie. The only flaw I find in this movie is the trains' mouths aren't moving when they're talking which is weird but overall, very good classic movie in my opinion. I don't care if I don't know other characters from a cartoon from a foreign country! "},{"Title":"A children's film, should we criticise it?","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" That infamous rebuttal 'It's a kids film' is definitely one of the lamest and weak rebuttals I've ever heard in my life. Just because it's a movie focused to children doesn't mean it's good or have some effort in towards it. This movie is ridiculous and has serious plot hole. You have Lady, a magical engine that provides magic on the railroad that powers up the universe between Shining Time and Sodor and if the RR has no power it will vanish for good. Yet in the movie, Shining Time is being all empty, quiet and rotting away because of no magic, in Mr. Conductor's dream and in one part of the movie, yet Sodor is all fine and dandy wouldn't the Island of Sodor be in peril too? This film has many unexplained plots, why is there another portal to the MRR? In 1999 draft script of the movie, yes there's a Director's cut, the MRR is a railway system, but why keep the portal scene in the final product? The whole magic concept is ridiculous and stupid when it comes to the world of Thomas the Tank Engine. The show, when it was first seen 30 years ago on British TV, were based on a series of books made by the Rev.W.Awdry called 'The Railway Series', the books shows us the engines of Sodor working on the railway with real railway practice. When this movie came out, the books were ignored and the stories from the TV series were written by other writers, this was after the passing of the author. Britt Allcroft, the former producer of the series, thinks the characters in a magical point of view and while I do respect her, this would be her awful decision. The movie ignored the British roots of the series and it made Sodor more universal rather then a fictional island being part of the real world. Lady is a terrible character, she has no personality and had four pointless lines, in the DC she was to interact with Thomas in a telepathy way. Diesel 10, Splatter and Dodge are your typical Hollywood characters, Diesel 10 the crazy villain and Splatter and Dodge the dumb sidekick characters. The voice actors for the engines, no offense towards American and Canadians, were bad as it gives the tag 'Americanisation' towards Thomas the Tank Engine, even American and Canadian purists of Thomas hate this movie too, most of them are Canadians and Americans impersonating the British accent with Britt Allcroft being the voice of Lady as the only British VA. The DC was to have some British and one Australian VA but was kicked out of it because an L.A test audience think they sound either too old or scary. The human characters are OK Alec Baldwin and Mara Wilson were good but Peter Fonda just over acts depressed, even though many kids films do have sad scenes but Fonda's more depressive. But hey it's a kids film we shouldn't criticise it right? right? OF COURSE NOT! The CGI Thomas specials (KOTR and TOTB) are far more better then this film. "},{"Title":"Why cut out so many parts?","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When i was 6 i really enjoyed this movie because i couldn't understand what the heck the plot was. Now im 14, so i watched the movie and it brought back so many good memories but SO MANY flaws. WARNING MAY INCLUDE SPOILERS! 1. The trains voices are so high pitched and off. I actually saw in the credits that percy and james ARE VOICED BY GIRLS!!! How dare the producers do that to the characters! I prefer there original voice which was actually Micheal aglers the UK narrater of seasons 3 -16. I've heard his voice before and he would have been GREAT as percy and james. BUT THE PRODUCERS THOUGHT THEY SOUNDED TOO OLD!! Its not just james and percy its, thomas, gordon and so on. 2. THE DROPPED IDEA OFF PT BOOMER! Originally the main bad dude in the film. The movie was actually going to be about around 150 minutes LONG! The final cut was 86 minutes! They cut out so many parts and most of those parts where about pt boomer!! but they decided that pt boomer was too scary so they cut him..... WHAT IS SO SCARY ABOUT AN OLD GUY WHO CARRIES EXPLOSIVES AND BLOWS UP STUFF!!!! KIDS LOVE THAT STUFF!!! Even if its based off a child friendly show. 3. They show more parts of the humans than thomas and his friends. A better title would be SHINING TIME STATION the movie. George and cranky were too have parts but were cut for no reason. Cranky does appear briefly in the final cut and so does pt boomer. If these steps were inproved the movie would off been a hit!!! "},{"Title":"the origin of it","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One day some executives were have a meeting and one said  hey we need a quick buck while while having zero effort in to it, why don't we randomly pick two A+ Academy Award nominee/winners and a popular child actor, and characters from some educational kids show, and team those three together. one said, I know, how about Kevin Spacey, Tom Hanks, and Haley Joel Osment, with Care Bears? (DEINED) another said I know, How about Robbin Williams, Johnny Depp, and Fred Savage with Clifford the Big Red Dog? (DEINED) and another said How about Ben Kingsley, Russell Crowe, and Macaulay Culkin with Blue's Clues? (DEINED) and another said I got it, How about Peter Fonda, Alec Baldwin and Mara Wilson with Thomas the tank engine? (ACCEPTED), and that, ladies and gentlemen, was the origin of Thomas and the Magic Railroad. "},{"Title":"woooooah there's gonna be a 2nd booya ww2 style","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" woooohooo awesome movie why is this movie low rated just because the adults don't like it the kids did and im 12 in year 7 so i love this movie i love the chase scene but heres something the movie was ruined by Americans!!!! it was meant to have George and diesel 10 and all the other characters splatter and dodge were meant to be destroyed the movie was due to be 146 minutes long with Pete Theodore boomer aka p.t boomer and the chase was the best and was meant to have Thomas derailing on the jump and diesel 10 grabbing him and finally killing him then of course we have James about to be scrapped scene and all sorts oh man it was awesome "},{"Title":"first Thomas film marks an excellent end to it","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" this film is now 12 years old and was a excellence to the railway it marked the end of the series as now they are remakes of the old but what i have to say is the violence used in this film such as diesel 10 who has a claw and try's to destroy Thomas and lady voiced by Eddie Glenn and Britt all croft and nil crone my family adores this wonderful film my favourite trains are splatter and dodge for there silliness in this film making your family love it as well i'm sad to say that Alec Baldwin failed in this wonderful film.the most best part of the film is at the end when lady and Thomas are being chased by diesel 10. during this wonderful film funny scenes are involved with spatter and dodge like how to stop being stupid but sadly we probably will never see them again because on Thomas wiki it says no one knows what happened to them this movie is a must see "},{"Title":"(Shakes head in Disbelief)","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like my reviews for Fred the Movie and Beverly Hills Chihuahua, I have absolutely nothing to say for the summary of my review. Why are Alec Baldwin and Peter Fonda in a stupid and brainless movie like this one? This isn't Toy Story, this is Thomas the freaking Tank Engine! Well, Thomas the Tank Engine was one of my childhood favorites and I always watched it on video. But, I have one question I got stuck in my head ever since I watched the trailer HOW IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE A MOVIE OUT OF A TRAIN WHOSE LIPS DON'T EVEN MOVE AT ALL?!!! First of all, Peter Fonda is too freaking depressing to be in a kid's movie like this! Don't ever let this guy star in a remake of the 1980's Pound Puppies cartoon series anytime soon. And then there's Alec Baldwin, who plays a conductor who looks like he's high on crack and screams Sparkle, Sparkle, Sparkle!. Is it me or is this Sparkle, Sparkle, Sparkle phrase infecting people after they watched the Nostalgia Critic episode reviewing this movie? Then, there's Marla Wilson, who smiles with her mouth open throughout the whole movie. I swear this girl looks like she has autism or Aspergers! There's a whole lot more, but I'm going to wrap up this review A horrendous script, generic music, crappy special effects, and Peter Fonda's depressing performance are the reasons why I hate this movie and why this movie should never, ever, ever, ever, EVER been made in the first place! And if you disagree, what kind of drugs were you on when you watched this movie? "},{"Title":"Great for little ones - sh*t for the grown-ups","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a film that I think is an absolute pile of tosh, it has kept my 3 year old enthralled time after time for almost a year. My 5 year old doesn't like it, but my 3 year old son loves it. It kept my attention for all of a few minutes before the laptop came out, but on the 4th or 5th viewing I had to find out what it was that was so enthralling to a 3 year old. There's just enough magic and storyline, and in places it is quite magical and touching (just put yourself in their shoes!). If you have little children don't dismiss this - it will guarantee an hour or so's quiet time for you, and I suspect will be held in the memory a bit like Wizard of Oz is in mine (well, maybe I'm a bit optimistic there!) "},{"Title":"Thomas, You Are A Very Naughty Engine!","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I used to love this film when I was a little kid and I would watch it after school when I had nothing better to do in my free time! What I remembered most was that my very favourite character was Diesel 10 who was the villain of the story who is a Warship Diesel with a claw and a very bad attitude who loves to cut up bits of old iron for a living! (This was before Iron Arry And Iron Bert came along!)His sidekicks (Splatter And Dodge who are very similar to Devious Diesel And Iron Arry And Iron Bert) who were Class O8 shunters would also cause chaos and make very rude remarks about the other engines! If you have very young children in your home or if you are A Thomas Fan Like I am, than give this film a go, but do not watch if you are a very grumpy adult or teenager who would prefer to watch Family Guy after work! My Overall Rating is a 5 out of 10! You either love it or hate it! "}{"Title":"Went through quite a troubled production, and it shows.","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having a movie's page on Wikipedia up whilst watching it so that you can keep up with an excessively-convoluted plot is something that I and many other people had to do with 'Inception' and 'Primer', but I have to say that I never expected to have to do that while watching a movie based on 'Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends', aimed at preschoolers.To the best of my understanding; the film takes place across two parallel universes, the first being that inhabited by the anthropomorphic trains such as Thomas, and the second being the real world inhabited by, well, by us; by humans. Within Thomas' universe, the fat controller Sir Topham Hat has gone on vacation, leaving the Conductor in charge. In order to teleport between Thomas' universe and the real universe, the Conductor needs a supply of gold dust, and it's running out. If it was ever explained for what reason the Conductor needed to teleport between the two worlds, I'm afraid I missed it. Oh and for some strange reason, whenever he teleports to the real world, he appears as only about a foot tall. But I digress. Apparently there's another way to travel between the two worlds in the form of the eponymous magic railroad. Alas, the only train capable of traveling on it, named Lady, broke down years ago, and is kept in a cave in mountain where a melancholy old grandpa tends to it. In the meantime, a gang of evil diesel trains shows up in Thomas' world and starts scheming to destroy the steam trains. Their scheme involves making sure the Conductor's gold dust runs out, or finding the magic railroad, or... something.Does any of this make any sense to you? Because it didn't to me. Things become even more confusing and bizarre. There's something to do with a clue that will lead to a windmill. And something to do with magic buffers that lead to the railroad. And these two flowers on the ends of vines that, I swear to god, are used by the Conductor as a telephone for contacting the fat controller.How, anyone may ask, did a children's film end up as such an impenetrable, mixed-up mind-boggler? As I scrolled down on the aforementioned Wikipedia article, an answer was yielded. For one thing, the movie is actually not solely a Thomas the Tank Engine movie but a crossover between 'Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends' and an American TV series called 'Shining Time Station'. That, at least, should answer a few of the questions that British and Australian audiences might have. For another thing, rewrites. Apparently, this movie went through quite a troubled production. Originally running for an unbelievable 146 minutes, changes were made left and right that ranged from entire scenes and characters being cut to lines being re-dubbed on the patently absurd grounds that the original accents were too offensive or too scary. Well, that's all there is to it. A potentially passable, innocent film ruined by behind-the-scenes nitpicking. Anyone who knows anything about movies knows how messing around too much with a script can eventually render the film in question incoherent. Just look at what happened with the 'The Stepford Wives' remake, and with 'Caligula'. (Dang, if there's one thing I never expected to do, it's mention 'Caligula' in a review of something pertaining to Thomas the Tank Engine). "},{"Title":"Little Engines Can Do Big Things!","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Britt Allcroft give Thomas The Tank Engine his big screen debut with Thomas And The Magic Railroad. The film is about Mr. Conductor played by Alec Baldwin is losing his supply of magic gold dust. He needs to get more gold Dust from an engine named Lady who supplies gold dust but due to a mean engine named Deisel 10 destroying her that is not possible. She is under repair from Burnett Stone played by Peter Fonda and his granddaughter Lily played by Mara Wilson. The film is just excellent the cast is great and heartwarming. A lot of people disliked this but they have to understand that when it went to test audiences they had to make so many cuts and rewrites because the test audience deemed the movie either too frightening, too long or too americanised and if you don't believe me go to wikipedia and look at the very long list of cuts and rewrites. And also I am sick and tired of people say the film was so American just shut up and enjoy it for what it is.Rated G.1hr 24min/84min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Good, but could be better","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, a Thomas movie has been made with a great cast and the version that we have was good, but could it have been better? The answer is yes. But it is still good the way it is. There is a nice plot that has everything one would want in a Thomas movie or any kids movie for that matter. What I don't like is how a good portion of the film is unreleased and may never be seen. But until I see the final cut, I think that one that we have now is good. It has the hero's quest, a determined bad guy, and things you can relate to. I liked it because it was a good interpretation of the character from the Thomas franchise and has an understandable plot. While I do hope for the full version of the movie, what we have now is good. "},{"Title":"It's harmless family entertainment","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I used to watch this all the time when I was little. Honestly, I don't think that this is a bad movie unless your an adult watching it in your basement by yourself but if you got kids or are a kid, it ain't bad. But like I said before if your an adult watching it on your own, I don't think that you'll find anything really good about it. Alec Baldwin's little talks to the camera are pretty creepy, and absurd, and weird but you can tell not just from those scenes but throughout most of the movie that he's having some fun and you start to think he may be making his performance bad on purpose, which is more than I can say about Richard Harris who has some of the worst lines in the whole movie.It's just fun, for the family. Even if you don't have kids it can be fun just to make fun of with your friends if your into watching these kinds of movies. Good family entertainment. "},{"Title":"A flawed, but long-forgotten childhood movie that I loved as a child","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thomas The Tank Engine has been known for being the most popular TV show made for children of all ages and it goes on for generations ever since, and for some reason, it was based on the Shining Time Station TV show (the only show that I've haven't watched).The story focuses on Mr. Conductor as his magic gold dust is running low. Desperate to find it in order to get back to Shining Time, he embarks on a journey to Sodor to find the magic gold dust there. Meanwhile, Thomas the tank engine tries to find off the attacks of the evil Diesel 10 before he finds the lost steam engine and destroys it. Getting all the help from his cousin, his new friend Lily, and her grandfather, Mr. Conductor helps find the engine that has been hidden for years in order to find all of the magic gold dust that has also been hidden.What's so bad about this movie? The storyline was inconsistent, in my opinion. It had a lot of flaws and plot holes I don't even know how many they were. The storytelling was very poor, and even the script was so bland.What's so good about this movie? The cinematography was creative, the acting wasn't half bad, the pacing moves along very nicely, the visuals were great the music score was very good, and most of all, it had the potential of the TV show despite the fact that the critics said it got americanized. Just a reminder as well, this is a kids movie and those kids can ignore the problems that I've already stated.Overall, I used to like this movie as a child when it was first released and despite it's flaws, it's still a good film that everyone should enjoy. Thomas and the Magic Railroad isn't a great film, but it doesn't have to be since it did what it had set out to do. It might be worth-watching if you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"I Almost Completely Hated It","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dear God, this movie was awful. With great actors put in it, you would think it's a good movie. But no, Britt Alcroft gave them so little to work with that the whole thing just turned out awful. Another problem is the magic. WHAT? Where did they come up with THAT one? The Railway Series had absolutely NO magic (unless you consider talking trains magic), so this movie puts it in because...? 'The Little Engine That Could' is a much shorter movie and has a moral, minus the magic. I recommend it rather than this one. There are no other train-based kids movies, so you're looking in tough categories, my friend. Unless you want to show your three-year-old 'Unstoppable'. Do not watch this movie, the only reason I gave it a three is because I like Thomas. "},{"Title":"2 Stars only because Diesel 10 was almost awesome.","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off let me state that I am 39 years old and always dug Thomas and Friends when I came across it while channel surfing. Now that my 2 year old son is into it is great. Thank God he over Barney...Anyways my kid is always talking about choo-choos and the Sodor characters. One day he wakes me up talking about Diesel 10. I never heard of him, so off to the internet I go. Find out who he is and that he is the evil unamed train at the end of the Misty Island Rescue movie (which did rock by the way) declaring that he will be extracting his revenge soon. An evil Thomas and Friends train, I love it.Then I see on youtube some great footage with a crazy old guy who was riding atop Diesel 10 with great ominous music and the big chase scene from Magic Railroad. I heard they cut the old guy because kids were too scared. I thought that this was going to be awesome, an evil train trying to kill the steam engines.So I get the movie for my kid and we watch it. Pure disappointment. What is up with Shining Time Station being thrown in, possibly the gayest show of all time. The Sodor scenes were good but every time they switched to Shining Time this lame acoustic music would come on and suck. They spent about 70% of the movie in Shining Time.The plot made no sense. Magic, gold dust, evil train, Lady the magic train, Baldwin and his cousin being stuck forever in Sodor put it in a blender and that is your plot. My wife and I didn't get it at all. Terrible writing. Also what was with Peter Fonda, he looked like his dog had just died the whole movie. Even when he was supposed to be happy and full of magic, he looked suicidal and dejected.Now onto Diesel 10. Awesome train with lots of evil potential, totally ruined by terrible goofy voice. And his diesel buddies, just dumb henchmen. I'm sorry but I want real evil. I want steam engines dead. That would've been truly awesome. Not slapstick evil. That video on youtube with the evil symphonic music that got me amped up to watch this garbage must've had the good music put on by the youtube poster because the chase scene in the movie had lighthearted music during the chase. It was terrible, like playing the Benny Hill theme Yakety Sax for the shark's theme in Jaws or Darth Vader's theme in Star Wars. It would've totally changed the movie.The upcoming Day of the Diesels looks to be good. Hopefully Diesel 10 will be really evil and kill off some steam engines.Having said all that, my 2 year old seems to love the movie. He wants to watch it over and over and gets excited when Diesel 10 is on camera. I may just rip the video to my Mac and edit out the Shining Time/Peter Fonda drek and have a solid 4 star/10 25 minute movie to tide us over until Day of the Diesels comes out. Would love to see Diesel 10 maim and kill Sir Topham Hatt/Fat Director.By the way the way the UK version of the TV show, that I see on youtube is much better than the US version. Why do they have to dumb it down and gay it up for us yanks? "},{"Title":"An aberration of a movie","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You will not get any spoilers here. Why? I really want to forget this movie.My kids are big Thomas fans, and I have read and watch more than my fair share of Thomas. This is not a Thomas movie, even if Thomas is involved. Reverend Awdry never included such a sinister character as Diesel 10, intent in bodily harm his enemies. He's scary for the little audience.I understand the producers make their money in the United States, but that doesn't mean that Americanizing Thomas has to be done by turning him into an action hero, fighting shady conspiracies and involving himself in the railroad equivalent of car chases. "},{"Title":"The magic of childhood has come again","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Those were the days were everyone was nice to you. Those were the days where kids under 18 could travel by train across the Country without worry. Those days of happiness and joy. The cares of the world disappeared.I used to enjoy those days when I was 7-12. Now I'm 17 and I saw this again. Despite my new view to the movie, I still enjoyed the feeling of innocence. Why can't this innocence be sent to us when we are adults I don't know why.The movie was great for it's time. Cheesy but still enjoyable. Sure, the actors weren't the best, but the way they interacted with both the script and themselves made it worth it.And no swearing, kissing or sex! Amazing "},{"Title":"Really?!?!","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" *Here is a review by my 10-year-old daughter.* Okay, first of all, what's with the actors? I don't like Mara Wilson's fake smiles. Oh, Lily, I'm so glad to see you. Seriously? My little 3 year old brother likes it, other than he is really scared of the Diesel 10 parts, and I have to fast forward it every time. He has watched it so many times, 2 minutes before a Diesel 10 part he tells me to fast forward it. Here are my dislikes 1. When Junior and Lilly come out of the magic railroad thing, they land on the grass.. but the effect is really dumb because when they are falling, they don't move their legs, they just fall on their bottoms.2. When Peter Fonda blandly says Oh, Lily, I'm so glad to see you. 3. Junior. Come on.4. Jame's stupid voice! 5. Why does the magic shavings have to be mixed in the well and thrown? 6. The part where Mr. C has the bat and ball... what does any of that have to do with the scene?? 7. The part when Diesel 10 crashes the round house and Mr. C does a fake jump backwards.8. Yeah, how does Patch get all the coal?? 9. I thought there was no openings in that cave when Peter Fonda made Lady go! 10. Who would write a good review about it?!? My brother would probably give it an OK review 4 stars for him. 1 1/2 for me!! "}{"Title":"Good, but flawed","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've loved Thomas since I was a kid and I don't know why the movie gets a bad reputation. The music and Peter Fonda's acting are worthy of an Academy Award. But there are some flaws. First of all how does Thomas get to the coal car? There's only one track! And second where is everyone? The island looks like the rapture happened everyone's disappeared. Many of the characters Edward, Duck, Mavis, Donold, Douglas, the narrow gauge engines etc. are absent! So as I said, good but flawed. I still don't understand why so many people hated this movie. It is and will always be a childhood favorite that I will pass on to my children. "},{"Title":"Ashes and cinders!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not the worst film I have ever seen (The Fourth Kind is the current champion in that particular category), but considering the charm of the series I must ask what in Sodor were these film makers thinking? The idea of a human being able to interact with the trains and people of Sodor has some appeal; sadly that - and watching Alec Baldwin having a ball and Peter Fonda attempting to keep it real, man - is the only high point in this film. I had to wonder what sort of medications were being abused by the scriptwriters, or perhaps they never mentally left the psychedelic sixties. Fans of the Thomas series will want to fast-forward through the live action sequences (which truly never match the Sodor world) to get to the train sequences. It is almost like watching two different movies at the same time, but spliced onto one reel. Seriously, the only real way to enjoy this film fully is to turn the sound off and make up your own dialogue as you go along. Better yet, forget this film and just go with the other Thomas offerings. "},{"Title":"A Family Favorite","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All I can assume is the other posters simply do not have kids who are 'into' Thomas / trains.. I have two boys, one now 9 the other 3. I bought this movie when it was released on DVD for my oldest. He watched it more times than I can count. My Three year-old, started 'enjoying' movies at 2, and this movie is a staple in the collection of shows he watches now. I'm talking about once a week, every week, sometimes more.All I can say is it's a great movie. It's a kids movie. My wife and I watch, and enjoy it as well, something the entire family can enjoy. I feel the actors and actresses did a wonderful job. Others' complain about Peter Fonda, joking they should've woke him up when they started filming, but my kids instantly see him as a sad and depressed person, because of the loss with the struggle of Lady, and missing his wife. Just a sad life up until these events in the movie take place. What more can I say.. "},{"Title":"It was great, it lost some of my respect, but it is still great.","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am 14 now, but since I was very young, I always enjoyed Thomas. I watched the original episodes direct from England which were narrated by Ringo Starr, and the names of characters were different.(I.E. Thomas get's Tricked was originally, I believe Thomas and Gorden, introducing the characters one by one, and Sir-Topom-Hat was originally The Fate Controller) I loved it so much, and I kept getting the wooden train sets, and the video tapes. (Soon I got DVDs) Britt Alcroft (I believe it was her) did a great job producing the show, and even the new narrators have been good. (Well, the last good one was Alec Baldwin) When I was about 5 or 6 years old, I had got one of the tapes, and there was a teaser for this movie. It said Rolling into theaters, July 2000. Of course I begged my parents to take me to see it, and well, my dad dropped me and my mom off at the movie theater, and what did I get? I great kids movie, which I would still watch from time to time, even though I am now 14.First off, let's start off with the plot. Be it known, I WILL REVEAL SPOILERS! While on the Island of Sodor, Thomas and his friends are challenged by Diesel 10, who says all steam engines are going to be scrap soon. While in (I guess America, maybe Britain) A girl named Lily goes to see her grandpa, Bernette Stone. (Who it seems implied was married to Tasha, a girl I'm pretty sure was a central character from Shining time Station, which may have been a spin off, or Thomas was a spin off of it) She gets on the wrong train, and accidentally goes to Shining Time. When she finally gets to her Grandpa, she eventually finds out about an engine, named Lady, who was crashed by Diesel 10 and badly damaged. In the meantime, Mr. Conductor and his cousin try to stop Diesel 10 from finding the legendary Magic Railroad, while also trying to find the secret of The Gold Dust so he can return home.OK, I won't reveal the ending, but let me tell you, for a Train Chase, it get's epic.I pretty much liked about every aspect of this film, from the acting to the use of REAL trains, and less stop motion (Which was good for the show, but wouldn't have been for this movie, where humans interact) But here are the complaints.I have found out why this is in the top 100 worst movies of all time. At the last minute, the whining, babyish, stupid American test audience forced the WHOLE script to be changed at the last minute. Britt Alcroft didn't want to, and if she did, the British audience would hate her, and if she didn't, the American audience would hate her. They said, that the use of a VERY SINISTER second villain, a human at that, would SCARE little kids.Don't they watch Disney films? People are dying, being trampled by hoards of animals, having their fathers murdered, the Death of Bambie's mother in Bambie. It didn't scar the children watching it, it gave them more hate for the bad guys, and more love for the protagonist. This villain, PT BOOMER really was the one who crashed lady. And to show his deletion at the last minute, in EVERY trailer, you can clearly see him in it. Half way or so, you see Burnett Stone standing next to a guy on a motorcycle. The guy rides off, like he was asking for directions. But in the original film, they were really fighting with each other about Lady's whereabouts.All this change led to the destruction of Britt Alcroft's career, and the stupid Americans wouldn't just accept the original film. I really hope they decide to re release this either in the theater or on DVD, because I'd love to see the REAL movie.All in all, this film was a big part of my childhood, and I give it a 10/10 rating, even though my respect was slightly lost because of me finding out about the alteration. I would have liked to see the original villain working beside Diesel 10.--------Darthbrandon14 out! "},{"Title":"Better than Barney (but what isn't?)","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I have no idea why, but I happened to stumble upon this movie and decided to watch. Well, I think this is a good movie for small children. Adults will find it lame and stupid. Some of the editing seems abrupt (as if scenes were left out), but small kids probably won't even notice, and if they do, it can be fun to have them fill in the gaps themsleves. Heck, isn't that part of the charm of Thomas... Imagination? "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie to watch over and over and over....","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 1 year old is obsessed with this movie. We have watched it at least 20 times and my son wants to watch it everyday. He loves the trains and the silliness of the whole movie. I must say that I do not get sick of it like most movies you watch over and over. My 2 other sons (ages 4 and 8) also enjoy it, especially the character Mr. C. Jr. (Michael E. Rodgers is hilarious). This is one of the few movies that my children enjoy and I don't go crazy watching. I think it is also good for the kids to watch since it contains very little violence. It also has the added bonus of being filmed at the Strasburg Railroad using the very same train that we ride on every year. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect for the under 6 crowd","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My five year old son has just finished watching the DVD of this for the 10th time in two days.  He's NEVER liked anything so much - he talks about it, laughs during it and is fascinated by it. Generally he has a low attention span with any movie or TV program.  Not so with this movie!As an adult, I can see a lot about this movie that isn't perfect - for me the casting wasn't right for example.  However, this movie wasn't made for me - it was made for younger folk. It works better than any movie including Toy Story, the Grinch, anything! So, I give this movie a 9! "},{"Title":"For Very Young Thomas Fans","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I could pick this movie apart, as many critics have, but I would rather focus on the positive.  I took my 2 1/2 year old son to see this movie.  He sat there in his chair, not moving, for the entire film.  I have never seen him so engrossed in his life (literally).  He loves the Thomas the Tank Engine trains, movies, and books.  He really enjoyed this movie and he seemed to respond to Alec Baldwin as the conductor.  I doubt that a child over 5 or so would stay very interested as the plot is dificult to follow, but I really think that the less than 5 crowd that already enjoys Thomas will have a great time.  The movie looks good (large and bright) and there are a lot of trains scenes, perfect for a small child. "},{"Title":"Thomas is Thomas","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" And let's leave it at that. My two year old LOVES this movie. I understand that everyone has a right to celebrate or bash whatever movie they choose to, but I seriously must doubt the intentions of someone watching this movie for some kind of artistic purpose. For all of you who have bashed it and do not have kids, for all of those who have bashed it without regard to what it is should really get a better grip on reality. This is an easy, simple to understand movie that involves trains, which is really all that matters. The point, because many seemed to have missed it, is that in order for the railroad to work, EVERYONE MUST GET INVOLVED. Simple and not a bad message. "},{"Title":"Thomas & The Magic Railroad","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a mother of two boys aged 6 and 2. Both my son's are avid Thomas the Tank Engine fans and we purchased this film about 4 years ago when the oldest hit the 'Thomas is everything' stage. We watched the film a few times and he seemed to be hooked. At one point the film was getting played twice, every evening in my house. It is now having the same effect on my youngest son, who is also an avid Thomas fan. We all love this film and enjoy it every time it is played. It has a real warm, feel good effect and we will never bore of it. The way the film makers have managed to mix the real life with the animation of the trains is excellent and having the trains speak themselves is brilliant too. We love Thomas the Tank Engine and we love this film too. "}{"Title":"Great for kids","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" We rented this movie for my brother and sister, who are just CRAZY about Thomas. I personally liked it, considering my age (almost 16), and the kids loved it. Mara Wilson's character is wonderful, and so is Michael E. Rodger's character, a carefree guy who just wants to hang out at the beach. I love his accent. He's so adorable!!!! They didn't make a sequel, which is good because the story just sort of wraps up at the end. I do hope they make more movies about Thomas and his friends, since it was a wonderful TV show, and the spin off is great too. For kids, anyway. But teenagers and adults alike will also enjoy this movie. I recommend it for parents with young children, or for teenagers babysitting young kids that want a movie to watch. Go rent or buy it if you can! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time and money...","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that this movie is extremely disappointing, even though my kids love it.  The plot is flimsy and the acting is wooden.  The movie lacks the quintessential English charm of the original Awdry stories and the style of presentation is tailored very much for North American audiences, presumably for commercial reasons.If your kids enjoy Thomas, then the video compilations of the Thomas and Friends series are a much better bet.  They are very well made and very much in the spirit of the Awdry books, even if the title music does get on your nerves after a while!     "},{"Title":"An abomination.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to watch at least part of this film every day. Feel my pain.My 2 and 3 year olds have loved Thomas practically since they were born, and it's one of the few programmes that I can stand to watch over and over again with them (kids' TV is in a pretty rough state these days). And, unfortunately, they also love this film, which is the biggest, most depressing sell-out I've ever witnessed. It only took about ten minutes for every last ounce of my respect for Britt Allcroft to wither and die.To be more precise, and more telling, the kids love certain bits of this film - the bits featuring the engines. Shame only Thomas has any real screen time, then (and what happened to Edward? Cut out altogether because he's old and boring?), and Diesel 10 probably gets more of the limelight than the rest of them put together. At least they've still got Brit accents as far as I can tell, even if they don't sound anything like they do in the series. The only time in Ringo Starr's life when he's been genuinely needed, and where is he?Alec Baldwin does a passable job with a role he should never have been offered in the first place, but they should have spent Peter Fonda's fee on someone who could write a coherent script (and got any old tramp in to play Fonda's role, for all the effort he puts into it).When the kids are old enough to look for something else beyond the simple appeal of the familiar characters, they'll be hard pressed to find anything of worth about this film. The story is ludicrously, unnecessarily complicated, the new characters seem to have been dragged in from a completely different mythos, and international commercialisation has stripped away very nearly all of the original charm - even more so than this Shining Time Station series that I'd previously never even heard of, by the sound of it.I dread to think what'll happen to Bob the Builder.  "},{"Title":"A travesty","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The incongruity of a Thomas film opening with words spoken in an American accent hits first, and it's all downhill from then on. Evidently scripted to satisfy some marketing men with a very poor idea of the target audience, we are confronted with a complicated plot involving a cute American town called Shining Time, containing a variety of picturesque Americana including a heavily depressed (and completely wooden) Peter Fonda.  The whole of this edifice is linked to Thomas & his friends via a Tom Thumb-sized Conductor who travels with the use of magic gold-dust. Just about comprehensible to me, I'm sure most of this passed over my 4 year-old son's head. The only points of continuity are the model engines, most of whom (apart from Thomas) put in token appearances only. A nasty character called Diesel is introduced,  and my son found several scenes with him pretty scary, which is definitely NOT what you expect from Thomas the Tank Engine! The Fat Controller is referred to throughout only as Sir Topham Hat and is relegated to being a disembodied voice on the other end of a telephone, partly to explain the appearance of the Conductor from Shining Time and partly I presume for political correctness (no Fat references please). My kids watch Thomas videos regularly, and I read them Thomas stories at least twice a week before bed-time. This film is a travesty, a cultural mish-mash and a badly-missed opportunity to create more Thomas magic. Britt Allcroft should be ashamed of herself, and the Rev.W.Awdry must be turning in his grave.Don't buy the video.  "},{"Title":"Prepare to be a child again!","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I read some of the reviews before I took my 7 year old son Joseph, and really was not looking forward to seeing this film; we're both long time Thomas fans and, as an ex-manager of the Harrods Childrens Book Shop, I met the Reverend Awdry on a few occasions, and desparately hoped that Britt Allcroft hadn't totally destroyed the magic.Well, I must have been seeing a different film from the other reviewers (especially the person who complained about Thomas' American accent, which sounded English to me!)!!  As long as you accept this is a kids film (Joseph's verdict was Brilliant!!) this is a good fun film for younger families.  I must admit it was slightly bizarre to see Peter Fonda talking to Thomas and, let's face it, Alec Baldwin has made some strange career choices;  however, it was a good showcase for Mara Wilson (star of 'Matilda'), but let's hope she doesn't get typecast in 'magical' childrens films, as this is an actress with a great career in front of her.And incidentally, if anybody wants to meet the 'real' Thomas they should visit the Nene Valley Railway near Peterborough, England.  They run a small blue tank engine who was renamed 'Thomas' by the Rev Awdry (he used to be one of the local vicars), making him the official Thomas!! "},{"Title":"Cinders & Ashes!!! This movie STINKS!!!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh man, oh man!  How anybody could take a wonderful children's character like Thomas and do this, must be guilty of some crime.  I honestly believe that the Wayans' Bothers could have done a better job writing and directing a Thomas movie.  (Then again, your kids would have to be 18 to see it.)  Even Sir Topum Hat refused to make an appearance!!!  Would somebody tell me why Peter Fonda's character was in such a deep state of depression???  He acted like he was the one forced to sit through this slop!!!  Don't get me wrong, the few parts with Thomas and the trains were great.  Throw in Alec Baldwin and some other lousy actors with impromptu scripts and you have the Magic Railroad.  The only magic was the fact I managed to keep my popcorn down.  Others here have stated this in much more eloquent and refined tones.  Eloquent I am not.  Ticked off I am.  I demand a refund!!! "},{"Title":"A confusing mess, too scary for the target audience.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What were they thinking?  Here is a move targeted toward the 4 to 6 year old set, but the plot is so complex that I found myself at a loss to explain what was going on to my four-year-old.The trains and settings are nice to look at, so train buffs will not be disappointed. With one exception. The villian is a large diesel locomotive with a bad attitude who wants to destroy all steam engines. He has got this big claw device attached to his roof, and he means to grab and destroy the steam trains.  Now this train/claw are pretty damn scary, especially when they have POV shots from the attacked trains (no other trains are damaged during the movie, by the way).  This may lead to nightmares for the young ones.Alec Baldwin does a nice job as Mr. Conductor, but Peter Fonda (talk about miscast!) is almost asleep in his role.  The other humans in the story, except for Lily (the girl whose cleverness saves the magic and keeps the trains from deteriorating portrayed in a possibly disturbing dream sequence) are introduced with no apparent reason, but with the effect of adding complexity.What were they thinking? "},{"Title":"Well, there went my childhood...","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was very little, my favorite time of the day was Shining Time Station time. When that show would come on, I was always eager, not for the parts with Stacy Jones and all that, but for the trains! The trains were my life. I asked for videos of the trains, loved the nearby miniature train exhibit, had Brio Thomas, everything. Well, these happy images of Thomas and his friends have been officially destroyed by this --insert derogatory word here--. Seriously, this thing was absolute trash. Combining the Thomas style of animation with real people looks so dumb, you wouldn't believe. The introduction of a villain is terrible. All this tripe about the Magic Railroad, Gold Dust, everything is ridiculously disastrous. Don't tell me about It's for the children. An excellent example of how this thing is for the children is that when shown to my little brothers, one was so bored he left, and the other was so terrified that he screamed if anyone put their hand near the box afterwards. And these two loved the classic tapes. In fact, I enjoy watching the classic tapes with them. Thank God we got rid of our copy. I recommend that you don't even think of touching it. "},{"Title":"Be a kid again and take every child you know to see it!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 6 year old is the toughest audience for any movie.  He hates crowds and suffers a form of claustrophobia.  So when he insisted he had to see Thomas and the Magic Railway, even knowing how much he loves Thomas (he has every character) - I was sceptical about how much of the movie we'd get to see before he started wimpering that we had to go home - as he had through the 5 other movies we had taken him to see.Well he surprised me ... not only did he sit with rapt attention throughout the whole movie, but then we went and saw it again!I was a little concerned that the quintessential Englishness of the movie would be lost when given the Hollywood treatment, and the actors would take the focus.  I was so pleased however to find that the trains were still the stars.  We loved C Junior too (that accent ooo!!!)  He was terrific - and despite being a little apprehensive about Alec Baldwin playing Mr Conductor I thought he was great too.  Blending in the Island of Sodor background with the phone call from the Fat Controller (Sir Topham Hatt) to Mr C was a nice touch as well.Anyway, I know we'll probably go to see this again at the Cinema (at least one more time) and then I'll have to endure the nagging until it comes out on video, but it's worth it.Everyone who doesn't have children, borrow one or two or just go on your own and get in touch with your inner child.  After all, everyone loves trains. "},{"Title":"I think this movie was FANTASTIC! After all it's for kids -)","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can only say that after reading the reviews from the people on this board, I'm deeply concerned. I find that when reviewing a children's movie, one has to remember that it's just that...a children's movie. It's not for adults and wasn't meant to capture the adult audience; therefore some of the remarks are incorrect. Here goes my review My Grandson is almost three years old. He's smart and knows when something is good and when it's not. He loved this movie. He found it full of creativity and the gold dust story just added to the fantasy. I thought this story was well thought out for young children and done in very good taste.Thomas and the Magical Railroad is about a Magical Railroad who needs one special train named Lady to keep it alive. If the lost train named Lady isn't found, the railroad and all the magic that goes along with it will vanish...Along comes Lily, a young girl who is led, without her knowledge to help the fantasy stay alive. She arrives by train to visit her Grandfather who lives on a mountain... she is brought onto the wrong train for all the right reasons... to meet the people who she will eventually help...It's a wonderful movie. The kids loved it and I highly recommend it for a very creative event at home with the kids -) "}{"Title":"Thomas Rail Roaded Family Crap.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thomas and the Magic Railroad (2000) Dir Britt Allcroft / Cast Mara Wilson, Alec Baldwin, Didi Conn, Peter Fonda, Russell Means Pathetic family film about adventure where Alec Baldwin states, Now I've completely lost my sense of direction. That can explain this career move. He plays an idiot named Mr. Conductor who talks to a baseball bat. One wonders why that bat wasn't put to good inflicting a serious beating on Mr. Conductor. He blows a whistle and gold dust transports him to any destination. I could have used some during the screening. He enlists the help of Thomas the tank engine in locating the lost railroad. Peter Fonda plays a fellow who reads a book called The Romance of Railroads, which proves that he needs laid by anything other than an object. Director Britt Allcroft is given fifty cents for a budget that will result in the stupidest family film since Barney's Great Adventure. Mara Wilson was appealing in Matilda but she isn't doing herself any favors here. Didi Conn has a reputation for family fare but seeing her reduced to this sort of garbage is just shameful. These trains speak by moving their eyes and not their mouths. Perhaps the train was too embarrassed to have an actor like Fonda reduced to this garbage. Such dreadful production values should never be approved to anyone with an intelligence. This film is a totally contrived train wreck. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"OK, so it's not THAT bad.","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, so it's not THAT bad. I mean, young kids seriously DON'T CARE about bland acting, which there is A LOT of. Here are some reasons to ONLY WATCH THIS WITH YOUR CHILD if they FORCE YOU TO STAY AND WATCH IT WITH THEM. 1. So at the beginning it's showing everyone at Shining Time, then the conductor shows up IN A PLANT? Like what the heck? 2. Pinchy. Really. Pinchy. 3. Patch's acting is bad. His words, if you know what I mean, feel really broken up. 4. There are a lot of unnecessary scenes, such as when Stacy finds Burnett's old picture he drew, which has nothing to do with the actual story. 5. Peter Fonda was TERRIBLE in this, I am not kidding. At one point he says, Lily. I'm so glad to see you. He should say, Lily! I'm so glad to see you! But he says it in a really deep voice, like he's thinking, Ugh, she's here. I'll just be nice anyway and hope she doesn't notice I don't want her here. Trust me, if this were real life, she would have noticed. 6. Oh. My. God. When the conductor is all like, Sparkle, sparkle, sparkle! It is so annoying! 7. Lily has some kind of obsession with climbing things, and it's kinda creepy. 8. Lily's smile is some kind of fake mouth-hanging-open smile thing. Also, ironically, this was the last thing she ever acted in, so either she decided she didn't like acting, which I'd be surprised about after Matilda, or this movie TOTALLY messed up her WHOLE career. 9. Junior is to dumb to be a human, he's like, OK, I'll just use up my cousin's last possible supply of gold dust he might EVER have for the rest of his life. Whateves. 10. Why does Lily have a stuffed animal bluebird? 11. There are a lot of corny jokes throughout. 12. Who in their right mind would name their dog Mutt? All of that being said, I used to love this when I was 6, and I'm 11 now and was forced to watch this with my younger brother, and he didn't seem to mind ANY of this, so I guess it's OK for the younger kids, therefore I gave it a 4. Hope this helps! "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was seriously one of my favourite films as a child. I'm extremely tempted to torrent it just for the nostalgia value. It's legendary. Better than any Thomas the Tank film before or since. It's Thomas the mother-flipping Tank, people. If you're reading this review, stop reading it and go and watch this film. As for the rest of this review, I just need to enter another 5 or so lines of text, so I might as well write about my day. I woke up, watched Tintin (the original cartoon, not the film), had a bath, and right about now I'm watching Miracle on 34th Street and needing something to eat. And I still need another line? Well, okay. I think that's about right. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was and still is my favorite movie of all time, i never understood why people and fans hated it,it gives us brand new adventure outside of the videos,with new beloved characters! Lady, Diesel 10, and dodge and Splatter! don't get me wrong i love the original episodes form season 1-7 but i know every word from this movie i even recite it to my girlfriends nephews for them, they love it.Britt Allcroft didn't get the credit she deserved This was a great film!The film gave us chases and danger we haven't seen on sodor until TATMR. I have always hoped for a sequel! I hope the 2013 Thomas film will be even better! I love this film! (better than the film after this one!) "},{"Title":"Its a kids film!","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" HiYes most of you are correct, the story is cheesy, without much substance and not much like the English cartoon - However - this is a kids film! My little boy is actually sat there now in awe of it, most of the kids this film is aimed at probably don't really understand the plot anyway all they see are trains, little people and gold dust!So what if a lot of the engines have an American accent, I'm sure children don't really care - I don't!What a great cast, Alec Baldwin, Frenchie from Grease and the girl from Matilda, I'm sure thats enough for the adults and if its not, go on your laptop/do some cleaning while your little one sits down peacefully (which hardly ever happens) and watches this film in wonder.Great film for kids under 8.Tez "},{"Title":"why do people hate this movie","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am just saying why do so many people hate this film I mean it was not that bad I found it quit charming and fun to watch I have seen it so many times on DVD and I am really big fan of Thomas I used to never miss out on the show when it came on when I Herod about the movie coming out I was so looking forward to it and it was pretty good I mean people are seeing it as a bad kids movie its not the worst movie ever made the worst movies ever made are an Epic movie a duster movie son of the mask Herbie goes bananas Troll 1 a 2 inspector gadget 2 and home alone 4 this movie should get a better rating I mean to say is that this movie is so underrated it was one of my favorite movies as a kid and I disagree with any one who thinks that this movie was awful it was charming fun and quit good it was not that silly the story about Thomas finding a lost engine from many years and the evil diesel 10 came back to kill all the engines the engines that are not in this film are Edward Duck Bill and Ben Terrence and the other characters but this movie is still good to watch even Theo its not as good as the TV series but I think IMDb was a bit harsh on giving this movie a 3.1/10 it should get a better rating this movie was fun I give this movie a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie For Kids!!!","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My son loved Thomas The Tank Engine. He watched this movie so much we needed it on DVD because the tape wore out. My daughters sat right there with him and watched it. They all loved it and have fond memories of this movie. Even though they are a little older now, they will still watch this with their smaller cousins and laugh in all the right places. If you have a child who likes trains in general or Thomas The Tank Engine, they will like this movie. My son also loved Diesel 10 and his claw Pinchy. No it is not high drama or Oscar worthy but it is most definitely good clean fun for kids nicely tied up with a happy ending. Alec Baldwins performance is so hilariously childish at times. I say take it for what it was meant to be & watch it with your kid @ least once. "},{"Title":"What a way to ruin a great TVseries!","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My brother used to love Thomas when he was younger, and he is 3 years younger than me. This movie came out when he was 5, and I saw it for the first time in years, and I wish I never did. It was a totally embarrassing experience. The first problem was that it was too americanised. Mara Wilson? Peter Fonda? Alec Baldwin? These are three really good actors, and they were completely wasted in this movie. Remember, Thomas is British, so the casting was clumsy. The script was terrible, full of too many clichés, and awful one-liners. There was an attempt to liven it up, but it was no use. The damage had already been done. The only other movie I can think of, that has a truly bad script, is Addams Family Reunion. After seeing this, I have changed my mind about which deserves a Razzie for Worst Screenplay. This one bites the dust. Although there weren't many songs, the songs I heard were just ghastly. Just pop wannabes improvising a tune that didn't suit the film at all. Lastly, the story was totally uninspired, and almost all of it was about humans. Only a segment was about trains. This movie was a huge embarrassment for me. Avoid! 2/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"my son loves it!","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, so the acting isn't great. The script is poor. The special effects are terrible, but this is a film for kids. Adults can't make accurate comments on this, because we KNOW engines don't talk and shiny time isn't real.My 3yr old acts out scenes from this film over and over again. He tells me that lady carries magic and diesel 10 is bad. And therein lies the beauty of this film. It captures a child's imagination. If you want to watch a masterpiece then don't watch an adaptation of a child's book, that 20 years ago you would have loved. Diesel 10 is a great villain, he's funny and evil at the same time, and there are enough engines and in jokes to keep most children amused for hours. "},{"Title":"Oh, come on, this was great for its intended purpose","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My middle son and I watched this film over and over and over when he was about 3. Sure, it is cheesy, and some of the dialog borders on the bizarre. But talking on a shell phone? A tiny Alec Baldwin? Great stuff. Of all the entertainment directed at kids, this is some of the more gentle and least commercial I have come across.This was my son's favorite, and you have to love films that are part of your kids' lives. For that, hate me, but I give it ten stars.Granted, when doing the movie, the writer and the directors were facing some challenges. You are adopting a movie based on a popular toy and a really low budget TV show. Add to that, it is about talking trains. Hey, you make a movie about talking trains. "}{"Title":"Very Good, Could Have Been Better","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was 3, I got the original, and the first, metal Thomas Train set. It was wonderful, and It kept me busy for years. My Parents still say, to this day, it was the best gift they ever got me, ever.So, Naturally, I loved the show.I was about 8 when I found out Thomas and the Magic Railroad was coming out, and absolutely begged my folks to take me, and they did.Being a child at that age, I didn't follow it, I just loved seeing Thomas the Tank Engine on the Big Screen.Im 15 now, and I still watch it to this Day.Though now looking at it, The Trains could have played a bigger role. I don't really remember Edward, Thomas's best friend, even being scene. And there's only really one scene where the trains really have some main lines in the movie.I liked the whole, Magic Train thing, but I really would have liked it better if It was JUST about the trains, like the shows. "},{"Title":"Mystery solved","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Several years ago I bought a Thomas the Tank Engine coloring book for my son. Each page was a scene in a story of some kind, but the plot was bizarre and inscrutable -- something to do with gold dust and diesel engines and parallel universes. I recall showing it to my Mom and we both wondered whether the coloring book guys had been chewing peyote that day.And then I saw this execrable film, and it all became clear. The coloring book was based on the plot of this movie -- and the screenplay for Thomas and the Magic Railroad indisputably was written under the influence of mind-altering substances.And it isn't JUST that the plot makes no sense. There's also the acting, which is horrible even by the standards of children's movies. Peter Fonda (!) wanders through the film in a kind of drooling stupor. He's supposed to be depressed, but to me he seems more like the victim of a brain injury, or perhaps a massive overdose of Thorazine.In fact, it may well be that the director secretly dosed Fonda, and the rest of the cast, with some kind of high-powered anti-psychotic medication during filming. Any normal person would, after all, need massive pharmacological intervention to keep from crying tears of laughter at the horrible, stilted lines the characters are required to speak.Did I mention that the plot makes no sense at all? Meanwhile, here's one idle observation for the good engines of Sodor If an evil diesel engine with a crane on top (!) is out to ruin your magic parallel universe (!!) and destroy you, just STAY A FEW TRACKS AWAY. The crane only reaches so far, and it's not like he can drive off the track to get you. Or maybe your friend the conductor could, I don't know, maybe THROW A FREAKIN' SWITCH once in a while. Seriously, I can see how the Killdozer, or an evil car like Stephen King's Christine, could make some real trouble, but how tough can it be to avoid an evil TRAIN?Speaking of the conductor, let me just say this about Alec Baldwin's work in this film It made me wish that the Canadians really had bombed the Baldwin brothers. (If you don't get that reference, run, don't walk, to the video store and rent South Park The Movie.) In sum, I would place this film among the top three Worst Movies That, Luckily, Most People Have Never Seen. The other winners(1) Showgirls (2) The Norseman They should put all three of these movies on a DVD and force the prisoners at Guantanamo Bay to watch them. The heck with the Geneva Convention. "},{"Title":"Meet Thomas the tank train in his first full screen adventure","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thomas and the magic railroad is a fun movie that has the most basic ingredients for any kids movie. it has a imagination and a heart. It gives wings to anybody's imagination provided they let go of the real world long enough to remember that magic of young childhood when anything was possible. Britt Allcroft has moved Thomas beyond the series of kids books written by the Rev.Awdry given the breath of life to them my 3 year old son watches Thomas on a 24/7 basis and he sat down and watched this movie it was different from all the other Thomas stories and that's what gave it it's strength and it also had good acting from Alec Baldwin and Peter Fonda both actors remember what it is like making movies for a younger less complex audience. It entertained and let us dream and brought our imaginations to life. That's all it was meant to do and that's all it had to do. Highly recommended by me to anyone with a Thomas fan in their midst. "},{"Title":"Thomas VS the claw!","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a 14 year old and I still love this movie! why? Because Thomas the Tank engine has been a part of my youth since I was a baby! And since I like trains naturally, this was perfect.One thing I liked was the plot, An evil Diesel with a giant claw who's trying to find a magic engine so he can destroy all steam engines. Short, sweet, and to the point! Not that complicated! unlike some movies *Cough* LordoftheRings! *Cough* Another thing was the change from small little action figures to actual humans! And I got a feeling of nostalgia when I saw they kept the same woman from the Shining Time Station series.Also, It's a nice change to see someone who's a true...Villain In the Thomas Series. Overall, this is a great movie for kids, and teens who are looking to relive some happy memories of their youth. "},{"Title":"Good mystery","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a good film. Me and son enjoyed watching it and helping Thomas and friends solve the mystery of the lost magic train. I read some of the other reviews on here by people criticizing the movie, and all I have to say to those people is - lighten up! If you sit back and enjoy the movie and pay attention to all the clues, you'll see the story works out pretty well. The only rough part of the movie is that some of the scenes with Diesel 10 were scary to my two year old son. Yet these scenes help to create the tension needed to propel the story. Also, the scenes with Thomas are great and so is the theme of being, responsible, reliable, and really useful. "},{"Title":"Great movie for young kids that love Thomas Train","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 3 year old daughter loves this movie although I originally thought it might be for an older group. She watches it quite often. For those Thomas Train lovers, this one is for you. I gave this movie a better than average rate. "},{"Title":"Our children's liberal arts education continues in fine form; Fonda is magnificent","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  During the early 1970s British educators & students were founding new ways of approaching and teaching literature & other liberal arts. These new educational ideas rose in popularity parallel to the liberal counter culture (the hippies) in both Europe & U.S. The 1990s PBS production Shining Time Station & other PBS children's programs were consummate developments of this 70s liberal arts movement founded in Britain. Hence, S.T. Station's liberal arts style and the continuation of its liberal arts production style & attitude in this new feature film, Thomas & the Magic Railway.The film is filled with references to this liberal culture, from the appearances of liberal advocate Peter Fonda & Olglala/Lakota Sioux Indian Russell Means (famous for his 1972 standoff with the US government at Wounded Knee & his involvement with the U.S. Libertarian Party) to its low-keyed, anti-hype directing style. Magic Railway never sways from this style & attitude. Like PBS's S.T. Station production values & other British production, there are moments in Railway when it could be a stage play; there's that much open space, that many quiet, lightly-produced moments. The presence of Didi Conn & Alec Baldwin also bring a stage play feeling to the scenes, as did Ms. Conn in her lead part on S.T. Station. But most of all, there is a feeling that one is in the presence of intelligent people, of readers of liberal arts books, of imaginative and open-minded people of the baby-boom generation. This is not a show for Newt Gingrich & followers, or other conservative or Republican Americans, and it is likewise easy to suspect that reviews against this film are thus sociopolitically biased, perhaps without even being aware that they are so.The focus of all the Thomas the Tank Engine productions has been the three dimensional animation. The making of this unique type of animation is based on miniature railway hobbyists. The connection between such hobbyists and educational institutions such as museums of science & industry reveals the impetus for an educational program such as Shining Time Station. Like the PBS series, the movie's intentions appear to be educational. Its morals include usefulness, responsibility & punctuality while its intelligence is revealed, according with British form, in the fact that there isn't an improper grammatical sentence in the entire script. But most striking in this film is the focus upon an imaginative intellectuality, which includes a plot that manages to both enthrall the little ones -  including a magic railway buffer, mysterious rail route & ghost train - while engaging the minds of their more intelligent babysitters with complex mystery, clues and interweaving twists. The appearance of quiet, dark eyed Mara Wilson along with other amiable adolescents Michael Rogers & Cody McMains also helps this broadening demographic effect, and Fonda's turnabout character, from depressed father to bravely excitable hero, gives the story a nice melodramatic flare.The 70s was a time when many directors experimented with slow paced editing, often including sequences so uneventful, even ethereal, that common, faster paced films appear too quickly paced & tawdry in comparison. Taste for such slower paced films is acquired through patience, appealing to the thinkers among us. Those nostalgic for films made with this style of directing & underlying intellectual attitude may appreciate Magic Railway all the more. The Magic Railway adds to this no-action pace a stage-play feel, giving it an unique appearance. Certainly there is no other film currently released that is anything like this one, which probably accounts for why my son & I were the only people in the theater audience. In fact, the only film that nearly reaches the innocent, stage-play-like charm of Magic Railway is Milo & Otis, a Japanese children's film that reached hilarious proportions once it was dubbed by comic Dudley Moore for its U.S. release.There is a scene early on in Magic Railway where Fonda is childishly playing pretend with his toy train named Lady. In these few shots the expression on Fonda's face is effeminate and innocently child-like, reminiscent of the 70s uni-sex movement, when childishly boyish, effeminate behavior in men was tolerated far more than it has been since or was before. To me, this is one of the most significant issues of the counter-culture & its revolt against bigotry and sexism. This scene & others like it in Magic Railway are therefore highly poignant and, rare as they are, represent some of the finest visual art as social criticism that has ever been created.No matter how innocent (or, insignificantly only for children) this film may appear on the surface, one may rest assured that there are serious social implications within it thereby making it film literature (art), not just film entertainment. Like much of PBS programming, there is within Magic Railway an important social statement promoting intellectual and otherwise imaginative & open-minded (liberal) values, especially considering the lack of such films in mass release today. It is, nevertheless, wrapped in an adventurous entertainment package for children, and therefore resembles the classic novels of Twain, Melville & Stevenson.  "},{"Title":"Thomas and the Magic Railroad","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I used to love the TV series as a kid, I almost never missed it, so I decided to see this film both to see if there was any resemblance, and why the critics hate it, from director Britt Allcroft (who created the show). Basically the supply of gold dust, for travel between Shining Time and the island of Sodor, is running out for Mr. Conductor (Alec Baldwin). It doesn't help when Thomas the Tank Engine (Edward Glen) and friends are being attacked by the nasty Diesel 10 (Neil Crone), who also wants to find the missing train Lady (Allcroft) and the Magic Railroad it runs on. Trying to help the situation are Mr. C's slacker cousin (Michael E. Rodgers), new friend Lily (slightly deeper voiced Mara Wilson), and her grandpa Burnett Stone (Peter Fonda), who has lost his belief in the magic of Lady. That's about it. Also starring Cody McMains as Patch, Grease's Didi Conn as Stacy Jones, Crone as Gordon, Colm Feore as Toby, Linda Ballantyne as Percy, Kevin Frank as Bertie the Bus, Harold the Helicopter and Henry, Susan Roman as James and Shelley Skinner as Annie and Clarabel. No Fat Controller!? Maybe if Ringo Starr or Michael Angelis had returned to do all the characters voice, it could have improved it the tiniest bit. Then again, nothing can improve the ridiculous story, the stupid acting, the dreadful songs, and the feel that it is nothing like the TV series, even if it looks the same, it's just one of the worst TV adaptations ever. Very poor! "},{"Title":"Lighten Up People...It's A Kid's Movie!!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My three and a half year old son absolutely worships Thomas the Tank Engine. He has countless Thomas videos, toys and T-shirts, and his room is plastered with Thomas wall decals and bedding. I even took him to a Day out with Thomas event in the Catskills last year (an experience that was only slightly less painful than watching this movie). So I like to think I know Thomas the Tank Engine fairly well at this point, and I have to ask, why are so many people on this site bashing this movie so relentlessly? It's a CHILDREN'S MOVIE. Why are you watching children's movies, especially since some of you apparently don't HAVE any children?? Our well worn DVD copy of this film has endured many, MANY viewings, and as far as my son is concerned, Thomas and the Magic Railroad is better than Star Wars, Batman, Spider-Man, and Madagascar all rolled into one. Okay, so maybe from an adult viewer's perspective, Thomas is a train wreck (sorry, I couldn't resist.). When I watch this with my son, I laugh at the nonsensical script and dialogue, and I wonder if Peter Fonda and Alec Baldwin lost some kind of bet with Britt Alcroft and therefore had to appear in this movie as the payoff. I also wonder where Frenchy from Grease has been since 1978 and why she picked this film as her comeback vehicle. I marvel at the absolutely wooden acting of Peter Fonda (was he on Prozac during shooting?), But I refuse to bash this movie because it WAS NOT MADE FOR ME. It was made for kids like my son, and he loves it to death. That's all that really matters, isn't it? In a nutshell If your child is a Thomas fan, he or she will want to watch this movie dozens of times. Parents will probably want to be in a different room at the time. But at least you know that they wont' be watching a movie with any foul language, violence, or suggestive behavior. Thomas is about as squeaky clean as children's entertainment gets, and that's just fine by me. Okay, I'll get down off of my soap box for now. Thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"My opinion","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, so looking at it as an adult watching this, I'd say What the?? It's true there are a lot of inconsistencies, and the acting isn't great by some in the cast....but then I stop and remind myself...this is geared towards young children.I was introduced to the series by a video given to my son for his birthday last year. He was enthralled by it. And I couldn't believe that my hyperactive little boy, age 3, actually sat it without so much as flinching! So I purchased a few more--personally, I like Alec Baldwin as the narrator, but that's probably because he was one on my son's first video and I'd gotten used to him, but he loves them all. I finally bought the movie, and I was a bit disappointed by the voices...also expecting that one narrator do all of them, and I didn't like the voices they used for James and Thomas at all. I figured they'd never show Sir Topham Hatt...and I'm glad they didn't. Seeing a live action Sir Topham Hatt would have been too strange. I thought my son would quickly lose interest in the movie, due to the obvious differences from the series, but he loves it!! He watches it over and over, then switches to one of the videos, then goes back to the movie. I have to sit through watching Thomas repeatedly, but frankly, I'd rather he watch this interminably than, say Dragonball Z or Ed,Edd, and Eddy. "}{"Title":"We liked it!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was amazed at the polarity of the comments here.  It appears that you either love it or hate it.My family had never watched any Thomas tv shows, or read any of the books. My son (just turned 3) picked the video out at the rental place, and we all thought it was pretty good.  He watched it twice through during the week that we had it (he only gets to watch ~30min tv per evening, so it took a few days to watch it), and would have been happy to watch it again.We plan to buy the DVD (and another as a gift for a little girl who's almost 3), and I expect that we'll watch it about once a month for the next several years. "},{"Title":"Thomas Tanked...","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My kids love the Thomas the Tank Engine video series, so we were very excited when this movie was released. Unfortunately, The Magic Railroad is painful at best. Alec Baldwin is entirely too over-the-top in his role as the conductor, while Peter Fonda is so depressing it's scary! Most of the other characters only serve to confuse the story; which is confusing enough. I came away with the distinct impression that this film was being written as it was being shot...In the end, what could have been a beautiful story derails into a  twisted heap of bad directing, mediocre acting and lousy storytelling.(Of course this film may be your only chance to see a Tom Thumb sized Alec Baldwin in a nightgown threaten a diesel locomotive with a bag of sugar!) "},{"Title":"The Basic Flaw","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Top of the list My 4-year-old loved the movie. Problem He can't go to see it by himself, but wouldn't wait for the video release.The basic flaw of this movie is that the original Thomas stories and the television versions are compact, mostly self-contained stories that can play out in less than 10 minutes - perfect for the attention span of a 4 year old. To make the quantum jump to feature length was just too much.In fairness, I fell asleep for part of the middle of the movie. However, I do recall Peter Fonda delivering a line that began I can't.., then having to bite my tongue to fill in the pause by shouting ACT?. "},{"Title":"What an odd film","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never thought I'd see a dwarf-sized Alec Baldwin threatening a train with a bag of sugar, but this is only one of the many delights that THOMAS has to offer the adult movie-goer. Those expecting a retread of the UK/PBS 'Thomas' stories will be startled by the profound strangeness of THOMAS on the big-screen. For a start, the plot is utterly bewildering. An apparently human universe (centred around a town called 'Shining Time') is connected to a talking-train universe ('The Island of Sodor') by a 'magic railroad'. Humans don't seem to be able to make the trip from one to the other, except for a midget Alec Baldwin and his oafish cousin, who travel from Shining-Time to Sodor by blowing on their whistles, which are inexplicably powered by gold dust. For some reason not adequately explained, both Sodor and Shining-Time are threatened by a shortage of gold-dust; and the key to resolving this lies in a train which used to frequent the 'magic railroad', which is now (inexplicably) in the possession of Peter Fonda.Does that make any sense? Of course not. As with all good children's fare, there's a clear indication that there might be some sex-innuendo agenda going on in the movie. To whit Peter Fonda's train is called 'Lady'; he comes up with lots of lines about how depressed he is that I can't make Lady steam any more; he's very skittish and in-denial about the charge that he himself visited 'Sodor' (though only once); all the trains on Sodor are male; the movie's resolved by bringing Lady to Sodor, at which point all the male trains start coming on to 'her' and the universe gets bright again. Beyond the mild entertainment of this thematic progression, you're struck by (a) the astonishingly primitive animation (the trains have at least two expressions each, but they can't move between them except when the camera cuts away, then cuts back -- the modelmaker must have  rearranged the faces, the trains have a new expression -- like magic!); the weird mismatch between the British location and feel and the dropped-in American references and props (hilarious moment where Peter Fonda's truck is driving on the right-hand side of what's clearly a British country road; also entertaining baseball game going on, as well as annoying US-moppets as stars); and the creeping sense that Peter Fonda and Alec Baldwin didn't know that the other was in the movie (the climactic scenes feature a series of close-ups on Fonda and Baldwin, and no shots which would demonstrate that they were actually on the same sound-stage; perhaps the modelmakers had to manually change their expressions, too?).None of this, of course, is bad; nor is the absurd dramatisation of the diesel vs. steam propulsion debate, which may have had some resonance in Britain in the 1950s/1960s, but surely doesn't make any sense in the UK any more, and never made sense in the electrified US. What you have here is a grade A oddity, the kind of film which stupifies and amazes in its profound oddness and the mere fact of its existence. Movies like THOMAS don't come around all that often; make sure you take the ride. "},{"Title":"This is a truly dreadful movie!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film must be one of the most disappointing childrens' movies that I've ever seen.  Thomas and his friends are unique characters and their stories in books and on video are a delight.  What a pity then that Britt Allcroft had to ruin this individuality by creating a storyline that made no sense and seemed to be trying to emulate the worst of American kids' film sentimentality.  (I wonder how Fonda and Baldwin managed to deliver some of their lines without collapsing in tears of laughter and despair).  No offence to our cousins but you can't make a story about model trains on Sodor work alongside the saccharine sweetness of the inhabitants of Shining Place.  Was this an attempt to make the film more marketable by linking the British Sodor with the American SP, via a railroad and magic dust?  If so it didn't work. I felt that the personalities of the trains were depicted well but they were the only believable characters in the whole film and of course the trouble with trains is that they can't do much except run on tracks and crash. The humans, who could have added a new dimension were failed miserably by the pathetic plot (?)Poor Thomas, what a sorry film debut.  This film is an excellent example o f how to ruin a good story and drag a loyal, hardworking little engine down with it.      "},{"Title":"Thomas' friends wail","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my household we consider ourselves great Thomas fans, with visits to steam railways (on Thomas days), videos are rarely out of the VCR for long and the Rev Awdry's books are read nightly to my 3 year old, at his request I might add.However this film has not got one grain of the magic of Rev Awdry's stories, the plot is drivel. The acting is as wooden as the trains themselves. Peter Fonda could have been replaced by a cardboard cut out for all he contributed to the film. Only Michael E Rodgers (Mr C Jnr) and Didi Conn (Stacey) gave performances which seemed appropriate for the film.The new characters were too scary for younger children and the plot too convoluted for older ones. My children (3,6) did sit attentively through the whole thing, but have not mentioned the film since. Unlike Toy Story 2  or Chicken Run which they talked about a lot after seeing them.Also the UK audiences have never seen Shining Time Station in any other context (we should be eternally grateful, it appears!) so the whole think has been botched.The gold is in the books,the Thin Clergyman's taleBut Lady has her hooksand Thomas' friends wail.Jim Jackson "},{"Title":"A botched film probably salvaged in the editing room.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My five year old found it mildly amusing, but this film is needlessly complicated, appallingly incoherent and completely witless.  The original series was great; just don't get your hopes up too high when you put this one on the VCR. "},{"Title":"I'd rather nap on train tracks...","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a train wreck, pardon the pun.  It was non-sensical, and lacked any focus what so ever.  The sweet story of Thomas has been bastardized by adding a magical land inhabited by real(ly inane) people. My 2.5 & 4.5 year olds were thoroughly bored and asked to leave.  I've seen quite a few children films, and am very capable of enjoying a film that is meant for my little ones, but this was a mess.  The writer/director isn't suited to write match book covers, and is inevitably spending his time writing positive reviews on IMDB for this crap. "},{"Title":"It did not even hold the attention of my three year old","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I took my three year old to see Thomas and the magic railroad, he is a big fan of the videos ( narrator George Carlin ), But he got very frustrated with the humans in the movie. When the little trains with silly looking faces on them are more interesting than the people you've got a big problem.This movie should have went straight to video. Sorry Thomas! "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's been awhile since Thomas the Train Engine was popular.  His TV show was cancelled ages ago.  But now, for some reason they decided it would be a good idea to make a full blown movie out of it.The plot makes no sense.  Even little kids don't understand what's going on. The dialogue is very corny and stupid.  Peter Fonda and Alec Baldwin are wasted.  And that Locomotion song is not only a bad pun on the fact that Thomas is a locomotive, but the song is annoying, too.Is it as bad as the Pokemon movies?  Not quite, but it's close. "}{"Title":"Thomas movie for Thomas fans","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We just watched this movie with our two sons, age 4 and 2. Yes, the movie is dull, the story line convoluted, and what the heck is wrong with Peter Fonda?But...this is a movie that is made for Thomas fans. A lot of the background is from the videos and the books and the Shining Time Station show. Many of the quirks that viewers are finding annoying (like the fact that the engines don't move their mouths when they talk) are basic to the Thomas videos. So if you aren't a Thomas fan you won't get it - but my sons sure did. They loved the movie and couldn't wait to build tracks to act out the story.Bottom line, if you are older than 5 years old, or your kid isn't into Thomas, don't waste the money. Otherwise, it is a great investment "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I took my two neices (7 and 3) to see Thomas and the Magic Railroad today. I'll spare you the details of the boring plot, and the disappointing performance of Peter Fonda, and just tell you that about halfway through the movie, my three-year-old neice, who usually loves Thomas, shouted out I hate this movie!  And I had to agree with her. "},{"Title":"How is it possible to make something so bad?","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As devoted Thomas fans we were especially shocked at how intensely bad this movie was.  The acting was so bad it was funny.  And sadly, they somehow managed to make the Isle of Sodor into a very depressing and scary place.I visited here hoping to get some insight into how something this bad gets made? "},{"Title":"This was sooo bad!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was so bad, imagine if you can that on the way home from the movie I actually heard myself utter the words you know, maybe the Barney movie wasn't so bad after all! Outside of Alec Baldwin, who made a pretty decent Mr. Conducter, and Didi conn who is her usual perky self playing Stacey Jones, the rest of the acting is completely atrocious. Peter Fonda acts as if though he has just been awakened from a nap through the entire movie, and the children actors are just plain baaad. I highly recommend the wait til it comes out on video tact to all those considering this flop of a flick. "},{"Title":"I should have listened to Roger Ebert...","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love to read Chicago Sun-Times film critic Roger Ebert's reviews of the latest films.  Roger, if anything, is often a bit generous when rating films, a characteristic that I like about him.   With that knowledge in hand, I was more than a bit worried when Roger rated `Thomas and the Magic Railroad' a mere one star out of a possible four.I had already promised my son that we'd go see it, so in spite of the one star rating from America's leading film critic, my wife and I took our kids to the show.   In short, let me just say Roger was being quite generous when he awarded this train wreck of a film one star.Please understand that the members of our household are BIG fans of Thomas the Tank Engine.   We have EVERY single Thomas video, plus enough Thomas toys to start our own toy shop.   We have Ertl die-cast Thomas trains, Learning Curve wooden Thomas trains, and even a Lionel electric Thomas with Annie and Clarabel.   (For a while, I even had the Hornby `OO' Thomas set.) We also own just about every Thomas the Tank Engine book ever made.But one thing you will NOT find in this house is anything that has to do with `Shining Time Station' - the poorly done PBS children's show that had the cute little Thomas shorts as a regular feature.   As much as I loved Thomas, I loathed `Shining Time Station,' perhaps one of the worst children's shows I had ever set eyes upon.   It was quite literally banned from our children's television viewing.   All their knowledge of Thomas comes from the videos, books and toys.So it was with great dismay that I discovered that the Thomas movie incorporated many elements of that miserable television show into it's plot. (If you can call it a plot.)   `Shining Time Station' the children's show was 50 minutes of absolute fluff with ten golden minutes of Thomas. Sadly, this film nearly follows that ratio.   There is a lot of emphasis on `The Conductor' (Alec Baldwin), Mr. Burnett Stone (Peter Fonda) and Lily (Mara Wilson).  But sadly, the character the film is named after, `Thomas the Tank Engine,' has precious little screen time.   I believe that even the evil `Diesel No. 10' had more screen time than Thomas, and sadly much better lines.More miserable than using than using the `Shining Time Station' motif was the portrayal of the chief protagonist of this sad affair, the aforementioned `Diesel No. 10.'   Rev. Awdry, the man who can be rightly called the father of Thomas, used the Thomas the Tank Engine stories as a means of teaching simple morals and proper manners.   The worst characters in his books (and in the videos based on the books) were merely rude or a bit rebellious.   They were there to serve as a negative example, to show why rude,  obnoxious behavior is unacceptable.   Yet `Diesel No. 10' in the Thomas movie is not merely rude or rebellious, he's downright EVIL, wanting to DESTROY the entire Island of Sodor railway network, and kill Mr. Conductor!   We are not given any insight into why he wants to do such a terrible thing, other than the fact that he's a diesel, and they are just prone to diabolical behavior.   (I must say that as a railfan, I found it to be downright insulting that `Diesel No. 10' was based on the real life BR's Western Region `Warship' class of diesel hydraulics - which themselves were based on a German railway diesel of very similar design.)There's so much wrong with this film it's difficult to understand how it ever made it into the theaters.   The plot is indecipherable, the characters uninteresting, and melding of British and American culture just kind of stupid.   What's the point in showing '64 Mustang convertibles and '55 Chevy pickups rolling through the hills of the Isle of Man?   And why does a blatantly American steam train have to stop at a charming little English country station???   The nice thing about the Thomas stories for us Americans was that He and his friends were unapologetically British. There wasn't so much as even a hint of American culture, except for George Carlin's narration on some of the videos.    It's as if all of a sudden American children wouldn't accept the film unless American trains, cars and actors were blatantly displayed at every turn.I could go on and on, but there's really no point.   This is one of the worst children's films I've ever seen, and I'm greatly dismayed that it was based upon a character that is dearly loved by our children.   Our three year old daughter, who will sit still through endless viewings of Rob Reiner's wonderful `The Princess Bride,'  (which she has entitled `The Princess Pirate')  could not stand to sit through this film at all.   She kept asking to go to the bathroom every five to ten minutes.   She really didn't have to go, but it was more interesting for her to examine the theater's plumbing than it was to watch five more minutes Mr. Conductor.Please, stay home and save your money.   You'll be thankful you did. "},{"Title":"Even my six year old son said They seemed to miss bits of the story out","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Both my six year old son and I like Thomas.  We have all the original books, many of the 'new' books and all the videos.  We knew the movie would be a little different.  Indeed the new characters were funny. The linking of the 'real' world with the Island of Sodor along with the mix of live action people in Thomas's world worked well.  We could even put up with Thomas speaking with an American accent, but as for the overall movie &#133;.I've seen a lot of children's movies in my time, but never have I seen such a mess as this.  The story was horrendously complicated.  Loads of scenes or bits of dialogue served no purpose but to confuse the viewer.  A crude voice over narration tried to link together the pieces of an astonishingly fragmented plot.  Big name stars Peter Fonda and Mike Baldwin were completely out of place, clearly not knowing what they were doing.  And worst of all, it was nearly all 'human' action with disappointingly few shots of Thomas and his friends.I could on with hundreds of illustrations about how fragmented the plot was, but I'd spoil what little plot there is.  Your children have probably already decided for you whether you're going on not.  But I warn you, even my six year old said They seemed to miss bits of the story out. "},{"Title":"boring!","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who wrote this thing? It is a dreary joke. I have seen the TV program with my son and can't figure out how this relates to it. It's deadly dull, the plot is difficult to follow and the characters are boring. Long pauses in between conversation makes it feel like you are watching underwater. Not only is it dull, it is mean-spirited. The TV series is gentle, with easy to understand, moral lessons for children. This movie is scary, with a vindictive diesel engine, bent on destroying a mythical engine. My poor two year old was so excited about watching a Thomas movie and he saw no more than ten minutes because it didn't keep his attention. Peter Fonda and Alec Baldwin must have had some hefty bills to pay in order to accept this drivel. The young actors should sue their parents for putting them in this film.The best thing about this film is I had a gift card and didn't have to pay for the drivel. I gave it a 2 because the video and sound were okay. "},{"Title":"Why is this film so awful?","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films of all time, yet kids love it. Why is it so awful? Cheesy dialogue 'Green for glory...', bad acting, and a plot so full of holes it looks like a boiler plate. There are one or two notable funnies, mostly involving Michael E. Rodgers, like the 'shell phone' on the beach, and the windmill ride, but these cannot save what is essentially a waste of film. Could have done much better. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie for my son who is really into Thomas right now. I simply could not believe how horrible it was. It was literally painful for me to sit and watch it with him. I don't know if this ever made it to theaters, but I can imagine people were asking for their money back. The acting was atrocious especially by Peter Fonda. I kept expecting him to walk off the set or something. I thought Alec Baldwin did a poor job too. I like the Thomas' done by Michael Brandon much better. I thought the villain was a little too scary for little kids, but my son seemed fine with him. He actually liked the movie and kept asking to see it again, but I took it back to the library. I love Thomas, but this one was very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Sacrilege! Reverend Awdry is turning in his grave!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Britt Allcroft should be flogged for desecrating such a treasure!My kids were first exposed to the Thomas and Friends videos.  We then got them the complete treasury storybook with its original illustrations and have truly enjoyed Reverend Awdry's vision.We stumbled across The Magic Railroad in a markdown bin at Wal-Mart and thought we had struck gold.  One word  ECCH!!!Alec Baldwin and Peter Fonda!? Come on! Were they the only two actors that Britt Allcroft could scrounge up to do this movie because everyone else foresaw how awful it was?If your kids are getting into Thomas, I recommend the Thomas and Friends original series.  There is the spinoff (ripoff) show, Shining Time Station, but even that show is full of humans doing and saying a bunch of Mister Rogers-type gobbledygook and showing very little of Thomas.I'd like to hear what the good Reverend will have to say to Allcroft on other side someday!  "}{"Title":"hmmm, said signore Fonda, all I remember is Britt and a bottle of Vodka..............","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" IMD doesn't give you a 0 option, so I haven't put a vote in. Frankly, the fact that the US has taken over a firmly British idea saddens me. When I was a kid my dad used to take me to T studio at Shepperton Studios in the course of his job. Anyone who knows about the history of T studio will know that it was also where the similar show Tugs was filmed, hence T studio! Well when I went to the studio not only were the crew real cool guys, but let me onto the set and into the workshop as well! The sets were basically a massive model railway, and I distinctly remember one of the set builders saying that the ultimate aim was to put all of the different parts of it together and run it. Basically you would end up with a gauge 1 model of the entire Island of Sodor. I was given a radio control unit and allowed to make Henry's eyes do the famous roundy-roundy confused look. Good times, anyway back to the film. It absolutely DEFIES ALL prototypical railway operation. That might sound a bit too harsh, but the original TV series always tried to maintain a certain standard of correctness, and indeed, as a young railway enthusiast, gave me a insight in to how things like signals worked. The film just gives the impression that the engines can drive themselves, and that they can go wherever they want just on a whim. Rubbish, and all the actors were real corny, and painful to watch, I hated them all! As for that dumb diesel with the digger on its roof, WHAT THE HELL? How could even a child take that seriously? It looked dumb, and frankly if I had seen it in reality, I would just go up to it, kick it, and promptly get my large adjustable spanner and go on a wrecking spree! To sum up, this godawful piece of cinefilm garbage is a total train wreck of Rev Awdry's ideal, and Britt Alcroft, who doesn't own the rights anymore, should be pleased it made what money it did. The acting was awful, and it actually made me paranoid about films after other poor releases but I'm not mentioning them, it will take too long. Peter Fonda looked like he was about to pull a Colt 45 to his temple and fire, he was that depressed! I would have gladly done it for him, that way the energy required to move his finger could have been spent on other things, like wondering how he got into this movie. Hmmmm, all I remember is Britt and that bottle of White Lightening................... "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Compared to the UK TV series, this is like trying to film Mrs Doubtfire again, but with Pierce Brosnan in the Role of Mrs Doubtfire - It doesn't work! Alec Baldwin and Peter Fonda are stealing the show, and the voices for the Engines are absolutely hideous. And this whole plot thing with that Lady-Engine and the Engine that would destroy all other Engines! And then that Island-of-Sodor-Coal! I've heard of Henry needing special Welsh Coal (in the TV Series) but Island-of-Sodor-Coal! Puuh! And then Gordon, the Big Engine supposed to being afraid of Diesel 10, etc.! And why are we never told what Diesel 10 already has done, I mean, Gordon says The Diesel tens back and Shakes. (And anyway, what happened to the Small Black Diesel by Rev W Awdry himself?) If the old Reverend W. Awdry would have heard this Kind of plot with HIS Engines, he would have turned around in his Grave!I've only given this film a 2 because there are (suprisingly) actually some Scenes without any Baldwins or Fondas or Wilsons making it stupid! If anyone actually wants to watch it, I suggest that you rent it somewhere an give it back as quickly as possible! "},{"Title":"Not a Great Movie, But Baldwin Saves It","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I agree that the plot of the movie is very muddled and too complicated for small children. I also found it distressing to hear different voices for the engines than the ones heard in the videos. Peter Fonda looked like he was sleepwalking through his scenes; I have to believe that an accomplished actor like him did this film as a favor to someone. The child actors were stiff and wooden throughout. Didi Conn was charming in her scenes, as always.All that being said, I still like this movie for one reason - Alec Baldwin. His acting is superb, but even better, he really looked like he was having fun doing this film. He pretty much steals every scene he is in. I also liked the scene when he is reading Sir Topham Hatt's note in Sir Topham Hatt's voice - you get an appreciation for all of the different voices he used in the videos.Overall, if you ignore the holes in the plot and the wooden acting, and just enjoy the scenery, light comedy and Baldwin's performance, I think adults can enjoy this movie as well as children. "},{"Title":"If you have kids about 5 years old...maybe","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"     One of those movies that should have gone straight to video. If you have a really bad weather day and you have guests at your house that are about 3- 5 years old this movie is worth throwing on the telly.  If you are looking for something that has great acting , and a well scripted storyline, well...it has a storyline. The main problem this movie has is that on paper it probably looked like it would be a great adaption of the beloved Thomas series from England. The reality is there were a few things lost in translation. Never mind that you can understand the language , it's the subtle differences that get bigger as the movie goes on.Peter Fonda is just not ready to play a grandfather role here.  Just because ON PAPER someone is old enough to play a part does not mean that this was his role. Sorry Peter. As for Alec Baldwin,he tries hard,but we Americans are way too used to his tough guy roles to suspend our imagination THAT LONG ( a half hour show maybe - not for 84 minutes - that's a big stretch ! ) The funniest part I found was probably an editing mistake, when Alec's character as the conductor is saying good bye to Stacey at Shining Time Station and she doesn't even look up from her schedule to acknowledge his response to her question, and then he's gone ! ( They then have Alec do a voice over during the next scene to transition it but we are still thinking why didn't Stacey even look at him ? Maybe because he's not really there, since he has to be filmed separately to create the illusion that he's only 5 inches tall ! )Aside from that goof, the jump between the engines' world of the Island of Sodor and the Shining Time Station world attempted to be too seamless (ie. all the expansive scenery shots which were nice but left little room for the magic part ).  Some of the charm of the original Shining Time station series was that it was filmed on video tape and the British Thomas component was on Film ( and that was OKAY  !) Yes, you probably couldn't do that with a feature film but what they did produce was a prime example of Hollywood trying too hard to make everything integrated and perfect to the point where you don't have to think anymore, and that is the tragedy of this particular adaption. "},{"Title":"Movie Not As Good As Series, But Holds Childrens Attention","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is another movie that proves my point over and over again.  This is a movie almost entirely only for younger children and should never have been put on the BIG SCREEN in this state.Before I go further, I will say once again, an 'all star cast' does nothing if the plot and storyline development are not there or properly thought through.  The series is charming and entertaining for everyone, but this movie took Alcroft a step back.  A movie was an excellent idea for them to move forward, but to peoples' dismay it lacked a lot and became disappointing.  In the series, the narrator or Mr. Conductor did all the voices of the engines and the engines mouths didn't move.  This is great for a narrative story.  On the BIG SCREEN, new voices were given and changes the possession of thought in mind.  It gave the engines their own personality and to see them vocalize would bring people more closely to the characters.  Next, the plot was dragged on and this is another storyline that could have been summed up in half of the time the movie used.  The addition of Shining Time Station was a decent touch to bring the inclusion of the americanized series the debuted the Thomas series in the United States.  However, I feel that the plot could have progressed using a cast of 'People of Sodor' to carry the story through.  Again, the story slows up and numerous points that do not draw older viewers to the screen.  For the young viewers, it does hold the bright and familiar faces to the screen with intriguing sounds and ambience that early aged viewers tend to enjoy.  The plot moves along when 'Mr. Conductor' realizes his sparkling magic gold dust is fading and he cannot make it back and forth to the real world as he could before.  I follows through to how he has to find out how the gold dust is made and make it quickly before a disgruntled diesel ruins his chances of being able to do so.The is definitely worth adding to a Thomas The Tank Engine collection or renting once or twice for your younger children.  Otherwise, wait until a more full family oriented version is made, as this will not hold your attention. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm Too Old To Enjoy This Film","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Firstly, I have posted comments for many kids films on this website. Despite being an adult I have no problem in sitting down and watching an enjoyable kids film; I can count many Disney movies that I would happily sit through.However, Thomas and the Magic Railroad didn't do anything for me. I am sure it was enjoyed by many 5 year olds but I think I am probably far too old for this. I think it's safe to say that some films and TV shows are simply for children and can only be enjoyed and appreciated by children.The stars in this movie did do a decent job and some of the trains looked right. But I just did not enjoy it at all.I guess I should avoid anything with Thomas's name on in the future. "},{"Title":"You'll like it if you're under seven","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being nineteen years old (too old to be a child, to young to be a parent), I might not be the best person to review this. But I was a huge fan of the books and television series when I was young (still am, I suppose), so I went to see this movie out of nostalgia.Frankly, it's a bit of a mess. The story is that Sir Topham Hatt is away from the Island of Sodor on holiday and Mr Conductor (Alec Baldwin) is taking over for the time being. Meanwhile, an evil diesel (named Diesel 10- what happened to Diesel 9, I want to know) who, for some reason, has been built with a hydraulic grab, is planning to take over. Also there's a girl called Lily, her grandfather, Mr Conductor's cousin, a mysterious lost engine with a Magic Railroad, something called gold dust which has some kind of magical properties and is running out... and it goes on like that.First point, the books upon which the original series was based were always grounded in reality (all right, a reality where trains can talk, but still). That is totally abandoned in this film- Sodor is no longer an island off the coast of England, but some sort of magical realm which can only be reached using a lost magic railroad or gold dust (which doesn't explain where Diesel 10 came from or, indeed, where Sir Topham Hatt went on holiday). Apart from the main characters, there are no humans at all on Sodor. The new characters are totally wrong for Thomas and the old ones have been rewritten and sugared to the point of nausea.Other flaws? Well, if you live in Britain, you'll have no idea who half the characters are. Over here, we have no Mr Conductor, Stacey Jones, Billy Two Feathers or any of the other Shining Time characters. Also, as I said before, it's far too complicated. It's almost entirely padding, in fact. And there are too many plot holes, too many to list without ruining the film. And whereas some TV franchise movies rely too much on knowledge of the series upon which they were based, this movie keeps referring to events that haven't even happened (characters talk about Diesel 10 being back- when was he there before?).The acting is pretty horrible. Peter Fonda makes the model engines look emotional; Mara Wilson is just confusing, looking twelve years old and acting like a four-year-old; Britt Allcroft's thankfully brief voice-over as the lost engine seems to be just an ego trip. The engines speak in a variety of awful pseudo-Brit accents, ranging from Percy's bad Cockney to Toby's bad Alec Guinness impression.Strangest of all, given that he is nominally the star, Thomas seems to do nothing for the plot. He is basically an assistant who looks on while Peter Fonda, Mara Wilson, Alec Baldwin and Diesel 10 move the plot forward.All in all, small children will enjoy it, but everyone else will be praying for the pain to end within half an hour. I must admit, though, I did like the bit when Diesel 10 was threatening to hurl Alec Baldwin off a viaduct. Summed up my feelings perfectly. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me just say this was the worst movie I saw all year. I was very disappointed. The reason is because I'm used to the Thomas the Tank Engine stories from Shining Time Station that are narrated. In the movie, somebody thought up the idea of giving the engines individual voices. And not very good voices at that!          Alec Baldwin was very good in this movie. Peter Fonda, well, I'm sure he's a great actor but this just wasn't a movie for him. Mara Wilson, my how she's grown. Remember her as the little girl from Mrs. Doubtfire and Matilda.           Now ever since I first saw Thomas the Tank Engine, I always wondered if they'd do a movie. I got my answer now and it isn't any good. But rest assured the kiddies will like it.           Apparently the story goes where Mr. Conductor visits the Island of Sodor. He's out of magic dust, and the railway is being run by a trio of evil diesels. One of them has a claw on top. I'm wondering, where are the engineers? None of the engines have engineers.        So in conclusion, if you are a huge fan of Thomas & friends, then I recommend you don't go see this movie. But all your favorites are here. We got Thomas, James, Percy, Gordon, Henry, Bertie, Toby, even Diesel 10, Splatter, Dodge and Lady. I actually recommend nobody see this movie. You'll be disappointed as I was.- "},{"Title":"A zero for me + a ten for my son=5","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Abominable  movie with horrible dialog, acting and miniatures.  But it holds my 2-year old son's attention (More choo choo!).  Sadly, I have to balance his 10 with my 0 and get a 5.  The previous reviewer said it best about how good it is with his children. "},{"Title":"A travesty to the spirit of the original series","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is British excellence sold out to American commercialism (apologies to our colonial friends!).Thomas the TV series was very, very good. Thomas the movie was not. It made so many sacrifices to make it palatable to an American audience it lost everything that made it good in the first place.Quite what Peter Fonda and Alec Baldwin thought they were doing is beyond me. Neither is a children's film actor and it showed. The live action bits didn't seem to fit in with the animation at all. The original series is quite harsh and shows everyone with foilbles, no mysticism there. But the film had all this mystical claptrap which I am sure went right over the heads of the target audience but grated on the adults forced to stay with their kids to watch it.The best bits of the film were when we were in Sodor. Why couldn't the film have paid a few British actors to voice the trains instead of the awful mid-Atlantic accents that we had to put up with.Having said all this the two 3-year-olds that I took to see it were gripped from the start (although my son kept asking where Thomas was during the live action bits) and loved it. So what do I know? Well, I know this, we will not be buying the video becuase I am not sure I could stand watching that again!! "}{"Title":"Thomas meets Disney's Wicked Stepmother","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thomas on the big screen sounds great, but this was Thomas meets Gloomy Time Station.  The engines were great, but the human sequences set in Indian Valley & Shining Time Station were too gloomy.  Alec Baldwin and Michael Rodgers showed energy and interest, but Mara Wilson, Peter Fonda, and Cody McMains played their parts with somnambulant gloom.Britt Allcroft takes the franchise in a direction worthy of Disney with dastardly Diesel 10.  The original Rev. Awdry series was based on true stories in British Railway history.  The British Railway Warship class, the basis for Diesel 10, had no claw.  Yes, the warship was one of several diesel engines at the forefront of BR's effort in '55 to replace puffballs with diesels.  The conversion of these Warship engines to malevolent Diesel 10 is worthy of a Disney movie.For viewers with no knowledge of Thomas and Shining Time Station, this movie has too little introduction of the characters.  For fans of the American & British Thomas series', this movie has too little of the engines and too little of the comedy.Fans of Thomas should stick to some of the new and older videotapes such as Races, Rescues, & Runaways, and Thomas & the Special Letter. "},{"Title":"Poor Show!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've loved Thomas virtually always so i really was looking forward to this! But it turned out to be well awful really, it shouldn't have been realised outside of the USA because they pulled all the charm of the original books out. The TV series itself has pretty much gone down hill as well. The original series with Ringo Starr is still the best. This film seems to be simply an ego trip for Britt Allcroft (shes voices lady after all!) this film is an alright viewing if you've got no other alternative, but id recommend getting a copy of the original books by Reverned Wilbert Awdry 1st and you can see why most of these comments involve the words Turning in his Grave "},{"Title":"Dreadful...Even My 18 month old hated it!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thank god I didn't waste a lot of money on this for my son!  I thought he would like it, so I rented it for him because he loves Thomas the Tank Engine. After about 5 minutes, he started complaining and wanted me to put on a normal Thomas DVD.  I even thought it was awful, even though I watched it for about 30 minutes more.  I would like to know how much they really had to pay Alec Baldwin to make this.  Thank god they never made a sequel to this. "},{"Title":"How Domm!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched Shining Time Station as a kid and eagerly awaited THOMAS AND THE MAGIC RAILROAD.  That is, I eagerly awaited it WHEN I WAS A KID in 1987.  But after reading the reviews for THOMAS and watching an entertaining Ebert & Roeper & the Movies segment, my friend and I decided that we must see it some how.  After we saw it, we both agreed that it was much dommer than we ever could have imagined.Burnett Stone is so mopey that perhaps Michael Douglas took a few notes on Peter Fonda's performance for his acclaimed performance of Prof. Grady Tripp in Wonder Boys.  Alec Baldwin should have moved when Bush came into the White House like he said he would.  He certainly didn't do justice to the George Carlin/Ringo Starr role.  Mara Wilson's getting too old for this stuff (I saw her at an Orthodox Yom Kippur service once), and the special effects are just plain domm.If anyone has anything to say about THOMAS AND THE MAGIC RAILROAD, do not hesitate to e-mail me. "},{"Title":"Boo!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Movie was horrible for kids and adults alike. Movie was way too long, acting was very weak and the story had no continuity at all.  My kids love the Thomas TV shows, toys, and books, but they (4,6 & 8) were asking to leave about 35 minutes in. Alec Baldwin was OK and seemed to be liked by the kids, but the rest of the acting was poor - Lily was too old and acted a bit too odd to relate to the age of the kids who follow Thomas.  Also, the makers need to give children a little credit in that they could figure out grandpa was sad without Peter Fonda having to make the character scary as hell.1 out of 10 is generous. "},{"Title":"There is only on word I can say about this movie","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SUCKS.  This film sucked big time.  I don't think I have seen a film this bad since last years Inspector Gadget (in fact, I think that film actually had better acting by comparison).  Yet, I'm sure that kids might like it, if they have not brains.  I might've been able to appreciate it a little more, mainly when I heard Shining Time Station was in the movie, I thought they would have George Carlin as Mr. Conductor (who made the TV show 9 years ago a treat) and might make this film not too bad.  But no, they bring in Alec Baldwin, who destroys the film with his dumb ass performance (at least if they had Carlin playing Mr. Conductor there might've been a little credibility).  And to add insult to injury (even though I was OK physically at the end of this film), Peter Fonda, who is usually cool, gives such a depressing performance it makes Angus from the movie Angus look like, uh, the f***ing conductor from this film.  I think this film should've been left on the cutting room floor (and I don't say that often).  I'm sorry, but I think films so stupid that they make Pokemon look like Being John Malkovich, should be put to death.  The worst film of 2000.  F "},{"Title":"You people have no life!!","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not even going to rate this, I've never seen it, but the fact that a bunch of adults have given it such a low rating is just stupid! You immature idiots actually watched a little kids movie... came on IMDb and voted on it... you have no lives, you truly are wastes of space. You realize that this is Thomas the Tank Engine right? It's a kids movie, and the people who are smart enough to log onto their computers and vote are probably wayy too old to be watching movies like this... shame on you, and go get a life. You knew this wasn't going to appeal to you, why'd you watch it? Are you freaking stupid? Just sit down with a knife, and just end your lives right now if you have such a grudge against children's movies like this... "},{"Title":"I hope I NEVER grow up enough to not like this.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I want to start off by saying I gave this movie a 10 of 10.  Any movie which can keep my 2 and 4 year-olds still and speechless with their cute little mouths hanging open for 85 min. has to be an amazing feat.That said, put on your little kid hat and enjoy.  This movie is NOT adult fare.  It isn't meant to be.  It hits its target 2 to 6 year old market with a bullseye the size of Texas.  In this high tech gadget age, I find it incredible how our transportation methods of the past are so interesting to our little children.  They LOVE trains.  Every kid in the PACKED theatre LOVED trains.  I looked around about half way through this movie and ALL the kids in the audience were glued to the screen.  I HAVE NEVER been to any movie where the kids were so into it.  Not Toy Story, Not Toy Story 2, Not A Bugs Life, Not The Lion King, NOT Little Mermaid, and definitely NOT Chicken Run.  This blows them all away.  It caters to the youngest child in you. The wonder of the magical world of large machinery.  The amazing feat of these trains which are SO taken for granted by us adults, is not at all lost on these kids.For a moment, I lost myself in being a toddler again, and the pressure of long working hours and making a life for my family was gone.  I hope I NEVER grow up enough to not enjoy taking a child's perspective and running with it.  I think Alec Baldwin and Peter Fonda deserve a big round of applause for participating in a film with almost no adult appeal, but entirely to entertain its core audience, the 4 year old.The Magic of Thomas the Tank Engine is something we started to experience only this spring.  My son picked out one of the videos from our local library, and he was hooked.  He watched them all!  When we took vacation earlier in the summer we scheduled a ride on The Real Full-Size Thomas at the Cuyahoga Valley Scenic Railway near Cleveland, OH.  My children still talk about it daily.  It was the time of their lives to this point.  For such simple joy, I am thankful to all of those who make this sort of thing possible.So, Take the munchkins, pretend you are one of them and lose yourself in the moment.  You may just find a little child lurking somewhere just under the surface! "}]