[{"Title":"Dr. P.U.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"45 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is only the second time I've been irritated enough to write a review, the other was Trixie.First of all, I'm a fan of The Player and of Short Cuts, among other Altman movies.  So when I was at first annoyed and angered by the beginning of this movie, I passed it off to his soon-to-come deeper agenda, which in Dr. T... never arrives.I loathe this movie.  Let me count the ways1. (Most importantly) We are led to empathize with a man who believes he loves too much, too hard, and hence, the consequences.  This, if played out, would be great, as he gets his come-uppance, realizes the self-delusion and that his life and ways with women is a lie.  But that's not what happens. We are supposed to feel sorry for and sympathize with him the entire way, even as he cheats, avoids true responsibility and, despite what the ending is supposed to say, never changes.  Rather than the boy-birth being a sign of evolution/change/enlightenment, it debunks all that came before, in fact saying that all these women were the problem all along.  Instead of being a witty examination of flawed Dallas women, it concludes with a tacked-on non-epiphany, which by its very existence makes everything before it misogynistic, and none of the characters likeable.2.  Watch how many times Altman works in gratuitous nudity, like an 11 yr. old peeping tom.  When he shows Janine Turner's derriere-crack, at the end of her scene, it's not Richard Gere following it with his eyes,  it's the CAMERA, as if to say, hey, look at this -- like a little elbow in our sides.3.  He does the same thing often at the end of scenes, swinging the camera with a wink to pick up a sign, a heavy-handed metaphor or scene-link that is beginning film school pretentious artifice at its worst.4.  The editing and cinematography again is of the film-school variety, and at often times is like a rough cut.5.  Helen Hunt, who for years has been trying to convince us she's newly sexy, is so self-conscious that we never can buy into any kind of character.  I am sick of her flinging her hair.6.  The camera holds so long on the golf sequences, as if to say - these actors really can play golf, which they really don't very well.  But it becomes a call-attention lingering as opposed to a mere setting for dialogue.7.  The overly intrusive soundtrack by Lyle Lovett may be close to the worst in history.  Not only does it blot out large sequences of dialogue, and call attention to itself mindlessly at every turn, it actually has lyrics which say exactly what's going on in the scene.8.  The writing and dialogue are extremely sophomoric; very few times do the people seem real in what they're saying, and often they resort to movie cliche-speak.9.  Gere has a few good real moments, but the direction hurts him as well.10.  Altman's trademark everyone speaking at once, in this movie is contrived and annoying.11. (And maybe worst of all) this movie made me replay all the movies of Altman that I really like and see that many of tendencies above that I criticize are prevalent in ALL of his movies, now tempering my enjoyment of them.  I now see a old lecher with a misogynistic bent and an arrested development, calling attention to his weaknesses in a pretentious and juvenile way. "},{"Title":"No really, I like this movie","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm sorry, but I like this movie. It might just be my defense of Robert Altman, but I think that this is a good comedy. Dr. T who devotes his life to taking care of women, but never considers how they could take care of themselves. He loves everything about women, and women love him. However, nothing he can do can protect them in the end.The problem is that this film was presented as a movie for women a date movie that you can drag a boyfriend or husband to in order to prove love and devotion. The film is actually examining women, their needs and relationships with or without a strong male figure. This isn't a chick flick; it's an analytic comedy. So, the intended movie date turns out to be a disappointment for both parties who have no idea what to expect.The only positive aspect of this whole misunderstanding is that now, years later, Dr. T ends up on the cheap rack at any DVD store. So don't rent it, buy it, give it another look and even if you don't like it, sell it for even cheaper. When this movie is available for less than a dollar, no one will have any excuse not to watch it. Several of the people will end up actually liking it. "},{"Title":"Satisfying, But Not Great Altman","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman appreciates women. It shows in his movies; women are often the main characters, and his films offer up a variety of interesting roles for actresses. Dr. T and the Women is almost entirely about women, modern day wealthy Texas women. Richard Gere plays Dr. Sully Travis a very successful and popular Dallas gynecologist. Not only is he surrounded by women all day at work, but his family consists entirely of women. Only a couple of male buddies enter into his closed, female dominated life. And like all good Altman movies there are plenty of quirky characters and intersecting plotlines.The problem is that the plotlines aren't that interesting or original. Dr. T's wife develops a rare mental disorder that affects only the wealthy, and must be institutionalized. The new female golf pro comes on to Dr. T, as does his nurse. His soon-to-be-married daughter is slowly realizing that she may be a lesbian. And so on.For Altman fans, Dr. T and the Women is not a bad rental. The director has done better, but it's still Altman. Others, less interested, might want to give this a pass.  "},{"Title":"If you dig Robert Altman's style, it's worth it","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  spoilersI'm definitely fond of this movie.  Richard Gere comes off a serious person and his acting is perfect, which I wasn't expecting at all.  The film was very well made and ended on a note I thought was much more sincere than anything I've seen in movies recently.  The dialogue and plot took me two sittings to absorb.Having said that, I gotta admit, people will hate this film.  Like most Altman pieces, the plot is not driven by outside events so much as it's driven by how characters feel and act towards each other.  Dr. T is a rather extreme example of this, where almost nothing happens but the spectacular collapse of a wedding, a failed relationship, and a short-story magic ending.  The arc of the plot is the growth of the Richard Gere character from a needy person who has been unconsciously trying to make himself the center of a kingdom of dependent women into a person who finds new meaning in his work with people.  Dr. T begins the movie as a man who is perfectly happy.  He's an overwhelming professional success with an attractive family and nothing but more of expensive happiness to look forward to.  But he's immersed in demanding women.  He has spent his whole life trying to put women on pedestals so that he can bask in their praise and affection.  This isn't exactly evil, but the movie shows how his life begins to unravel as a result of this basically sexist outlook he has devoted his life to.  After what must have been decades of relentless smothering, his wife reverts to a childlike state.  (An expensive psychiatrist assures him that it's from having a life that's `too perfect,' which is probably a way of telling him what's wrong without saying exactly why.)  His heroic efforts as an OB/GYN have led his patients to make unreasonable demands on him that make his job a hell.  He appears to have gotten the needs of his daughters backwards as far as which one requires more attention.  His time-bomb sister-in-law has moved into his home with her gaggle of little girls.  Just as all of this comes apart, he runs into a woman from outside Dr. T's kingdom.  Helen Hunt plays a woman who doesn't need him and won't let herself rely on his courtesies and affections.  He tells her frankly that he's never met any woman like her, which is a sad thing really.  Then it all falls apart and in his lowest moment he's wrenched away from the mess he's made of his life by a tornado out of The Wizard of Oz (people can believe in Yoda, clips of ammo that never empty, accept a deluge of frogs from the sky, and that a man can be just a little jarred after shooting himself in the head to kill Tyler Durden, but a magic tornado is too much&#133;)  Dr. T finds himself without his expensive status symbols or his dependent entourage of hypochondriacs, in a place without even a phone.  He does his job and he doesn't even get a girl.  It's a boy and it's all new to him and that fills him with joy.There are other Altman traits will drive people up the wall - the plot that feels like sprawl the first time through, the lack of signposts to obviously sympathetic characters, insistence on sorting moral ambiguities, doing satire in a PC world where even the shopping classes can't be made fun of, the layers of dialogue and so on.  What I try to tell people that are new to Altman is that he pretty much invented the TV drama forms we respect.  E.R. and Hill Street Blues and any number of TV dramas thrive off Altman's formula - which is to pick an interesting locale, drop a ton of characters in, and set them in motion.  Events happen, but the real drama is watching the characters interact every week.  The Hollywood film industry has moved in the opposite direction, which is soap opera.  There you take a big cast of canned personalities, drop them in an upper income setting and write some love story or coming-of-age bit around the quest/monsters/gun fights that actually make them move from scene to scene.  Neither is inherently better, but the multiplex has gravitated towards the second so completely that most people are utterly confused when seeing the first.Unless you're interested in seeing a movie about a man who is forced to change the values he built his life on with the best intentions, you'll hate it.  If you dig seeing that dramatized, Dr. T is fairly unique.Also, I wish Altman had some pull with whoever is doing the advertising for his films.  Marketing Dr. T as a screwball comedy and Gosford Park as a whodunit has probably done more damage to his reputation than anything else.  Illiterate marketing is almost as big a problem as trailers that give the best parts of movies away - I wish the studios would be a little more thoughtful about it.  "},{"Title":"Cuts Like A Knife!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `What's up Doc?' I will tell you what is up! Set your appointment book and schedule a visit to see `Dr. T & The Women'- the latest film by Director Robert Altman. Richard Gere stars as a gynecologist who must deal with the neurotic women in his life a mentally-impaired childlike wife, a witty golf pro mistress, a champagne sipping sister, a lesbian daughter, a kennedy-assassination obsessed control freak daughter, and of course his hypochondriac-impatient patients. The film is full of `altmanrisms'- an overlapping dialogue, a catastrophic occurrence in a public event, and of course satirical viewpoints of a certain profession. Gere saves his career again with a remarkable performance. However, it was Laura Dern's work as the champagne sipping sister that still hungover in my mind after I watched the movie. It was a very critical condition that academy award voters overlooked her brilliant acting. Altman again is able to get some well-known actors to appear in his movies- Farrah Fawcett, Helen Hunt, Tara Reid, Liv Tyler, Kate Hudson,  and Shelley Long are the other female players involved in this one.  The one headache I had with `Dr T. & The Women' was the somber characterizations of Dr. T's male buddies. These characters should have been rescheduled to another movie. All in all, Director Robert Altman (in my viewpoint one of the smartest directors of all time) was able to complete a successful cinematic operation on `Dr T. &  The Women.' So take two hours, go see this movie, and call me in the morning. **** Good  "},{"Title":"Scrambled Ovaries","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman is frustratingly inconsistent, and here is at his worst. His very personal style has three characteristics1. Many-threaded storylines and characters, many of which raise questions that are not answered in the play. When done well, you get the impression of moving through the world with a curious voyeurism, dipping into many lives which are intriguing enough to learn more about. Except for the youngest daughter, none of these women are worth digging more into. The misogynism could have been an advantage; here it is cheap.2. Spontaneous acting. Altman doesn't tell his actors what to do, trusting them to bring something fresh. In the best case, the differing visions of the actors add to the manyhued effect described above. But you need powerful actors like he had in Cookie's Fortune. These folks, some of whom are fine when given direction, simply can't synthesize.3. Wonderful tracking shots (which move from character to character so enhance the two effects noted above). Check out the first shot in The Player. That alone is worth the admission. Here, we have a busily choreographed shot at the beginning and a dizzy pullback at the end, but neither to any useful effect.Avoid this film. The master was asleep. "},{"Title":"Ah, Feminism, the feminist's new enemy","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We haven't come close to the medium's full potential yet. Everything is still so linear. &#x96; Robert Altman Altman's technique is so alien, that most viewers automatically dismiss his films as being shoddily put together, which is a shame, because he really is one of the most consistently interesting directors out there.Typically, Altman begins by constructing an environment (military hospital, theatre, rodeo, diner etc), introducing a large cast, inserting some self referential performance within a performance (play, wedding, radio show, etc) and then adopting a style in which the whole cinematic world flows independently of what we see. In other words, his plots seem to unfold even when we don't watch, his camera floating from one nodule to the next, stumbling upon bits and pieces of a story. But the story is itself non-defined, and it's up to us to synthesise the pieces and make it all coherent.The environment in this case is Dallas, Texas, a world which Altman viciously reduces to a set of stereotypes (Altman is always at his most mean-spirited in his supposedly lighter, more comedic movies). This is a cartoon world of gas guzzling, upper class Texans, giant SUVs, vapid students, expensive clothing, Dallas Cowboy Cheerleaders, JFK conspiracy theorists and so forth. Even the film's lead character is cast solely as to allow Altman to exploit Richard Gere's iconography (Gere has made a career out of playing suave womanizers).The film begins with a horde of women bickering in a gynaecologist's reception room. Their voices overlap and overlap until we're left with nothing but annoying static. It's up to Dr. T, a smooth, suave and sexy gynaecologist (played by Richard Gere, of course), to untangle all this noise and please his woman, satisfying their needs and fulfilling their various emotional problems.The very next scene works as a counterpoint. Dr T's mentally unstable wife walks through a shopping mall, takes off all her clothes and dances in a fountain. No surprise that she's under a shop sign which links her to a deity. She's not only a goddess, an innocent nymph who exists only to be naked, worshipped, twirl and look pretty, but another up-market commodity. As one psychologist says in the film, she's been loved and pampered too much, Dr T putting his wife on such a high a pedestal that she eventually regresses to a childlike state, unable to do anything for herself.What follows are a number of symbolic little scenes. The men in the film are dumb carnalists who hunt and shoot flying golf balls, whilst the women are all ditsy airheads, drunks, lesbians or vacuous shopaholics. The women of Dallas are also fighting for a Dallas freeway to be named after a woman, an act which Dr T himself supports; anything to keep the ladies happy.Existing outside all these characters is a woman played by Helen Hunt. She's a retired golf pro, far more calm and collected than all the idiotic characters swirling around her. As a professional golfer, she's literally in command of all the balls in the film. She and Gere forge a romance, but she abruptly calls it off when he offers to provide and take care of all her needs. Why would I want that? she says with a shrug. Helen Hunt - the only female huntsman in the film - knows that men hide their dependency needs and narcissistic vulnerability behind a fairly primitive phallic chauvinism. She's also aware that men symbolically control their women through phallic mastery, supremacy and dependence.The film then becomes a sort of feminist tract, Hunt's character raising the issue of female empowerment and opining that women should follow their hearts, reject society's expectations, be independent, be strong and be as sexually promiscuous as men. Another character in the film, played by Kate Hudson, exhibits this same character arc she turns her back on marriage and various authority figures (breaks the rules, answers phone in class etc) and embraces a lesbian love affair.But while the film advocates a form of women's liberation and suggests that women strongly dependent on men accomplish nothing (naming a freeway after a woman isn't a point for feminism, it's just a way to further placate loudmouths), such things are hardly new. It's been over half a century since the largest feminist movements, and if Altman genuinely wished to say something about womanhood, he'd have done so decades ago.No, what the film's really doing is presenting Dallas as the last bastion against the feminist revolution, and Gere, who thinks he's some smooth lover of women, as an unwitting ally of the anti-feminists. Worship at the alter of the uterus, in other words, and you reduce woman to the various stereotypes in the film. You remove their complexity, their desires. The alcoholism and vacuity of the women in the film is the direct result of men fawning over them.But the film goes further than this; so much so that you might even call it anti-feminist. Remove the chivalrous romantics like Gere, Altman says, and you're left with a world of Helen Hunts, family units destroyed, everyone sexually liberated, self-centric and cold. After realising this, Gere drives off into the rain, is sucked into a magical tornado (yes this really happens) and delivers a young Mexican woman's baby. In graphic detail, we see a child emerging from a bloody womb, a scene which immediately and violently clashes with everything we've seen before. Romance is gone, in other words, and replaced with cold biology.And yet Gere finds some nobility in his newfound role. Holding a blood smeared baby in his hands he allows himself a smile. He still worships at the altar, but that altar is no longer pretty. 8/10 &#x96; Excellent. Incidentally, Doctor T's name, Sullivan Travis, alludes to Preston Sturges Sullivan's Travels, both films about a character learning their true value and contribution to society. "},{"Title":"Don't expect Pretty Woman","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you sit down to this movie expecting your average romantic comedy you're going to come away, as many of the reviewers here did, befuddled and probably seriously disappointed.  I'm no high-art film critic, but I had the advance warning, of sorts, of having watched the previews on the VHS edition of this movie (of all things), which let me know not to expect anything ordinary from it.  Plus it's Robert Altman, right?  So I went into it expecting not to take things at face value -- and that's what you have to do to enjoy this movie.  The idea is that you have this man who treats women with love, respect, and chivalry.  He is surrounded by demanding women all day long, and yet the focus on the individual patients whose encounters with him we witness shows the truth of something he says to his friends every woman is unique.  And then we see the different ways in which the women respond  His office manager falls in love with him.  His patients demand more and more (and are very well-directed).  His wife goes insane because she's loved too much (a diagnosis as obviously unrealistic as hers HAS to have been written into the story for a reason).  His daughters rely on him, shock him, disappoint him.  His sister-in-law takes advantage of his hospitality while drinking herself into a stupor.  His girlfriend (who is kind of a man's woman) rejects his chivalrous overtures (I'll do it! I'll get it!), is the only self-sufficient woman in the film, and ultimately rejects his offer for an interdependent relationship.  All these combine to create a world whose stresses pile up until a surreal conclusion whisks Dr. T away to a completely different world... where straight away he's put back to work, and he delivers a boy.  And who can blame him for being relieved.Overall this is a movie I'm glad I saw once; it was an interesting experience.  Kudos to Richard Gere for probably the best acting I've ever seen him do. "},{"Title":"The other reviewers are missing the point","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe I watched the same movie as the other reviewers. Not only is this a great film, it's one of Altman's best, despite an indifferent performance by Richard Gere in the lead. (Major spoilers to follow)In Short Cuts, Altman brilliantly explored the multifaceted ways in which men's hostility, aggression and violence towards women effected women. This film is the flipside. Dr. T. takes care of all his wife's needs, both physical and emotional, to such an extent that she has an emotional breakdown, receding into a childlike state. Beyond this is the love, compassion and support he has for all the women in his life daughters, sister-in-law, nieces, staff, patients. At the same time, he falls for Helen Hunt's character, the new golf pro at his club - up until now the only place where he is with men. She is the exact opposite of all other women in his life strong, independent and self-sufficient. When, in climactic scene, he builds up a huge romantic speech where he promises to take care of her, she makes it clear she has no desire or need to be taken care of. Here lies the central irony of the film, and it is one of the most profound statements I've ever seen on film regarding the illusions of men about women and how it effects women. "},{"Title":"A Sarcastic good movie about Texas","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gere appears to be having such a luscious time surrounded by the film's fuzzy sketch of genteel, grotesque, distaff Texas that he's forgotten to be smug. A surprisingly spry and funny film with a solidly serious core. The slightly anachronistic absurdity of the conceit -- the travails of a lone gentleman in a world of ladies -- gives the actors room to do some wonderful work. It was a sweet film with some bizarre touches in its satire of the bourgeois.Dr. T and the Women may put off people who only look for action and a plot-by-numbers storyline, but should be seen by people who crave adventurous film making. Watch it with a open mind. "}{"Title":"Hit and miss Altman, but some master touches","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like much of Robert Altman's work, this is a hit and miss movie, but worth seeing for some good performances, several genuinely funny scenes, and some of the master's typical ensemble sequences with all hell breaking loose while everybody talks at once! It is probably unhelpful to approach it as though it was a full-blooded satire on wealthy Texas women. For a start, the target is too easy - like the floating and walking birds Dr T and his buddies seem to think it's fair to shoot at - and in any case the focus of the film is not the Women of the title, but Dr T.Richard Gere gives a typically charming and understated, performance as Dr T (for Travis), who is surrounded by women whom he likes and respects in private life, and cares for in his professional life as a gynecologist, but no more understands than most men. Farrah Fawcett gives a touching portrayal as his wife, who retreats into childhood to escape his smothering affection. Helen Hunt, as an independently-minded, intelligent golf pro, provides a refreshing change - both for Dr T and the audience - from the empty-headed shopaholics who people much of the movie. Laura Dern, Kate Hudson and Shelley Long sparkle as, respectively, Dr T's sister-in-law, daughter and receptionist. (As we might expect from Altman, the city of Dallas also plays a leading role; and the best casting is definitely that of Eric Ryan as the birth baby; Eric enters the IMDb actors data base at the tender age of zero!)This is a long way from the vintage Altman of Mash, Nashville and The Player; but is still richer than most Hollywood fare.    "},{"Title":"Its different (spoilers)","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Please read this after you've seen the movie.I think its an incredible film. You won't have seen another movie like it. I can't stop thinking about it. If Truffaut were alive, he'd remind us that if the ending seems inconsistent to us, it might mean there's an underlying rhythm in the movie we've missed, or perhaps we're not thinking outside the square.(spoilers ahead - if you haven't seen film, don't read)It seems that we are lead to believe in the inherent good of Dr T, and that he's wasting his efforts bestowing it on a bunch of loony ungrateful women. If this were just a narrative movie without anything to say at all, i think Dr T would have just had a happy ending with Helen Hunt's character. I was quite shocked when he didn't. This further twist seems to reinforce a message that no woman can be trusted by a good man. And the minute a man gets close to understanding and appreciating women (if anyone had the opportunity to do this, it was Dr T), he is either repulsed or rejected by them. The Freudian-sounding complex that Dr T's wife contracts came about (in the world of the film, which is a bit like Fellini's City of Women) because she was too appreciated, too understood, too loved by Dr T! The minute he finds a woman who appeals to him for her seeming lack of femanine qualities (Helen Hunt exists in a man's world. She is selfless around men, she walks naked in front of Dr T, and it is she who initiates the sexual encounter) - she disappoints him.The movie often makes light of women's troubles everything from accusing women of seeing a gynacologist for sexual gratification, to lousy, jealous bickering.I was amazed that the original script was written by a woman. But then again, with Robert Altman films this usually doesn't dictate the final product, which is born of improvisation and collaboration with actors on set. The final product they have produced in this case is quite a cynical, dark, misogynistic film. The furthest thing from a comedy. And this is mainly given by the ending. The ending feels like the place where Altman really took over and thought of a way to wrap things up. It seems as if improvisation and collaboration produced the movie up until the wedding scene - and only at the end did they decide how it would end. Only once they'd grown so irritated by all the female characters they'd created!Yet witnessing a live birth on screen is absolutely astonishing - and this is optimistic, reminding us of the miracle of birth. But, once again, the final scene in Mexico seems only to serve as a prelude to Dr T's line Its a boy. The entire end sequence is a genocide of women enacted. At the wedding, while the storm is going, Dr T strikes up a big grin suddenly, he seems to see something, have some epiphany. Why is he laughing? Its not anything obvious to us - what should be funny about this chaotic situation? The answer perhaps is given by what happens next, the ending. Dr T has just witnessed his daughter effectively marry another woman (they kiss at the alter and run down the aisle together, acting out a mock-wedding), symbolising women all running off together and keeping themselves entertained. At this point Dr T strikes up his grin, and gets in the wedding car ALONE (representing MAN). Still clinging to some last vestige of marriage, he goes to see Helen Hunt, and the final woman of the film, the blokiest woman, is still, after all, a woman - she lets him down. At this point, Dr T drives off towards a mythical scene, rather more like The Wizard of Oz than anything we've been prepared for in this movie. He is swept up in a hurricane and lands the next morning in Mexico, like the opening of The Tempest, and the closing of Shakespeare in Love. We expect him to say, What land is this? as he is discovered in what appears to be a post-apocalyptic wasteland, and indeed represents one. What has figuratively happened is Dr T has left all the women he has known behind, to be ravaged by the hurricane, or what you will. The filmmakers have literally wiped out every female character we have come to know, and we are left with Dr T, presumably free of the City of Women. Then he is led by some mexican children, who discover him and his number plate which tells them he's a doctor, to a hut where a woman is in labour. He takes off his wedding ring, delivers the child and declares with a resounding laugh Its a boy! Its a boy! We realise what Dr T was laughing about at the wedding. He's realised that men are better off without women. His friends were right all along.Perhaps not an entirely pleasant or regular ending, but after reading my analysis, i think it makes a whole lot more sense in the world of the movie, where women are, on the whole, a nightmare. Tara Reid's character does not exactly fit into this framework. She seemed like quite a pleasant girl. But is this perhaps why her character seemed not to respect the sombre event of the assassination of JFK? Is this why the tone in her voice and the atmosphere of her grassy-knoll tour invited us to laugh at these events? To get us to dislike her?I say it is an incredible film because i'll probably see it again, and because it was almost entirely refreshing and unexpected. I like Altman's style, which feels like free-jazz - a collection of elements which crescendo in the office scenes to a polyphony not usually seen in movies. This kind of chaos is impossible to script and make look unscripted. These moments are the gold in Altman's canon. Despite all its mysogynistic flavours, its quite an enjoyable movie - and you don't realise how negatively someone (who is the author of this work? when its collaboratively produced the term author is irrelevant - Altman is more like a conductor than an author) regarded these female characters till the ending. As the film progresses the portrait of each of them gets clearer and darker, in a moral sense. At the same time they are all still shallow characatures at the end of the movie. The only character we really get to know is Dr T. Perhaps this is because someone knew from the beginning he would be the only one to survive the hurricane. "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected, but I Loved it...","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I may be in the minority here, but I loved DR. T AND THE WOMEN, mainly because it wasn't what I expected. Looking at the title and the cast, I expected a smarmy sex comedy about a doctor who is irresistible to all of his patients and is running from exam room to exam room getting his clothes torn off and then I saw that Robert Altmann directed it and decided to give it a look. I found this film to be an intelligent and winning comedy about a doctor who actually loves and respects his female patients as well as the various females in his life. Richard Gere has rarely been more appealing on screen as the doc of the title and he is surrounded by an impressive group of actresses at the top of their game. Helen Hunt plays the golf pro he falls for. Laura Dern is very funny as his alcoholic sister-in-law. Shelley Long has some funny moments as his office manager who harbors a secret crush on her boss. Kate Hudson and Tara Reid play Doctor T's daughters and in a brief but memorable cameo, Farrah Fawcett as Gere's mentally unstable wife who ends up institutionalized. This film is a little more structured than most of Altmann's previous work and doesn't require the usual work necessary to enjoy an Altmann film and the straight forward scripting is a big help. I know a lot of people found the ending troubling, but to me it was classic Altmann...a little crazy, a little off-center, and leaving questions unanswered...something we Altmann fans have come to expect of him. "},{"Title":"Are 'allegory' and 'whimsy' just totally lost on people these days, or something???!","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... It doesn't so much 'depress' me that people don't like this film, as it does when I find out the REASONS people dislike it. I didn't even feel moved to comment until I realized the staggering lack of depth that's comprised in most people's criticisms here. I figured that I'd just watched a pleasant enough comedic trifle. Apparently not.People, dislike this film by all means - it's hardly the best I've ever seen - but don't vilify it for the very qualities that were wholly intentional. I mean, how many of the 'naysayers' here have even the SLIGHTEST passing knowledge of Frank Capra???! There were odd moments here and there in this that struck me as being decidedly Capraesque...Gere is PERFECT as the guy who - without arrogance - is convinced that he can be every woman's knight in shining armour... Trouble is, they don't NEED any 'convincing'! So, what exactly happens when you take a guy like this and show him a woman who is, by the best information available, completely self-sufficient? All I can say is If this scenario even slightly intrigues you, then watch it and find out... !I think the ending is very fitting, too... (e-mail or PM me for reasons if you disagree; as I don't wish to spoil too much for the good people that are yet to watch!) Rather 'Buddhist' - so surely appropriate for a man of Mr. Gere's persuasion... ?!(7/10, or ***/***** in profile ratings system.) "},{"Title":"Everything that you need to know about Dallas, you'll learn from this movie.","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With Nashville and The Player, Robert Altman did exposes of Nashville and Hollywood, respectively. With Dr T and the Women, he does an expose of Dallas. Richard Gere plays gynecologist Sullivan Travis, always surrounded by women. But this plethora of females may be about to change his life beyond anyone's wildest imagination.The first scene of Farrah Fawcett is really likely to blow your mind, and the scene in Dealey Plaza does make one think about just what did happen on November 22, 1963. But overall, we get a pretty scathing look at Dallas (which I've heard is deserved). Fawcett, Helen Hunt, Shelley Long, Kate Hudson, Tara Reid, Liv Tyler, and Lee Grant all play what may be the most interesting collection of women that I've ever seen in a movie. Certainly this is one of Richard Gere's most interesting roles ever. I think that the end implies that he died and went to heaven.And since it's an Altman movie, it means that everyone's talking at once. "},{"Title":"A complete failure of a film","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Five years on since I saw this movie, I am still wondering why it was ever made. I sat in the cinema in shock. I only watched this movie to the end because I thought there must be a reason why all these A-list actors agreed to be in it, and there must be a point to all this horrendous mess, which would hopefully be made clear at the end. But no such luck. I completely wasted two hours of my life. Worse than that, this movie is such a insult to women, and all humanity, it left me a lasting psychological wound that still makes me angry today.To be fair, the only culprit is the script. The acting was fine. I can only assume Richard Gere and Helen Hunt did it for the money. The story is utterly pointless and worthless. The movie depicts all women as selfish psychos and, by respecting them, Richard Gere loses everything in life. By the way, I'm a man and I was more offended and disgusted by this movie than my wife was. "},{"Title":"Not the Train Wreck I Remember; More Like a Ten-Car Pileup","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Dr. T and the Women when it premiered at the Chicago Film Festival in 2000. Robert Altman was there, as were Richard Gere and Shelley Long, two of the film's stars. The theatre was buzzing with excitement as the movie started (big starry film premiers are still a novelty in a city like Chicago), and by the time it ended, you could almost physically feel the deflation in the auditorium as everyone realized at the same time that the film was a bomb.Because I went into the film so hyped and the movie tanks so badly toward its end, I came out thinking it was probably Altman's worst film. After re-watching it on DVD a few days ago, I realize now that the film isn't nearly as disastrous as I remember it being. The final 15 minutes still stink, but all of the movie leading up to those final moments isn't that bad.Those who call Altman a misogynist are being unfair to him; his body of work contains a large collection of fully realized female characters. If they are frequently treated badly in his films (and many of them are), it's important to remember that it's the male characters treating them that way, not Altman. If anything, a running theme in Altman's work is the crap women have to take from the men in their lives, and several of his films feel like atonements for all the ways boys behave badly.It's unfortunate, then, that the one film that exists almost exclusively as an homage to women and the beautiful chaos they create in the lives of men is full of female caricatures and cartoon types. Not a single female character in this movie feels like a three-dimensional creation, and it's a shame because there is plenty of talent assembled to play them. Gere actually manages to give one of the better performances of his career as the man whose picture-perfect life begins to unravel because of the unpredictable female tidal wave bearing down on him, but the screenplay doesn't bring his story or anything else to any kind of conclusion. How ironic that the film was written by a woman.Altman has always been willing to take risks, and for that I applaud him. But his experiments in this film fail badly. After sticking with a meandering story for nearly two hours, it's as if the film's creators decided they didn't know how the hell they wanted their movie to end, shrug their shoulders and give their audience the finger. The tone abruptly changes into one of slapstick comedy that comes out of nowhere, and a surreal ending that might have worked if anything leading up to it had prepared the audience for it feels stupid.The female cast includes Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett, Shelley Long, Kate Hudson, Tara Reid, Laura Dern, Lee Grant and Janine Turner. Fawcett's barely in the movie; Long and Dern, while providing many of the film's laughs, are asked to do embarrassing things; Turner apparently just turned up on the set one day and Altman set about finding something for her to do. I think we're supposed to see all of these women taken together as representing the different facets of every woman's personality, but none of the women in this movie resembles any woman I actually know.The highlight of the film comes early -- it's a tremendous single tracking shot during the opening credits set in a gynecologist's office. Everything after that is downhill.Still, the nadir of Altman's oeuvre that I measure every other film of his against is Beyond Therapy (1987), and this movie isn't nearly as bad as that. It's not even as bad as Quintet or Popeye, and I have to say that it beats A Wedding in a squeaker.Grade C "},{"Title":"Horrible!!!","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Horrible, don't waste your time. I found this DVD in a old box and watched it. Total Trash. I threw it away.... Dr. T (Richard Gere) has an affair with Helen Hunt while his wife is in a mental hospital is ridiculous. The ending, oh my. Dr. T gets blown in a tornado from Dallas to Mexico. Come on! Soo stupid. I didn't understand the office scenes. They were very load and confusing. All the actress were blonde and all looked alike. It took me twenty minutes to realize Kate Hudson was in this movie, and then she turns out to be a lesbian. I just didn't get this movie. Why was it made? Save your money and time! Do not watch or buy this movie. "},{"Title":"Despite all its Star Power, and some very good performances this film stinks - BIG TIME! Contains Spoilers","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe that the majority of movies, mediocre to bad, began with good ideas.  They were executed poorly in one area or another (or in many areas). I also believe that in most cases great writers, directors, and casts could have made those mediocre to bad films good.  the Dr. T crew just couldn't pull this one off.   Go figure? With a cast of Richard Gere, Farrah Fawcett, Helen Hunt, Tara Reid, Liv Tyler, Kate Hudson, and Shelley Long. And Robert Altman directing .With that kind of pedigree you'd think this movie would have been an Oscar consideration, at least a top box office draw.  Yet, it got all it deserved (actually too much). This film is a great example of how a crappy story , bad editing, and poor dialogue can make great actors look foolish. It also goes to show that great actors make bad decisions. This project leads its cast blindly over a cliff like lemmings.  Fortunately most of them are good enough to survive this nightmare freefall.The Plot  What was the hell was the plot?  A gynecologist has a lot of women in his life - ALL THE TIME!  They are odd, cranky, drunk, lesbian, hypochondriac, and crazy. BIG DEAL!  There was nothing in this movie that helped me bond or even identify with Dr. Travis (and I have 3 girls, a wife, my mother-in-law lives with us, and I'm the only man in an office of six other women).  There was no real development of his character (or the story for that matter) because there were so many subplots and situations, unnecessary scenes (like all the useless uninformative waiting room crap) and minor characters to deal with.  No director (not even Altman) could fully develop such a confusing convoluted pail of swill.There was no resolution in this film. Well, that's not fair. the lesbian thing was resolved, but nothing else. We know his wife is still in the hospital - what happened to her? We know that she wanted a divorce - did anything happen with that?  The whole alcoholic sister thing was a waste of celluloid (though Laura Dern was great in the role). She had no significance, no bearing on the characters or the plot. Dr. T's buddies came off as neutered dogs worshipping their master (Dr. Travis).And the ending! What the hell was that?  He drives into a tornado, lands near a Mexican family's shack and delivers a baby boy. THE END!Sorry folks, this one isn't worth the video rental fee, or the 2 hours of wasted life that could be put to better use - like catching up on the latest WWF rivalry. "},{"Title":"Inexplicably and Incoherently Awful","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** My wife and I picked this movie off the rental store shelf purely off it's star-power.  We figured, How can eight marquee-level stars all be wrong? After watching the film, we had to ask, How did eight marquee-level stars get duped into appearing in this dreck?First of all, I'm absolutely shocked to find it was penned by a woman. Why? Think of a negative female stereotype, and this film screams it into an amplified bullhorn.  Without exception, ALL the female characters are completely neurotic, ludicrously overdressed, blindly self-absorbed, and chatter incessantly about nothing of substance whatsoever, often several characters at a time crescendoing into a mind-grating cacophony.  Even Helen Hunt, who at first appears to be a calm in the midst of this maelstrom, (Look out!  This may ruin it for ya!) turns out to be a man-eating snake.Enter Dr. T  The Rock of Gibraltar, the only character with more substance than a french fry.  Nothing phases him; not his wife getting naked in a crowded shopping center and thus being committed to an insane asylum (because, as her psychoanalyst puts it, Dr. T. just loved her too much), not his daughter who runs into the arms of her lesbian lover rather than her fiancee - at the altar no less, not the hordes of sex-starved and under-appreciated women who clamor into his office almost daily, and no, not even a Texas tornado.  That's right.  Dr. T. survives a tornado that would've made Dorothy and Toto proud -- without a scratch!  He gets up, dusts himself off, and follows some Spanish speaking children to a remote Mexican village just in time to deliver a baby (and yeah, they show EVERYTHING).  What a man!The suspension of disbelief required for this film to have any redeeming qualities is going to break the bell curve.  Please, instead of cursing your poor video-box-reading judgement like I have been, do something comparatively constructive.  Like watching infomercials. "}{"Title":"A sloppy imitation of Altman's earlier great work. Very sad.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got this DVD as a surprise for my roommate. She had really wanted to see this, and I mostly did too. Great cast, marvelous director, etc. What a huge disappointment! It was a silly and sloppy rip-off of the great Robert Altman's movies from the 1970's. Not just a rip-off, which is bad enough, but a poorly done one at that.Where Altman's movies had a raucous, buzzing excitement that inadvertently built the organic edifice of the movies' tones and purposes (the stories)-- this one was merely confused, loud, jabbery, and pointless. Oh wait-- Dr. T & the Women was actually directed by the real Robert Altman? Yikes! What's happened to his eye? His style? His artistic senses? Could the passage of time really be that decrimental? Can genius really become stale and pale as we get older? If that can happen with a great artist such as Altman-- what about mere mortals such as myself! Now, for the first time, I am beginning to fear my own aging process.Dr. T & the Women was a waste of talent-- Altman's, the otherwise wonderful cast, and even me as an audience member. Instead of this hollow tripe-- go and rent Betsy's Wedding, Nashville, or MASH.Final note my roommate and I were repeatedly amazed at how very GOOD Helen Hunt is. Dang! We both remarked several times that even in the midst of all the continually annoying and superficially rendered characters and scenes, Hunt was so spectacular that she brought real depth and grace to her part. Is there anything that woman cannot do? If there is, we haven't seen it yet. The other actors appeared to be doing their best, and at times Shelley Long's character began to breath. These were all great actors, and it is a shame to have to see them vainly working away in a flop. It appeared as if everyone was working hard to do what they were asked-- but alas, and to repeat-- this time out the movie failed them all.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed that Writer is Female","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What surprised me was not necessarily the directing---the cuts to the one female's rear-end seems to me not to speak necessarily about the director, but that particular character's character, but who knows, it's possible.What got me was that this was written by a woman. I have no problem with her portrayal of these high-society women. I am not one myself and so I cannot vouch for or against them. What I can say is that I fully expected this to have been written by a man. I mean come on- a man loves a woman so much that she reverts back to a child-like state- seemingly permanently? Get over yourself.-- A woman that seemingly has everything so she would rather live in an alternate reality as a child--- I understand that a housewife may have feelings she isn't contributing to society after her children are grown, but unless you actually have a history with mental health (and therefore this transformation is caused by other reasons) I don't buy that she would go to this extent to escape this horrible reality of having it all. I believe she might leave... go through a bit of a mid-life crisis, have some issues... lots of possibilities, but the reason she is in the state she is in, is not because her husband loved her too much. And the notion that this could be possible is absurd and extremely stupid. (Hey it's not a word used much by intellectuals, but here it applies.) Again, really? A woman wrote this? The first part establishes the main male as a wonderful, sensitive, caring man and then while his wife is away in an institution he has an affair. Yes, how supportive, nurturing and sensitive this course of action is.And the ending- his life has fallen apart so he drives into a tornado, seemingly wakes up in a Mexican desert and is unscathed, meanwhile, his car (that had no hood for protection) is torn apart. Yes, I am quite certain this tornado took him from Dallas, which unless I'm mistaken is towards the center of Texas to Mexico, again unscathed and in fact he has survived in such good shape that he is able to run to the houses in the desert directly after he awakens from the accident.And the ending- he delivers a a baby boy and laughs out loud. This is no resolution to any of the problems he has gone through- especially considering in this Hispanic home he is again, surrounded by women, only this time, they don't even speak his language. This might have been a resolution to the story if the experiences with the women in his life previously in the move have made him decide to play for the other team. However,this would seem a weird way to suggest this, not to mention,this is extremely unlikely since typically this would not be choice, but nature.The music- I half/muted any scene with the (loud, annoying) music.Perhaps if I had given it a better chance, I might have enjoyed it, however considering I felt the need to lower the volume by half, I'm guessing not.Lastly, I realize we women are all different. We have our sometimes eccentric, sometimes crazy emotional ways. Which, by the way, sometimes make up part of our charm, (I myself, for instance, believe I am a nerd, and a weird one at that) but the only female character that made an impression that did not have some serious issues (of course everyone I know has some serious issue(s), but in Films/TV/Books we need someone to look to as a good example, someone that even with her issues, seems to have it together or is on her way there)is the character played by Helen Hunt and this is cancelled out by the fact that she is not only having two affairs at one time, but one of these is to a married man with an ill wife. And trust me there are a lot of women in this film, it seems someone should have had some moral ground of some kind; perhaps Maria, the maid, but we will never know because her part was so small, however she seems the most likely.I realize, that sometimes we have to make room for no role models in comedies, because these are purely written/made for this purpose, but event though Netflix listed this as a comedy, I think for all of the conflict, it should at the very least be a dramedy, but more appropriately a drama with some comic instances.I would not recommend this movie. I think it is a waste of time. However, a few male Madmen types might find it a good excuse to treat their wives like crap in order to keep their lives from being ruined by the women they love. "},{"Title":"A waste of acting talent","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jackson Pollack became famous in abstract art for laying a canvas on the floor and splashing, dripping and hurling paint on it.  After seeing this film, one might conclude that Robert Altman is to film as Jackson Pollack is to art.  The question is whether this is genius or just a compulsive eccentric flinging stuff into the frame.  My vote goes to the latter.The story is a very scattered, almost incoherent stream of foolishness that surrounds the life of Dr. Sullivan Travis (Richard Gere).  Dr. T is a prominent gynecologist in Dallas Texas and his socialite patients are among the looniest on the planet.  His wife (Farrah Fawcett) went nuts because he loved her too much and treated her too well.  His daughter (Kate Hudson) is getting married and her lesbian lover (Liv Tyler) is her maid of honor. His long time nurse (Shelley Long) is in love with him and along with his golf pro (Helen Hunt), wants to seduce him.  To top it all off his ditzy sister in law (Laura Dern) is living in his house with her three daughters.The script has comic possibilities, but Altman's bizarre presentation dissipates it into a chaotic din.  Most every scene is dominated by the constant yakity-yak of ten women tittering and chattering at once. Clearly, Altman is attempting to lampoon Texas society with his characterizations, but his free-for-all style turns it into amateurish trash of sitcomesque proportion.This film is extremely unflattering to women.  Almost all the women are portrayed as insane over-emotional, irrational, stupid, or hypochondria ridden flakes.  The only woman close to normal is Bree (Helen Hunt), and she is manipulative and self absorbed.  Dr. T, in contrast is levelheaded, rationale, reasonable, sensitive and wonderful.  His shooting pals are also seen as pretty normal guys, if not particularly bright.A treasure trove of acting talent is squandered in the cacophony.  Richard Gere plays a very lovable character, which is a novelty for him.  He is all sensitivity and vulnerability here without a hint of his normal macho impassiveness.  Helen Hunt gives another fine performance as the self-centered golf pro who seems to be Dr. T's refuge from all the crazy women that surround him, but is really using him for her own hedonistic ends.  Farrah Fawcett also gives a terrific rendition of a woman who has taken leave of her wits.  In truth, the entire all-star ensemble is fantastic.  However, great performances with a bad script and a weird director add up to nothing more than so much debris chucked into the frame.I rated this film a 3/10.  The whole is much less than the sum of the parts. For a film with this many bankable stars to gross only $13.0 million at the box office ($5 million of that in week one) is a clear indication of how poor it is.  If you are lucky enough not to have seen it yet, do yourself a favor and miss it. "},{"Title":"Dr. T Gets an A","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can think of few directors who have turned out so many quality films in late career as Robert Altman has.  Dr. T and the Women is Altman's latest, and in telling the story of a popular Dallas gynecologist and the females in his life, Altman has made one of his most enjoyable films yet.  Richard Gere gives what has to be his best performance to date as Dr. Sullivan Sully Travis.  Gere does not get enough credit for being a good actor, and with this performance he shows what enormous range he has.  His Dr. T is so engaging and charming, that it is easy to see why he has the following he does.  Gere's performance is the centerpiece of a quirky, funny, and hugely entertaining film, one of the best of 2000. "},{"Title":"Brilliant satire","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sattire about weak minded women and the men who equate all women to be all like that.The lesson here in this movie is that more women should take care of themselves more and be more like the few represented by Helen Hunt's character.Another lesson here is that men must not forget that there are women out there who do not need men and as a matter of fact have more balls than most men.It is a requirement for one to have deep enough smarts to understand and appreciate the genius of Altman and this great film.The cinematography was great as well as the direction,story and script.The only weakness was the screenplay but even that was not bad at all.Bravo for this movie that is not afraid to delve into the truth of us unlike so much formulaic mainstream movie garbage hailed so much by brain dead viewers....   "},{"Title":"Richard Gere and the Women.","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dr. T and the Women (2000) Dir Robert Altman / Cast Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett, Laura Dern, Shelley Long Another astonishing achievement by director Robert Altman. It celebrates women and since Dr. T works in a medical clinic it opens the door for perversity yet it is enlightening and clever. Richard Gere plays Dr. Travis who treats pregnant women yet is surrounded by many strange personalities. His wife Kate suffers from a mental disorder and his two daughters are Didi who is engaged yet in love with her maid of honor, and Connie who gives tours at the White House. Gere delivers a flawless performance to the point where we understand during the muddled conclusion when a sudden storm invites much mindless chaos that has him glancing up at the sky and laughing. Helen Hunt is fetching as Bree whom he meets on a golf resort thus leading to romance. Farrah Fawcett as Kate can only be described as daring. She strips nude in public and splashes into a fountain before being arrested and diagnosed with a mental illness. Laura Dern plays a meddling sister-in-law. Shelley Long is surprise casting and delivers comic moments as Dr. T's loyal secretary. The concluding storm doesn't compliment the narrative any further than its visual. Then we are treated to a graphic birth scene after he wakes up in Mexico. Very good until the storm hits. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"In praise (or annoyance) of women","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Altman's Dr. T and the Women (2002) is an ensemble dramedy with some romance detailing an overworked, socially-in-demand gynecologist (Richard Gere) in Dallas who faces problems with an assortment of women beyond his practice. His daughter, Dee Dee (Kate Hudson) &#x96; a Dallas Cowboy cheerleader &#x96; is getting married, but his younger daughter (Tara Reid) drops the ball that Dee Dee's a lesbian having a relationship with a former co-ed (Liv Tyler). Worse, his wife (Farrah Fawcett) reverts to a child-like state and is, consequently, placed in a mental institution. Desperate for love, the doctor turns to an independent golf pro for succor (Helen Hunt). Meanwhile, his sister-in-law is an alcoholic (Laura Dern) and his office manager is in lust with him (Shelly Long).This movie has a horrible reputation, but it's actually not bad as long as you're in the mood for a drama with amusing touches. It's far from great, but it's certainly not bad. Gere is very likable in the title role and bends over backwards to help all the women in his life. The women are likable too, although many of the peripheral ones are somewhat annoying.I find the criticism that the film is misogynistic funny in light of the fact that the screenplay was written by a woman, Anne Rapp. Others argue that the story's pointless and the ending is ridiculously unbelievable. While the latter point is true, this IS a dramedy/satire and not everything is SUPPOSED to be strictly realistic. As to the former criticism, just enjoy the ride and reflect on the plot and subplots. You may not agree with its points, and they may be elusive, but it's not pointless.While I like the film and it contains scores of beautiful women, I'm only giving it a marginal thumbs up because they could've done better on this front considering the wealth of resources they had to work with, not to mention the opening credits sequence is noticeably overlong and dull. Interestingly, the ending graphically details the birth of a baby -- a male.The film runs 122 minutes and was shot in the Dallas area.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Pretty Decent","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dr. Sullivan Travis (Richard Gere) is a wealthy Dallas gynecologist for some of the wealthiest women in Texas who finds his idealist life beginning to fall apart starting when his wife, Kate (Farrah Fawcett), suffers a nervous breakdown and is committed to the state mental hospital.Among Robert Altman's films, this is considered among his worst. In all fairness, it is not that bad and is probably more misunderstood than anything else. Gere may have a very limited acting range, but he filled the role well. Even Tara Reid, no great actress, shows us she has the ability to be a decent support.This is the sort of film that makes me want to watch it over and over again just to champion it. Not that it is amazing, but just because it is not the worst of his pictures and needs to be evaluated again. "},{"Title":"This Is Not American Gigolo or Pretty Woman Not A Sweet Romantic Fantasy...","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, I'm in the minority on this one. I liked it. And here's whyAt the beginning of this quirky immersion in a world of women, I was reminded of George Cukor's classic The Women, where a live man is never seen on camera, but men are constantly being talked about; in this film, women are almost always on screen, talking about other women, and being watched by the benevolent Dr. T., beautifully underplayed in a wry performance by usual lady-killer Richard Gere.When men appear in this film, they are usually in camouflage of some sort , and they too, are talking about women. Though satirical in nature (the young guide who thoughtlessly points out grisly details of the Kennedy Assassination site in Dallas, the patient who absolutely has to smoke while having the most intimate exam, etc.), this is also an affectionate look at women who each has her own fantasy, her own desires, and some lucky few are able to realize them, often without the help of Dr. T. The narrative is indeed scattered, but Altman's strengths have never been homogenized storytelling; this is complex and witty fun for those in the mood. It is not a sweet little romance or does not seem to be a film about female bonding, but is a look askance at human behavior in one of it's many manifestations. "},{"Title":"Good Quirky Robert Altman Flick","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, a of people didn't like it, it is not a crowd pleaser. But I did. First off, I like Robert Altman & his movies. Also, it was set in Texas and leads were all Texan except for one but it never degenerated into worn out Texan stereotype land, good or bad. But it did play on the hyper over bred Southern belle & all her neurotic twisted traits. Basically Dr Sullivan Travis, Sully or Dr. T,(Richard Gere) is a handsome successful, well mannered friendly gynecologist surrounded by beautiful women who desire and admire him. He is an idealist who has the most romantic loving, but paternalistic view of women. Even the opening scene was hilarious with his busy office full of patients and staff degenerated from friendly service to bickering chaos during the opening credits.Trouble, is Sully, is going to be shown up with his well meaning idealism. His wife Kate, (Farrah Fawcett) develops this childish regression, the Hestia Complex because she is an over pampered, over loved, over doted over Southern belle. Then his super vixen daughter, who is going to be married in some upper class lush ceremony. turns out to be gay and is really in love with the main bridesmaid, the one non Texan. Since Sully's wife is now committed, and she has rejected or forgotten her whole loving family, Sully tried to find consolation with the new golf pro Bree, but she is too modern to be one of pampered belles that Sully has been conditioned to love and care for. Okay the movie spirals from seeming normalcy to a crazy ending with a botched wedding thrown in. It is a good movie and kept my interest through it all.If there is any message to it, it is don't be a vapid Southern belle and get a life. "}{"Title":"This movie was boring","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dr. T and the Women was boring, trite, shallow and full of clich. To me Altman is, like Martin Scorcese, a highly over rated director. I did not see any depth to the movie at all and it was so predictable. The acting sucked, especially from Laura Dern, who is never good. The situations were ridiculous. For example, like my wife said, no woman goes to see her gynecologist that often. Just because Dee and Marilyn became liberated lesbians and because Bree dumped Dr T in the end does not make the original or deep in anyway. And trying to fill the story with mostly women added no depth either. In fact there was not a single relationship (male/female, male/male, female/female) that had any depth to it. You need to shelve this movie Mr. Altman and really try to make a movie that has some depth. I will take a Kurosawa, Chaplin, Eastwood, or even Spielberg movie over any of yours. "},{"Title":"Ensemble cast raises the comedy above the scripting and weak direction","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Obviously a chick flick, women basically poking fun at themselves.The acting is over wrought for comedic effect, but goes too far, to the point of making the characters manic caricatures of themselves. With a banner cast like this film has, you should like somebody, but there's nobody to like. Their motivations are never understood, other than the overdone gender clich, and therefore you are left only with mocking them. They are deliberately played as foolish desperate housewives, the hoi paloi of influential Dallas society. In spite of the director's awkward approach, some of the women turn in good performances. In particular, Goldie Hawn and Shelly Long bring dimension to their otherwise thinly written roles.A gynecologist is surrounded by women in every aspect of his life; work, family etc. He has some militia-style hunting buddies he hunts with, but that's it for male bonding. By the way, Elmer Fudd has a better chance of catching Bugs Bunny than these guys have of catching anything.Someone other than Richard Gere should have been cast in this role. He always looks like his mouth doesn't open properly, as if he needs jaw surgery. He has no comedic smarts, either, and ends up looking more psychotic than any of the female stereotypes. The wedding scene's predictable twist doesn't work, but the storm analogy was actually pretty good, and that would have made a fitting close to the story. But no, there is a woeful freak-out ending tacked on that pounds the whole movie into hamburger. What worked for Judy Garland in 1939 does not work for Gere this time around. 'Nuff said.Has moments, and the cast raises it far above the scripting. "},{"Title":"Casting was great, good story, but ending ruins it...","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The casting was terrific... the story with the daughters I found a little boring... The story line between Gere and Helen Hunt was terrific, and very interesting to see how it unfolded and the end result.. Howevah, that has to be one of the worst, most unrealistic endings since the Johnny Depp movie where his tormentor over a book is actually himself. What a disappointment... The dialogue and characters with the daughters was very interesting, well written and performed - I just found myself wanting to go back to the Dr.T/Bree storyline. The moments with Dr. T and the guys were interesting too... Just all ruined with a tornado that throws a vintage Cadillac convertible around and tosses an uninjured man into the desert... "},{"Title":"Speaking Ill of the Dead","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you've never seen a Robert Altman film except Dr. T and the Women, you may wonder why there was so much press about his passing a week or two ago. Altman was considered a superbly talented and artistic film maker, but you would never know it from watching the dreadful Dr. T.Another reviewer on this site said not to expect Pretty Woman, an immensely popular Garry Marshall flick with Richard Gere. The reviewer is right. While Pretty Woman was a repulsive story of gold-hearted whores, making a gajillion bucks from Gere-loving women looking for sweet, gold-plated romance, DTATW is an unfunny, unromantic, tedious story of pampered UMC types, circling around Gere, a befuddled and oh-so-handsome gynecologist who has a psychotic wife, two bordering-on-bizarre daughters, and a budding relationship with Helen Hunt, the only woman in Dallas who isn't a neurotic and hopelessly dependent hausfrau or wannabe.Other than the feeble attempt at providing some prurient pleasure for the boys with Farrah Fawcett and Helen Hunt naked (at different times) in the background, only a hopeless metrosexual could sit through this. For the ladies, Gere looks godlike, as usual, and Robert Hays has lost his geekiness from the Airplane movies and has settled into a nice, handsome middle age.But a glimpse of skin here and Gere looking exasperated there does not a pleasant time make. There's no point to Dr. T., no center, and unless you enjoy watching Gere fall for and be manipulated by Hunt (not a bad thing if she were on the up-and-up), I can't think of anything less enjoyable than watching Altman's disastrous women's movie. Except for putting your feet in those stirrups (I have been told). "},{"Title":"Undemanding but pretty","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great cast of female actors of all ages, beautifully filmed sets, all good to look at. Hudson is the pick of the bunch - the rest have even less to get their teeth into. However it is lazily written and directed. Pretty to look at and easy on the brain - ideal for lazing in front of the TV on a wet, winter's night. Won't satisfy demanding geeks, but there is a place for this type of undemanding entertainment in my video collection, for I don't always feel the need to assault my senses with effects, gimmicks, plot twists and the like. The feel-good factor outweighs the shortcomings, so give it a go if you're in the mood for something light. "},{"Title":"Comes up short","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A fine cast of actors and an interesting story does not always provide a good film. Where did it go wrong? The main characters were amply explored for a comedy; the elements were there for an intrigue sur plus; the pretty people were there for a light romance that would make the coldest heart melt; if one were murdered it could have been a real crime flick. But it just did not happen. The acting is good. The story keeps you going. It might even tear you up, if you are willing. The comedy works at several instances. The drama will question you on human relations. But in the end it comes up short on all cinematographic fields it tries to explore. Bummer! There's a good film hiding in there somewhere. "},{"Title":"Worth a glance","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie composed of 100s of funny bits that still doesn't quite add up. It would make a terrific sit com. Too much material for one movie.  Just as a painting needs some blank space to rest the eyes, this movie could have used some quiet time.  I was left feeling that if the timing were different or it was cut more dramatically it would have been a terrific film.  The mixed message Is this a drama?  Richard Gere is so sensitive.  Or is it a comedy? Everything is so crazy.  Yet there is much here to think about.  I see it as an extension of an old film called The WomenI was appalled at so many hateful comments in other reviews.  There are obnoxious women in the world, but why did so many judge these women's lives as boring? And to sum it all up, don't people know how hard it is to find a good gynecologist? "},{"Title":"Takes a while to get going, but gets good.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The style of the opening sequence, a long improved shot that usually works in other Altman films, crashes horribly in this movie as it is just a blur of dialogue.  But the Tiffany sequence starts to recover the movie, and once Helen Hunt enters, the film is in its right gear.  Speaking of gears, Richard Gere is fine in this film. "},{"Title":"above-average flic that pokes subtle jabs at upper-class women","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ending ruins an otherwise good film.  Could have ended after the weddingscene and been a much better film.  But, just slightly above average for Altman is still entertaining.  Worth watching on cable television or renting maybe.What I liked best about the film were the subtle jabs (almost tongue in cheek) at the banalities of all these upper-class women depicted.  They are so wrappedup in their boring lives.  Really the subject matter is not that interesting, and it's a testament to Altman that he can weave such an interesting essay out of thematerial.  I love the irony that Dr. T's wife has such a perfect life that it drives her into the loony bin.  This movie is comedy to be sure, but subtle almost darkcomedy, which pokes fun at the lives of these people with a straight face. I've known women like the ones in this film, and just like the women in this film they are boring and mostly unsexy.  The only women that are at all sexy are wifeKate and daughter Connie; the rest, I'd like to just bitch slap.  Most of the acting is well done.  Like I said, what works is how well this film captures the lives of (mostly) women in a place (Dallas) and time (late 20th century).  I think this film will hold up well over the years for that.6/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty deep","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd say that this movie has a pretty deep meaning to it. I'm not an Altman fan nor have I seen any of his works. But I think he did great with Dr.T although my first impression after seeing the movie is somewhat awed by how annoying women can be. Seriously in my opinion some parts of the movie are a bit overrated. This same impression also hit me right after I watched What Women Want (it's kinda funny though seeing Helen Hunt act in those two movies).Anyhow I like seeing the all-star cast in it. Each did a wonderful job although sometimes they missed the accent. The story and the directing itself I'd have to say is an artful work. Subtle, intriguing, and deep. Still, you need to be either an Altman fan or a pretty melancholic person to be able to really enjoy it.  "}{"Title":"Worth watching if you don't bring too much baggage.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!  I suppose I'm missing something. I thought this film was OK light entertainment. It was like one of those having a very bad day movies, even though the narrative seemed to have covered a couple of months. And the Wizard of Oz style tornado, and the birth of the baby  represents a sort of redemption for Dr. Travis. These themes are somewhat shallow, though, and I get the feeling I should have seen something deeper, or been disappointed in Altman for not doing so. I guess I don't see why delivering the baby boy in the village is of any particular meaning to Dr. Travis, who has presumably delivered hundreds or thousands of babies, of which half would surely be boys. And about Altman, I saw him give an interview a while back, on his film M*A*S*H, and he seemed to think that the most notable thing about it was that it was the first R-rated film containing the word f**k. This is a guy to expect serious social commentary from? Anyway about this movie, Helen Hunt, as usual, disappeared into her character. And Richard Gere is largely continuing his character (and career resurrection) that he began in Pretty Woman. The rest of the cast, too numerous to mention here, all hit the right notes. Overall, I thought this film is worth seeing, if you don't bring to it a lot of expectations. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Making fun of ourselves","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the plot lacked substance, and it was a little too busy to keep up, I laughed through out the movie.  Being from Texas, and working in the Dallas/Ft Worth area, I could actually see these snotty, pampered, shallow women portrayed in the movie.  Yes, it was a little over the top, but then alot of the world thinks that is how Texans actually are.The locations were very accurate, and realistic.   As was the medical scenes.   The birth was real, which surprised and impressed me.  It was a large risk for the director to take. I would like to know where the last scene was filmed.  It leads you to think it was in Mexico, but I do believe it is in Southwest N.M.  Somewhere around  Carlsbad.  If anyone knows please let me know.  "},{"Title":"A Nasty Old Man","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another Robert Altman misogynistic humiliation of women. This one finds Altman surrounding Richard Gere, as a wealthy Dallas OBGYN, with a variety of mostly blonde airheads who demand so much in their self-centeredness that he finds himself begging for relief. (He gets it in the film's absurd hallucinatory conclusion.) Gere is actually pretty good this time around, relaxed and casual, perhaps because the women in his life (including Laura Dern, Shelley Long, Kate Hudson, Tara Reid and--in the only sympathetic female role--Farrah Fawcett) spend their time onscreen talking over each other (Altman's trademark, albeit this time with bumbling dialogue from Anne Rapp's meaningless screenplay), embarrassing each other and generally just being unpleasant, immature girls. The whole thing revolves around the wedding plans for one of Gere's children and when you finally get there, it's essentially a revisiting of Altman's far superior `A Wedding'--much ho-hum wackiness abounds. Somewhere in the middle, Gere falls in love with golf pro Helen Hunt but, naturally, she turns out to be just as confused and conniving as the rest. Altman is living off the reputation he created from `Nashville', `McCabe & Mrs. Miller' and `California Split' but he's used up his goodwill at this point and he's become nothing more than a nasty old man with nothing better to do than bait actresses in order to `expose' them. (This time it's Hunt he convinces to undress for no good reason; in `Short Cuts' it was Julianne Moore.) It's hard to cotton to this type of fun.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst films...ever!","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, what a waste of time, talent and motion picture film.  This was the most annoying flick I've seen in a long, long time.  There's no real story here, just a bunch of overdressed, gabby, ditzy women and poor Richard Gere stuck in the middle of it all.  I firmly believe Robert Altman has gone senile.  (Sorry, Bob.)  Well, at least the shots were in focus.  Uggh!  "},{"Title":"Buy this movie.  AND DESTROY IT!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie.  I'm going to go and buy this movie.  Then I'm going to take this movie, and destroy it in my fireplace so that there is one less copy of this godforsaken movie in circulation.  If I could get my $5.74 and my two hours back from the movie rental place, I would.  It made the grade nine sex ed video look like sesame street.  No one should ever be video taped at that angle.  I reccomend chewing off your own arm and beat yourself with it - it'll be less painful.   "},{"Title":"2.5 out of 5 stars","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is difficult to tell if this film, directed by the incredibly perceptive Robert Altman, is a sexist or extremely nuanced portrayal of upper-middle class women.  Richard Gere stars as a top-rate Dallas gynecologist surrounded, at work and home, by women his child-like wife (Farrah Fawcett), his two daughters (Tara Reid and Kate Hudson), his top nurse (Shelley Long), his flighty sister-in-law (Laura Dern), the new golf pro at his country club (Helen Hunt), and a slew of demanding, yet interesting and compelling, patients.  Dr. T, while remaining faithful to his wife and dutifully fulfilling his obligations as doctor, father, and friend, struggles to find the right answer with women.  All of his greatest pains and joys are caused by women, and as the film progresses, Altman raises the tempo and allows several plot lines to coexist and coalesce in a nice symphony of love, confusion, and despair.  Altman, as always, displays a great awareness of the film's geography, giving us a Dallas of golf courses, shopping malls, cheerleaders, and hunting trips.  A slow beginning and a zany, contrived ending, however, prevent Altman from achieving his usual level of poignancy and truth.   "},{"Title":"Altman's worst","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dr. T and the Women is one of the most painful cinematic experiences in recent memory. Get ready to hear well-known actors put on their best Texas drawl and bumble their way through a scattered love (?) story.The incessant nattering of the collection of bridesmaids will have you wishing one of them would run her fingers down the chalkboard just to give your ears a rest. One of Altman's trademarks (everybody talking at once) is used to poor effect here, and it's never clear just what the film is suggesting about the adulterous life Dr. T leads. Oh yeah, this is also one of the most profoundly sexist films I have ever seen. It ends with Gere's celebration that a boy--not a girl, thank God--is born, and that the child will never grow into one of the nagging, inarticulate, insane women who terrorize him. And actresses complain about the roles being offered to them. They should.  "},{"Title":"A stab at men, not women! *SPOILERS*","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I do not believe the movie is remarkable, it was certainly worth a watch, but was misunderstood by almost everyone I have read or spoken to!This movie is taking a stab at men, not women. The character of Dr. T is a great send-up of men who fool themselves into thinking they are truly altruistic, but are merely patriarchs disguised as admirers of women. What the audience is meant to realise is that his seemingly selfless demeanour is just a smokescreen for the real Dr. T a man who only wants to be needed by women. He has lost the true meaning of what helping others means, and is trapped in his self-important world where his expertise is used for upper class, neurotic, highly-strung women. He has hoodwinked himself into believing that he is making a difference in the world, when all he is doing is placating his own ego by falsely complimenting his mostly unworthy patients. The women are exaggerations of a culture of spoilt brats who have nothing else to do with their time but shop and be pampered. They have  returned to a simulated childhood. Dr. T has been polarised in this culture and blinds himself by reveling in the fatherly attention he receives. Are these really *BIG* problems he deals with??? The ending makes perfect sense and is a wonderful re-birth of his new, sincere life. It's a boy! he screams in delight. He understands the meaning of life, his work, and altruistic service. The Mexico we see is a world where people *TRULY* need him, and Dr. T doesn't want to be needed merely to placate his ego. The tornado is a real snap out of it! catalyst to a barren landscape, perfect for a new start. How could no-one like this humanistic ending! "},{"Title":"Doesn't deliver","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't see any points why the director drags the story so slowly for the first half of the film, while it could actually be told in half an hour at most. The second half is actually where the action really begins, and only from then on it becomes interesting. The ending is touching, although not very convincing. Just one more proof that big names (Altman, Gere, Hunt, Dern, Fawcett, Hudson, Tyler) can't guarantee to deliver (pun intended). "},{"Title":"please.. DON'T WATCH IT !!!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  it's one of the worst movies... EVER! the only good thing of this movie is that at one moment.. it ends!! but the whole movie is really garbage, is bad, bad, bad.. terrible! not even the good cast can save the movie, the script is ... stupid, boring and REALLY bad. i had to watch it in forward cause i couldn't even watch the whole movie.. is too long and too bad to watch it completely. please save your money and don't waste your time... DON'T watch this movie. i give it a 0. "}{"Title":"Watch it for the women","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that the only reason I went to see this film was so that I could perve upon one of the actresses in it namely, the lovely Liv Tyler (most devastated was I to learn of her engagement earlier in the year).  While she did not disappoint, the film as a whole was a little on the lacklustre side dragging on for far too long and seeming a little aimless (maybe it would have been a bit more entertaining if the title character had been MR T).  It wasn't all bad, though.  Its portrayal of a gynaecologist as some sort of (perhaps unlikely) sex symbol was rather interesting, and the town that it was set in (one filled with rich, beautiful women) was one that I'd certainly like to take up residence in myself.  Oh, and the loonies in the rocking chairs were good for a laugh too. "},{"Title":"...Has No Business Being Viewed!!!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Look, if you like Richard Gere and Helen Hunt and all the other familiar faces, DON'T see this movie! What a WASTE of talent and time! Aside from being vulgar (viewing OB-GYN exams is not entertainment; we were led to believe it was background and NOT so graphic), this movie suffers from thin characters with single-minded purposes. The chaos heaved on Gere's character is not at all entertaining, and Gere, while attempting a worthwhile effort, looks like an actor who knows he's in a lousy picture. Rent Runaway Bride or Good As It Gets instead. "},{"Title":"Lousy in almost every way","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just rented this film, although I remember considering seeing it in the theater when it came out.  What a waste of money that would have been!This has got to be one of the worst films that I have ever seen.  Since there are plenty of other plot descriptions posted, I will just give my opinions  the film was icky, for lack of a better term.  It paints Dallas women as pretty pathetic and somehow in need of WEEKLY gynecologist appointments (!).  The film was hard to follow in terms of the dialogue, because of the odd way in which it was filmed with a lot of background mumbling brought to the forefront, which in itself kind of removes the possible enjoyability factor (although I doubt many people would be inclined to enjoy this).  The character sketches were extremely vague and it was hard to like or care about any of the characters.  Nothing really gets resolved in the film, anyway (the bizarre ending is one I care to forget).  What did the filmmakers hope to accomplish with this one?  It was rather unclear.  It was surprising that such a good cast agreed to do a film this strange and pointless.  I thought this picture was categorized as a comedy, but I couldn't see anything funny about it (unless awkward conversation between a gynecologist and crazy women being examined could be considered humor).  If I have saved one person from watching this film, I feel I have done a service! "},{"Title":"Having your teeth pulled is more pleasurable...","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I thought, Gee, I wonder why I haven't heard anything about it?'  And then after looking at the cast I thought, well how could I go wrong?'  Well, I realize now how I could go wrong.  It's called 'renting' this piece of nonsense.Do you remember in the Mel Brooks film The Producers how they INTENTIONALLY made the worst possible play they could (Springtime for Hitler), hoping that it would flop on opening night?  Well, as I watched Dr. T and the Women, I found myself wondering if the people who made this movie were trying to do the same thing.  If so, they succeeded.I could go on and on about why it is so bad, but I'd be writing all night. I didn't bother to watch the ending.  I didn't really care.  Do yourself a favor...rent anything but this movie.  "},{"Title":"Two hours of unadulterated dogmeat","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a corruption of the market for film entertainment when a well-reputed cast is combined with a terrible script and direction to produce a dog such as this, which is then marketed on the strength of the cast.  I rented the film because the storyline sounded funny and the cast is strong.  What a huge mistake.  I cannot understand why Gere, Hunt and Tilley agreed to participate.  There is no appreciable plot, not a single character has any depth and the ensemble scenes just irritate the senses.  Hunt is the only actor with presence in the film but her character is never properly developed. "},{"Title":"What a piece of drivel!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere has done some great work in his time, but not here! What a horrible jumble of a story! The ending seems like it was a last ditch attempt make this guy seem human. I am used to seeing Helen Hunt's coma-inducing acting, but honestly, her role here is unsympathetic to begin with. Farrah Fawcett? Shall we say type casting? If you want to see a truly misogynist movie, go see this one!   "},{"Title":"I am truly sorry","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Really, I am. Robert Altman is one of the finest directors of our time. His sense of atmosphere and his ability to draw his characters as real people is always a source of joy and watching his films usually is the best time to spent in front of a screen.Alas, in Dr. T. Altmans work is disappointing. Even though the story begins with a remarkable Atmanish long slide over the lobby of Dr. T.'s clinic, introducing to us these women - oh, these women! - and even his loyalty towards his characteres kicks in from the very beginning, the film fails to amuse or excite. It is as if he has had his difficulties to know which way to direct the movie. Or maybe even simpler Perhaps it is just to difficult to create a screwball comedy with real, believable characters in it. The mix of reality and fantasy collides and the result is not as fruitful as could be hoped.Among Altmans strong sides is his marvelous personal directing. Although I have never been directed by the Maestro myself it is hard to believe that the excellent efforts of Laura Dern, Kate Hudson, Richard Gere, Farah Fawcett and most notably Shelley Long has come to light without Altman being the midwife. It is a joy to watch them and it saves the movie from being completely wasted.Yes, I am sorry. Please Altman, strike us yet another masterpiece so I can show my friends why you are the greatest!5/10 "},{"Title":"Dr T ~ a make-or-break film for Long?","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Firstly, what's it all about?  It's all about getting away from the triviality of life and getting back to basics, a grand theme on life played out in the confines of a rich gynaecology practice but ending in the sparseness and poverty of the peripheral desert.Sounds a mind-stretching treat but let's keep our feet on the ground here. From a Long fan's point of view, the role of Carolyn is nothing more than a guesting part in an overblown, soporific Altman film.  This isn't a slur on Long, because none of the roles played out by the 'Women' were anything to write home about.  Honestly.  Take it from me, they were all sleep-inducing. As for Carolyn, you'll either see the character as a humorous diversion from the surrounding dross or an over-the-top interpretation of another troubled woman in Dr T's life.  I'll go for the former, even though the abiding memory of Carolyn, apart from THAT scene, was of her popping her head around the door in yet another attempt to organise the doctor's hectic schedule.  It was never going to be Oscar winning stuff.Dr T was a make-or-break film for Long, in respect to the view that it would either stabilise a sadly flagging film career or cement that 'made-for-tv' tag. Either way, in my view, the result is that Dr T will not bring her the immediate big screen starring roles she needs, and that's a shame.  "},{"Title":"Pure Waste","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Robert Altman but this movie is a total waste of good talent.I wish he had use his actors like he did in Short Cuts bit he din't too bad.Richard Gere is fantastic in this movie so is Helen Hunt and Shelley Long.The rest of the cast is useless.Tara Reid,Kate Hudson and an a fat Liv Tyler should had been use at there full potential but they were not.All these girls are very sexy but in this movie they all overdress what a shane since Robert Altman is know to undress his actresses not in this one.They say that this movie a comedy/romance/drama what a laugh.Two scenes are worth a smile,where is the romance and the drama is so stupid and none existent that after the first 10 minutes the movie is over.When after seeing Short Cuts I saw this trash what a let down.I think my big mistake was to view Short Cuts first.Do not go by the R rating there barely any nudity.In a positive note to see good acting from Richard Gere again was worth thr two houres I lost on this Pure Waste. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of the worst I've ever seen.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe they spent the time and money to make this ridiculously boring movie.  This movie was about nothing.  I would like to have my money back.  All the stars that were in this movie should be ashamed.  I probably would have enjoyed Yahoo Serious' new movie more than this piece of garbage. "}{"Title":"huge disappointment","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hardly write a negative review.  In fact, this is going to be the first one and I am sad about it.I couldn't believe this movie was directed by the same person who directed The Player.  First of all, this movie doesn't have the main plot (or maybe there was one intended to be, but I couldn't find it).  Second, directing and editing were so bad that I couldn't keep my concentration (actually, I interrupted watching several times).  And final, but not the least thing - although there were a bunch of great actresses, none of them showed their real ability Helen Hunt's character totally disappeared; Farrah Fawcett evaded her twilight with a ridiculously childish job; Laura Dern tried the same thing by unexplained drinking scenes.  Maybe only good (not great) part was a tale of Liv Tyler and Kate Hudson's relationship - both these girls certainly have inherited an eccentric gene from their famous dad/mom, and I could see a good chemistry between them at a moment even in this totally frustrating movie.Overall, this movie is a waste of talents and maybe your time, too.  I can't recommend this movie to anyone at all. "},{"Title":"Compare Dr. T to Altman as a genre","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen so many negative reviews of this movie that I must comment.  I  have noted that most of the negative reviews have come from people who do not know the work of the director, Robert Altman, or from people who know and loathe the work of the same.  I consider Altman a genre unto himself.  In each movie he does, he creates characters which are too broadly drawn to be believed, so if the viewer is into realism  s/he is out of luck.  I submit that many of the negative reviewers would hate any Altman movie they saw based on lack of reality; hence, they might as well disqualify themselves as  objective reviewers.  For them to say this movie is bad, would be equivalent to my saying any given horror flick, no matter how well made, is bad just because I hate horror flicks.  It is unfair criticism.Given the above, I, a lover of Altman, will attempt to compare Dr. T to two of the best of Altman's milieu, Short Cuts, and Nashville.  What I love about Altman's movies is that each character is an archetype, and his movies are a psychological study of what happens when archetypes collide. In Short Cuts, different sets of archetypes collide to create disaster.  I love that movie because the main theme, that disaster occurs when one takes a short cut, is illustrated in several different ways with several different sets of archetypes.  In Nashville, the archetypes are satires of the country-music industry.  I don't believe there is any one main theme in Nashville, which is not as satisfying to me as Short Cuts' focus on one theme, but, in Nashville the characters Altman draws are so quirky and interesting that it comes a close second as my favorite Altman movie.Now, we come to Dr. T.  This movie, unlike most of Altman's movies, focuses on one character, Dr. T.  The psychological study is how the thinly-drawn female archetypes affect the richly-drawn main character.  Dr. T is a guy who loves women, but mistakenly, as the events in the movie point out, puts them on a pedestal.  In the short term, he is very popular with women, but, eventually, his attitude catches up with him.  His wife descends into a childlike state, because, according to a psychiatrist, she has been pampered too much.  His daughters, with whom, he has taken the role of provider and moral compass, in the end, decide that they can make decisions for themselves, and abandon him.  And, his love interest does not want to be 'taken care of', thank you.  Dr. T remains confused about women even after all of this has happened to him.    So much so, that at the end of the movie, when he delivers a baby boy, he rejoices.  Finally, someone arrives who will make sense to him.   I didn't like this movie as much as the rest of Altman's because there is so much focus on Dr. T.  I would have liked to have seen either more detail in the female characters (which would make this movie more like Nashville in the richly drawn characters), or, alternatively, I would like to see other plotlines which are independent of Dr. T, but which are tied together at the end of the movie to illustrate a similar theme (which would make this movie more like Short Cuts).But to say this movie is bad just because the characters are unrealistic, is missing the point.  That's Altman. "},{"Title":"Pretty good - Altman has been better - Gere- always gorgeous","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I *liked* this movie, although many of Altman's other movies have been of a higher quality (for instance Short Cuts). Richard Gere is always great to look at and there is a huge cast of many well-known actresses. I especially liked little funny episodes like when a character in the film takes all her clothes of in a shopping mall the camera zooms in on the Godiva shop sign that is nearby. Clever. I thought the chaos of Dr T's life and the movie was pretty funny also although its tempo was too low at times. The film is also too long and the ending is VERY strange... But it's still a movie that I would recommend. "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Messy","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film promises so much at the outset and ends up boiling down to much ado about nothing. Richard Gere is excellent as a Texan gynecologist who is just so suave his clients can't keep away from him. These are the least of his female problems though! His wife (Farrah Fawcett) has had a nervous breakdown and resorted to a childlike state, his sister (Laura Dern, who is by far the best performance in the film) has found the cure for her depression over her divorce is in the bottle, his one daughter (Tara Reid) is obsessed with conspiracy theories and his other daughter (Kate Hudson) is getting married in a week but seems more interested in her maid of honour (Liv Tyler) than her intended husband. Along comes Helen Hunt as a the golf club employee with the least complicated life who automatically appeals to him. Anne Rapp's script seems poised on pointing out the fact that men like Dr. T don't understand the women around them because they regard them so highly as women that they worship and not the people with whom they share a planet (at one point Gere delivers a line that says something along the lines of `All women are sacred in their own special way and should be treated as such&#133;' not realizing that this is patronizing and probably why his wife gone insane and his daughters don't really know him), but she never lets the crux of this boil over well enough. Instead, director Robert Altman gives the film the worst ending in history that completely deviates from the entire tone of the film and serves only to enrage his audience. Shelley Long has a hilarious supporting role as Dr. T's secretary.   "},{"Title":"Too far from any point !!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story took too long to get to the point. The film had too many nonsense people (true Altmann stupidity ) playing the too many parts. No Doctor's office of patients behave like that unless it's a Pediatrician of during WAR where the noise is cries of pain. Very stupid movie ... a waste of time! "},{"Title":"Hands down, the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As far as I can guess, a bunch of producers were discussing movie ideas, possibly jotted down a basic plot, but threw it all away before ever developing even the semblance of a full movie. Some janitor(s) then pulled it all out of the trash, got a bunch of his/her/their friends together, and tried to scrape a movie together. Either that, or someone in Dallas with a lot of money bribed the studios into letting them make this movie, without hiring a (qualified) producer.The movie has a very basic (and somewhat overly done) plot - a handsome, successful doctor has a hard time dealing with all of his rich, female patients, but manages to find the woman for him - but that's all it has to offer. Granted, whoever produced this movie did manage to include an aging ladies' man of an actor, a popular-at-the-time actress (who really should have known better), an aging actress apparently willing to do anything to get a part, and a few other second-string actors/actresses, to appear in this movie, but they seemed to have forgotten to hire a director, an editor, or a writer who can write higher than the third-grade level.The movie meanders on and on, with quite a few side-plots introduced (including an aging (ex-)wife that obviously has health problems but we never find out if they're mental or physical), but the movie never really comes to a point, nor do we see any sensible conclusion to the side-plots. And, the ending is so far-fetched it borders on the realm of sci-fi/fantasy (especially if you know ANYTHING about the geography of Texas or the Southern United States).About the only good thing that can be said for this movie is that it has sunk to some all-time lows as for as the tricks it'll pull to draw in viewers. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time... even Richard Gere isn't worth it.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading the synopsis on the back of the video I had high hopes for this movie. I started out liking the Richard Gere character and felt empathy for his situation but quickly grew to dislike him as he revealed some less than savory character flaws. I just couldn't feel anything positive for this character or most of the others in the movie. The one redeeming quality he had was his desire for his daughter's happiness. "},{"Title":"There's only one reason why I wanted to watch it","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not because Richard is on it, even though I love him. It's not because it's about women and it's definitely not because of its story line, I didn't got interested in it at all. But when I heard that Farrah Fawcett was one it, I just couldn't miss it. I know that you can see her all the time, but, here, in Brazil, the last time I could see her, she was 29 years old. I needed to see how she was now. And that's the only reason why I bought the ticket. Since I didn't have much expectations, it wasn't disappointing. I could see my timeless Jill. She was about 15 minutes on screen, and let everyone open-mouthed with her nudity scene in the mall. And when she started to act like a child, I could see Jill's smile and her loose walk.The rest of the movie is okay. It has a wonderful cast and a story line interesting but not very well developed. If I hadn't gone to the cinema just to see Farrah Fawcett, I would be very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie inspired me to register as an IMDb user and vote this movie as a 1.The ensemble cast failed to achieve anything except confusion.  The characters went undeveloped, and the brief glimpses we did see of the characters' motivation left us scratching our heads.  Richard Gere's Dr. T gets a small amount of sympathy for being surrounded by such mental cases as his wife, daughters, sister-in-law, and patients.My wife and I expected a formulaic romantic comedy about a single OB/GYN who has women throwing themselves at him all day and finally picks one, Helen Hunt.  What we got was a jumble of characters, bizarre behavior, psychosis, infidelity, and desertion, tied together with a lame attempt at a surreal ending.The video store got the better end of the deal.  I wish I had my $4 and 2+ hours back. "},{"Title":"Just awful.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's amazing how a cast this strong can make a movie this bad. Tara Reid summed it up best, after being told of her mother's condition That's ridiculous.  So's this movie.  I can hardly believe I didn't turn it off before what has got to be one of the worst endings ever filmed. There is nothing redeeming about this movie - just move on. "}{"Title":"Un-watchable","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about Dr. T and the Women, I thought it sounded very intriguing. While I haven't always loved Altman's films, I still had a repsect for his ideas and the way he makes a film. Richard Gere is usually alright, but I thought that the cast of women in this film would really make it great. Alas, I was wrong.It may star Helen Hunt and Laura Dern and Kate Hudson and dozens of others, but Dr. T. is quite possibly one of the worst films I've ever watched. Not only is it long and boring, but it's not even enjoyable. I spent of the film feeling bad for the actors and hoping that they wouldn't make stuff like this again. It's hard to imagine how a film could be so bad, but a lot of it lies in the writing and the boring direction. Nobody does anything. Ever. Everyone just...It's...whatever...don't see it.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS BELOWThis movie had a subtle, tight, tricky little plot that Altman made look like a bunch of chaos. Both screenwriting and directing were above par -- I don't know how he got the performance out of Helen Hunt that he did. She was marvelously understated as the female stud to Dr. T.'s true blue naif.When Robert Hays says Certain Indian tribes say that if a woman's all wet, first time you see her...it's bad luck! THIS IS IMPORTANT, because around this time, we're surrounded by wet women. Farrah's naked in the fountain. The girls are all caught in the rain. And Helen Hunt as well.The thing is, Dr. T. loves his job, and especially delivering babies. He finds that the most wondrous part of it. This is why the end makes so much sense, despite its fantastical twist. He drives into the tornado -- Dallas society, his office, his life -- and comes out the other side, stripped down to basics, needed by the people to help with the delivery of a child. It was shocking to see it so graphically portrayed, but that was real. And Dr. T. needed to get back to the basics, back to what was real. (And thank god it's not another woman! he's relieved to find.)Not a bad movie at all. One of the more likable Robert Altman films. God help the Philistines who dissed it as chaos, or for moral reasons, etc. -- you all are the reason why it's so fun and profitable to be a screenwriter all you want is a simple, brainless good time, and MY how you squeal when you're asked to do a little thinkin.  "},{"Title":"How can such talent make such a bad movie.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While not as bad as Battlefield Earth, this film is at best full of top notch talent with a misguided plot and incoherent tie ins of all the characters.  I am surprised that the actors affiliated with this film actually let it get released.  A must see as how not to make a film. "},{"Title":"A colossal waste of talent","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie reminded me of a Saturday Night Live skit where Mel Gibson, playing himself, had given up acting and become a gynacologist. His waiting room was filled with women who practically swooned at the thought of Mel examining their nether regions. Women waited hours to be examined then made appointments for another exam as soon as they could get in again.Watching Dr. T and the Women, I had the feeling that someone saw that old Mel Gibson skit and said, Hey, this would make a great movie.Somehow, a terrific cast was assembled and a name director was hired, but the result is an unfunny mishmash that tries to be a wacky screwball comedy but falls on its face instead.None of the characters are adequately developed. One of Dr. T's daughters is getting married but we never meet her fiance. Dr. T's sister is an alcoholic, which is actually played (unsuccessfully) for laughs. Dr. T's wife has a rare psychological disorder that causes her to strip naked in the fountain of a mall.There's a theme running through the movie about women getting wet, which may or may not be a questionable metaphor for women being sexually attracted to their gynacologist.Dr T and the Women could have been a good movie, but the script and Altman's direction make it a stinker instead. "},{"Title":"A sorry piece of filmwork...","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only comment on films when I feel that I wasted my time...  This film was horrible...  Not worth the film that it was shot on...  Please, take my advice, do yourself a favor and lock yourself in a closet for two hours, rub soap in your eyes, put salt in a cut, start your car in the garage with the door shut, lastly, you may want to just plain turn on springer...  "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never comment on movies, this is my first time. I just had to say how bad this was and how blindsided my husband and I were at the ending of this movie!First of all, the thought that you can drive into a tornado, be spun around in it and then land in what looked like another country was totally ridiculous.Topping that, however, was Dr. T being led into a dwelling where this woman lay on a bed giving birth, and we the audience being subjected to complete graphic details of the whole thing.  It was appalling.It was not expected and shocking to say the least. Don't waste a minute on this movie. "},{"Title":"A Healthy Diagnosis","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Women are constantly portrayed in films as being abused and unloved by the men in their lives.  Robert Altman's answer to this is Dr. T and the Women, a smart romantic comedy that takes a 180 degree turn on that familiar theme and instead gives us Richard Gere as an OB/GYN who's surrounded by women and plagued by one problem he loves them all too much.Gere stars in the titular role, and the women are played by both veteran and newcomer actresses alike, all wealthy Dallas socialites, some of whom are his patients and other his family members.  His office is constantly filled with haranguing, whining women who seem totally dependent on Dr.T's medical diagnosis as an approval of their lives.  Things take a turn for the even more chaotic when his wife (the fabulously (the ditzy Farrah Fawcett) is diagnosed with a complex that quite literally translates to loving her too much.Richard Gere gives such a disarming, winning, and quietly graceful performance as Dr. T that it's perfectly juxtaposed with the overwhelming and frantic women.  The women characters, though not particularly deep or  pensive, serve only as foils to Helen Hunt's independent, thoughtful, and meaningful character, for whom Dr. T. unavoidably falls for.   Screenwriter Anne Rappe pays careful attention to detail, in both observations on women and the wealthy, and though there are sometimes one too many plot lines flowing at once, most of them are concluded nicely and with out trite neatness in the end.Handled with an easygoing charm, Altman delivers another satisfying, thoroughly entertaining, and not quite as complex film.  Richard Gere's turn as the overbearring Dr. T is his most likeable performance yet, and he serves well as the balancing point of the hectic, erratic women who fill his life with turmoil, but ultimately happiness.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Not Altmans best and not his worst","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSI dont know,  but I had mixed feelings as I left the  theater. Richard Gere as a gynecologist? Was it meant as a persiflage on his image as a womanizer? It  must have been terrible for him. Sometimes I felt sorry for him because of all those women around him going nuts. The movie has some funny moments  - especially Shelley Long and Helen Hunt were fantastic, theyre really great comedian talents! - but that  couldnt deceive about it that it had some lengths. I liked the surreal Magnolia-like ending, when Dr. T. is blown away by the tornado - it made the movie look funnier than it really is. The player is one of my favorite movies. It shows  how cynical Altman was in his earlier movies. I  guess Dr. T. and the women is his most commercial  film since years. Its not a bad movie, but Altman can do it much better.  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but another Robert Altman winner","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Yes, this movie is all over the map; I believe this shows the extreme turmoil that has overtaken Dr. Travis's present condition. This just slowly intensifies, until the climatic scene in his office, when far too much starts to happen all at once, culminating in his desperate ride to Bree's (Helen Hunt) apartment. Dr. T. has a real affinity for women's private parts - and they love him for it - but their heads become too much for him. All the women present never stop thinking, scheming, and talking, talking, talking!   Robert Altman is not at his best here, but even at this level he is easily one of the few REALLY interesting directors in the world. I was so disappointed his last movie was so grossly overlooked (Cookie's Fortune). I hope he lives and directs forever.   As for the surrealistic ending - it reveals Dr. T. can't escape his calling in life, and he performs it to the great admiration of all women. But I believe that the complications that come with women have already killed him. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse - but not often","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected this to be a chick flick, but my wife and daughters agreed with me that Dr. T and the Women wasn't worth the cost of the rental.  The story just drags on and on and the ending could only be described as a bizarre idea from the twisted mind of someone overly influenced by the beginning of the Wizard of Oz.  As bad as the movie was, the making of feature on the DVD is even worse.  It appears that the director and actors are genuinely proud of this movie - or maybe they saved all their acting talent for the making of feature.  They can't be serious and it's sad to see them gushing over how wonderful they think this poor excuse of a movie is.  Remind me to skip anything else Robert Altman directs... I'll forgive Richard Gere and Helen Hunt for this one. "}{"Title":"A Bomb!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clearly a bomb.  Perhaps the worst movie I've seen over the past 12 months.  A humorless movie (yes, it was billed as a comedy) that goes nowhere.  The acting was terrible, and it should be viewed as a discredit to the the many fine cast members.  Was this a lame remake of The Wizard of Oz? What kind of bizarre script-writing was responsible for Gere being wisked away by a tornado, falling to Earth, then immediately giving birth to a baby. "},{"Title":"I expected more comedy, less drama.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected more comedy, less drama, so I was fairly disappointed. I had a couple of short laughs at waiting room scenes and at Shelly Long in the office, but that was all. The drama part bored me. It was one of those movies that made me ask what was the point?. "},{"Title":"unbearable","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen - it was like a contest in bad acting and the plot twists were tiresome.  Why does Helen Hunt always have to be drenched?  It does not improve her acting.  I almost walked out of this one - I like Altman films generally but here I think no one was minding the shop. "},{"Title":"WARNING THIS REVIEW CONTAINS ONE SMALL SPOILER, BUT NOTHING MAJOR; IT'S JUST FOR THE SAKE OF MAKING A POINT AND DEFENDING THE FILM","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not know why everyone is accusing Robert Altman of being a misgynoist with his latest masterpiece Dr. T and the Women. If anything, he considers women to be equal to men and they often have equal screen time, if not MORE. Dr. T was also written by a woman as was several of his best films (Nashville, Thieves Like Us, Cookie's Fortune)Another complaint is about the plot. Note that one characteristic of Altman's films are not the plots, but the rich and vibrant characters that inhabit them. His films are about people and what make them tick. I personally would rather watch a good film with some interesting characters doing their business than see promising characters die under the weight of the plot.Richard Gere gives one of his all time best performances. Has it been this long since he's been so good in a film? I've always thought he was a good actor, but his more recent films such as Runaway Bride had made me question myself. It is good to see him back on top.Another complaint about this film is the ***SPOILER*** lesbian storyline between Dr. T's daughter and her bridesmaid. But let me point out that an amateur would wallow in the sexual angle of this story. A witty director like Altman just observes that it happens and lets it stay at that. He doesn't dwell in the seamy, he dwells in everyday life.Dr. T and the Women is Robert Altman's best film in many years. It gives us everything we expect from the most original director of the 20th Century. It's great to know that he is carrying on into the new century. I look forward to each new film as it is released. "},{"Title":"Bad.  Stay away from this film.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I respect the actors and actresses.  I also respect Robert Altman's films. This movie was so bad, that I asked the video store for a credit.  The video store GLADLY gave me one.  Run away from this film and warn others "},{"Title":"Very Confusing.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very confusing. Just like it begins in a Doctor's office full of women, all talking at once and all making noise, the movie itself is exactly like that. It has too many people, too many things happen in such a short time. You get lost in it and at the end you don't know what happened!. I think it's an awful movie, I don't recommend it to anyone!. "},{"Title":"A Class-IV PAP smear has more laughs","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You would think that with 4 decades of beautiful women in a film (Fawcett, Long, Hunt, Dern, Tyler, and Hudson), and Richard Gere as the anchor, you would have a must-see chick flick, or at the minimum some gratuitous nudity.  Think again.  3 breasts, women kissing and childbirth.  You could see more on Lifetime or Discovery Channels.If you liked Random Plot (oops, I mean Random Hearts), you will love this film.  My advice is to complain to your video retailer, and demand that they not waste valuable shelf space on this piece of crap. "},{"Title":"In search of cohesion and depth.....","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning ! There could be spoilers to follow here !!! This movie starts out well, offbeat with some great characters, but there is absolutely no depth to any of them, including Dr. T himself, who is so nice and so honourable it borders on the unbelievable. So many unfinished and unexplained bits as well.  Why was the sister-in-law living in his house ? How could the wife ask for a divorce when she believed that her husband was her brother. How did the police know to telephone the golf course when all doctors and particularly ObGyns would carry a cell phone for emergencies ? How come Kate was thrown in a seedy jail and not in a locked psychiatric unit ?  Why was it a Wizard of Oz type ending which presented no challenge to figure out apart from (a) third World (b) a boy born - a new beginning? I mean Duh Robert Altman.  Deep, man. So many many missed opportunities here to develop both the plot and the characters. I was left feeling empty and sad at wasting the money to rent the DVD. A 5 out of 10 for the Dallas setting and the efforts of Farrah, Liv, Kate and Tara.  Helen Hunt played her usual Helen again.  This woman's performance never varies.  "},{"Title":"Worst Film EVER","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are so many awful things about this film, I hardly know where to begin. I have seen lots of really terrible movies in my life but this ranks up there in the top few. What possessed the likes of Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Laura Dern, Kate Hudson, Farrah Fawcett, etc. to be associated with this unbelievably bad film is just beyond me.There is no plot. Period. The movie bounces around like a pinball machine. It's moronic, sophmoric and just plain stupid. There just aren't adjectives enough to describe how truly awful this movie really is.I live in Dallas. We don't act like that, dress like that and most especially, TAWK LIKE THAT. Dallas is full of beautiful, sophisticated women who have so much better to do than hang out in an OB/GYN's office!The opening scene was so loud and incoherent it is almost intolerable. Little did I know that would be the MOST bearable and least offensive and bad scene in this movie. The ending - well I don't even know what to say about that Wizard of Oz drive straight into a tornado that landed the good doctor in Mexico. Did anybody LOOK at a map to see how far Dallas and Mexico are apart??? Did it ever occur to anybody that you couldn't drive head on into a tornado, be transported a few hundred miles so un-injured you good stand right up and deliver a baby (in GRAPHIC detail) and not speak the language that anyone else spoke????I'm furious this movie wasted 2 hours of my life. I wish I could demand a refund from the video store. Makes me want to stand outside with a picket sign and warn the rest of the unsuspecting public about this terrible movie!I've changed my mind - this IS the worst movie I've ever seen. And God willing, the worst I'll ever see. These people should all be ashamed.  "},{"Title":"Don't rent this movie, unless you love Gere.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere plays himself, again.  The women are superficial and very over costumed. The plot is weak, although the premise was an interesting one. The ending sequence is ridiculous and the final scene is down right repulsive. I had a hard time even finishing the movie.A clearly NEVER RENT movie. "}{"Title":"An opus to chaos","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are very few words that could be used to describe this film.  I hate to use the word weird, but this film is VERY weird.  It's the strangest film I've ever seen.  It is disguised as a romantic comedy with a gynecologist trying to sweep a tennis instructor off of her feet.  However, it's really an amusing spiral downward through a chaotic life.As with many films, it appears that this is one of two films out at the same time that attempts to understand women and women's effect on men.  The other film, What Women Want, was a successful mainstream film that said basically nothing so convincingly that it was difficult not to love.  This film is so bizarre that it will send home many of Brazil's biggest fans home scratching their heads.The opening title sequence sets up the mood of the film, beginning inside of an office with the secretary making small talk with a patient.  Then, she makes small talk with another patient while the first patient talks to someone else.  Eventually, the sounds of the conversations keep building and building, until by the end of the sequence, all of the voices are so loud that the sequence is confusing and nearly unbearable.  This is what the film is like from beginning to end.  It begins simply with a very soft, romantic view of the subject matter (in this film, the subject is women) and then slowly progresses into insanity with no exact conclusion.This film can be called misogynistic, and to some extent that's true.  It's written by a woman, but by the end, we see Gere's character get so worked up over the women in his life that we think they are what causes his misfortune.  However, I don't even think it's so much a movie about women; it's a film that represents women as an obsession.  Gere's character surrounds himself by women almost exclusively; even his hunting friends are associated with him through patients at the gynecologists office.  He ignores that this could be a problem in his life and goes on without dealing with the negative aspects of women and only the positive ones.The charm of this film is difficult to put your finger on.  The dialogue here isn't written in a way to flesh out the characters.  The characters are not developed by the dialogue, so it's difficult to see what their inner motives are.  Altman here tries to develop characters more by their actions and by the movements.  The film doesn't so much have plot twists as it's plot slowly twists throughout.  It begins seeming like it will be one type of movie, slowly morphing into a different type of movie, and then ending up being totally opposite of either.  We begin the film wanting to like the characters, and by the end we end up wanting to dislike them but are strangely engaged by their presence.  Nothing here ever fits together the way it seems like it should.DR T is not a perfect movie.  The one aspect of the movie that I personally would have welcomed was more of an insight to how Hunt's character was special.  The only reason we realize she's special is because Dr. T says she is.  Sure, she is different in that she wants to pursue her own career and remain the one that's in control of her life, but we weren't given the chance to see what makes her so likeable.  Hunt basically plays the exact same role as she did in What Women Want, but in that film she is given ample opportunity to have the viewer to know what about her makes her so special, so genuine, and so compassionate.  Her character in Dr. T and the Women is to be examined with the assumption that different is good, but in What Women Want it was explained why being different is good.And, although the film is about chaos, it would be nice if we were given a little bit more of a reason of why we watched the film after it was over.  The themes are all broken apart by the end, going through a fantastical ending that puts the ending sequence of Magnolia to shame.  This ending is fun, different, and thoughtful, but it leaves absolutely no sense of conclusion to what just happened.  The ending is just as much frustrating as it is entertaining.Despite the flaws, Dr. T and the Women, as long as it didn't offend you, takes too many chances for it not to be loved.  It falls on its face, of course, but gets up every time and keeps moving along.  It's unmissable by anyone that found What Women Want to have been too predictable and too mainstream.  Don't expect to leave the theater (or finish the video) settled with a proper ending, completed themes, or a firm grasp on what happened in the film.  This is a masterpiece of chaos with the Altman directing style that many of us have come to love over the years.  The film doesn't really end up saying a whole lot of anything, but that appears to be sort of the point.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Job as a ob/gyn","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't like this as much as Cookie's Fortune, which is another collaboration between Altman and Rapp, but it has its moments. The basic problem for me is that the story doesn't grab me -- I never quite got the point of the original version of the story of Job, either, so maybe that's the problem. However, the images in the movie of Dr. T being suffocated by this swarm of women that surround him, and some of the various subplots (the daughter that works at the conspiracy museum, for instance) are quite diverting. I want to watch the movie again and see how it holds up the second time -- a lot of Altman's movies appeal to me even more with subsequent viewings, and I don't know if this will be one of them... "},{"Title":"Are you kidding!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was absolutely terrible.  Easily the worst movie Richard Gere has ever made.  While he doesn't make fantastic movies, most of them are very watchable.  This was an unbearable film.Who could care about any of these rich, idle women?  Whining all the time about nothing important.  Gere mailed in this performance, it was just a paycheck.One of the worst movies I have ever seen.  (My wife said it was THE worst movie she has ever seen and she loves Richard Gere.) "},{"Title":"A fast-paced, entertaining comedy.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dr. T and the Women is delightful, fast-paced entertainment that makes a lighthearted statement about man's distress when surrounded by the female condition in all of its complex glory.  Dr. T is a simple hunter who is desperate for straightforward sex and whose gynecology work immerses him in female sex organs and surrounds him with a gaggle of complaining women. His simple world is spinning out of control as his wife loses her mind (and withdraws from him), a lesbian daughter jilts her boyfriend at the alter, a female golf pro sexually amuses herself with him, an alcoholic sister-in-law with three children (girls, of course) moves in, a lustful office manager finally reveals herself to him and another daughter constantly reminds him that she's okay while devoting her life to the JFK conspiracy theory. While the man is distressed by this complex array of characters, the women are quite happy with their condition.  The ending is a bit far-fetched, but in keeping with the movie's lighthearted intent, as the doctor is finally flung away from his women to deliver a baby boy.  Even here, though, women surround the doctor and they speak a foreign language, thus continuing the estrangement of man and woman. "},{"Title":"Gere's sweetest performance to date; one of his best","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are certain assumptions that people have about characters played by Richard Gere, and in order to appreciate his role at Dr. T, you need to toss them right out the window. Here he plays a role that will surprise most viewers, a successful doctor and a member of the Dallas upper class that is surrounded by women and is constantly devoting his time and energies to their happiness and well-being. I don't think I've ever seen a movie do such a good job at showing the amazing ability that women have to drive men insane. The best part of the movie is an extended scene in which Dr. T tries to get through a day at work in which just about everything that could possibly go wrong in his life does. This is some of the best acting Gere has ever done.      Must has been said about the scene where his wife has a form of nervous breakdown and becomes institutionalized, and this is attributed to her having everything she could ever want and being completely loved by everyone around her. To those of you who take offense to this, ask yourself why so many rich and famous people end up meeting tragic, horrible ends. Like them, Dr. T's wife feels that she doesn't deserve what she has, and that there's no point in continuing to make a contribution to her own life anymore. This is meant not as a commentary on women, but on society's upper class and its effect on human nature.     If you can keep an open mind, this one is not to be missed.       "},{"Title":"This film was an insult to women!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was completely anti-female.  While I think Richard Gere did an excellent job of portraying the doctor, and was completely believable, the rest of the film was trash.  The nudity was exploitive, women were portrayed as catty airhead nymphomaniacs, and the last scene that was supposed to be so necessary to the film that the director couldn't possibly  alter it, was a complete exploitation.  I got the feeling that the director felt that having a human baby was no more sacred or deserving of respect than any animal birth that curious onlookers should be allowed to observe from the doctors point of view, which was completely unnecessary! I evidently wasn't the only woman who felt that way. In the ladies room after the movie, the consensus was outrage at the whole movie, and we all wanted our money back (from the film company, not the theater), for the way we had been insulted!          "},{"Title":"A mildly amusing but often ridiculous film.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took me several trips to the video store to get this movie, and now I wonder why it's so popular.  At best, I found it to be mildly amusing.  Oft times it was clear that this was a story and not the real world because what was going on was so ridiculous.  The few small quirky performances -- Janine Turner, Farrah Fawcett, etc. -- were about all that made it worth watching for me. "},{"Title":"Misogynistic, Insulting, and Empty.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was horrible.  I rented it, and only wish I could get my money back. I am so angry that I wasted two hours of my life to see this travesty.  I am stunned that Richard Gere and the various talented actresses agreed to be in this film.Every woman in the film is portrayed in an unflattering light, while Gere's character is meant to be viewed as some sort of well-meaning hero trapped in a world of self-absorbed, moronic, flighty women.  The only woman who appears to be independent is played by Helen Hunt, whose slightly mannish dress and lack of femininity don't seem coincidental--it's as though the only good woman is one who is just a bit more like a man.  Hunt reveals no charm or charisma, and her character is finally made out to be cold and thoughtless.And the ending!!  It's so unbelievable that I've chosen just to forget about it.  Some reviewers have suggested that those who dislike this film just don't get it--that it's a satire.  That may be true, but it's poorly done satire that shows no affection or understanding for its subjects.  One is hard pressed to feel that Altman can understand anything about women if he doesn't understand the fundamental truth that the majority of women do not enjoy going to the gynecologist.  Perhaps more importantly, Dr. T is a confused, incoherent mess of a film, even disregarding it's clear misogyny. I've read a few reviews that suggest this film is meant to be a love letter to women.  If so, I'd be interested to see Altman's hate mail.  "},{"Title":"Not good.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know how when you cut yourself with a razor blade.  And it's a really deep cut, only you don't feel the pain till you see the blood. And then it hurts really bad. If you like that kind of feeling see this movie. I couldn't wait for the bleeding to stop.  It showed women in the worst light. I couldn't tell if it was a comedy, drama or fantasy. The movie starts out bad and gets worst.  This movie does say much for some of the supposed best actresses of Hollywood .  It would have been a better movie if it had been about Mr. T instead of Dr. T.   "},{"Title":"Should make top 10 worst films of the year! AWFUL!!!!!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie had absolutely no plot.  Nothing appealing...no special graphics, no action, no comedy, no romance, NOTHING!  TOP 10 WORST MOVIES OF THE YEAR!!!!!!!! Sad day for the actors and actresses.  A new low. "}{"Title":"Monumentally BAD.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, we expect Helen Hunt to be annoying, and she delivers in spades as usual.  But, brace yourself, she is about the least annoying thing in this directionless, mindless supposed satire of the Dallas rich.  Imagine every catty, vapid, self-obsessed woman you have ever known.  Litter them around Richard Gere as a middle-aged gynecologist doing his best impression of a human being, and then add endless whining, sniping, back-stabbing, preening, drinking, and shopping.  Throw in a Wizard of Oz ending that is so ridiculous that it is anything but laughable.Are you getting the picture yet?Robert Altman has given us masterpieces like Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean, and we love him for it.  But even he can't be forgiven for this worthless nonsense. "},{"Title":"Predictable and plodding film","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dr  T. and the Women is already the umpteenth film from old-stager Robert Altman. Altman has always been a hit-and-miss director, and lately, at the age of 75, his career seems to have been given a fresh start, with The Player and Short Cuts being enormous critical successes in the early 90s. More recently, Cookie's Fortune, a delightful satirical look at small-town life, saw him in excellent form.Dr T. and the Women can also be considered a satire, this time of Dallas high-society ladies who all meet in the microcosm of a gynaecologist's waiting room. But as a satire, this ultimately does not work. Very few laughs are to be had, and it is only the surreal climax to the story that really hits the right notes. And any film that relies on Richard Gere to carry it for two hours has to be doomed to failure. (Has Gere ever been in a good movie?)But the main criticism to be levelled at this predictable and plodding film is the sheer boredom that descends on the viewer. Let's hope that Altman comes up with a more interesting subject and a more entertaining end product next time around. And with this prolific director, you can be sure there will be a next time! "},{"Title":"Very, very, very bad-Awful-Not even worth poking fun at","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whoa,What a mess. Characters that do nothing and go nowhere. I didn't care about any of them. Helen Hunt's character was so hot and cold; I didn't care one bit about Dr. T's daughters (I was given no reason to care). Farrah was the only convincing performance - of course, all she had to do was reprise her Letterman appearance.I need a rebate, This movie wasted almost 2 hours of my life and $4.07 at my local Hollywood Video. I assume that Richard Gere and Helen Hunt have enough clout to choose their roles, so why they tried to polish this turd is beyond me.Bad, awful, incomprehensible, sophomoric, nonsensical, boring, lame. If I ever torture anyone, I will make them watch this endlessly - they'll break quickly. "},{"Title":"From the opening scene we are hurled into the paranoid world of Dallas rich cats.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I read through so many strongly negative comments on this film I feel frustrated that so much seems to have been missed by so many. From the opening scene we are hurled into the paranoid, pill popping, cell phone blah blah, froth and frills world of Dallas rich cats whose lives are so empty because they have so much. Dr. T's wife quite understandably escapes this global insanity by slipping into a more traditional and blissful madness. Contrast patients at the mental institution with Dr. T's waiting room grotesques and the feline jungle outside in the mall. At least the ladies in the mental ward were working towards reality and not so many Barbie Dolls strutting their stuff and living their lives down cell phones.Some viewers were distressed by Altman's negative view of Dallas women which is equivalent to worrying that Goodfellas puts a nasty slant on Italian men. Anyone who thinks it through will recognise that this is a snapshot of a type, a micro world, and not for goodness sake the whole female population of Dallas.There were some engaging cameos amongst the boys who were, much like their women, trying to fill a few empty moments. The trap shooting with golf balls was a great combination of man's things and the scene where a decoy was blasted out of the water was hilarious. At least with the men I felt these macho bonding, boys' toys moments were only part of their lives and not their raison d'etre - but then, I'm a man so I would say that.An enjoyable and sharply observed film with a great number of subtle and not so subtle touches which made me smile or laugh out loud much to the confusion of the largely stony faced French audience around me.Loved the old dear trip the paranoid bitch scene - Yessss !  "},{"Title":"Dr. Altman and the women","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm really surprised people around here did not appreciate this movie. It is smarter and funnier than any thing else i have seen in a long while. Altman is really in shape in this mocking tale of  Dalas high bourgoisie. The characters are intended to appear like stereotypic muppets; blaming the director for not pursiung more depth in his characters shows a misunderstanding of the movie. Robert Altman really knew how to take advantage of Richard Gere's energy and shape it into a likable worm performance, unlike his usual shallow handsome mid age crap. The guy can act when he has to. The five minutes opening scene (the long shot) is really breathtaking. The camera movment between the women is really funny and intelligent. As for the ending, it works, because the whole tone of the movie is light and playful, so a fantastic closure does not seem absurd. Now i see why MAGNOLIA was compared with SHORT CUTS. I haven't seen SHORT CUTS, but DR T AND THE WOMEN shows where Altman succeced and Anderson failed. I guess it's because Altman is older and has much more experience. He is very self conscious, but does not permit it to get into his head. "},{"Title":"Altman gives birth to utter trash, and films it !","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here are my soundbitesCompletely Boring !Like having your gums scraped !Watching $15 slowly burn would be more worthwhile !I should have given my popcorn and movie money to the homeless person outside the theater and went home !And for those of you who have seen it (my apologies)The last scene of this movie is how I felt when I walked out of it. "},{"Title":"obviously not made for an European audience","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was confused by this picture. Was it some critical view of American society, or was it purely fictional? Anyway, I do not know these portrayed types of spoiled persons by my own experience. And I feel, without this recognition the whole film was confusing and didn't make a lot of sense. So, even though I laughed a couple of times, I somehow felt lost and couldn't get lasting fun out of it. I cannot recommend this film to anybody who lacks the same experience which seems to be needed to enjoy the story (American culture? Texas? Dallas? Nouveau riche?). "},{"Title":"Good cast and a charming performance by Richard Gere. *** (out of four)","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  DR. T. & THE WOMEN / (2000) *** (out of four)By Blake FrenchRichard Gere plays Dr. T, whose practices are so immensely popular that his office is constantly booked, often with the most obscure of patients. His life is as chaotic as his occupation, filled with and influenced by situations involving women, women, and more women. His only relief consists of spending leisure time hunting and golfing with his long-time pals, Harlan (Robert Hayes), Bill (Matt Maloy) and Eli (Andy Richter). His easy-going wife, Kate (Farrah Fawcett) is suffering from a mental disorder called the Hestia Complex that leaves her in a severe child-like state, eventually mandating her institutionalisation. Their cheerleader daughter, Dee Deed (Kate Hudson), is getting married soon, although (spoiler) she turns out to be a lesbian and in love with her maid of honour, Marilyn (Liv Tyler). The Travis' other daughter, Connie (Tara Reid), is a Kennedy conspiracy buff who is jealous of the attention her sibling is receiving. Dr. T's nearly divorced, self-centred alcoholic sister-in-law, Peggy (Laura Dern), has recently moved in with her three spoiled young girls. Carolyn (Shelley Long), the head nurse at his office, is secretly madly in love with him, and the self-assured Bree (Helen Hunt), the new assistant at his country gold club, immediately wins him over, leading to a love affair occurring between the two.Enough occurs in the film to fill the running time of several movies, and often the subplots are unresolved and unfulfilled as a result of the overabundance of the plot. What keeps everything together is and the happenings engaging is the rising tension of the increasing stress of Dr. T. There are also many intriguing elements that develop its atmosphere effectively the chaotic mood in Dr. T's office; the strange quirks of the Farrah Fawcett character; the nicely subtle meet cute between the Richard Gere and Helen Hunt characters; the overwhelming variety of the anomalous females; the unexpected and fun plot twists involving his family's and friends' sexuality; and most of all, the charmingly warm and likable performance by Richard Gere. Farrah Fawcett performs with elusive innocence so we do care for her character, an unusual role for her. The dialogue is smooth, and there is certainly enough that happens to keep us interested.Dr. T. & the Women has a particularly bizarre conclusion. The movie climaxes with a tornado-like spiral of events and emotions (literally and figuratively) that leaves quite a bit in question. However, the movie is more interested with having an analogy of structuralism than concluding with a congenital happy ending. I like that kind of rarely seen irony in a motion picture, even if the closing scene consists of a woman customarily giving labor to-surprise-a boy! "},{"Title":"Good cast and a charming performance by Richard Gere. *** (out of four)","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  DR. T. & THE WOMEN / (2000) *** (out of four)Richard Gere plays Dr. T, whose practices are so immensely popular that his office is constantly booked, often with the most obscure of patients. His life is as chaotic as his occupation, filled with and influenced by situations involving women, women, and more women. His only relief consists of spending leisure time hunting and golfing with his long-time pals, Harlan (Robert Hayes), Bill (Matt Maloy) and Eli (Andy Richter). His easy-going wife, Kate (Farrah Fawcett) is suffering from a mental disorder called the Hestia Complex that leaves her in a severe child-like state, eventually mandating her institutionalisation. Their cheerleader daughter, Dee Deed (Kate Hudson), is getting married soon, although (spoiler) she turns out to be a lesbian and in love with her maid of honour, Marilyn (Liv Tyler). The Travis' other daughter, Connie (Tara Reid), is a Kennedy conspiracy buff who is jealous of the attention her sibling is receiving. Dr. T's nearly divorced, self-centred alcoholic sister-in-law, Peggy (Laura Dern), has recently moved in with her three spoiled young girls. Carolyn (Shelley Long), the head nurse at his office, is secretly madly in love with him, and the self-assured Bree (Helen Hunt), the new assistant at his country gold club, immediately wins him over, leading to a love affair occurring between the two.Enough occurs in the film to fill the running time of several movies, and often the subplots are unresolved and unfulfilled as a result of the overabundance of the plot. What keeps everything together is and the happenings engaging is the rising tension of the increasing stress of Dr. T. There are also many intriguing elements that develop its atmosphere effectively the chaotic mood in Dr. T's office; the strange quirks of the Farrah Fawcett character; the nicely subtle meet cute between the Richard Gere and Helen Hunt characters; the overwhelming variety of the anomalous females; the unexpected and fun plot twists involving his family's and friends' sexuality; and most of all, the charmingly warm and likable performance by Richard Gere. Farrah Fawcett performs with elusive innocence so we do care for her character, an unusual role for her. The dialogue is smooth, and there is certainly enough that happens to keep us interested.Dr. T. & the Women has a particularly bizarre conclusion. The movie climaxes with a tornado-like spiral of events and emotions (literally and figuratively) that leaves quite a bit in question. However, the movie is more interested with having an analogy of structuralism than concluding with a congenital happy ending. I like that kind of rarely seen irony in a motion picture, even if the closing scene consists of a woman customarily giving labor to-surprise-a boy! "},{"Title":"Avoid it","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dumb. Macho. Do not see the point. Not even funny (OK, maybe funny for a total of 15 seconds for the whole film, at best). Women solely presented as a manically hysterical bunch of animals, whose only purpose seems to be bearing children, and when they are not bearing children they cannot act normally for even a short period of time. I would not have thought that such a view of women would still exist, or be allowed to be made into a film, especially such a poor film. To top it all, the acting is very disappointing, especially considering who is acting (Gere, Hunt). The only good news is that the movie theatre where I went to see it was four-fifths empty - at least word of mouth has worked (too bad I had not been warned...). Avoid this if you can. "}{"Title":"Outrageous - wouldn't have missed it!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like a lot of Robert Altman's films, Dr. T & the Women is shocking, outrageous, sometimes hilarious and sometimes very sad. You may not like what he says but you have to admit that he says it very, very well. His parody of Dallas women is right on, and that makes a lot of the women here pretty angry, but after all, it's just a movie, and no one's going to be telling your kids that they have to see it in school.The premise (events surrounding a busy gynecologist) is fresh, and my prediction is that there will be a Dr T television sitcom within three years. After all, I still remember when Altman's M.A.S.H. was pretty outrageous! "},{"Title":"What was that all about!?","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say i expected to see a comedy. Instead I was confronted with a somewhat neurotic movie. Focusing on the more ugly side of women this film led absolutely nowhere. Gere is good as always, but the many female stars never seem to get enough space to show what made them such big stars. They are all neurotic, stressed, depressed, bored, cold .... and its no fun at all. I went to see this film with 6 other people. No one really understood what it was all about. This films only asset is that you get to see a lot of flesh from all the stars...but then again so what!? The last 3 minutes is sure the chock the american audience. In full close up you get to see a child being born. Due the fact that I was bored to hell by the film, I wondered whether it was  real or special effects. Such explicit showing of a woman giving birth i have only seen in Sean Pens The Indian Runner where Patricia Arquette gave birth in the movie. Something I don't think the american audience got to see. Waste of my time this movie was... "},{"Title":"Look, I hate to bring this up...","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But I've been reading reviews of this movie, and is it just me, but does the plot sound strangely like that of the Japanese animation product Tenchi Muyo ? Because if Altman is getting his ideas from anime now, he must be very low on inspiration! "},{"Title":"Arf Arf ! That is the sound of your friendly dog barking.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Arf Arf ! That is the sound of your friendly dog barking. Not just any dog but a downright mutt! Dr. 'T' is a curios movie as, like a mutt, it is all mixed up. It is packaged as a romantic comedy yet it has so many disturbing messages in it , that there is nothing funny about it is at all. When the good Dr.'s wife goes off the deep end and is sent to a mental institution because her husband is faithful, hard working, successful and selfless and she is victimised with a condition of being loved too much, you know this movie has turned a corner down the road call ludicrous. Then we have Helen Hunt who is happy because she believes in free and promiscuous love and the daughter who stands up her husband-to-be at the alter to run off with her lesbian girlfriend and we laugh at women who are genuinely concerned about their female physical problems . Yes, ha ha ha. What a knee slapper!If you want to see a movie that has no point and carries some quite destructive social messages. Dr. 'T' is what you want.  "},{"Title":"altman's best since short cuts (?)","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a huge Altman fan, I have an extremely biased view about all his movies. That being said, I thought Dr. T was perhaps his strongest effort since Short Cuts.Don't pay attention to Richard Gere or Shelley Long-the real stars here are Dallas, cell phones and JFK. Has any other movie in recent memory utilized cell phones to such a great extent? The private/public cell dichotomy is in great effect all over this mess of a movie.If you care about things like water, women with big hair, cell phones, and malls, you will love this movie. If you go into it expecting Pretty Woman you will be disappointed.And yes, most of Shelley Long's scenes could have been axed.Well, at least her big cheesy Russ Meyeresque seduction scene. But even that was great. Oh well, just see the damn thing already before Altman moves to France.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Texas Tale","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere stars as, Dr. Sullivan Travis, a Dallas Ob/Gyn who is surrounded by women his wife (Farrah Fawcett) who suffers a memorable breakdown in a Dallas mall and is in a childlike state; his daughter Dee Dee (Kate Hudson) who is trying out for the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders and is a little too friendly with her maid of honor Marilyn (Liv Tyler); daughter Connie (Tara Reid) who works at the Conspiracy Museum, and Peggy (Laura Dern), his sister-in-law, who has moved in with her three children.  There is Bree (Helen Hunt), a golf pro from his country club who he is falling in love with.  Finally, there are the women who flock to his very busy office to seek his services.Robert Altman's film, which was written by Anne Rapp (they collaborated on last year's Cookie's Fortune) looks deeply into the relationships between men and women.  This is NOT a film for everyone there is lots of nudity, and a shocking birth scene.  It does have a witty, interesting script, and which is well acted by its cast, especially Gere, who does some of his best work here.  Robert Altman has directed some very unique and controversial films, and this one is definitely included.  Like many of them, it is worth discovering.Vote 7  "},{"Title":"A very, very interesting, multifaceted mythic/psychological journey.  I second Chris J's analysis.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an unusual movie, kind of in the same vein as Magnolia if only because it mixes some intense realism with mythic and manufactured simultaneity and fanciful elements.  But it all comes together for me as an observation wrapped in a parable.I didn't expect to like this film, but was pleasantly surprised.  Like most good films, one must stand back and try hard to think about what is being done on the screen.  You can't be intellectually lazy about this one.  You have to work a little to put what seems to be an incomprehensible mess together.  Maybe all you need to do is recall what you think about the sexes and about people and compare it to what happens.  There are some very graspable things being presented beneath the layering and the hubbub.What we have is both a brilliant contradiction of Hollywood formula (things just don't happen the way they are classically set up to) and an effective, if imperfect, slice through the psychological landscape between the sexes.  The film is even more than this, but I won't try to explain it all here.  You have to see it.  And when you do, don't get too wrapped up in what the world and Hollywood have trained you to think.  Your paradigm may be upset.I cannot add anything more to Chris J's excellent comments from October 28, so I'll just say that if you want to know more, scroll down and read his fantastic review that clearly shows he knows something about Robert Altman's tendencies and purposes.I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Powerful, transformative movie","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was bored through a good part of this movie, thought it was an aimless exercise in characterization of a particular class of women in a particular place.  I was on the verge of walking out when a particular revelation made me want to stay and see what happens.  What happened by the end of the picture was fantastic.  This is a movie that you've got to stick with, but the payoff at the end is well worth it.  You really hate the women in the movie, and you can't even like Richard Gere (who plays a truly good guy following his wife into breakdown land).  But the movie changes into a special-effects, fantasy extravaganza.  You don't expect it, but it happens.  And a person whose life has lost any meaning rediscovers how to be truly needed, by those who truly need him.It's a rich movie to experience.  Sit down, relax, stick with it, and you will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Just when you think Hollywood can't put out anything worse...","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They put out the worst movie of all time.  That's right, it's worse than Police Academy 6, and Manos hand of fate.  INCREDIBLE!I was in a daze at the terrible pacing, pathetic screenplay, horrific plot, disgusting arrogance of the director, misguided satire, and generally poor overall acting in this film full of stars.Farrah must be on Ritilin because her character not only wasted screen time, film and money, but also the ink used to write the script.There is one scene with Helen Hunt and Richard Gere where they are making dinner at her place.  The pacing is very slow, the acting looks like they just told them to get in the apartment, throw some steaks on the grill and try to pretend you have some kind of chemistry.They had none.Kate Hudson and Liv Tyler were both in a daze throughout.Shelly Long tries to put on a Texan accent and fails miserably.Also, the endless theme of everyone getting caught in the rain by a Texas storm which just comes out of no where.  Wow, now THAT is top notch Comic Satire.Of course, by the finale of the movie I could no longer control myself and was laughing hysterically.  Oh the end was SO disgustingly over the top. I will still be laughing years from now.  I have never seen a film put together this badly.It had no redeeming qualities.  It didn't even have good special effects!This is a SPOILER warning.Even though most of you won't make it anywhere near the end of this melted ice cream cone of a movie...Richard Gere drives into a Tornado and is swept up and not only survives, but lands in Mexico.  Then happens to be near a village.  He is then lead in to a hut where a woman is giving birth. THEY SHOW A LIVE ACTION REALISTIC BIRTH!AHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAAHAHHAHAAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHI am hurting, my sides are splitting from the laughter!END SPOILER WARNING!I won't tell you not to see it, because it is likely that it will be a long time before someone puts out something this bad again.  This thing makes Mission to Mars look like the best Sci-Fi movie ever made.It is the absolute king of bad movies!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"of interest for local color...not much else","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i am a pretty big Altman fan so my expectations were high going in to the theater.  this is definately not on par with his classics, like my favorite, Short Cuts, so it can be avoided unless you live here in Dallas and are exasperated by this type of women every day as they cut you off in traffic, driving their huge suv's and talking on the phone.  the filmmakers apparently did their research, they got even the smallest details like Texas Tech alumni stickers and the Lady of the Lake story.  the actors seemed like they really did not have time to prepare for the roles, but i like the way the Helen Hunt character acted just like a man...interesting role reversal.  Shelly Long was the standout in a cast of much bigger names, i have to say.  i was entertained until the out of nowhere ending...i thought i had fallen asleep and dreamed a bizarre ending, but now it was really up there on the screen.  wait for the home release...and to rent, not buy! "}{"Title":"Wacky, witty, intelligent and honest","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To each his own, I guess. My date and I both enjoyed this film quite a lot (she, being a Southerner, said she found the comic portrayals of nouveau riche Dallas women to be spot-on). The actors in the film simply went to town with their roles, and I thought most of the characters were very sharply written and observed. Despite farce being the prevailing aim of the movie, Altman and Rapp were careful to produce characters and situations that most of can recognize from our real lives (as scary as that may be!). In fact, I think you could tell a lot about a person based on which of this movie's characters, if any, they find sympathetic. For instance, I felt that Connie was nosy and conniving. Another reviewer thought she was the only likable character.Additionally, I loved the surrealistic, from-left-field ending. Someone described it as implausible, as though that were even remotely the point.Admittedly, this movie may not be to all tastes. But to those familiar with Altman's work and with a taste for freewheeling social satire, check it out. Many people aren't getting it and it won't be in theaters for long "},{"Title":"Altman latest is a flawed gem that has been mis-marketed to the audience.","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman's latest is not a frothy romantic comedy about a womanizer as the ads suggest.  It is instead a deceptively simple, yet busy, multi-layered, character study of a Truffaut-like character (the Man who Loved Women) who has nearly become a martyr to the women that surround him.Dr T. loves his wife too much, he's successful and looks like Richard Gere. He's remained faithful to the wife who has become more and more spoiled and selfish and now suffers from a fictional malady which causes her to regress to childhood behavior- which includes jumping into a fountain in a crowded mall, and stripping off all her clothes and giving up sex entirely because it's too naughty.  One of his spoiled daughters is about to get married, and about to become a famous cheerleader, the other spoiled daughter works at the Dallas Conspiracy Museum fretting about mom, her sister and just about everything.   There's a spoiled sister-in-law who's separated, drinks too much and has moved into his house with her three kids.  And there's also dozens of rich, pampered Dallas society women he treats.  You see, Dr. T is a gynecologist.Dr. T. eventually explains that to him women are saints.  When they go wrong or go bad it's a man's fault.  He's about to learn a hard lesson, that his belief is a little bit lopsided, a little bit too much of a good thing. Nobody is perfect, not even women.  And Men ... not even him, should ever be so presumptuous to believe they have the ultimate control.Now there's some critics and writers who have apparently already decided the film is more than a little misogynistic.  They need to watch the film a few more times.    There are others that have decided the film is a lighter than latte foam.  They also need to watch the film a few more times.It's far from a perfect film, and it isn't an important film with a message or one that ends with a powerful emotional wallop that sucker punches you at it's conclusion.No, this is a wonderfully written, masterfully directed, perfectly cast, brilliantly acted gem of a film.  It's almost a modern screwball comedy, the way a Sturges may have delivered one, if he had been Altman.I suspect there are several scenes the film critics are identifying or complaining about as being slightly off mark.  For me there were two.  And they were minor.  One involves a scene in which a women patient is allowed to smoke.  The smoking is over-exaggerated... like the women is actually an actresses pretending to smoke.. too quickly, too desperately.  It's one of the few phony, overly deliberate scenes in the film.      The other is when Dr. T is told a secret about his about to wed daughter Dee Dee, by his other daughter.   It plays false, because the revelation should not throw his character for quite the loop it does, in quite the way it does.The film quickly recovers from both of these brief stumbles however.A casual film-goer might take a lot of what Altman does for granted.   So permit me this obvious to many, explanation.In real life, when we are in a crowded room we can hear several conversations at once, and tune in and out of the ones we want to over-hear. However, to duplicate this on film is quite a difficult technical feat.  To wire the room properly for sound, to get everyone talking at the right volume, to get the mixing of volumes in post production and  make sure all of the conversations can be heard, to decide how they are blended in and around one another, to create believable movement... well it's a remarkable achievement.  Altman perfected this technique, and few do it as well or as successfully.  Few create entire scenes that drip with layers of texture and detail like an Altman scene often can.  Few give a feeling of depth to both foreground and background characters within the same scene.  Few give so many actors a moment here and a moment there to react or do just the right thing.  Few let us glimpse at both sides of a situation the way Altman lets us.  It can be confusing, and it isn't necessary to the plot of the film. It just adds a layer of authenticity to every shot.  Minor characters and extras may have a bit of business which is so perfectly done, such a rightly captured human moment it makes us smile with its truth.The danger of course is by making sure to get so many details right, it forces us to closely inspect every other detail of the film.  Sometimes some details aren't right.  Sometimes some details ring false, or are missed or passed over.We forgive Altman for these things in many of his films, because the stumbles are going to happen when you push so hard, to be so precise, yet remain loose enough to give your actors the room they need to act, to improvise, to find their moments.   When you trust people, be they art directors or actors, not all their decisions are going to be good ones.  But you let them make their mistakes.  You let them have their moments, good, and not so good.  You hope the not so good moments give the film a shaggy dog feel.  It's imperfections transform into making the film oh so much more precious and endearing because it isn't perfect.Altman paints as he goes.  It's a technique that is like a high wire artist in a circus working without a net.  Altman has fallen many times in the past.  But he's lived through his falls.And now with Dr T and the Women he dazzles us with a lifetime of his experience behind the camera, constructing scenes, working with actors, and proves himself a master.  He's taken for granted these days and when his films are less than they should be, critics will take to calling him a traffic manager, yet when it does work the way it's supposed to-- few call him a genius.He's not really a genius....  He's Altman.  He's been doing things the way he pleases for nearly 40 years now.  Ever since he refused to direct his third Alfred Hitchcock Presents episode in the 60's and got himself fired. Ever since he followed his smash hit Mash, with the quirky and bizarre Brewster McCloud. Ever since he directed such brilliant films as McCabe and Mrs. Miller, The Long Goodbye, Thieves Like Us, and of course Nashville.  He falls right on his face with things like Quintet and Beyond Therapy. He can direct a disappointment  like  Popeye and  then  turn his back completely on Hollywood and the studios for nearly ten years to concentrate on directing little known and quirky plays like Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean, Streamers, and Secret Honor.This is the guy capable of directing one of the greatest political satires ever made -- Tanner &#145;88  (For HBO) and then make a triumphant critical return to Hollywood with   The Player, follow that up with the masterpiece Short Cuts only to let nearly everyone down with Ready to Wear and Kansas City.  He then got another studio system project to direct and  fought with studio executives over his final cut of The Gingerbread Man.   The film was not thought of as a success.Then there was Cookie's Fortune, a fine quirky little ensemble piece and now a bigger quirker ensemble piece; Dr T and the Women.Altman is a film-maker who continues to do things exactly as he pleases. Even at 75, he's making controversial films which will inspire film-makers to reach beyond formulas and focus groups and create something which defies labels and perhaps even genres.  They are also tough films to market to an audience.Just look at what he does at the end of Dr. T and the Women.  He could have chosen to let the film wind down, but instead he takes a giant leap and I believe scores a huge victory for doing so.Altman is the undisputed master of creating moments that will frustrate some, exhilarate others but ultimately be precisely the type of ending the material demanded all along.The last line of the film ties into the film in a surprising, spiritual manner that couldn't be more perfect, couldn't be more simple and yet is an extreme risk which I suspect many critics will consider it a flaw.  Some may even read it incorrectly.Not everyone is going to like or even accept what Altman does.  But if you have been paying attention to the film, I trust you will respect what he does.Altman has not stunt casted, or forced any of his actors to stretch beyond what they are capable of.  Even Helen Hunt who I find to be an appealing but extremely limited actress , turns in a performance that uses her few strengths so well, you don't notice her weaknesses.Richard Gere has never been better, and probably never will be this good again.Dr. T & The Women is a quirky character study of a man who believes he understands women better than he understands himself.  He discovers he doesn't understand himself very well at all and consequently doesn't know women all that well either.There are several witty, satirical, clever and funny observations being made about a great many things in the film, but there are also some keenly made ones that speak directly to the heart and soul of the human psyche.  It's here the film becomes much more than the humorous exercise it's pretending to be most of the time.   It is here that subsequent viewings will reveal there is a lot more going on in the film than you might have originally believed.Altman has delivered not a little truffle of a film here, but a richly, layered masterpiece to be savored and enjoyed over and over again.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Bad...Really bad","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm usually an Altman fan, but I can't believe anyone invested the money to make this film, and I can't believe I just helped them recoup their investment by paying to see it.  There is not a single character in this movie that anyone cares about, with the possible exception of Gere's Dr. T, and he is confused good ol' boy cheating on his deranged wife.  If you can stick with this one to the end without cursing everyone who had anything to do with this movie for wasting two hours of your time, you are far more patient than I am. "},{"Title":"annoying, not worthwhile","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film very annoying to watch. It had no worthwhile plot. Just unbelievably bad script. I am surprised to see so many well known actors in this film. I don't think it will be around too long. I don't even recommend it as a home video. "},{"Title":"This movie stinks!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite possibly one of the worst movies I've ever wasted $7.25 and two hours on.  The movie started out confusing, meandered through an hour and half of a weak plot and poor dialog, and had one of the most preposterous endings I've ever seen.  None of the characters were likeable (with the exception of Dr. T's conspiracy theorist daughter) and most of them were intensely annoying.  The love and romance scenes all involved an adulterous affair between two pathetic characters.  My friends and I were the only ones in the movie theater when we saw this movie, and after seeing the movie, I know why the theater was so empty.  We spend the entire two hours vocally mocking this really really really bad movie.  Avoid it! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable screwball, though nothing great","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is hardly Altman's best, but it doesn't deserve the drubbing people are giving it. It has no plot? Please. This is an Altman film. His schtick is to assemble a bunch of quirky characters and let it fly. Character over plot. If you want plot, stay at home. Any tv drama will suffice. I'm most concerned about people calling this film misogynistic, because that's just not true. You might see the film as sexist (that's your choice), but it is not hate-filled. WARNING SPOILERS!! STOP READING IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS. Dr. T works as an OB-GYN!! The film opens with a shot of him examining an older, elegantly dressed society-type woman. If there's laughter here, it's because anyone looks awkward with their pants down. But the scene quickly establishes Dr. T's professionalism and care towards the women he serves. The ending is a birth scene, a close-up. It's the real deal, here. Amazing, and beautiful! How could this be hateful?! The Dr. laughs when he sees the baby, saying, Thank God it's a boy! or something. That might sound sexist, but I see it as the opposite. He starts off at the beginning with this confident attitude that he understands women, he knows what they want. And as the film goes on, his smug (if sweet) confidence is undone. He basically suffers from good old-fashioned hubris, and by the end he's humbled. It's not that women are bad. It's that women are so wonderfully diverse and human that he's an idiot for ever having thought he could preside over them like a king. Altman pushes to make this point. He shows that the Dr. has smothered his wife when he thought he he was treating her like a queen, that he is blind to the love of his secretary even though that love was there all along, that he doesn't even really know his daughter. Topsy-turvy! The scenes with him and his hunting buddies are hilarious--the men seem to shrink as the film goes on, little faces poking out of the plants, puzzling over what women want and mean.And then there's fabulous Helen Hunt, the best actor in the film (as far as I'm concerned). She is a truly liberated woman, Dr. T's foil. She knows what she wants, she's a true grown-up. And when he tries to take her for his own, he finds he can't have her. And his daughter--the scene where she chooses at the altar is a beautiful, funny moment that establishes her liberation, too! Obviously she inspires her dad at that point, because he follows her example by wanting to run off with Hunt's character in the very next scene.This film makes perfect sense. It may have some fluffy stereotypes in the way it treats *rich* idle women, but it is no hate-fest. Memorable, surreal ending. "},{"Title":"As usual...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This films has the trademarks of the best of Altman'w works long opening uninterrupted tracking shot, bits of dialog overlap and are lost, great ensemble cast, several intersecting story lines, and a mystical/magical ending.  So why isn't it great?  Unlike Nashville, M*A*S*H, The Player, or Short Cuts, I didn't really like any of the characters.  While we feel some sympathy toward Dr. T. - and have all felt out of control of our lives- most of the characters are caricatures and never fully developed.  Very different, I think, from the character development in Cookie's Fortune. Despite this knock, I think its still a must see for Altman fans (and still a good film for Altman non-aficionados)- especially the use of Lyle Lovett's She's Already Made Up Her Mind. "},{"Title":"Terrible waste of time & money...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm so angry at having wasted the time & money seeing this, I find myself unable to comment much.  It had a potentially great cast, but was boring, absurd, and a complete waste of film and talent.  I just wish I had checked this site out before going to see it.  I don't even want to waste any more time writing about it. "},{"Title":"Disconnected, Plodding, Predictably Wacky, and just plain Boring","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Altman must be getting senile. I'm a big fan of The Player, and MASH was obviously ahead of its time. This movie is just a waste of time. The movie has a star studded cast that for the most part spend some time doing reasonably good acting. However the script cannot decide if it is a comedy, tragic drama, slap-stick fantasy, or character study.Instead we are dragged along a melancholy roller coaster ride of vaguely related scenes set to some truly nerve grating background music. There are many twists and turns, but they are either predictable or unbelievable. Throw in some logical inconsistencies and more rainfall than Texas has seen in the last 5 years and you realize after 30 minutes that you are no longer being entertained. Apparently to keep males in the audience until the end of the show, we are treated to modest  doses of female nudity every half hour or so (although admittedly pleasurable, these were not enough to boost my 1 rating).  "},{"Title":"Incoherent and yet refreshingly lousy","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Top 10 things that I learned from Dr. T and the Women1. Richard Gere can't speak with a Southern accent2. Helen Hunt can't successfully portray a golf pro3. Helen Hunt as a promiscuous golf pro isn't entertaining4. Laura Dern as an alcoholic isn't amusing5. Watching Richard Gere peer into women's crotches isn't fun - it's uncomfortable6. Farrah Fawcett is laughable when attempting to act7. Liv Tyler should avoid lesbian oriented roles (and all-you-can-eat buffets for that matter)8. Robert Altman apparently experienced a stroke while pasting together the last 10 minutes of the movie9. I never want to see a graphic birth in a movie again!10. Dr. T is one of the worst movies that I've seen - and I've seen plenty. "}{"Title":"Not Altman's best, but still entertaining","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I count myself as one of Robert Altman's fans, and I was not disappointed by Dr.T and the Women. His typically huge ensemble cast delivered, and as usual he was able to keep the multitude of cooks from spoiling the broth. And, once again, he provided the viewers with his usual 'healthy dose of naked actresses'. This one counts complete nudity from Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett and a live birth which, according to the credits, was not faked or simulated, not to mention lighter fare.The story basically has Richard Gere as a Dallas OB-GYN  who caters exclusively to the city's upper crust women, all of whom are neurotic, obsessed and bored; they regard their status as his patients to be a necessary cog in the wheel of their social status, they count their visits to 'Dr. T' as a signifcant social function, and his patient and respectful manner both comforts them and allows then to let off self-centered steam. This client base has made him a very rich man, and he has made a loftly life for his wife, two daughters, and sister's family. Still, his life craves something else, and he can hardly wait for the daily visits to the golf course or hunting in the Texas countryside with his buddies (look for a much matured Robert Hays in this pack.)His wife, Farrah Fawcett goes nuts from too much of the pampered good life, and reverts to a child-like mental state. When she starts walking around naked in public, they put her in an institution; eventually divorce proceedings are begun by her council. One of his daughters is an almost dangerous fanatical conspiracy theorist, participating in Kennedy assasination re-enactments and spouting warning of impending gloom and doom. The other daughter has become a professional cheerleader and is planning to be married, but there is a skeleton in her closet which promised to disappoint her family and ultimately ruin everything for her father.When his wife files for divorce, the good doctor falls in love with his golf pro, Helen Hunt, and it looks like she will be his new wife. Meanwhile, his reliable chief of staff at the office, played by the always funny and excellent Shelley Long, is quietly falling head over heels for him as well.When everything crashes in on the doctor, from every angle, he drives into the heart of a violent storm. Here, a bit of classic 'deus ex machina' takes over. "},{"Title":"Even the cast couldn't save this one...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely hated the movie, it went nowhere, except the land of Oz.  In the nearly-empty theatre where I was, I looked around and saw a bunch of equally unimpressed people.It's nearly unanimous that this movie sucks, based on the other reviews I have read, but I disagree on one point.  The very end where there is a graphic live birth being shown.  I don't agree that viewing new life on this planet is gross.  I'd much rather see a hundred scenes like that one, than see yet another person being blown up, shot down, stabbed, raped, ad nauseum.  Given that most movies contain that sort of thing, I don't understand the squeamishness about watching a baby enter the world. "},{"Title":"Altman, Gere and a gifted cast provide another great entry in the Altman filmography","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's warming to know that there are certain constants in the universe, that over time that there are still certain directors that can make me smile just through the knowledge that one of their movies is in current release.  One of these, assuredly, is Robert Altman, whose new film, Dr. T. and the Women  (***1/2) is a small gem.  Here, Richard Gere's trademark laid back performance (sometimes undisguised as downright wooden in other outings) sounds just the right note as a traditional chauvinist (albeit with the best of intentions) in New Age style and manner.   Dr. T. is a OB/GYN in Dallas serving an upper class clientele -  a handsome and beloved charmer who manages to tend his patients with a combination of affection and meticulousness that makes the chaotic ship of his practice bounce through foam to safe shores - and clearly, these women adore him as well.  Yet, he manages to be masculine without seductiveness  this is no rake with a stethoscope.  He genuinely cares for his patients, and he manages consistently to give his tireless dedication to even their smallest needs. Dr. T. also has a beautiful and charming wife (Farrah Fawcett) and two daughters (Kate Hudson and Tara Reid).  And in the midst of one daughter marrying, his wife going mad and finally becoming institutionalized from being loved too much and too well (according to the psychiatrist, played by Lee Grant), leaving her with no goals or direction (and I would add, no sense of self), and with his sense of purpose as a man challenged by a woman (Helen Hunt) to whom he is becoming increasingly romantically attached, Dr. T. begins to see the ground of his world almost literally sink beneath his feet. Some have accused this film of misogyny  I think those that do mistake content for process.  The doctor's chauvinism is sincere  he truly believes that his role as a man is to provide the women a gilded environment furnished with all manners of release from cares  materially, emotionally, and without a need to be challenged spiritually.  What occurs in this film is an elegant metaphorical demonstration of Dr. T.'s re-birth and transformation, where the good doctor discovers a masculinity independent of needing to emotionally enslave the women around him (family and patients)by enabling dependence. With Hell-paved best intentions, Dr. T. had come to over-nurture these women to the extremity of decadence, psychological regression, and in one life-shattering instance, insanity.  This film also offers an interesting parable about the limitations of materialism.  As lives fall apart or take unexpected turns, characters are presented with genuine existential dilemmas.  While this film is not heavily plotted, Dr. T. takes a journey, until by film's end we begin to experience a person emerging from the chains of mellow that had previously bound his life.  Learning to relate to a self that has no need of a woman to need him, Dr. T. begins to identify who he is as both a soul and a man.  And Altman displays this journey with customary wit, style, empathy, and compassion.   "},{"Title":"Was there a script for this movie?","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an insult to women, but especially to women in Dallas. Farrah Fawcett needs to retire. The scene at the mall was pathetic and she added nothing to the movie. The tornado scene at the end of the movie was so incredibly unbelievable. I would like for the cast to refund my $8.75!!!  "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film I have ever seen","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was probably the worst movie I have ever seen.  Although there were about 8 well known actors and actresses, and some of them did a nice job playing their characters, the plot of the movie was simply awful and painful to sit through and watch.  Between the unlikelihood of almost every event in the film, such as someone driving into a tornado; and some inappropriate ones as well (the ENTIRE birth of a baby is portrayed) the movie was simply unbearable.  It has definite potential with some of the characters and events, but then they are never discussed again. Supposedly this film is receiving good reviews from critics so maybe it is just too deep for me to understand but to the average person who is just looking for entertainment in a film, I WOULD DEFINITELY NOT RECOMMEND DR. T AND THE WOMEN! "},{"Title":"Made all women look pathetic! Had to be written by a Man.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Should of walked out 1/4 of the way through it. Kept thinking, with all these big name stars, might get better. Wrong! Should of went with my first thought.  Made all women look like they have no common sense unless a man comes to their rescue. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining Altman flick","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a long-time fan of Robert Altman's work, I was looking forward to this one with some ambivalence. I had read that it was in his characteristic style of a lot of people interacting with very little actual plot (which I have usually enjoyed), but I was also a bit apprehensive because usually when a major star has been featured in an Altman film (remember Paul Newman in Quintet and Buffalo Bill) the results have been disappointing. Well, the good news is that this is better than the two Newman films, but it's still got problems. Throughout the film we see Dr. T becoming more and more confused in his attempts to satisfy all the women in his life, until (literally, it seems) all hell breaks loose at his daughter's wedding. Up till this point the film has been fairly naturalistic in style, and it seems to be leading up to a conclusion where he would realize that his life is a mess and try to simplify. That happens, but it's only through a Deus ex machina that's so much at odds with the style of everything that has come before that I was expecting it to turn out to be a dream. The simplified life which Dr. T seems to be embracing at the very end is dramatically appropriate, but I object to the method used to get him to that point.Anyway, the first 80% or so of the film is amiable enough that I'd recommend it to fans of Altman's style, but if you're not already a fan, skip this one and rent Short Cuts instead. "},{"Title":"BAD Movie","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this film with an open mind. I expected a chick-flick but it was my wife's birthday and I figured - what the hell. After 45 minutes of trying to like it, I came to the realization that this was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. No plot - zero. I don't know what Altman was trying to do here. I wanted to ask for my money back after seeing this, and overheard several other people saying the same thing. "},{"Title":"What made this movie so bad","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not going to pick on Gere for his southern accent that came and went more often than Perot in a presidential campaign. Instead, I'm going to tell you why Dr. T & the Women is one of the most badly written dramatic films that I've ever had the horror to see. This movie could have been very good if the writers had spent more time with Gere and Hunt and given the movie a halfway normal ending. This film was interesting; we had lesbians, bisexuals, women losing their minds in a mall and dancing nude in the fountain, drunks, desperate women looking to hook Dr. T any way they could, cheerleaders, and that chick from Almost Famous. Despite the vast amount of interesting content, a movie is not good if it does not cohere to a central plot, with no more than a very few side stories that tie in to the central theme or story. Gere's character should have been at the center of this movie, and less time should have been spent with other characters. In fact, there were so many other characters, this movie felt more like a ninety-minute soap opera instead of a movie. And without a better ending that might give more satisfaction to the moviegoing audience, it feels like something that might drag on for years and years to come, much like a supra-dramatic-yet-very-sappy-and-crappy soap opera.  "},{"Title":"Another Altman triumph","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Altman does it again. Brilliant piece of surreal over the top absurd social commentary for the new millennium. Everyone was wonderful in this film. Farrah Fawcett, Helen Hunt, Shelly Long, Kate Hudson, Tara Reid, Janine Turner and of course Richard Gere. The only thing that disappointed me was that we didn't get to see more of the lovely Ms. Hunt sans clothing.And no I found nothing shocking about the ending. It is a beautiful thing.  "}{"Title":"Doc's advise Don't see this movie","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At moments I wanted to leave the theater. From the start (a never-ending scene with women running around everywhere yak, yak, yak, where's the Doctor? yak, yak, yak) I felt robbed. Was this somebody's idea to make a quick buck? I'm disappointed Helen Hunt accepted a role in such a terrible movie.  "},{"Title":"Minor Altman effort","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dr. T & the Women is already polarizing viewers like many of his films in the past. Dr. T contains the usual Altman trademarks which fans will savor, but it is a slow paced film that meanders, which non Altman devotees will find tedious and hard to follow.  Dr. T is an uneven effort for Altman. He tries to combine the community mosaics of Nashville and Short Cuts with the surrealism of 3 Women with mixed results. The film's strange shifts in tone will suprise and confuse viewers which I liked. But the material seem a bit slight and fluffy considering Altmans previous efforts. It lacks the cynicism, sarcastic tone and edge that made all of those great films by Altman in the 70's such brilliant and innovative masterworks. Richard Gere is competent in the lead, with an excellent ensemble cast. It has many amusing moments and subtle touches by Altman, but like his previous collaboration with Anne Rapp, Cookies Fortune is somewhat sentimental and lighter fare which I don't associate with the Master director. Overall I recommend this film to Altman completists mainly. While not in the same vein of such classics as McCabe & Mrs. Miller, The Long Goodbye, Nashville, 3 Women among others by Altman, it is overall enjoyable though it could have been better. "},{"Title":"Greatest disappointment ever","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that even 12 people voted 10 on this horrid, nonsensical, NO entertainment, NO redeeming value whatsoever movie. I'm a huge Richard Gere FAN, but this movie has changed my mind about his integrity, NOW lack of in my book. And the worst thing about it, was the sad disgusting message given to men everywhere.  When You Love the Women around You, WHEN a MAN THINKS THERE IS SOMETHING Special about every woman, when he takes care of them and treats them well,  he is rewarded by, Insanity, Assassination Obsessed, Sexual Delusions of #1 office girl, and Sexual Difference Choice of daughter, AND THE ONE WE ALL THOUGHT WOULD ACCOMPANY HIM OUT OF HIS CRAZY WORLD and leave ***holes behind,  THEN..... she....  is so non-chalant about the love of a good man,,, she devastates him  too. And it was all c**p, and we fans, Paid Good Money and Spent Valuable Time BECAUSE WE THOUGHT, anything with Richard, Helen, Shelly, Farrah would be a good use of a day off.  By the way, Farrah F. had the most likable character of Dr. T's women. AND what was the NONSENSE of the tornado, and the grossness of the ending.  Someone told me about those things because I had already walked out of the theatre. THIS MOVIE ACTUALLY, swear to theatres everywhere, made me vow never to go to the theatre again.  No kidding, for there is NO way in the world to EVER TRUST that a movie will be good, just because good actors are in it. THANKS FOR LETTING ME RANT.  I need to Now write a letter for the Knoxville Newspaper theatre Section saying the same thing SO ONLY 1% of the people who were going to seeit, WASTES THEIR MONEY & Time. "},{"Title":"Planning an outdoor wedding ?","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can summarize this film with one name, Robert Altman. This movie reminds me in an abstract way of Altman's Short Cuts. As the movie progressed I felt as if I was watching a soap opera of an upper-class Texas community gone off the deep end.  This production, as have been many of Altman's was very much like a constantly moving puzzle, once you think you have it solved the last piece never seems to fit. I thoroughly enjoyed solid performances by Richard Gere, Shelley Long and Helen Hunt. But, could someone please explain the bizarre ending to me ?If you like a movie slightly off center, you will really enjoy Dr. T  "},{"Title":"MISTER T and the Women would have been a far better film.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" **SPOILERS**   **SPOILERS** Now, let's think -  Robert Altman - shaky, but generally good track record, he arguably made THE movie about Hollywood when he unleashed The Player on the unsuspecting masses in 1992.  Then he made the world safe for long movies that were not period pieces when he tickled out feet with Short Cuts.  But did anyone know what Pret-a-Porter meant when he boasted supermodels galore in 94?  Did anyone want to know?  Did anyone care?  Did Ready to Wear end up on ANYONE's home shelf as a keeper?Richard Gere is a gynecolegist.  His office is ALWAYS filled with women, who ALL have appointments, ALL need to see him RIGHT NOW, and ALL have a crush on him.  Now while, in theory this might be funny - let me paint with my beautiful brush of words what it feels like to watch upwards of 15-20 women, all in Dallas, Texas accents, ALL talking at the same time, all bickering, running in and out of slamming doors, giving orders to the staff, fighting with each other, and NOT ONE VOICE every becoming coherant enough for you to understand and focus on, but instead the entire scene plays like you are sitting in the middle of a baseball game right after a particularly exciting play that you had to be blindfolded during.  You HEAR armageddon all around you, but you have no idea what they're talking about.  And this goes on for 15 minutes at a time.PLOT SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!The plot?  Gere's got a wife who's lost it (Farrah Fawcett, who proves that she has lost it when she is seen in her first big scene of the film dancing COMPLETELY NUDE in a mall fountain - why?  Well, gosh kids - SHE'S NUTS!!), one daughter getting married, but holding back a BIG SECRET (wanna know what it is?  Here's a hint - Liv Tyler appears out of nowhere - if you know what I mean), the other daughter just stands there annoyed, and Helen Hunt is the new woman in his life (it takes him the whole movie to realize, apathetically, that she is using him for sex - GEE, Gere - was that hard to figure?  She strips on your first date and has sex with you before you've had time to learn her last name - women looking for long term don't usually DO THAT - we're you the AMERICAN GIGOLO?).And did I mention dull?  Scenes flicker on the screen for five, sometimes twenty minutes at a time, and I found myself saying - Whoa - how long was i just asleep for?  Ten minutes?  Well, no matter - NOTHING HAS HAPPENED!!!. Characters do things for no reason - REPEATEDLY, and every half hour we are treated to a meandering scene with Gere going hunting with his four buddies (or was it three?  Who cares, they shared ONE personality), if only to prove that there are OTHER MEN in Dallas than Gere!!!!  Performances?  Well, everyone gives one, and as the movie is now mercifully over (while watching it, I doubted that it would be by today - my companion turned to me and asked, Is this movie TEN WEEKS LONG?), I can honestly say that the only person I remember in the film aside from the I'm BEFUDDLED, get it? Gere is Shelly Long, and only because it's been so long since I've seen her in anything, and I really like her.  But even she is reduced to trying to seduce Gere in a ridiculous scene that, like every scene in this movie - leads nowhere and accomplishes nothing.Put yourself blindfolded in a room full of screaming banshees and elevator music and have them spin you around in a chair until you vomit.  It's just like seeing, Dr. T and the Women.   One friend said, And I thought DUETS was bad.  Another friend agreed she would have rather seen Ladies Man AGAIN.  Another friend and I needed Tylenol when we got back to my place. It's just that kind of movie.  And, true to form - the critics are liking it.And that's my two cents. "},{"Title":"Insulted in Dallas","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well this movie had all the bad elements a movie could possibly hope to have. Poor plot, poor acting and a poor writer. A false conception of Dallas women and I hope most women in general. I almost feel the writer has had a bad experience even being a women. I feel sorry for her. The lead character in this film is a sad excuse for a husband, not anything like he tried to describe himself as being. I have let every Dallas woman I know that this is not only a waste of time and money but a waste of film.  If any future movies I plan to attend have this writers name attached I will know to stay clear.  "},{"Title":"Another Altman disaster","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this waste of film, talent, and time had been made by any other director, it would be recognized for the pointless excuse for a motion picture that it is.The cult of Altman must be stopped!  With this 'film', populated by flat, uninteresting charcters who move through a slurry of dead-end plots, we find another Altman clock-stopper that'll have you looking for the exit and praying there's enough gas in your car to get far, far away from the theater in a quick manner. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie!!!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was by far the worst movie I have ever been too in years.Big names, bad acting, NO PLOT!!!.. The only thing that was worth seeing in this movie was the 20 seconds of Farah Fawcett naked.  But still not worth the price of admition.A total chick flick, I was with four females who also stated how terrible the movie was.Keep your money!!! "},{"Title":"BOOOOOOO!!!!!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually felt like standing up and booing at the end of this movie. It made NO sense at all and the ending was absolutely A-W-F-U-L!! Light and delightful in parts, but obviously the work of someone who ran through Dallas with some scouts and got a LOT of details wrong. And the interaction of the characters throughout made no sense at all. Definitely one of the worst movies ever made. It's like they ran out of time and ideas at the end and slapped something together. Magical realism, my foot! Sloppy filmmaking at its worst. Don't bother! "},{"Title":"Don't Go!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't waste your money on this film. There is no logic to the script and most of the characters are shallow beyond words. If you do go to this film, you will leave the theater wondering just what you saw and what meaning it was to have. If you find out, let me know. "}{"Title":"This film insulted me...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, like so many other women, I find Richard Gere sexy! I thought that the pairing of Richard with Helen Hunt would make for a great girls night out. However, I was not only wrong, but I came out of the theater quite insulted.This movie states - very blatantly, I might add - that treating a woman well will only cause men trouble. It suggests that strong women are sluts with no morals, and that the only thing that will save men from the plague called 'woman' is another man.I will not ruin the plot... if you feel this movie actually has one... but I do find it ridiculous that a woman can have a disorder caused by a man that 'loves her too much'. I honestly believe that respect is part of love, and I can say that respect has no place in this film.The people that made this film must be very sarcastic individuals. Imagine, marketing a film to women that degrades us for 3/4 of the time we spend watching. Very Ironic.Please do not waste your money... and if you feel you must, rent it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, witty comedy!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman is one of the masters of modern American cinema. His work in the 1970's (especially NASHVILLE) stands among the greatest films ever made. His new film, DR. T AND THE WOMEN is one of his best. I admit I was kind of embarrassed at the movie (the theatre was half full and I was the only man there) but once the movie started all that went away. The film is a very funny look at one man (played brilliantly by Richard Gere- in his only truly great performance) who is lost in a world of women. The film has been seen by some as misogonist, but they are missing the point. The movie doesn't insult the women in Dr. T's life- it loves them in the same way as Dr. T does. This was a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Gotta go...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry-couldn't take it.  Had to get out.  Hated the first 1 second of the movie.  Could the cameraman have gotten ANY CLOSER to that poor woman's, um...private area?  I knew already that I was in for yet another woman-hating movie.  How 'bout those IQ's?  Thanks, Hollywood.  And these ridiculous actresses just line up for their chance to help shove the women's movement back a few decades.  Walked out after 25 minutes - knew I was going to get more and more angry. "},{"Title":"Complete C**p","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From beginning to end this movie completely stunk.  Of course, I had this feeling ahead of time and was dragged to it by my wife, but it was by far in my top 5 worst movies of all time.  Terrible story, not funny, horribly unbelievable and corny ending, no real characterization, nothing good to say about this movie - even the nudity was horribly done.  I wouldn't recommend this movie except to use a torture.  Everyone in my theater booed when it was over.  I am amazed it has been rated as a 6 on here as IMDB users are generally pretty smart. "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always loved Robert Altman movies, and this one lived up to my great expectations.  The acting was excellent - especially Richard Gere's. What a perfect specimen of a man he is - and what a fine actor.  The look on his face when he was kneeling beside the his wife in bed as the reality of her illness really sank in is some of the finest acting I have ever seen. Others have called this movie too busy, but that's what I liked about it - it moves right along with never a dull moment.  As a Texan, I had to chuckle at the portrayals of Texas women - especially the over accessorizing - what a hoot seeing Laura Dern baking while wearing six huge zebra patterned bracelets.  I'm not the biggest Dern fan, but I thought she was excellent in this movie.  And Farrah Fawcett looked great - we should all look so good in our 50's.  Even the actresses with smaller roles were excellent.  Shawne Fielding, who played the actress who says, We're all here to see Dr. T and then sits down showing her exasperation, was great - I sense a great beauty/comic acting ability in her - shades of the beautiful comics of the 40's.  I like Helen Hunt, but I didn't think she was suitable as a love interest for Richard Gere.  Her character, however, was meaningful in that she was the only women in Gere's life who could take care of herself, which seemed to baffle him.  The ending is one of those that leaves you really thinking - unexpected and provoking.  Hubby and I are still discussing and analyzing its meaning.  I liked this movie, and I recommend it to everyone - especially mothers who over dress their little girls and Texans who can laugh at themselves. "},{"Title":"Dr. T needs to go back to school","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this film, based on reviews I'd read. And I didn't get much. I'm not all that familiar with Altman's work, but I really liked The Player. SPOILERS ALERT Dr. T opens with a similar long continuous scene, like The Player. The opening here sets the atmosphere in the office, but lasts way too long. I noticed people in the theatre looking around, and looking bored. The characters aren't that interesting, really. I mean, how come one character (Connie, I think)   first shows her cynical side AFTER a few scenes, when she's at work  @ the JFK Conspiracy Museum? How come she doesn't have the same characteristics throughout the movie? Maybe there are simply too many people to allow any of them to make an impression. Maybe some characters could have been left on the cutting room floor.The plot could be someone confusing, if you're trying to follow along. Farrah Fawcett's character , while important to the film, doesn't really bring much to the movie. It's just a ho hum role that she could have sleptwalked through.Maybe she did.  Helen Hunt is Helen Hunt, basically the same as she is in every movie. The soundtrack, by my man Lyle Lovett, is pretty good.Not enough tobuy the cd on MCA/Curb records. One of many things that didn't make sense was the wedding scene. How come, after the storm comes, everyone goes running out to the back, towards the bar area. But after a shot of Richard Gere smiling, and Farrah Fawcett again in a fountain, the guests all come running back through the chairs, and leave running past the altar? That didn't make any sense at all to me. The ending is pretty lame and quite graphic. Unnecessarily, I think. The best part about the ending, to me, is that it meant the movie was over. "},{"Title":"What A Complete Waste Of Time!!!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To say this movie is bad is an understatement!  It starts out slow and gets worse as it goes on.  Tons of subplots that never get resolved and more pointless characters than I have seen in a long time.  By the end of the film, all you can do is shake your head and wonder how they ever could have made the film.  I heard talk of an Oscar nomination for Fawcett with her role as a wife with a disability, another issue with no resolve.  She is in the movie for about 15 minutes.  The only thing she does well is nothing new...take her clothes off.  PLEASE, save your money.  Don't waste $8.00 and 2 hours of your time here.   "},{"Title":"I walked out...","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been going to movies for over 40 years and I have seen some real stinkers but I have NEVER walked out on a movie. This movie was just so unbearable despite the star cast, that I couldn't take it anymore and walked out. SPOILER ALERT Believe me when I say I wanted to like this movie, with some of my favorite actors(Helen Hunt, Laura Dern etc..) I was hoping for some meaty performances, but it just upset me with its lack of storyline, lack of interesting characters and constant mind-numbing chatter. I hoped when Richard Gere and Helen Hunt finally connected it would provide some entertainment but when Helen Hunt left to go on a trip she left the picture with no story, nothing of any interest. Why was Farrah Fawcett in this movie? Other than her nude romp in the fountain at a mall, her acting was strange. I suggest waiting to see it on cable ONLY if you are interested in seeing Farrah nude, other than that there is NO reason to see this film.  "},{"Title":"The Patients of Job","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's great to see Altman returning to the large ensemblecomedy. It's a form that brings out the best in him. Workingagain with Anne Rapp (who wrote the sweet Cookie's  Fortune), Altman has crafted a rich and multilayered takeon the story of Job, with a healthy dose of Fellini's 8 1/2thrown in for good measure. Richard Gere plays the Jobcharacter, a gynecologist with an undying faith in and loveof women. But the gods do everything in their power tobreak his devotion, as one calamity after another befallshim. I won't spoil the ending, but, like the Fellini film, it is akind of fantasy of death and rebirth.The movie is dense in symbolism, for those who  appreciate such things. In one scene, Gere's wife (FarrahFawcett) climbs into bed in blue jammies and, childlike,refuses sex because it's not nice. Gere places a cup oftea on her bedstand; the cup bears an image of a unicorn.The Fawcett character, we learn from her psychologist, hasmentally reverted to a state of virginity. Thus the unicornand the color blue, both symbolic of the Virgin Mary, areused to describe her sanctity, while the cup alludes to herwomb.There are many such shots of symbolic richness, but noneof them detract from the sheer entertainment of the film.Although it is bound to polarize viewers, this is one ofAltman's best. "},{"Title":"DON'T waste the money!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A friend wanted to see this film and I thought I'd go in with an open mind. After two hours of tedious boredom I was surprised to see the credits roll. The film made no sense.  The characters were two-dimensional and not very likeable.  Several bizarre plot twists throughout the film and none came to fruition.  Felt cheated when everything was left hanging and not one single neurotic story plot was finished.  The only good thing was the music.  I'm thankful it was a matinee bargain showing and not a full priced admission! "}{"Title":"What,When,Where,Who,Why?","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is this movie trying to say? When will it end? Where is it going? Who really edited this film? And why does it end in the land of Oz? I read in a review here that supposedly Altman read a four page short story and asked the writer to expand it into a screen play! This movie reminded us of the useless photos you take at the end of a roll of film just to use up the roll.  "},{"Title":"Bad!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I pity the fool who goes to this movie, it would have been more entertaining and funny with Mister T.  He would make the lines as and OB/GYN a lot more memorable. Breathe, woman, breathe, your making T mad.When will movie makers give up on trying to create a blockbuster by taking Gere, who can't shed his Pretty Woman character image, and recasting him as a similar successful older heart throb in a new situation.Its starting to get like that Quantum Leap show of the 80's where every time Gere saves the woman, SHAZAM!, he reappears to save another -  He saves Julia Roberts from life as a prostitute, BAM!, he's off to save her again in runaway bride, WHAMMO!, he's giving Winona Rider a good last few days in Autumn in NY, KABOOM!, now, he's off to Dallas as an OB/GYN, although not a bachelor this time, to save all of womanhood. They keep getting worse and worse and he's getting too old to pull it off.  Move over Quantum Leap reruns, all he needs is Al, the little cigar smoking sidekick with the fancy walkie-talkie.1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"T is for Terrible","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"       I won't bore you with the details of the incoherant plot of this movie.  I just want to urge movie fans not to waste their hard-earned money and two hours of there life on this movie.      It's a tribute to Robert Altman that he could essemble such an extraordinary cast of actors and make them all look so bad.      It's a boring film that takes weird twists and turns, and it leaves you wondering why anyone signed up to make this film. There are bad accents that change with every scene, there are choppy camera angles, distorted sounds (everyone talking at the same time), bad dialog and a ridiculous plot.  So save your money...don't encourage Mr. Altman!!! "},{"Title":"A great movie and a must see for the Dallas/Ft. Worth Metro.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I attended the Dallas premiere/fundraiser of Dr. T and the Women on September 24, 2000.  In attendance was Director Robert Altman, writer Anne Rapp, actress Janine Turner, musician/composer Lyle Lovett, and about 100 other industry people who were involved in the production.  The movie is about an affluent Dallas gynocologist and his dysfunctional family.  I live in the city of Denton, which is about 30 miles north of Dallas.  This movie is very accurate in its depiction of the affluent Dallas crowd.  This was cool because the same flashy money people portrayed in the movie were also in the theater watching the premiere (and preparing for the after dinner party).  It made for some awkward, but very funny moments in the theater. After the screening, there was a Q&A session with Robert Altman, Anne Rapp, Janine Turner, and Lyle Lovett.  Writer Anne Rapp said that the screenplay for the film began with a four page short story.  Director Robert Altman asked her to expand the short story into a feature length screenplay.  All of the panelists and the industry audience members had nothing but kind words for actor Richard Gere.  Lyle Lovett who did the soundtrack really shined at the premiere.  He struck me as the real deal.  He seemed appreciative and grateful for the contribution he was able to make to the film.  Director Robert Altman said that he really does not enjoy watching his own films, but that he loves to watch an audience watch his films.   I won't give away any spoilers (especially the one Mr. Altman asked everyone not to give away), but the movie is excellent.  Everyone in the Dallas/Ft. Worth Metroplex should enjoy the film (unless it hits too close to home...or you just don't get it).  I hope everyone enjoys it as much as I did.  I rated it an 8.   "},{"Title":"A Dallas gynecologist deals with all the crazy women in his life, hoping to maintain his sanity.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't tell you how excited I was to see the new movie by Robert Altman called Dr. T and the Women.  First of all, I am a huge fan of The A-Team. One of the best action television shows of the Eighties, it had outrageous stunts, hilarious stories and one of the best ensemble acting groups in recent memory.  Who could forget the late George Peppard as Hannibal Smith, the erstwhile leader with his cigar and the `I love it when a plan comes together' line.  Or Dirk Benedict, or that guy who played Mad Dog.  But the star of that show was Mr. T.  Mohawk, Gold Chains and that crazy temper!  I was under the impression that he'd been to medical school.  Mr. T with a Ph.d!  Kicking butt and making the world safe for women of all ages! Hooray Dr. T! So I have to admit that I was a little embarrassed when I'm in the theater. Guess what?  Mr. T is not in this movie at all.  It's not an action picture. In fact, the movie is about a Dallas gynecologist played by Richard Gere. His character's name is Dr. Sullivan Travis.  His friends call him Sully, but his patients call him Dr. T.  Get it?  The story goes like this.  Dr. T is the calming force in the lives of a lot of women.  There's his wife, Kate, (Farrah Fawcett, still a hottie) who is having some mental issues because of too much love from Dr. T.  There are his two daughters, single Connie (Tara Reid, uber-hottie from American Pie and Urban Legend), the conspiracy theorist, and engaged Dee Dee (Kate Hudson, currently burning up the screen as Penny Lane in Cameron Crowe's Almost Famous), the alternate Dallas Cowboys cheerleader who is planning her upcoming wedding with her Maid of Honor, Marilyn (Liv Tyler, MIA since Armageddon hottie). Then there's his sister, Peggy (Laura Dern, plain white hottie, the ex-girlfriend of Billy Bob Thornton, currently married to Anglina (ultra-hottie) Jolie), who has moved herself and her three young daughters into Dr. T's house, and has a little bit of a drinking problem. If Dr. T's home life doesn't sound complicated enough, then wait until you see his office.  His gynecology office is a zoo.  He's dealing with crazy patients like Dorothy (Janine Turner from Northern Exposure, where did she go?) who has hot flashes and dizzy spells every week because she needs the attention, and his crazy staff headed up by Carolyn (Shelly Long, Diane from Cheers, who has been gone from Hollywood so long that I thought she was dead) who is secretly in love with Dr. T.  His only respite is on the golf course, like all good doctors.  At the country club, he meets the new golf pro, Bree (Oscar-winning semi-hottie Helen Hunt) and begins to fall in love with her.  And that's when things get interesting. This is easily Robert Altman's best movie since The Player.  It flows evenly and he gets great performances out of his performers.  I can't single out a single actress as being better than the others.  It was a great ensemble piece all the way around.   He has a great script to work from, written by Anne Rapp, who also wrote the delightful Cookie's Fortune for Altman.  I think that women audience members will definitely relate to a lot of the movie and I think that guys will too.  I don't think I am going out on a limb by saying that the movie is very, very funny.  Not Jim Carrey funny, but sly witty good comedy funny.  Watching Dr. T deal with all of the craziness around him is very entertaining.  Also, I usually hate Richard Gere, but he is doing his best work in this movie.  Maybe because he doesn't have to do a lot of `acting'.  He reacts to the storm of emotion around him, and when he finally does crack, it feels very realistic.  I liked him, something I can't say for ANY MOVIE THAT GERE HAS EVER BEEN IN.  EVER.  So don't think that this is your typical Richard Gere film.  Actually, it is the ultimate success that happens when a great director and a great script come together with  a lot of very talented people, and a movie that shouldn't be missed if you like good-natured, character-driven films. "},{"Title":"Director Altman is definitely from Mars- awful movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  None of the characters are likable or believable -- especially a doctor who allows his patients to fight in the waiting room, and smoke & drink on the examining table. It's too silly to be funny. And what relevance does the childbirth scene have? I don't get it. "},{"Title":"Fits Dallas to a T","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall, the acting was good, the storyline was interesting, the musical score was excellent, and I believe that Altman does a fantastic job at poking fun at Dallas natives in the most original way yet.......Altman still amazes all with his creative directing and quirky comedic style.  This is the best Richard Gere performance in years and Shelley Long nearly stole the show.  Great Flick if you like to experience movies on a whole new level, outside of the ordinary hollywood status quo.  I give it two thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I  was watching this film I was filled with wonder - for the performances, for the director's audacity.  It wasn't until I left the theatre and thought about it that this movie really revealed itself to be something special.  On one hand it's a satire of the upper class similar to A Wedding (only funnier). It is also a portrait of a man going through a mid-life crisis that runs from farcial to tragic to surreal.  The relationship between Richard Gere and Helen Hunt is handled perfectly.  Both are older and wiser and proceed much differently than a younger couple would have.  As for the ending, I found it tied the movie together very well, relating back to the situation with Farrah Fawcett's character.  It is difficult to describe, but if you felt the ending of Magnolia betrayed what had proceeded it then this movie is not for you.  The only fair comparison I can give it is to say it draws similarities to the closing of 3 Women, although the director denies this.   "},{"Title":"Incoherent","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Incoherent story lines; Many loose threads.  Perhaps the cast is too big because many of the characters are not fleshed out.  And then the ending takes on a fantastical tone.  I felt this movie didn't know where it was going and perhaps tried to do too many things, make too many points, and did nothing very well. On the upside I thought it did characterize upper class Dallas very well.Bottom line, this movie is all over the map.  Two thumbs down. "},{"Title":"A very funnyMen Flick, if you like subtlety","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on a story setting up a dream environment for a men, surrounded by hundreds of women. Richard Gere plays a married gynecologist, father of 3 daughters, including the beautiful Tara Reid and Kate Hudson. We can see him entering into a downward spiral, from a happy and fulfilling life to something where many pure women troubles appear in his life without him having the slightest chance to understand it.The tone is subtle, soft, slightly dramatic, while keeping a good laughing value through the spiraling issues he has to face and which will slowly deconstruct his whole life.This movie let us keep a strong tone, playing with subtlety the war of the genders through the immersion of a seemingly lucky guy into an ocean of women that is is just unable to handle.I really liked it and, if you like subtlety and soft tones you will like it too. a good 8/10. "}{"Title":"An unexpected treat!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I finally watched this movie because I could get one more from the video store for the same price! (Cheapskate!)The acting was stunning, especially from Richard Gere, and I had not expected the range of emotions he portrayed in this movie. I feel his talents have been wasted in some of the puerile movies he has appeared in. The plot line is gripping and addresses a whole stack of contemporary issues that many people will relate to. If I had any disappointment at all, it might have been the ending.90 percent of Dr T's patients were a horrible lot. I don't know how he put up with them with such charm and patience. But there was a big giggle with the older lady who kept her hat on and made social small talk during her gynaecological examination!Since I have never had children of my own, I had never witnessed a live birth before. That was an awesome moment for me.Don't be put off by some of the reviews... some people will criticise anything just for the fun of it. I thought this was a great movie and will watch it again soon. "},{"Title":"...left with disappointment.  Not delight.","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From M*A*S*H and Nashville to The Player and Gosford Park, Robert Altman has shown again and again that there is simply no other director working that can juggle so expertly a large cast and interlocking stories. But the success or failure of an Altman film ultimately rests in his ability to seamlessly combine the often disparate tones of the story; in The Player, for example, he creates a work that is, at once, a satire of Hollywood, a film noir thriller, and a romantic drama. The result is pure magic and I am hard pressed to think of another director that could have achieved such spectacular results. Alas, Dr. T and the Women is unable to decide if it is a satire of Texas' idle rich, a farce exploring the disjointed dynamics of desire and romance or a family dramedy. The comedy often works, for Altman is a smart and witty comic that never fails to make the ridiculous and the absurd touchingly human (Cynthia Stevenson's funny and heartbreaking firing in The Player comes to mind). But here the film's bouncy jazz-like rhythms keep getting undercut by melodrama that, rather than enriching the comedy, serves only to leave you scratching your head in bewilderment. This push-me, pull-you experience is both frustrating and exhausting and, when the film, at last, finally lands in its absurdist desert, you are left with disappointment not delight. Altman does not, however, fail to elicit, as always, terrific, sometimes remarkable performances from his cast. And you can't hate a film that has such a rare love for women in all their strange and wonderful variations, and an unqualified and generous love of humanity. "},{"Title":"Satirical","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman's satire on Dallas society focuses on a successful gynaecologist and the woman in his life. Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett and Kate Hudson star A successful, handsome gynaecologist, Dr Sully Travis (Richard Gere) adores women, reckoning that they are sacred creatures and should be treated as such. The ladies in his life however are proving quite a burden. His wife (Fawcett) has been placed in a local psychiatric clinic. His alcoholic sister-in-law (Dern) has pitched up with her three kids, and his cheerleading elder daughter Dee Dee (Hudson) is planning a costly wedding, though her true romantic affections lie with the maid of honour (Tyler).Striking up a friendship with the new country club golf pro (Hunt), Dr T contemplates an extra-marital affair which he hopes might offer respite from the demands of his patients and staff.   Seventy-five-year old veteran director Robert Altman, in tandem with Cookie's Fortune screenwriter Anne Rapp, delivers an uneven, yet frequently enjoyable satire on Dallas society, and in particular those expensively pampered females who have time and money to burn. A loose riff on the biblical story of Job, the patriarch whose patience was tested by bizarre events, Dr T And The Women sees Altman employing his trademark overlapping dialogue and fluid tracking shots to convey one of his favourite themes - how meaningless chatter has replaced meaningful communication in modern society. There are so many players in this farce that some of the characters, particularly Fawcett's and Dern's, remain disappointingly superficial, and there's an element of cruelty about the way the women get stripped bare, both metaphorically and literally. Gere though produces an amiably bemused performance, and the gale-force ending takes a fantastical leap away from straightforward realism. Verdict An uneven but broadly enjoyable social satire that showcases decent performances by a quality cast, even if director Altman doesn't give all his characters quite the attention they deserve. "},{"Title":"Not Attenborough's worst, but close","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's too bad Sir Richard Attenborough couldn't have made this a good movie. He had all the right ingredients but couldn't put it together.  He had a great group of people to work with but failed.  What a waste of viewing time and actor talent.   "},{"Title":"Reasonably Good Cast, awful, AWFUL Movie","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember when this movie hit the theatres hmm, looks like a fairly decent date movie/romantic comedy...but something I'd most likely wait to rent on DVD.I'm here to tell you that it wasn't even NEARLY worth the wait. The story is convoluted, slow paced, makes no sense, unbelievable events happen, it begins to touch on character development but then just...stops.Dr. T stars Richard Gere (who I liked most in An Officer and A Gentleman) and a well known supporting cast (Helen Hunt, Shelley Long, Janine Turner, Farrah Fawcett, Robert Hays, Andy Richter, Laura Dern, Kate Hudson, and Liv Tyler). It was directed by Robert Altman. I didn't even bother reading credits after it was over but, judging from the situations and dialog, I'd guess this was supposed to be an adaptation of somebody's novel. I think it's supposed to be a satire about Dallas' nouveau riche, and how one Gynecologist must deal with all these various women (patients, co-workers, and family) in Texas high society.(Spoilers Below) The first 3/4 of the movie were barely tolerable. Characters are introduced in the first 15 minutes, and we quickly learn to care less about anything that happens to these people for the rest of the movie. They aren't interesting, they aren't developed well, and I could hardly figure out anyone's motivations. For example Peggy (Laura Dern) apparently has a drinking problem. She's seen drinking wine and champagne throughout the movie, occasionally slurs, and even has one scene where she stumbles and falls in the good Doctor's office...and then that's it. We don't learn anymore about her or her drinking problem than that. Another example Connie (Tara Reid) keeps telling her dad (Richard Gere) that everything's okay with me...really, it is. at various times in the movie. For no reason at all. We have no knowledge of why she's saying that or any evidence that there's something else going on and she's really not okay and she's actually about to kill herself or something. There are many other instances such as these in the movie and it makes you say huh? more than a few times.In almost every scene involving 3 or more women throughout the entire movie, Robert Altman used some trick where he'd have all of the women talking at the same time, and would choreograph the scene so that you could still (more or less) follow the storyline. At first, it was mildly amusing to see all these women talking at once in the Doctor's office. After about the tenth time seeing women clucking infernally like hens in the Mall, the Dress store, Tiffany's, a bridal shower, etc, it became a teeth-clenching chore to watch and made me want to rip out somebody's larnyx just so they'd shutup. Hey, Altman, ever heard of enough is enough?Farrah Fawcett plays Dr. T's wife Kate, who goes crazy and strips naked in the mall, dancing around in the fountain at the beginning of the movie. She's eventually put into a mental hospital, where she stays throughout the rest of the movie. Nothing really happens with her and Dr. T never really shows much interest in trying to understand what's wrong with his wife or help her in any way. Instead, he ends up cheating on her with Bree (Helen Hunt), a golf instructor new to the town.If the first 3/4 of the movie was barely tolerable, the last 1/4 was absolutely, positively ludicrous. Let me tell you what happens, and you tell me if it sounds plausible1. At Daughter Dee Dee's (Kate Hudson's) outdoor wedding she suddenly decides, while standing at the altar, that she wants to be with her lesbian lover Marilyn (Liv Tyler) instead of marry her boyfriend.2. Meanwhile, it just started to rain on the wedding party. And not just any rain...a huge, stormy, thundering downpour. (seems to me that somebody having a outdoor wedding would have paid at least mild attention to the weather reports for their wedding day)3. While everyone is scrambling for cover from the rain, Carolyn (Shelley Long), Dr. T's long time office manager, runs up to him and says I've always wanted to be a pastry chef, so I'm quitting my job. Uh, right. This event doesn't seem the least bit preposterously stupid or out of place, does it?4. Dr. T suddenly decides that he wants to spend the rest of his life with Bree, whom he has known for maybe 2 or 3 romantic evenings. He rushes from the wedding, jumps in his car and drives to her house to tell her the good news. She rebuffs him, however, and he leaves in a huff.5. He's so upset about this ill turn of events that he drives out into the raging storm, where (inexplicably) there are no other cars on the usually crowded freeways around Dallas.6. But wait! Now he's suddenly driving toward a...a...TORNADO! Yes, that's right, no tornado watches in Texas, apparently, just a instant tornado. It get's better, though.7. He and his car get swept up in the tornado, twirled around so many times, then apparently dropped down somewhere in MEXICO! (so this tornado carried him at least 800 miles from Dallas to Mexico? bwahahaha!). Anyway, the storm clears.8. Some time later, 3 little spanish speaking girls find him laying near his car and they help him get to his feet (YOU MEAN HE'S STILL ALIVE?????????) and take him to their village where, as luck would have it, THE VILLAGERS HAPPEN TO NEED A GYNECOLOGIST JUST THIS VERY MINUTE! One of the local girls is having a baby and, even though none of them speak english (and he doesn't speak spanish) they all just happen to know he's a gynecologist, they let him come into their house, and wait for him to deliver the girl's baby (methinks that maybe they would have already had arrangements in place to have this baby delivered. I mean, they've had 9 months to organize themselves, right? Or maybe they were just expecting a gynecologist to magically fall out of the sky at the right moment).whew! This was absolutely unbelievable. What am I supposed to think about this movie, especially after the embarrassingly stupid ending?I thinks it stinks, and I'm going to hold a grudge for a long time about wasting my $4 and 2 hours on this horrible piece of junk movie.How could people have seriously given this movie a 5 out of 10 rating?? OMG, I feel like I'm doing charity just by giving this stinker a 1 out of 10 rating!-JamesDee "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so beautifully shot, but so superficial in so many ways. The characters were all cardboard, especially Richard Gere, gorgeous as ever to look at but so wasted. The godawful Helen Hunt was par for the course (so to speak), simply pounding her one-note repertoire endlessly. The list of caricatured roles played by otherwise great supporting actors is pathetic, and the script is a two-dimensional outline. Altman's opening scene of the dr's office is brilliant, but then he just gets boring.  "},{"Title":"This is strictly mediocre","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay so here we go! The movie starts out pretty funny with an awkward gynaecologist appointment so I'm thinking hey it'll be pretty good. No doubt, my fellow film critics had warned me it was stupid but I decided to see for myself. I didn't hate it as much as most but I didn't particularly like it. Sure, it had some good points, and at times could be entertaining but was more good than bad. The acting was good but the movie wasn't worthy! It ran a little long but wasn't completely terrible until we get to the ending. The ending made NO SENSE whatsoever! It was pretty dumb. All in all this article gets a 4/10 Watch a few minutes if you happen to catch  it on the telly or if somebody else has already rented it but dont' waste your money ) "},{"Title":"Wonderful take on an estrogen-dominated family and a man who tries to understand","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film kept me hooked.  I know many many others have ripped itto pieces, claiming it was garbage, stupid, pointless and terrible.These people completely missed the boat.The film is a satire-- it's supposed to be somewhat unbelievable,somewhat different.  And satires are not your  run-of-the-mill-slapstick-Jim-Carrey comedy.  (I have nothingagainst Jim Carrey-- although some may wonder why-- I'm sayingthat Jim Carrey doesn't do satires.)   I think a lot of people wereexpecting What Women Want here and that's not what Dr. T. is,by any means.Altman has captured the essence of a man surrounded bywomen, and the man's attempt to try to do what is best for everywoman in his life and ending up, pleasing no one-- includinghimself.  Dr. T has to juggle the needs of his wife, daughters,mistress, receptionist, patients, etc. and can't always be everythingfor everyone.  One example is when Peggy (Laura Dern) and DeeDee (Kate Hudson) are in his office, trying to tell Dr. T. two storiesat the same time and are arguing over who gets to talk to him,overlapping stories and alternating between arguing with eachother and talking to Dr. T.A lot of people said that the female characters weren't developedenough, weren't brought out enough and sometimes, that wastrue.  But it did allow us to focus on Dr. Travis's struggles and howeach relationship with each woman affected his overall sanity andunintentionally wreaked more havoc on his life.  It may have been easier for me to relate this movie better thansome people, since my mom has five sisters (and they're allItalian).  I've seen how women deal together and how the menoften respond to a group of females the way Dr. T. does-- trying tobe everything for everyone and still not quite understanding exactlywhat's going on in the female mind.I wouldn't say this is the best movie I've ever seen but it was reallygood and kept me interested.  I think that all the negativecomments here may have been generated by people expectingsomething else (What Women Want, maybe) and not completelyseeing that this was a satire and not your run-of-the-mill comedy.  Iwould say overall-- watch this one with a open mind.  Men whohave many sisters and sisters-in-law should relate to this verywell.7.5 to 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I can say is why oh why did any of these actors agree to be in this horrible, terrible film? I can never see any of these actors the same again. Helen Hunt may as well throw her Academy Award away. She betrayed everyone including herself by choosing to act in this one. Just talking about this movie makes me want to puke. "},{"Title":"A total waste of time and money.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just want to warn you --- if you're really set on seeing this movie, don't pay to rent or buy it. Borrow it from someone who already has it.I paid $9.96 (plus tax) for the DVD at Wal-Mart and, after I watched it, I was sooooo sorry that I had paid for it!!I'd rather watch Dumb & Dumber for 24 hours, straight, than to watch this movie again! "}{"Title":"Not Much To Laugh About In This","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's really a shame that such an all-star cast (Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett, etc.) was wasted in this movie. It was muddled and plodding all the way through. I take it that the idea of a gynecologist whose life gets turned upside down by the various women in his life is supposed to be funny? If so, this failed miserably. There were a few chuckles in it, but fundamentally the problem was that this movie just plain lacked any consistent storyline. I found Richard Gere's character (Dr. Travis) entirely unsympathetic. Yeah, his wife was sick, and he must have been lonely, so he betrays his sick wife to fall into bed with Bree Davis (Helen Hunt). I just didn't like the guy from that point on, and found myself desperately rooting for the tornado at the end of the movie! In fact, none of the characters in this movie were particularly likeable.The long and short of it is that I didn't care much for this effort. The idea had potential but just wasn't well thought out. I'll give it a 4/10, but reluctantly and while holding my nose. "},{"Title":"It's been a long time since I have seen a stupid movie,","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  so I guess it was time.This movie didn't have one solid plot in the whole movie.  Sure, there were many plots (daughter's gay, girlfriend is cheating, wife is crazy, etc..), but overall the movie didn't flow well and it made no sense.To add insult to injury, Holly Hunter has been so typecasted that I thought I was watching What Women Want again.  I definitely do not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"He thinks he knows women but in fact he knows only about their lower area","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find this movie a complete waste of time. It is filled with stereotype people who only scratch the surface, and lousy lines. Nothing in the film is subtle, but all spelled out.A boring entree scene, which is far to long, gives you an idea of how the movie is as a whole (a scene from Mr T's waiting room - filled with eager women wating to get an examination, which is the most unrealistic - every woman who's ever had a gynaecologist examine her, knows that no matter how lovely he is, it is not a thing one wants to do too much). There is the older wife, played by Farrah Fawcett, who gets a rare diagnose, retreating to a child's state of mind, caused by to too much love from her family and husband. There's the drunken sister in law (played all right by Laura Dern), the two daughters, where one is getting married even though being a lesbian, and the other jealous, and a bit prescient. The golf pro, played by Helen Hunt, a no-problem ever happy girl who fears commitment and the more serious part of life. And finally Mr T, the charming gynaecologist, who thinks he knows all about women (but knows nothing), and blames himself for loving his wife to much; but none the less, has no trouble having an affair, while the wife is at the mental hospital playing child.This movie is clearly made with the purpose to make a quick buck. A  few well known actors can't make it up for a lousy script. If you want to see Richard Gere in a light movie; Pretty Woman or The Runaway Bride would be a better choise.   "},{"Title":"Helen was great...the rest was well...not","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I chose to view this movie only because Helen Hunt was in it, and she is a fav of mine. But I must say her character was poorly developed, by no fault of her own, as were many other numerous characters. Cheesy would discribe most of this film. Very un-creative plot. Slow moving. Terrible ending....too fictional and off base. There was no one point made during the movie...it went all over the place.  "},{"Title":"See this film; it's excellent--but DO NOT bring your usual expectations!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's been a while since I've seen a more charmingly unusual, well-acted (that's right, and who cares if Gere's accent isn't authentic; he's perfect for the role in almost every other detail) albeit maybe not &#145;great' satirical film get so much undeserved and empty flack from certain audiences and critics (most of the small Pasadena audience I saw it with liked it and talked about it positively  in the lobby afterwards, but then the women in that audience were probably much more intelligent CAL TECH students or faculty from the neighborhood and not your average mentally unbalanced newspaper columnists with a &#145;radical feminist' agenda, or Richard Gere Romance-movie-addicts). By contrast, the woefully awful, obscenity saturated, cynical, laughably pretentious and misanthropic `Magnolia' got plenty of praise from many of the same audiences and critics! And that guy was attempting to imitate Altman in embarrassingly inept fashion! Go figure the absurdities of the American movie-going public! But you have to understand that Altman's film doesn't peddle the over-the-top, sleaze-ball attraction of Tom Cruise grinding his pelvis and referring to women in the most degrading fashion imaginable; and yet, lo and behold, it's Altman's gentle satire that was labeled &#145;misogynist' by some because it didn't show any thoroughly exaggerated male characters like P.T. Anderson's not-likely-to-be-remotely- real (except maybe on the Jerry Springer show but that show's all exaggerated for effect anyway and not pretending to be profound) even-as-a-writer-for-Hustler-magazine buffoon, and instead, concentrated mainly on a few, well-drawn and realistic shallow women and one strong and intelligent one.First of all, it must be said, in case people forgot, that this film is a satire, and in a satire people are made to look routinely ridiculous to hopefully enlighten those who can understand and gain some perspective through it, to refine, if applicable, their own behavior by weeding out certain similar types of stubborn and insidious behaviors. It's about exposing vanity and absurdity. And if the balance of satire falls more heavily on the women in this film, there are at least 5 other films made by Altman himself where the opposite is true. But even this film is far from one sided when looked at more closely. How exactly are the men that go hunting with Dr.T, not made to look like idiots? And so what if Dr. T himself is made to look only &#145;gallantly foolish' for being &#145;too nice' (therefore causing his wife Farrah Fawcett to go into &#145;Childhood regression' ) ? Isn't a character criticized for being &#145;too accommodating' and intemperate in the opposite direction from the one so overwhelmingly depicted in almost every other satire, highly original in itself? Where else have you ever seen a character like this? Dustin Hoffman in `The Graduate' maybe? But he was a confused kid with no money and Gere is a successful gynaecologist making bank! The almost Marcus-Welby-like, meticulously polite and accommodating Dr. T. gynaecologist character is as rare a subject for satire as any, and he is satirized for sure, but not in as obvious a way as his patients and family members, i.e., &#145;the women,' who bear the burden of his intemperate &#145;niceness' (and maybe take advantage of it in ways that they themselves don't realize). It's easy to mistake it for a &#145;faultless' depiction, because the fault happens to be an excess of something everyone considers a virtue when not in excess. But an excess of politeness and accommodation is definitely a fault and maybe even a vice and it will get you in a lot of unexpected trouble.  Dr. T's doesn't know why he's made a mess of his life but we do, and that's immensely fascinating (especially since chronic &#145;nice guy' syndrome is widespread in society and potentially much more harmful than people think if not checked by some stronger, harsher, more truthful, and ultimately healthier realities).And so what if most of the women in Richard Gere's office are shown to be annoying idiots that drive him up the wall day after day, and whom he has to accommodate because it's his job? So what if most of the women in his family are relative airheads? Isn't the Helen Hunt &#145;golf coach' character the opposite number from all these airheads? Isn't her character one of the strongest, most independent minded women depicted in a film for quite a while? Doesn't she come to Gere's office and sit in the midst of a whole roomful of bickering women with quiet, dignified detachment? Doesn't she sleep with Richard Gere on a first date because she feels like it, fully aware that he will not look at her as &#145;easy' or in any way adversely as a result, but on the contrary, as a strong woman who takes what she wants guiltlessly and confidently, because she has related to him on an equal footing from the start? Doesn't she later give him advice in his office, and then reject his offer to marry her and &#145;take care of her' because she has her own life (like any self-respecting feminist would)? And so what if she's seeing Robert Hays (Gere's hunting buddy) on the side? Doesn't that further prove that she's independent enough to keep her options open and reject a conceited &#145;gynecologist' she likes very much but not enough to give up her career or principles for (if it comes down to a marriage offer that she's not ready to accept, as it surely did in the end)?  Doesn't that show foresight and mature independence rather than some &#145;two-timing' &#145;cheating woman' nonsense proving her &#145;typical female treachery,' and &#145;shallowness' when she wasn't romantically committed to Gere yet anyway? I very much think so, and all Altman is doing is 'keeping it real,' and away from audience expectations and cliche, which, naturally makes a lot of people quite annoyed and mad, since their programmed tastes weren't satisfied. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the worst movies I've ever seen!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had absolutely no positive element in it the story was pure nonsense,the acting was very poor and even the directing was bad,very bad. If this kind of movie is representative of Altman's future work,I only have one advice for himstop directing! Richard Gere played the one role he's only good inthe rich macho. But even he looked like he was making the movie just for the money. Absolute rubbishif you could give a movie a zero,I would have done it here! "},{"Title":"Solid work from Altman. A very good film indeed. (and Andy Richter is thy God) Contains Spoilers","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't read through the other comments yet to see why such a sharp animosity for Dr. T exists (19% of voters gave it a 1, the lowest score), but I really liked it. I am a Robert Altman lover myself, but have not been afraid to criticize his films in the past. I'm probably the only one who will say that I hated The Player. I felt it was a rather childish lash out at Hollywood. I also criticized greatly Short Cuts and Brewster McCloud (although I ultimately gave them the thumbs up). But he has made at least one of the best films ever made, Nashville, a masterpiece through and through, and several other very good films, including MASH, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, and his previous film, Cookie's Fortune, which I would deem wonderful. Doctor T struck me as also very excellent, and I'm giving it an 8/10, which, in four-star criticism, equals a 3.5/4 stars.First, before I discuss why I liked the film, I must point out its most glaring fault, the one which, I think, must sour the film for most of its viewers. This is the whole Hestia Complex deal to which Dr T's wife, played by Farrah Fawcett, becomes subjected. Obviously a made-up complex, it seemingly insults our intelligence. According to her psychiatrist, it is a complex which crops up when a woman is loved too much. When she has everything she could possibly want. It happens because the mystery of existence no longer exists. Thus, a woman with this complex reverts to a childlike state. This whole complex thing pops up within the film's first act, and, since we don't believe it, we just say, Oh, that's so stupid. That could never happen. And then we just block it out of our minds for the rest of the film. Whenever it crops up again, we just try to ignore it. Fawcett's acting skills make the whole thing seem even more stupid. This is not the right attitude to take. It is not stupid, per se, but what is truthful to say about it is that it is contrived. Contrivances are not a no-no when it comes to art. If you think they are, then you obviously don't remember Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliette, among others. You have to just accept the contrivances as much as you can, suspend your disbelief a little. This whole Hestia Complex thing is utterly important for your understanding of Dr. T.Now, onto the rest of the film. Another reason why, it seems to me, people would complain is the lack of a plot, or a conventionaly plot, anyway. These people would have to fully admit that they are completely unfamiliar with Robert Altman. Even if they are not, they still have a semi-legitimate complaint. The film's meaning takes a long, long time to reveal itself. One could easily get lost in the meantime, especially if that person has chosen to disregard the Hestia Complex portion of the film. I still don't see how it's all that different from films like Nashville and Brewster McCloud and Short Cuts. Nashville is a very difficult film, and, as Pauline Kael asks in her famous review of it, What does it mean? Actually, I think I myself have figured that out (and I'd be willing to share my views on it upon request). But for several of his other films, I have not. To tell you the truth, that is why I have always been so ambivalent towards Brewster McCloud and Short Cuts. I may have liked a lot of both of them, but, when it all comes down to it, I never really saw the point. However, I still enjoyed them. With Dr. T, I believe I did get the point. It's just that it isn't revealed until the film's climax, the wedding scene. By then, I'm sure a lot of viewers have already thrown up their hands. Yes, it is a long time to wait, but you just have to be patient sometimes. Altman is not interested in spoon-feeding us any answers.Okay, so here's my interpretation, so maybe you should skip this paragraph and the next if you want to figure it out for yourself or if you are just so angry that you don't give a care what some other idiot thinks it means it's all about stability, to put it simply, the possession of it and its lack. To be stable may seem like a wonderful thing, but it can also get mighty boring. Dr. T appears to be a near-perfect human being. While it would have been simple to make a stupid comedy about a sexy male gynecologist (see the Saturday Night Live sketch, Mel Gibson World's Sexiest Gynecologist, to see how it could have turned out), this is just not done here. Women crowd to get into his office not because he is sexy, but because he is just so good to them all. He's warm, and he obviously cares for everyone around him, strangers included. The rich-and-unsatisfied wife is a stock character in drama. We don't ever see Dr. T's wife in that characterization, but she was obviously in that position. Dr. T's daughters, Connie and Dee Dee, appear at first to be pretty stable. They're a doctor's daughters and dress very beautifully. Dee Dee is a cheerleader, kind of a dream profession, but she's not very good. She's also about to get married, but she will regrettably have to abandon a more rewarding relationship to do so. To get married is, of course, the American symbol of stability and normalcy. Connie is in bundles, although she constantly asserts to her father, Don't worry about me. I'm fine. Hardly. She is constantly in knots over her sister's foolhearty decision and she obsesses about JFK's assassination (the film takes place in Dallas). To boot, Dr. T's sister, Peggy, has arrived at his home, divorce pending, with her three daughters. Peggy is completely unstable; she can hardly deal with her young daughters and she drinks like a fish. Dr. T also has an assistant, Carolyn, who constantly interrupts personal conversations and rest time with the pretext of anxious patients; the truth is that she is lonely and secretly in love with her boss. Dr. T is being crowded by these and many other women in his life, and, like any doctor, relaxes on the golf course. There, he meets Bree, a woman pro golfer who has decided to relax a little herself. With all of his burdens, Dr. T immediately becomes involved with this source of stability, someone who is confident in her current decisions. All of this may seem like a mess to many, but it shouldn't be if you know a film like Nashville.As Altman likes to do, the climax takes place at a marvelous setpiece, Dee Dee's wedding. It is outside, and it's threatening to storm. A bundle of problems are arising, and, as it begins to pour, chaos ensues. Dr. T's experiences an epiphany stability is overrated. Not everything can be perfect, so it is pointless to exhaust oneself trying to make it so. A similar theme runs through Cast Away of the same year. Dr. T embraces the chaos and jumps into a covertible. As he puts the top up, the wind rips it apart. He laughs and drives off in the rain towards Bree's apartment. He has chosen to convince her to run away with him. She wants no part in it. She is happy where she is, is stable. She knows that she cannot control her life perfectly, but she knows that she must exert some control. Hurt but not destroyed, Dr. T drives away. We don't know where he's going, and I doubt he does either. As he drives, a tornado descends upon him and sucks him away. This part probably angers a lot of viewers also because it is so random and untelegraphed. But I think it works. Fantastically, Dr. T survives the tornado, but has ended up in an isolated area of Mexico. The village nearby is isolated and in need of a doctor to deliver a baby. He does so. He is there to begin a new life. Again, he exists in a state of possible stability as the town doctor, but also there exists the possibility for random events, i.e., the mystery. "},{"Title":"Worst Film I've Ever Seen !!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dr. T and the women is a B-grade straight to video kind of film, and not at all the commercial film I thought it would be judging from the trailer. This film is neither funny, sad, nor profound. It is pointless and extremely boring. The characters are all one dimensional and you never get any insight as to what makes them tick. This film is offensive to women and portrays them all as loud whiney hysterical drunks or nut cases. Some of the shots are pretentious and the end scene is designed purely to shock.Whatever point this movie was trying make, it just missed it completely ! Avoid it like the plague ! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a very big disappointment for me. I went to see a Robert Altman-movie and I saw this! After seeing MASH I thought most of the Altman-movies are good, but this... Sad to say but I guess this was the worst movie I have ever seen. Not even good actors Richard Gere or Helen Hunt could save the movie. Gere and Hunt didn't have their usual shine in their roles. Hunt couldn't turn the bad character to good. Her character was empty. Also Gere's character was pretty lousy. None of the characters was interesting. All of them were very superficial and empty. Sad but true I have nothing good to say about the film. Sometimes a bad film can be saved with a good end but... the end of this movie was the worst part of the film...if that's possible.  "},{"Title":"who cares?","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An empty film dealing with the problems of really wealthy women who hang around the mall for super models and the equally vapid problems of the aging Richard Gere.  Truly masculine behaviour is defined as driving your Land Rover to a field, unloading the sandwiches and lawn chairs and shooting at golf balls.  For an exercise in futility try to explain the significance of the movie's ending to someone else.  If you get the DVD, check out the interview with Altman where he rambles on and keeps losing his train of thought while attempting to explain what he was trying to do in this film. Go and rent Fight Club instead. "}{"Title":"Save your money, save your time","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An ill-conceived, nonsensical story.Dismal plot, fanciful story line, weak characters and virtually no justification for having made this movie in the first place.If you still have your circa 1970's poster of Farrah, you might be titillated, otherwise consider staying home and taking valium as being a far more exciting option.I give this movie the maximum number of thumbs down allowed by law. Definitely the new bottom of the list for me. "},{"Title":"it takes talent to be this bad","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie with two friends of mine, a married couple. The husband was out the door before the credits started, by the wife and I, perhaps compelled by our womanhood, stayed throughout the credits. Not because it was that good. It was because it was that bad.You know how Reality Bites (in no way to be compared to this God awful movie) had little post-scenes, if you will, during the credits? Well, that's what we were waiting for--- something, ANYTHING to resolve the mess that had been laid out before us. But there was nothing.This movie is insulting. First, his wife goes nuts because he loves her TOO MUCH. Yeah, okay, I'm a student of psychology and I'm not buying that. His daughters are nuts. His sister-in-law is an alcoholic. He is surrounded by needy, stereotypical, weak, worthless women. And although he supposedly loves them all, he does NOTHING for them. Says nothing to the alcoholic, never comments on his younger daughter's repetitive cries for help, and is blind to everything around him.Eventually, he is swept up in a tornado and thrown into Mexico (unharmed, mind you), where he delivers a baby boy. Finally, a boy, and he is overjoyed and restored.Yes, understand this clearly. His salvation is the birth of a boy and the end of the women.This is the most misogynistic movie I've ever seen. I despised it. I will never, ever see another Robert Altman movie. Save your money. "},{"Title":"Water as the Catalyst for Change","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I heard bad things about this movie, I am a Robert Altman fan and so I didn't want to miss it.  Water is the catalyst by which the main characters begin to transform.  In the beginning of the movie, Kate Travis, Dr. T's wife, played by Farrah Fawcett removes all of her clothes in a shopping mall in Dallas.  She proceeds to cavort and frolic in the mall's public fountain.  The scene is beautiful and her dance is childlike and innocent. Robert Altman uses the water as a catalyst for change in the character.  This theme continues throughout the movie.  "},{"Title":"Altman at his best","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One may apply to Robert Altman the saying No one is a prophet in his own land. Reading the reviews of most of his fellow Americans, I see they have rejected him once again, but Altman, one of the best American living filmmakers, has done it very good one more time. Altman has made spoofs of films genres, institutions, the American way of life; he has made remarkable psychology studies, fantasies, ensemble films, and even movies about the relation between art and society (he must had felt an affinity with Van Gogh).Dr. T & the Women resembles his ensemble films that make jokes of American way of life (as A Wedding and Nashville). But I think it is more related to his recent movies that make fun of professionists and careerists, The Player, Ready To Wear and The Gingerbread Man. First it was filmmakers, after that fashion designers, then lawyers and not it's the gynaecologists' turn.Dr. T & the Women is a trip to the intimacy of a Dallas gynaecologist, surrounded by the chaos that he has made for himself. All the women around him are exterior manifestations of the way he has distorted his profession's mission. The women like him more for his good looks than for his expertise as a gynecologist, though he is a good one. He knows that his fees are way too high, and that they let him have the life he leads, a life that has alienated him from society at large. Altman never shows inner Dallas, but remains at the top, with Dr. T, his family and clients, as an indication that the gynecologist has lost contact with social reality and his profession's objective. This strategy is the opposite to the one in The Gingerbread Man, in which the rich lawyer gets in trouble when he falls for a low-class girl.In his personal life, Dr. T has accepted some traditional values, without asking if there is anything wrong about them. He believes in a maintained wife (who goes nuts tired of being part of his dcor), in the continuation of this tradition by his daughters, in practising clean sports (although hunting turkeys for fun is rather criminal), and in trying to trap an assertive and independent woman, proposing her to escape with him, an offer that she logically rejects. Altman tries all these characters with affection and care, in the best Buuelian tradition.But the turmoil in Dr. T's life grows and lead us to the chaotic no-wedding, when one of his daughters goes left, but above all to an unexpected twister, which made me laugh with excitement. When I first saw it in the background of the frame, I said to myself Is it possible that Altman is going to do that? Is he going to do THAT??!! And HE DID IT! Everything blows away, as in the end of Antonioni's Zabriskie Point. I do not know if scriptwriter Anne Rapp was conscious of her nod to Antonioni, but Altman is no newcomer to this kind of resolution or to fantasy. He is a true post-modern and he has mixed genres, themes and sources, and he has played with fantasy before, as in Brewster McCloud (was Sally Kellerman an angel?), in the science fiction morality tale Quintet and quite obviously in Popeye.After this cathartic moment for Dr. T, the final sequence is at the same time funny and beautiful. Dr. T finds the sense of his profession once again, giving life in the middle of a desert. This is, in my opinion, a wonderful conclusion. One last detail that is material for an essay Altman and water. Water is a symbol of life, of universal consciousness, of purification. It plays a central role in 3 Women, it is constant in The Gingerbread Man, as a permanent threat, and one may add Quintet, which takes place in a land covered with snow. It is also present here, and as in a Hitchcockian film, it fulfills its promise of disaster and redemption, as if being the continuation of Gingerbread. See Dr. T & the Women with the certainty that you are in front of the work of a major American filmmaker.  "},{"Title":"and all that goes with it!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One could run this film in reverse and have just as good a trip through Altman & Rapp's vaginal whirlwinded terrain that is Dallas,Tx - here a fizzy, Escada cloaked, Champagne flute clinking girls town. Richard Gere holds his own quite convincingly as the magnetic male totem DR. T amid the swirling estrogen currents that sweep the picture along. Delightful at every turn (Where's Shelly Long been for so long?), it's not to be missed or misread. It came from a woman, dammit!    "},{"Title":"Stereotypes and misogynistic themes.....what else.....","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" what else can I say....I really tried to give the film a chance; Richard Gere deserves better; I really don't understand the intent of this film, other than to make every actor in it look like a raving idiot, whom you will never want to watch again....Farrah Fawcett is used as a decoration, then discarded, for the rest of the female cast, which is disgraced. Lee Grant is laughable (but not funny) as a psychiatrist; is this an inside joke, Mr. Altman??. I really am curious as to the reason this movie was made.The ensuing story involves drunken idiots (Laura Dern, etc.), spoiled kids, and a ruined wedding. Just another day in this little Texas town, or Beverly Hills, for that matter. But ....who's laughing....the humor is so cheap and obvious, and the fact that Gere is a gynecologist....Jeez; give us a break ; we may not produce films, Mr. Altman, but much of the audience IS educated........Do you just assume we are from Midland, or Crawford, Texas.....? I really want an answer on this one, because the film has absolutely NO purpose, theme, or redeeming value. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman sleep walks","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After having been burned by the Altman/Rapp team with Cookie's Fortune I was doubly wary of wasting my time on this piece of garbage. I won't lie by saying I went into it with an open mind and thank God I didn't, since disappointment is the only thing that could have made this movie worse.Once again, neither Altman nor Rapp seem to have any time to develop their characters by giving them anything but supposedly witty drivel to spout off. The horrific accents that everyone adopts in this movie are reminiscent of the performances you are likely to encounter in any high school production of Our Town. (By the way, as a Texas native, we don't put the in front of our highways when referring to them - that is a West Coast affectation. Do some research, you dim wits.) Reading many of the other comments, I find that a lot has been said about the ending. I think they're missing the point ALL of it was bad and in my opinion the ending was the best part as it heralded my release from this astoundingly bad film.1 out of 10, only because this site won't allow for a negative rating. "},{"Title":"BBBBBBOOOOOOOOOOORRRRRRRRRRRIIIIIIIIIINNNNNNNGGGGGGG!!!!!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Could this movie be any duller?  Robert Altman has directed some classics in his time (The Player, Short Cuts, Gosford Park), but has been plagued by a long series of losers.  Did anyone actually see Cookie's Fortune?  I hope not because it was extremely slow-paced and of little interest.  This film is no better.  The movie is set in Dallas with Richard Gere as a gynecologist.  He has a wealth of patients due to his looks and appealing bedside manner.  Altman makes great use of the fact that he is a lone man in a woman's world.  Naturally he has a wife and 2 daughters, and a divorced sister-in-law who herself has 3 daughters (no males at all).  He is literally surrounded by women.  However, every woman in this film (with the possible exception of Farrah Fawcett) is extremely annoying.  They keep jabbering away about nothing, fighting provoked by petty jealousies, worrying about minute details related to their clothing, and talking incessantly on their cell phones.  It is extremely aggravating and awfully stereotypical.  Perhaps that was Altman's point?At any rate, nothing happens in the film.  It slows to a crawl in the middle.  Even the presence of a large number of famous blond actresses cannot save this film (Tara Reid, Kate Hudson, Farrah Fawcett, Helen Hunt, Shelley Long, and Laura Dern).  It is deathly slow and goes nowhere.  The only excitement comes about in a terribly predictable manner.  What an utter disappointment.  If it weren't for the terrific Gosford Park, I would have thought that Altman had lost his touch.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Diagnosis a chronic case of the cutes","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Robert Altman stumbles at the gate with alarming accuracy every third or fourth film is something special, and the rest of his output is in complete disarray. Think of Dr. T as Exhibit A. Messy misfire about a popular gynecologist (Richard Gere) in Texas, his clientle, unstable wife (Farrah Fawcett), and a new potential girlfriend (Helen Hunt, still unable to free herself from the sitcom shtick). There's an awful lot of talent in and around this movie, but no amount manages to make it to the screen. The script is paper-thin and the characters poorly conceived. Altman doesn't allow the scenes to take shape, to play out (all of Fawcett's moments, for instance, are chopped short before anything can develop). It's movie-making in shorthand, a laughless comedic-drama which turns fine actresses like Shelley Long, Liv Tyler and Lee Grant into incompetent ninnies. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Cuts like a knife Alright","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This had to be the single most annoying movie I have EVER seen! Sixteen harping women talking over each other for two hours (it seemed like six), even in Spanish, please save your ears and eyes, you would be better off watching Stooges Reruns. OMG! How can this even be called a movie. There was not a single tolerable scene in the movie, it stereotypes women, the acting is absolutely horrid! Farrah may be built like a brick s-house, but she still can't act her way out of a wet paper bag, although this movie may have been just right for her, she acts like a brainless infant the entire movie, because she's loved too much, I mean really, who thinks this garbage up. And, on top of it, it's not even a love story, I don't really know what it was, a cluster-F(&(**^^%! "}{"Title":"The Feminine Mystique Is All Wet","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Handsome upper-class Dallas gynecologist Richard Gere (as Sullivan Sully Travis) is very popular with the many women he services. He fancies himself an expert on females, believing no two are exactly alike. Like snowflakes? Considering his profession, Mr. Gere (aka Dr. T) should know. When not busy with his patients, Gere goes out to shoot birds, golf balls, and the breeze with his middle-aged buddies. Warned by his male friends that wet women are bad luck, especially when your first meet them, Gere blames men for making women wet. Women are, by nature, Gere asserts, they are saints. They are sacred and should be treated as such. The good doctor doesn't know it, but he doesn't know women at all. Gere is a loving and faithful husband, but he is attracted to golf pro Helen Hunt (as Bree Davis). Per his friends' warning, Ms. Hunt is wet when they meet. Gere's still beautiful wife Farrah Fawcett (as Kate) is coming down with the rare disease Hestia Complex which causes victims to strip naked in the fountain of a crowded mall. Visiting sister-in-law Laura Dern (as Peggy) is a likely alcoholic and fawning secretary Shelley Long (as Carolyn) desires her boss. Gere's engaged daughter Kate Hudson (as Dee Dee) is a lesbian, according to jealous sister Tara Reid (as Connie)... It took Gosford Park (2001) to make everyone sit up and take notice of Robert Altman's continued mastery of filmmaking in his 70s, but there were signs in this film. The legendary director receives great assist from writer Anne Rapp, cinematographer Jan Kiesser and editor Geraldine Peroni. The coordination of actors and the camera is marvelous. The film offers an ironic look at gender mystery and misunderstanding; the befuddled Gere and Mr. Altman lose to writer Rapp and the mostly female cast. But the ending gives us males some hope. Relatively unsuccessful, the ill-titled Dr T & the Women will certainly improve in stature over the years. ******** Dr T & the Women (9/12/00) Robert Altman ~ Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett, Laura Dern "},{"Title":"Surprisingly bad for so many good actors and actresses..","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is a movie that went nowhere. Got it because all Laura Dern movies have been good. This one, goes down to a three, just to be kind to the LD record. I watched it after breakfast and before lunch, about 11 am, and it was still hard to stay awake. Mostly about a bunch of mouthy women saying nothing and going nowhere. I'm sure that the director, whoever he was, was trying to make it pay off on the last 15 minutes, where the movie showed, after Richard Gere was caught in the Texas tornado, the actual birth of a baby.. yes, all of it!!! This was horrible!! One of the poorest directed movies ever. Hoppy, Gene and Roy were better handled. Please, Laura, go back to Alexander Payne, even over Whathisname of Wild at Heart. "},{"Title":"Dr. Why?.","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In some ways, Robert Altman resembles Woody Allen both are elderly directors, frequently lionised, whose reputation allows them to make pretty much any film they want and who continue to turn our movies in their own inimitable styles; movies which, however, often fail to show any advance over their best known work from 30 years ago. Additionally, both have been known to make very bad films about the rich and dull. 'Dr. T. and the Women' certainly is not Altman's best effort the story of oleaginous Texas gynaecologist Dr T. (played by Richard Gere) and the huge entourage of unaccountably attractive women who follow him everywhere, the film features many of Altman's trademarks (a big cast, massive set piece scenes, a low-key, black-comic feel) but struggles to hit the spot bits of it just feel wrong (a portrait of mental illness is totally unconvincing, while the whole world seems glossy and synthetic). One difference from the template is that often Altman makes all of his characters 100% unlikeable, whereas in this film most people are actually quite nice (at least in isolation); but if anything, a touch more venom would have been welcome in a film about people too rich to have anything real to care about. Yet in spite of this, there's also a faint whiff of misogyny emanating from the film's concept. The story ends with a wedding; but for anyone who's seen 'A Wedding', an Altman classic from 1975, it's clear how much edge and bite has been lost. A disappointing, but unsurprising, film. "},{"Title":"Not for the simple-minded","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like most of Altman's movies, this is more about characters than plot.People complain that the characters are stereotypes as if there aren't actually shallow upper-class women in every city in America. The main characters in this movie are real, with real emotions and real needs, but since Altman (as always) doesn't feel obligated to work with broad brushstrokes, it goes right over most people's heads. The hearts of every character (Dr. T, his daughters, Bree) are suggested, not spelled out. In short, another great Altman character study, with great performances from (in particular) Gere and Hunt.Buy your copy now while you still can, before this one disappears from the video store shelves forever.  "},{"Title":"IMDB sez If you like this title, we also recommend...From Hell (2001)","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reviewers who are suggesting that this is among the worst movies ever made are wrong.  It IS the worst.  Bar none.This dog sets the industry standard for failure.  If you see a DVD copy of Mr. T and the Hags (or whatever it's called) sitting next to a copy of Plan 9 From Outer Space in the bargain bin at Walmart for $5.44 and you cannot resist the urge to buy a movie, rest-assured that the plot, directing, writing, special effects, acting, and the naked people are all much better in Plan 9. This thing may have paid more attention to continuity, but that would be it's only edge over Plan 9.This film is torture. "},{"Title":"Truly Annoying","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  DR. T AND THE WOMEN (2000) ** Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett, Laura Dern, Shelley Long, Tara Reid, Kate Hudson, Liv Tyler, Robert Hays, Matt Malloy, Andy Richter, Lee Grant, Janine Turner. (Dir Robert Altman) Robert Altman has had a distinguished career as a filmmaker largely due to his trademark ability to mix many characters into several plot lines with interchangablilty and overlapping conversations to give a reality to the surreality they often encounter (i.e. `M*A*S*H' and `The Player' to name two of his masterpieces).  In his latest attempt at the tradition he comes short but still makes it interesting nevertheless. Gere stars as Dallas gynecologist Dr. Sully Travis, aka Dr. T, whose thriving practice of demanding upper class clientele only supercedes his loving, yet eccentric family, that he has skillfully juggled.  Until now. Seems his daughter Dee Dee (Hudson) and her upcoming  wedding has begun a swirl of events that culminate into ahodgepodge pastiche of a large scale. Not only is the bride's lifestyle in question - it seems her maid of honor Marilyn (Tyler) has been very intimate with her in a past lesbian affair that threatens the stability of the upcoming nuptials - but her jealous sister Connie (Reid) - a tour guide to a conspiracy theory tour of sorts about JFK's assassination - clearly sees the threat as well as the green with envy way of handling things.  On top of that their mother and Dr. T's wife, Kate (Fawcett), has suddenly contacted a pathological breakdown of sorts regressing her into a state of childlike behavior which is explained by her doctor, Dr. Harper (Grant), as being a response to her affluent and much loved surroundings, which apparently she cannot accept.While all this is occurring, Dr. T is also dealing with his tipsy sister Peggy (Dern) and her brood setting up camp in his house and his practice suffering for its abundency of shrilly, self-conscious women.  As a cleanse to his mental pallette enter Bree (Hunt) as a golf pro who has just whisked into town to work at his country club golf course and into his heart all too willingly.   It's no wonder Dr. T hasn't had a complete mental breakdown himself with all the clucking hens in his waiting room, the tug of war with his emotions from his loved ones and the coming to grips that his wife will no longer be the love of his life while a new one has inexplicably altered his being.Gere is the anchor to this annoying and stereotypical comedy that recalls Tennessee Williams' Southern Gothic, but without the charm.  His ability to remain low-key, helpful, trustworthy, likable and level-headed is a miracle in this film that is the absolute antitheses. He deserves a medal for the psychological warfare attacked on his character by the raging harpies and slatternly behavior.   For example, his long-suffering and loyal head assistant nurse and chief of staff Carolyn (Long looking haggard) who secretly wants to be the second Mrs. T feels like a third rate sitcom plot and her unsublte seduction unbeknownst to him is trying in so many ways.The ensemble female cast should also receive kudos for their attempt to breathe freshness to their cardboard roles and in some small misogynistic way avoid the pitfalls lain for them to overcome. Hunt has chemistry to spare with Gere, Fawcett makes her sad role empathetic and Hudson's freshness adds new dimension to her journey to stardom. The screenplay by Anne Rapp manages to shoot itslef in the foot in her treatment of the women as egotistical, nasty and manipulative sirens belies her previous collaboration with Altman in his last film, `Cookie's Fortune', the bucolic comedy of errors that was confectionate sweet and convoluted to boot. It's hard to laugh at the pitable but that appears to be the unacknowledge doings by the filmmakers which is a sad, sad thing.  "},{"Title":"Star-studded cast, poor writing, HORRIBLE ENDING","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, based on the title of this review--be warned, SPOILERS AHEAD.This cast is heavily loaded with stars of all persuasions which means a lot of gorgeous women who can really act and Gere as the anchor of the film and lovable center of town.  Lots of sexy fun and a few laughs, right?  Wrong! The characters in this film except Gere's T and Hunt's Bree are cartoon caricatures.  All of the gags stretch our suspension of disbelief to the breaking point.  Farrah got to be the new Farrah as we've seen her on late-night talk shows and collect a hefty paycheck for it (I hope).  Her breakdown is a weird scene and not funny.  The hospital or sanitarium where T sticks her is so bizarre, and the head doctor's diagnosis is so ludicrous, that I wondered for a fleeting instant if Gere's character wasn't actually talking to one of the patients who had delusions of being a psychiatrist.  And that was the highpoint of believability.  Laura Dern plays a bossy drunk, and that's basically all her character is--a bossy drunk running everywhere at once trying to organize the planned wedding. Hunt and Gere give typical performances and this is just past Hunt's peak of popularity so the chemistry should work well and it does--for awhile. However, T's willingness to cheat on his wife and throw away his family out of what? boredom? and Bree's general outlook make them unsavory as a couple. Everything spirals out of control.  All the women that the good Dr. works on (and we see more of them than necessary) are crazy about him, even his head nurse/receptionist, played by Shelley Long.  One daughter is in the closet and going through with a sham marriage to an out-of-his-depth nerd who we only see quavering at the altar.  The other has some fantasy about being a Dallas Cowboys cheerleader and the situations she gets herself into are utterly ridiculous.  By the end, nothing is recognizable anymore. Some poor, rejected patient with lots of cash and a very fragile ego makes a huge fuss when the doctor refuses to see her and this starts a chain reaction that disrupts T's practice.  His faithful nurse/assistant misinterprets his musings about Bree and begins to work up the courage to begin an affair with him, only to discover that she's mistaken.  His wife is so warped by her treatment that she introduces him to her therapy group as her brother. The final indignity is the long-promised wedding in which all of these threads are jumbled together to form the unruliest knot of plots seen in probably a decade.  The bride-to-be comes out of the closet and runs off with her maid of honor.  The assistant quits to--what?  Open a bakery? Mrs. T serves her husband with divorce papers.  And a tornado brews from nowhere to strike the outdoor wedding and reception to scatter all the guests.  In response, Dr. T gets into his beautiful convertible with the top down and drives through the storm on the newly christened Jayne Mansfield highway (which he earlier helped name) and drives straight into the tornado. Instead of killing him, the tornado sucks up his car in central Texas and plops it down hundreds of miles away in a native American village across the Mexican border--(somewhere near New Mexico if he'd landed in the US).  The car is undamaged, he is confused and a little disheveled but unhurt. After he lands, the tornado (great-nephew of the twister that landed Dorothy in Oz) dissipates.  Dr. T delivers an Indian boy and is thrilled.  Needless to say, I trudged out of the theater in disgust. "},{"Title":"Not the best film of his career","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film lacked something that they were trying to communicate.  I know what they were trying to do.  They wanted to show the dynamics of him interacting with all the different women he knew on different levels from family to professional.  For the part he was given, Gere did a good job, but the film idea was too convaluted to begin with to be a success.  I can't say I will be watching this again. "},{"Title":"excrement","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst wastes of film I've ever endured.  A supporting cast of very talented women has nothing to do while this...thing meanders around, finally arriving (sort of) at its disgusting, graphic conclusion. Do not waste your time. "},{"Title":"been a year or so....","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  since me and the wife watched this flick... and i am STILL wishing that i could get those 2 hours of my life back!  beyond bad.  i don't rag on many films, but this one struck a chord with us.  so disappointed in the overall weakness of this film that i felt like crying when it was over... (because i was wasted my valuable personal time watching this joke of a movie). "}{"Title":"errare humanum est","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman is one of my favorite film directors. I gladly forgive him this failed movie. I could not see the point of the movie, the reason for making it. It is neither funny nor dramatic. Nobody to identify with, nobody to take an interest in. For me the interest was to see how a movie from this director managed to remain uninteresting for over one hour. I stopped watching after 80 or 90 minutes. Technically it is well-made, that is a redeeming factor. A 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere is Dr. Travis, a gynecologist who goes as Dr. T for most of the people around him. Shelley Long is his assistant who has a little crush on him. His daughters are Connie (Tara Reid) and Dee Dee (Kate Hudson). Dee Dee is about to marry a guy although she is a lesbian and her girlfriend Marilyn (Liv Tyler) will be her maid of honor. Connie is the only other person who knows the truth. Farrah Fawcett is Dr. T's wife Kate but she has gone insane and thinks she is a child again. Her sister is called Peggy (Laura Dern) and has recently moved in with Dr. T together with her three young kids. She is beginning to be an alcoholic. While his wife is in the asylum he falls in love with Bree (Helen Hunt).Basically this is Robert Altman's 'Dr. T & the Women', a movie with nice characters but a story that I did not like at all. There are some funny touches, especially with Kate Hudson and Shelley Long. The Fawcett moments when she is sick can be considered funny although I didn't think they were.Since this is an Altman movie you can expect a lot of different characters with a lot of different story lines. They all come together with Dr. T and Richard Gere finds the perfect touch for this character. I think I liked the movie because of the characters in it. Dr. T, who really cares for the women on his table, and the women around him all have something that gives us a reason to like them.Every character is well cast. Not only Gere but Hunt, Fawcett, Dern, Reid, Hudson and Tyler give fine performances. I liked Tara Reid the most here, may be because her role is more an adult one than in other movies she did ('American Pie', 'Van Wilder'). In the end I liked the characters enough to like the movie. The ending is not the best part, but I can understand why it is there. There is a chance you will not like this movie at all. On the same time there is a very good chance you will adore the movie or at least one of its characters. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere gives a good performance, but this is one of Robert Altman's misfires","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dr. T and the Women (2000) Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Farrah Fawcett, Laura Dern, Shelley Long, Tara Reid, Kate Hudson, Liv Tyler, Janine Turner, Robert Hays, Matt Malloy, D Robert Altman. Dr. Travis is a much-admired gynecologist in Dallas who adores women and speaks of them as saints. While his wife goes through the `Hestia Complex' (which effects high-class and over-loved women), she divorces and he has an affair with his golf instructor Hunt; the doc's life sinks and he learns that women annoy him. Beguiling, subtle romance-drama studies its characters, is well acted, especially by Gere, but sadly lapses from a hasty ending and the irksome personalities one of the patients smokes during her examination. Running Time 122 and rated R for some language, sexuality, and nudity. **  "},{"Title":"I Like The Movie","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie and this is the third or fourth time I have seen it. It doesn't have action or killings but it is a good movie with a good story. There are a few twists and turns that will surprise you. I recommend seeing it. Hubby and I usually watch it together. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"what a waste of talent","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two hours, Richard Gere and a half dozen of Hollywood's most beautiful and talented actresses, and they come up with THIS garbage? This has got to be one of the biggest wastes of talent in the last 10 years. The live birth scene at the end was the topper on this travesty of a film. "},{"Title":"Gawd-Almighty-Awful","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How did the man who gave us M*A*S*H and Gossford Park come up with this misogynistic mess?? Rich, overdressed women who hang out in their gynecologist's office (a gynecologist with no partner in sight, which means he must be on call 365 days and nights a year) and spend their days planning weddings or bitching about things. When not being examined by the good doctor these women have so little in their lives that they either go insane or turn into lesbians. Must be from too much shopping at Neiman Marcus.And that's about it, plot-wise, for nearly two hours.I tried watching this movie with a few glasses of wine and then the next morning, after coffee and exercise, I tried again. It didn't make any difference. Jaw droppingly bad, from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"A dreadful cinematic cyst!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Words fail to express how awful this film is. Robert Altman has wasted the talents of some of Hollywoods greatest stars. This film lacks plot, or anything remotely resembling a storyline. Feminists should be outraged at how women are characterized as emotional and financial leaches on the title character. There is not one character within this disaster that is emotionally stable or even remotely likeable. I had to keep reminding myself that this was supposed to be a comedy. At least that was what the trailer led audiences to believe. The only one laughing were the producers who ran to the bank with the admission money dopes like me paid to see this atrocious film. Robert Altman owes apologies to this cast for the blight they will carry on their resumes for appearing in this disaster. With all the deserving projects that could be produced by Hollywood it is beyond understanding how this garbage could have ever been made and released.  "},{"Title":"The turkey in the movie got away from Richard Gere.  Wish I had. (Spoilers ahead)","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This should have been called Dr. T's Looney Life or How I Tried to Be All Things to Every Woman I Ever MetI watched this movie after taping it off of television. Afterward, I wondered why I wasted nearly 2 hours. What was the point of it? I am not a big fan of Richard Gere anyway.1.  What happened to Laura Dern, the lush sister and her poor little girls???? That could be a whole other movie.2.  Helen Hunt rejects him. I really thought SHE was going to be lesbian or bi-sexual.  She always looks like it in her films3.  His daughter DeeDee, Kate Hudson, got him to pay for huge wedding and then runs off with her lesbian lover Marilyn, Liv Tyler, who was her maid of honor.4.  Other daughter Connie, Tara Reid,  had issues never resolved, but tried to tell him she would be o.k. I think she saw that he had so much on his plate he could not squander any of his hectic life on her problems.5.  Head nurse Shelly Long loved him, could not get him, so quits her job for a bakery??? OhhhhhhhhhKaaaaaaaaaaaay!6.  Wife Farrah Fawcett was TOO HAPPY with their life so she goes off the deep end.  What an insult to mental illness.And the END. A tornado carries him to where??? South Texas? Mexico? He delivers a baby there, which was his  profession.  What is he going to do now? Chuck his whole other life and spend his time helping the poor? Who knows?  Who Cares?This nutty film was a huge waste of time. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought 'Autumn In New York' and thought it was bad enough. I thought an actor can't have starred in exclusively bad movies in recent years, so I decided to give Richard Gere another chance. However I was so wrong. This movie is even worse! Right from the start the viewers have to endure 5 minutes of 50 chatterboxes screaming at the same time. Throughout the film it doesn't get any better, the chatterbox theme was so consistent in the film that my ears were totally overwhelmed (in a negatively way). There was no plot at all, no storyline. This film is so bad. "},{"Title":"At my #1 worst movie list","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watch a lot of movies and can appreciate a movie for different qualities - but honestly I couldn't find any good qualities about this movie!  It sucked - and I have a habit of always finishing a movie - in which in this case I had to force myself from bashing my head through the TV to finish watching it - absolutely one of the worst movies I've ever seen and was a complete waste of my time - DON'T BOTHER!  "}{"Title":"How bad can it be","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Please do not make the mistake I made sitting through this film. With a great cast I thought it would have to improve somewhere through the film. But unfortunately from beginning to end this film only gets worse. Spend two hours watching paint dry would have been more entertaining than having to watch this film. "},{"Title":"The director lost direction","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes you win, sometimes you loose and this time Altman looses. Gere is no where near of a father of two daughters, nor is he very convincing as a gynaecologist. I guess, he had no idea at all what he was doing in this movie. I watched the Extras chapter on DVD and it's interesting what our Buddhistic friend reveals. According to Gere, Dr. T is a typical Republican - he visits country clubs, plays golf, and, is an extremely straight person. Funny, because Gere's part is in fact quite different. In spite of the female hectic in his daily life he remains a patient and friendly man that keeps the necessary distance to all this in attempt not to get knocked over by it (yes, quite a remote and peace loving attitude that reminds one of Buddhism, I'd say). He doesn't judge, just observes and tries to deal with a crazy world without a specific need to change it. To me, he comes closer to the gentleness of a soft and liberal Democrate. Fawcett, supposedly suffering from the Hestia-complex, looks completely ridiculous. Hunt's part is not properly finished; she never tells us or Gere what is on her mind and what her mysterious trip (well, it is at the least suggested that there was something mysterious about it) to New Orleans was about. The worst of it all is that the old master steals the - almost surreal - end of Magnolia, directed by Paul Thomas Anderson who, I believe, is a great admirer of Altman! Shame on you, Mr. Altman. Altman simply replaces the frogs by a tornado. Gere is vortexed into the desert where he is finally confronted with a male a newborn Mexican baby. How should we understand this move? I have no idea. Anything goes. Altman shows the key but forgets the lock. I could go on mentioning other flaws, but I don't. For those who haven't seen other work of Altman forget about this one and try another. It will be definitely better than Dr T.  "},{"Title":"Hated it!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is on my list of one of the worst movies of all time.  I saw it in the theater and was itching to get out of my seat to leave it but something kept me there, some hope that it would get better any second.  But you know what? It didn't.  Don't waste your time watching this movie, please! "},{"Title":"Honestly Doc...no two look alike?","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This sounds like a pretty interesting movie, but it is a little too busy and manic. The budget on scenery went to good looking women. A very popular Dallas gynecologist(Richard Gere)is coming unwound trying to balance the demands of his family, patients and employees. His wife(Farrah Fawcett)has mental problems and no longer cares for sex. His daughter Dee Dee(Kate Hudson)is planning a big wedding even though she is gay. Her affections are toward Marilyn played by Liv Tyler. Laura Dern is the doc's alcoholic sister-in-law that has recently moved into his home. The busy doc tries to relax with a little golf and a little lovin' from golf pro Helen Hunt. Among all this, his office secretary(Shelley Long)makes her own play for the doc with all the right moves. Her's is a little out of step. The finale is like no other. Also in the cast are Tara Reid, Janine Turner, Lee Grant and Robert Hays.  "},{"Title":"No Saving Graces Here","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a very busy Gynecologist played by Gere who due to his wife played by Fawcett who has a rare mental illness he falls in love with his country clubs golf pro played by hunt. What a waste of talent. Director Robert Altman must have been spaced out to have put out such a loser. Richard Gere was the only main actor that occasionally showed any resemblance of credibility. Helen Hunt seemed detached and Farah Fawcett should not have been billed since she had practically no speaking roll at all. Laura Dern plays Geres divorced Alcoholic Sister-in-law who does nothing but throw slugs of champagne down her throat while trying to talk on the phone. The other good actresses are just wasting their time so just dont waste your on time because this just is not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere with a Wood?","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never have I seen a man (or woman for that matter) look less comfortable with a golf club in his/her hands than Gere does here.Doesn't help that it's set in Dallas, Texas and RG's attempt at a Southern accent comes and goes.As a huge Altman fan I try to catch all of his films -- one would be wise to check out his (very) early stuff... like Images.This is a mediocre effort but that's better than most directors will ever aspire to and, as such, well worth checking out.Another nice turn by Helen Hunt, who pretty much continues to startle me with her range (I only saw Mad About You, the US TV series, perhaps five times so I really only knew her initially from her work in the excellent Waterdance before she made it big).The typically large Altman ensemble cast doesn't work as well as those in most of his films (Farrah Fawcett and her silicone boobs are particularly annoying, as is Tara Reid).This is still better than all 14 films which opened this weekend (OK, I only saw three of them but...)  "},{"Title":"Easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe a movie with this many talented actors could be this horrible.  And I can't believe that they convinced talented WOMEN to be in it...it's easily one of the most misogynistic films ever made. **SPOILERS** This poor, poor man who just loves women sooooo much but they just all turn on him...wah, wah, wah.  The film portrays his wife as this misguided woman who just can't accept all the unconditional love that her husband gives her, so she goes crazy and reverts back to an a-sexual childlike existence...could it be that he is so patronizing and expects her to treat him in such a god-like way (as all of his patients do) that she forgets that she's an adult?  All of the women in this film are portrayed as exaggerated, stereotypical, ridiculous foils of real women.  No real emotions, no real motives, just selfish and ridiculous behavior that keeps poor Dr. Gere from being a happy man living a peaceful life.  Tragic little paper dolls that Saint Richard has to piece back together...and when he can't he's whisked away to this distant place where he delivers a baby...a boy, naturally. As if delivering himself from a mad world of women.  You have to wonder if the writer of this film has ever actually MET a real woman. It is simply the worst movie I have ever seen.  I've taken to commenting loudly to my husband about that fact when we see it in the video rental place so that no one around us will make the same mistake that we did.  I'm not usually that vindictive, but I just hated this movie that much.   "},{"Title":"OK film on showtime, but I would not want to expend the time and money to see it in a theater.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a film evaluation category I call worth watching on Showtime or HBO on a slow evening, but not worth going to a theater to see.  This movie falls in that category.  It has its moments, but not enough to be a really good movie.  At the end of the film, at least on SHO, the actors, actresses, and director Altman made observations.  Altman said that it was not a story as much as an essay.  That is probably why there isn't a real flow to it.  I prefer stories, not essays.  Also, the ending does not really wrap up the story.  Who knows where the Richard Gere goes after the badly shot scenes where the tornado deposits him in Mexico. "},{"Title":" I liked it,good acting","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised when I saw the 4.9 out of 10 at the front page. I enjoyed watching this movie. I recognized a lot of good actors and actresses that I hadn't seen in a while (Robert Hays, Shelley Long) and I think it had a great supporting cast.  I didn't like Liv Tyler in this, but I don't really like her in anything after she appeared in Lord of the Rings as a character who wasn't in the book. I also liked Richard Gere in this movie and it's is definitely one of his better performances(which are hard to find.) But, like so many other recent movies, it suffers from a very bad ending (like Saving Silverman). Helen hunt was ok in this, but she has been in like ten movies in the last two years and she plays the same type of person every time and I will not be unhappy if she takes a break. Bottom line,watch it for the acting. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the year! 1/10","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My `two cents' about Dr. T & the Women is that it's not worth two cents!Don't waste your time.Spend it your time doing something worth wile with your family.1 out of 10, Worst movie of the year!  "}{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was absolutely unbelievable.  It starts with extremely annoying but trademark Altman overlapping dialogue surgery reception room scene at the beginning (It's a busy place, I get it - I do not need five minutes of loads of women talking at once to understand this.).  It then meanders without aim through the movie to the most ridiculous last five minutes I have ever had the misfortune to stay awake for.  Some people seem to read so much more into this, but for me there is nothing to read into it.  The Emperor simply has nothing on!However, I recommend seeing this film, because it will make any other film you ever see so much better.  This includes 90 minutes of paint drying and Watching the grass grow videos that have way more interest and potential. "},{"Title":"Really, Really, Really Bad","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It just came on and the wife and I decided to watch it.  It was worse than a Made for TV Movie of the Week.  The ending was the worst plot idea and was made even worse by a graphic scene of child birth.  (The scene didn't need the close-up shot(s) either.)  I suggest watching anything else or even just turning off the television and get outside and get the stink blown off of yourself. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie ever!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on a plane and could not make myself stop watching this horrible movie.  I have never seen so many annoying characters, let's call them, the women in the movie.  I have later found out that I missed some pretty interesting scenes due to the editing, but I still stand by evaluation.  This is without a doubt my least favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Don't Waist Your Time.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a waist of time and talent!  Helen Hunt's performance was great.  I personally love it when an actresses can express volumes with a look and a pause rather than words, and she certainly does. The other players do a fine job, but the plot is terrible.  With the exception of two or three short scenes the entire movie amounts to two hours of mindless bantering.  I lost track of how much time was spent showing crowds of women all talking at once and managing to say nothing.  The overall theme of the movie seemed to be that women are rude, self-centered, back-biting, and deceitful.  How offensive!  The longer it continues the more random the plot becomes. The five total minutes of quality acting are not worth the hours of misery. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was shocked that the actors in this movie went through with it!  I am embarrassed for Richard Gere, Helen Hunt, Laura Dern, and all of the other stars in this film.  My husband and I kept shaking our heads in wonder - we are still not sure what the point of this movie was!  We will never get those 2 hours back! "},{"Title":"A big, big disappointment!!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie because I had seen the trailer and thought This sounds very good. The only thing I can say now is. I just wasted about two hours. It's not even worth seeing for all the great actors who were in it. Don't see it!!!!! "},{"Title":"What on earth's Richard Gere doing locked up in a hen-coop ?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read the various comments on this one and don't intend repeating the same things as everyone else, but really, what's an actor like Richard Gere doing surrounded by a load of forward, stuck-up American actresses all cackling together like hens (pardon me, it's an insult to hens to say that - even they speak better ). Story line is nil and the dialogues are really uninteresting. Twice I tried to watch till the end, twice I fell asleep. Absolutely hopeless !! "},{"Title":"One of the Most Offense Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Women are weak, stupid, flighty, unreliable cheaters.  At least that's how Robert Altman, and the always horrible Richard Gere depict women in this movie.  Dr. T is the long suffering OBGYN, who is a perfect man and is abused and hurt by every woman in his life.  His wife went crazy and forgot him, his daughter became a lesbian and ran out on her fiance, his mistress dumped him for his friend, and his female patients abuse him left and right. Bulls***.  This movie is poorly written, poorly directed, poorly acted, and extremely sexist.  At the end, Dr. T delivers a boy, raises him to the heavens--thanking God for not bringing another woman into the world.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly BAD","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just look at the poster of Gere in the white coat looking up to the heavens. I can imagine him saying Why did I let my agent talk me into this movie? Perhaps the reasons wasA) It seemed a good idea at the time. B) I owed someone a favour. C) The money.My excuse for watching it to the end was - it must get better, but it didn't. "},{"Title":"Thank you Farrah Fawcett!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For your brief nude scene.  That was the only thing that was interesting about this dud.  I watched it on cable and I feel ripped off!  All of the characters should have been swept up at the end and deposited into the Gulf of Mexico. 1/10 stars, only because of Farrah and her gorgeous body. "}{"Title":"This movie is a disgrace to the industry.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so awful you may want to borrow it (if you rent it, you'll want a refund) just to see how terrible a movie can be. It's obvious that something went terribly wrong in the directing and/or editing of this dump.  There are several scenes that make no sense whatsoever.  Throughout we found ourselves saying huh?, what was that about? and finally who decided to rent this slop?  I mean  really, read the reviews.  It IS AS BAD OR EVEN WORSE than the bad reviews you are reading.  AND THE ENDING, LOL! I cannot say enough bad things about this film.  Thanks IMDB for letting me vent my anger at myself for wasting $3.50 on this garbage!!!  "},{"Title":"simply awful","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't let the fact that Robert Altman, for whom you have some respect  directed this movie, con you into seeing it. It is a rambling, pointless, indulgent, inept fiasco that should be avoided. Why any studio would put up the money to film it is unfathomable. If I were to edit the film it wouldn't run longer than the titles.   "},{"Title":"Altman at his worst 3/10","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Altman, the director of many great films, has fumbled on this one.  The movie is bad, just plain bad.  Sure the film has some good acting, Gere and most of the ladies shine.  But one will walk away with one question browsing their mind why?  The film is bad....but that ending, well the ending makes it infamously bad. "},{"Title":"The unsatisfaction of a gynecologist, his family and patients","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert Altman is one of the best directors in Hollywood, but this film is perhaps an exception of his best directorial performance. The film is sour, particularly in its first half. Perhaps the intention at the very beginning was to show how many people in this society suffer problems of depression and frustration. However, it was boring. The merit of the film is to show how a wealthy family may be really unhappy, and this is the case of the gynecologist, whose family and himself did not have any money problem but were all unsatisfied. The doctor came to know that one of his daughters is lesbian, and took the news with the necessary realism. Good message!. One unclear aspect of the film was the reasons for the doctor's wife (F. Fawcett) to become mad. The end of the film showed that a Mexican poor family is happier than all those rich families, may be this was the main message's film, which perhaps was not sent properly.  "},{"Title":"Quirky Drama from Robert Altman","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	A universal fact of life, and one of the common elements that tie us all together, is that everyone-- in one way or another-- has problems; or `Life experiences,' if you prefer.  All of which, on an individual basis, illustrates what the great philosopher once referred to as the Human Comedy, and which `Dr. T and the Women,' directed by Robert Altman, demonstrates cinematically with more than a touch of irony and some insight into human nature.  And, as often happens with a film of this type, it was mistakenly promoted as a comedy, which ultimately may have had a negative impact on the way it was initially received by the public at large.  It is amusing to be sure, and downright funny at times, but only in the way that life is in general, even in the wake of tragedy; hence the saying, `That's life.'	The story centers on Dr. Sullivan Travis (Richard Gere), a gynecologist with a wife, two daughters and a successful practice, who is well liked and admired by his patients.  And he should be; he's good looking and charismatic, but most importantly, he's a good doctor.  But his personal life is quickly becoming something of a shambles.  His eldest daughter, Dee Dee (Kate Hudson), is about to be married, his youngest, Connie (Tara Reid), is a conspiracy theory activist and his wife, Kate (Farrah Fawcett), to whom he is devoted, is on the verge of a nervous breakdown.  He makes a valiant attempt at holding it all together and trying to please everyone, but as always happens in a situation like this, eventually something has to give.  And when it does, it leaves the good doctor at loose ends and forces him to take stock of his life and what it all means, if anything.	The first fifteen minutes or so of this movie is so hectic it is nerve-shattering and guaranteed to increase adrenaline levels, and your first reaction may be to scream `Enough already!' as the agitation and anxiety that fills the waiting room of Dr. T's office threatens to explode off the chart.  But discomfiting as it may be at the moment, it really puts you in the story, and in the final analysis it's a good piece of filmmaking by Altman, because it's the turmoil of the waiting room that becomes the manifestation of Dr. T's inner state of confusion and enables you to relate to him, which in turn gives a vital and necessary perspective to the film.	The performances are solid, though only a couple stand out as especially noteworthy.  Gere is believable as the doctor (quite unlike Tom Cruise in `Eyes Wide Shut,' who came across as an actor playing a doctor), and maintains the reality of the character by avoiding any superfluous dramatics; he plays him as a man who is what he is and nothing more.  Helen Hunt is good, as always, playing somewhat against type as Bree Davis, a fairly self-absorbed golf pro with rather ambiguous morals, who is willing to give only if what she receives in turn is satisfying to her (Bree is a character of whom Ayn Rand would be proud).  And Farrah Fawcett does a nice job as Kate, but lacks the screen time necessary to really develop her character; the perspective you get of her is established mainly through Dr. T and some of the other characters as they speak of her.	Hudson, Reid and Liv Tyler (Marilyn) are all credible in their respective characters, but there is certainly nothing endearing about any of them.  Not that they are unlikable, but because of the way that Altman presents his characters, these are people about whom it is easy to adopt an ambivalent attitude.  The same can be said of Laura Dern, in a somewhat forgettable supporting role as Peggy.  And one can only suspect that this was done intentionally, as it allows Altman to keep the focus of the film on Dr. T.																															As Carolyn, the woman who runs Dr. T's office, Shelley Long gives one the most memorable performance of the film.  As something of an integral, yet peripheral part of Dr. T's life, she is charming and funny-- not to mention agreeably attractive-- and adds some real spunk to the film.  And Janine Turner, as Dorothy, is also impressive as one of Dr. T's patients.  These are the two characters, in fact, who really bring this film to life. 	Of all of the actors in the film, the usually dependable Lee Grant is the only one who gives a somewhat disappointing performance.  In a brief appearance as Dr. Harper, her delivery is too stagy and overblown; in a scene in which she is having a conversation with Dr. T, for example, rather than coming across as a real person having a real discussion with another, she looks like an actor playing a part.  It's a performance that may have worked in live theater, but for the intimacy of film it was too much (Olympia Dukakis had the same problem in `Steel Magnolias).	Rounding out the supporting cast are Robert Hays (Harlan), Matt Malloy (Bill) and Andy Richter (Eli).  Altman has a rather stoic, almost aloof way of telling a story, which makes `Dr. T and the Women' difficult to embrace emotionally, but it is a good story, and the subtlety of the presentation may invite a reflective moment or two.  If you want comedy, look elsewhere; but for an interesting-- though somewhat quirky-- drama, this may fit the bill.  I rate this one 6/10.       	  	 	   "},{"Title":"What is a Man? Dr. T.--broken and sorry...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes i think i could have passed on this movie. I thought it  would be another of the long line of movies Robert Altman has made that satirizes the heck out of a place, period or mode of culture that finally led to nowhere. I should give credit to Altman because he fooled me. This movie is not a pointless satire, although it does wander occasionally, but only briefly and with good reason. Altman could have packaged this movie to great success by underlining its similarities to such movies as Fight Club and American Beauty which follow basically the same theme a beleagured man fighting for his own survival in a hostile world. DR.T, of course,does not have the same charge and immediacy of an American Beauty or the violent indignation of Fight club, but in its own light hearted, amusing treatment of Dallas high society it offers a very serious look into the travails of lovable Doctor Travis.Such as the scene toward the end of the movie when Gere comes into Bree's home, with a boyish glee on his face, and a crazy notion in his head run away with me! He has just discovered that his wife Kate, played by Farrah Fawcett, has regressed into a childish state of mind and that he has forgotten how to be a good father to both of her daughters. So he once again assumes a prince charming pose and proposes to the Hunt character in all earnestness. It was a great pain to me when her response came cold and clear. Why would i do that? After all, she has a perfectly secure career and flings every now and then. Why would he think that she would risk it all for him? Here is a woman who shows a degree of cruelty that were only reserved to men in a previous era. This led me thinking if love was dead. If all is lost in our decadent era if two people cannot love each other, but only use and be used in return. Altman makes a movie of great poise and brilliance.  "},{"Title":"Had possibilities but not very well executed, I rate it 5 of 10.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CAUTION -- THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS --While I didn't expect this film to be on my A-list, I expected it to be very entertaining, light comedy. I mean, look at the list of established stars!  Dr T (Richard Gere)is surrounded by women, his patients, his daughters, his crazy wife (Farah Fawcett), his new golf pro (Helen Hunt). He truly loves all women, respects them, is one of the finest persons you could meet.  In the end, after being lifted by a tornado and deposited in a Mexican desert, and delivering a baby, a boy, he finally breaks out of this woman's world and gets on the road to self-realization.Of course, without watching the DVD extras and commentary I probably would not have easily come to this realization, because the film was not put together very well.  It didn't connect.  The storyline was a bit vague. The histrionics of the various women became a bit tiring. The lesbian affair between his daughter (Kate Hudson) and old friend (Liv Tyler) which ended up canceling the wedding.  The fling with the new golf pro who turns out to be comfortable with several meaningless relationships at the same time. The constant cell-phone conversations between the two daughters and the aunt (Laura Dern).  The Dallas Cowboys Cheerleader rehearsals. The daughter giving Dallas tours and commenting on the Kennedy shooting.The actual live birth which occurs in the last scene is a bit ground-breaking, but didn't seem to fit with the surreal tornado scene, and the over-the-top script through most of the film.  A good idea, half-ass executed, yields a mess of a film, both my wife and I said mostly a waste of our time.  Too bad -- we really like all the actors.  "},{"Title":"Total Lack of Plot","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With such a large cast, there is no ability to give a real plot.  There are too many people involved and the story bounces too much for it to be easily followed.  I found that the movie lacked any real story.  The end made no sense to the rest of the movie.  I found the music to be utterly annoying, and I like country.  On top of it all, there were no sympathetic characters. I could have cared less about any of these characters.  Overall, I found this movie not very funny or romantic. "},{"Title":"Two hours of my life.  Gone.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WOW, that was bad!  I live in the Dallas area, and am a huge Lyle Lovett fan, and I had heard about this movie while it was being filmed, so I was looking forward to it.It was a tremendous disappointment.  The entire movie seems to have been shot in irritatavision with so many people talking at once that you just want to strangle someone.  I suppose it was intended to illustrate the chaos that surrounded the good doctor's life, but it was maddening.Every note was wrong.  Every character, every setting, every observation about Dallas life was way off the mark, and the character development was darn near zero.And I won't spoil the ending, but it only served to put a punctuation mark of absurdity on a really bad movie.  And we're talking about Robert Altman, people!  I'm still in shock.  I'll shut up now. "},{"Title":"Not Altman's best hour, but at times not what you might expect","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While Robert Altman's film Dr. T and the Women, which has the usual lot of the ensemble, the overlapping dialog, and differential and emotional relationships beneath the surface has it's moments, it's all over the map even for me. Richard Gere gives a compassionate performance with what he can work with at least, redeeming himself from some of his lessor work (i.e. Runaway Bride, other films). Certain scenes are rather remarkable- particularly not just the 'breakdown' from Farrah Fawcett in the mall but her whole performance and appeal in the film- while others just aren't. It's like a cluttered bad of tricks and femininity that may appeal more to others, or not at all. Laughs come in small doses from observations from the gynecologists world, but overall, it's a tad bleak, and overall not as successful as Altman's better times in his 'one long movie' of his long career. "}{"Title":"21st Century Altman.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     It's hard to believe that twenty-five years ago Robert Altman's classi NASHVILLE was released, and it's even harder to believe that thirty years ago, M*A*S*H* Altman's most popular film was released.  Now as we enter into the 21st Century, Director Robert Altman returns this time in DR. T & THE WOMEN. Instead of this film being set in Korea, Nashville, Hollywood, San Fernando Valley, and even Sweethaven; DR. T is set in the wealthy class life of Dallas, Texas.     Richard Gere plays Dr. Sullivan Travis, a popular Dallas gynecologist who is either wanted or desired.  His daughter Dee Dee (Kate Hudson) is about to get married, while his other daughter Connie (Tara Reid) is paranoid and skeptic on her sister's upcoming marriage.  While Dr. T's wife, Kate (Farrah Fawcett) is a mentally ill wife who is sent to a asylum after running around naked in a water fountain at a shopping mall. Kate's sister, Peggy (Laura Dern) a alcoholic is going through a divorce and moves in with her sister's family, and brings along her three little girls.  While some of the people at Dr. T's office want him sexually. They include one of his regular patients Dorothy (Jenine Turner) who keeps visiting the doctor, although there is nothing wrong with her, and seduces him after the examination.  And there's also Dr. T's secretary Carolyn (Shelly Long) who keeps flirting with Dr. T, if she isn't taming the crowded waiting room full of patients.  The life of Dr. T is miserable and depressing, but it's a pro golfer named Bree (Helen Hunt) who helps Dr. T rediscovers the fruits of life.  That life doesn't consist of money, wealth, and sex.  But that life is fun, and that a good loving relationship has communication just as much as sex.      Like all of Altman's other films, DR. T isn't much on plot, it concentrates more on character's personality more than anything else.  And DR. T, is another Altman film that is rich in character's and not much on plot.  But also like Altman's other films, Dr. T, does have symbolism throughout the film that most film viewers wouldn't understand.     However, I am a Altman fan, and I did enjoy DR. T, but it isn't a classic like M*A*S*H*, NASHVILLE, and SHORT CUTS.  DR. T does have great acting, great characters, great dialogue, and great camera and editing scenes (including the opening scene at the waiting room, Altman pulls off another THE PLAYER opening continuous shot).  But unlike NASHVILLE and SHORT CUTS which are both around three hours, DR. T's pacing is a bit slower, and it's a hour shorter than those films.    The acting in this film is obviously good (Altman is a actor's director, he favors ad libbing).  Richard Gere is at one of his better roles as the stressed out doctor who finds sanctuary at the golf course with Bree.  Helen Hunt is also enjoyable as the different and more humane Bree, the only woman in the film who isn't selfish, stuck-up, and doesn't have a Texan accent.  Both Tara Reid and Kate Hudson are good as the spoiled daughters who have two different personalities.  Reid seeing almost everything a conspiracy, and Hudson a girl who is seeking true happiness.  Laura Dern is funny as the ditzy sister-in-law who drinks as much as she can whenever she can.  Dern's character reminded me of the Jane Curtin character in Altman's other film O.C. STIGGS.  And Shelly Long also provides laughs as the love stricken secretary of Dr. T, who is too afraid to admit her true feelings towards him.      But like I said, this is another Altman film, it's a character film.  If you want to see a film rich in plot, then see THE CONTENDER and ALMOST FAMOUS.  But a film with rich characters and personalities, then Dr. T, is the film.  I did enjoy the artistic and visionary style of Altman in this film.  I was however disappointed in it's pacing.  And this is a film that has quite a bit of nudity.  At times I was surprised that this film got a 'R' rating.  And similar to Paul Thomas Anderson's 1997 classic BOOGIE NIGHTS, the final scene in DR. T, is quite shocking to see.  But the nudity is quite strong in this film, that author Craig Hosoda who writes the popular book The Bare Facts will be busy putting more entries in because of this film.  I did enjoy DR. T, and if you're a Robert Altman fan, you will too.  As for those expecting another PRETTY WOMAN or RUNAWAY BRIDE; or if you're a non-Altman fan, you're better off watching something else.  **** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Almost as bad as mass murder","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you showed this movie to the survivors of the Rwandan genocide and asked them which was worse, seeing their families hacked to death with machetes or watching Dr. T and the Women&#x85;only some of them would choose the machetes.Dr. T (Richard Gere) is a gynecologist in Dallas, Texas. He has a wife (Farrah Fawcett) who's gone crazy, a daughter (Kate Hudson) who's getting married, another daughter (Tara Reid) who is half plot-device and half lame joke about the Kennedy assassination, a sister-in-law (Laura Dern)who is a lush and a horde of yapping women who jam his waiting room like it's an overstuffed hothouse of demanding Southern Belles. Though he's drowning in a stormy sea of estrogen, Dr. T is an insanely, sickeningly perfect man who is totally understanding of all of the crazy feminine behavior that buffets him every day. His only respite from it all are hunting trips with his buddies and an affair with the new golf pro at his country club, Bree (Helen Hunt).Like many Robert Altman films, the plot of this movie just sort of slowly spreads out in all directions like vomit on a bare floor. There's also enough trademarked Altman-babble in this thing to choke even his most devoted fans. Dr. T and the Woman is morally confused, emotionally phony, head-slappingly contrived and has an ending so stupid and bizarre that it would take an entire team of mental health professionals to figure out what the hell Altman was thinking. If there was ever a film that could be introduced at a competency hearing as evidence of senile dementia, it's this one.In fairness, most of the acting here is very mannered but relatively okay. The best performance actually comes from Shelley Long as Dr. T's long-suffering head nurse. She's funny and lively and the most enjoyable person on screen, until her character is brutally sacrificed on the altar of Altman's barnacle encrusted sense of humor. Helen Hunt might have been just as good as the independent Bree, but after creating the character it's really damn clear Altman didn't have the slightest idea what to do with her.If you're still not clear on how awesomely bad Dr. T and the Women is, Helen Hunt gets briefly but clearly naked in it and it's still unwatchable. That's right. It makes naked Helen Hunt unappealing. That's a magical feat on the order of turning lead into gold, which would make Robert Altman the master alchemist of cinematic suck.Now, if some Altman fans happen to stumble upon this review, I can already hear their excuses about how his films aren't meant to be conventionally entertaining and you have to appreciate his creative vision and I just don't get it and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. The fact that several decades ago he injected some juice into American movies should not give Altman a get-out-of-jail-free card for the rest of his career. The fact that he keeps recycling the same old bag of tricks is not creative vision. It's a guy who doesn't have anything new to say as a storyteller.This movie is terrible. Even if you've liked some of Altman's other work, do not watch it. "},{"Title":"Altmans Worst","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Altman is in the to five directors of all time, he is absolutely brilliant, but well a guess every genius must fall at some point, even if it is only for a short time as in Altmans case because his next film is his best in Gosford Park. Dr. T and the Women is by far Altmans worst. I never thought he could get any worse than he did twenty years ago with Popeye, but of course he did. The plot sort of works as bad satire up until the final act in which point we run into a tornado and everything goes badly wrong for the plot and farther into implausibility than Altman or pretty much anybody has gone before. The performances arn't bad, particularly Laura Dern is good as the annoying depressed alcoholic sister in law, Richard Gere is also decent in the lead as are Kate Hudson and Liv Tyler as Geres daughter and her secret lesbian lover. The direction hardly seems like Altman, its horrible. Altman has never been horrible before. Not to mention the special effects in the end look horrible and fake. Altmans worst film by several miles, avoid. "},{"Title":"I can't even describe it.","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was probably THE WORST movie I've ever seen, and I've seen quite a few bad movies. But there is no word for how bad this movie is. I love both Helen Hunt and Richard Gere, but this movie was just horrible. They should never have taken these roles. Oh! And who ever wrote this script should be shot. Not only was the end completely IMPOSSIBLE, it didn't even make sense! Nothing fit! Unfortunately, I saw it at the movie theater so not only did I was $8 I also wasted what seemed like 8 hours of my life watching this piece of junk. A COMPLETE AND UTTER WASTE OF TIME, SO DON'T EVEN BOTHER RENTING IT!! Don't say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great ensemble work, the Altman quirkiness in full flower, some interesting narrative ideas, the usual engaging character studies, but it doesn't gel. The beginning is slow (I almost didn't finish watching it), and the ending is a mess. Compared to The Player, which ended gorgeously, this thing doesn't connect. It's trying to say something about the human heart, but doesn't quite get there in spite of resorting to the chaotic heart angle. How can a movie this chaotic fail in that bid? Maybe the moral of this story will dawn on me later, but somehow I doubt it.I have to say though, this may be another good example of how good acting can (almost) salvage a film! "},{"Title":"Perhaps Altman's greatest....dud.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gere makes an appropriate centerpiece for this shallow and trite comedy about an OB/GYN and the many women in his life. The plotless film touches on all things female from birth to menopause to marriage to lesbianism...etc. Unfortunately its all-star female cast is reduced to playing silly, prattling, snoopy, ditzy, shallow, vain, self absorbed, neurotic stereotypes while the film meanders with no apparent purpose through a seemingly endless 2 hour run time. One can only wonder what the hell was Altman thinking when he made this dud. PU! "}]