[{"Title":"Busch For President","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, a few of these viewers dont even seem to know the work of Charles Busch - the creator/writer and performer of Psycho Beach Party. Busch has a huge following in theatre (Psycho beach Party started a s a play)and all of his work is tongue-in-cheek and some of the complaints on these posts sound like people who wouldn't get Rocky Horror Picture Show or Plan 9 From Outer Space either. But that's okay - Busch's work is not for everyone - just like John Waters/Divine's work isnt for everyone. And this film adapatation certainly has it's weaknesses - but much of it is DEAD on - including the opening and closing credits with a young Ann-Margaret look-a-like doing her best go-go boot dancing. Busch is hysterical as the hard-as-nails female police chief and Lauen Ambrose has a field day playing the perky like Gidget with multiple personalities. The film is fun and if you like it, check on Busch in Die, Mommie, Die. "},{"Title":"Peachy keen!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film really grew on me. It's got great actors (namely Nicholas Brendan and Lauren Ambrose), a great throwback sense of style, and very clever dialogue. I can't tell if this film is intentionally hysterical (I think it is, but some parts...it's hard to tell.) I also really liked some of the characters, including policewoman Monica Stark. All in all, a light-hearted summer movie, perfect for a few good laughs.  "},{"Title":"It's a gas!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wow - I saw this movie on late-night TV (the only place where you would expect it to shown), and man was it funny! I love spoof movies, and this on did quite nicely. Just the technical aspects of having a modern movie set in the early 60's would be challenging, so hats off to the director. I loved the super cheesy dialogue (Golly gee!), and the characters were both inspired and stereotypical, at east for a 'beach blanket' flick. I'll be your girl Friday! says the plucky sidekick. The innuendo and double-entendre's are great, like when the girls are at a scary drive-in movie. Boys, they only have one thing on their mind.....well, I'm going <to the snack bar> to get a weiner. It was strange seeing Greg from Dharma and Greg here, but what the hell. Backward projection rocks! "},{"Title":"out of the ordinary","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have to say the first time I watched this movie I couldn't even sit through the whole show. Fortunately for me that particular summer HBO played it in excess. Eventually I found myself looking to see when it was on again and watching it every time. This movie is a definite send-up to all those campy movies we either loved or hated, and this movie is definitely in the love-it or hate it category. Give yourself enough heads up to be up for anything and you too will add this to your must see's of cult classics. Most of the actors are unknown, some you may recognize from various TV shows. the story line is quirky at times but the cast works well together to pull this off. "},{"Title":"Have a cow abunga, dude!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Before there was SCARY MOVIE, there was PSYCHO BEACH PARTY! That says it all, man!Charles Busch gives us Charles Busch in a chilling, wicked satire of teen slasher flicks, drive-in movies, and hormones as they were in the 1960s. There has been nothing like this movie since PIZZA WAITRESS WITH THREE HEADS. Golly!Puns and double meanings fly like sand on a windy day. Plus there is hidden wisdom such as, Chastity lost is never found. And gay love as a cure for digestive problems? Who knew?Gidget meets Mae West, and Matt Kessler with a Swedish accent. I could go on, but I won't. This is a Shakespearian play within a movie within a movie. Go figure. See it and have fun. "},{"Title":"a GREAT example of satiracle film-making...","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First things first  'Psycho Beach Party' is funny, fresh, light-hearted and completely likable.  It is a rare film that can walk the tight-rope between mocking a particular film genre (in this case, the Beach Blanket movies of the fifties and sixties) while still showing great affection for said genre.  'Psycho Beach Party' does it wonderfully.  Using an obviously skewed view of these pleasant if vapid films, 'PBP' covers us in satirical humor and warmth, a tricky combination to pull off.  If you have ever sat through a film in which a surf board was the star, check this one out...great fun.Now, second  In response to Brian Bagnall's review from Canada, this film is NOT gay propoganda (just because the writer/director is gay does not make this a gay film).  Gays do NOT have to have blonde hair (one of the only two agy characters has black hair...must have missed that one, huh, Brian?).  The film does NOT portray the era as demeaning to women (the women in this film are some of the most empowered I have seen in a long time).  And if you can not suspend your disbelief for long enough to watch our young heroine escape from a man twice her size, you probably should not be watching a film with the word psycho, beach, and party in the title.  This film looks foundly back on a time that was simpler, both in the movies and reality.  Anyone who gets anything other than a Genre Spoof from this was not paying attention.Put simply, people; 'Psycho Beach Party' is Fabu! "},{"Title":"Poking fun at Beach Blanket Bingo!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know why I had heard of this film, but I had.  I don't know why I wanted to rent it, but I did.  I don't know why I laughed all the way through it, but I did....  Yeah, I do know why I laughed.  It was funny.  It wasn't as purile as most modern teen comedies are, but it sure did have fun poking fun at the 60's beach movies like Beach Blanket Bingo.Charles Busch, who plays the part of the female detective, is absolutely a laugh riot  I truly believe he was channeling Kathleen Turner.  The two hunky doofus boys who are more in love with each other than any of the babes...Nicholas Brendan, in a reverse take on his role on Buffy, plays the major stud puppy here...Thomas Gibson in a reverse take on his televsion role as Greg, plays a beatnik surfer dude.  Beth Broderick, with her unbelievably sexy raspy voice, plays this films version of June Cleever with a twist.The lines are outrageous.  The costumes dead on.  The portrayals ridiculous and accurate at the same time.The is high camp!  Don't expect serious - don't expect typical humor.  But if you're over thirty, and remember those old beach movies, then you'll get a real blast out of this film. "},{"Title":"The Most Outrageous Fun Since Rocky Horror!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Absurdity never seemed so straight and the straight and narrow never took so many turns.  Psycho Beach Party is the most outrageous fun since Rocky Horror Picture Show hit the screen. Of all the films that poke fun at male-female, male-male, and female-female sexuality this summer, Psycho Beach Party takes the cake. The comparison is apt.  Both films were adapted from successful small theatrical hits.  Both films take innocence and sexuality to their extremes.  What Rocky Horror did for monster movies, musicals and science fiction, Psycho Beach Party does to psychological thrillers, surfer/Gidget movies and slasher films. Charles Busch, the writer of the film and the play, has been New York's dirty little secret for over a decade. When Busch's Vampire Lesbians of Sodom was a hit downtown, I remember seeing people read the marquee, laugh, wince, then laugh again self consciously.  Charles Busch brings this same combination of joy and guilt together wonderfully in Psycho Beach Party. He acts in it as well, he's the female detective that looks so damned good in that blue uniform. Its a shame theater doesn't inspire film as often as it once did. Theatrical dialogue, laced as it is the references and innuendo, requires a bit more suspension of disbelief from the audience. I'm not sure the American Pie generation is sophisticated enough to sit through something both silly and clever. Everyone shines in this cast, but no one outshines Chiclet. Let's leave it at that, in the wake of the What Lies Beneath fiasco, I'll leave the plot for people to discover. Unlike everyone at Universal Studios, I don't think people really want to know what happens before they go to the movies. Director Robert Lee King mocks the cinematic conceit of putting a film within a film not once but four times in less than a minute of screen time. It's a left, a right, a right, and a left knockout punch. And when you finish laughing about it -- King's little stunt will come back to haunt you later that night. Like Rocky Horror Picture Show, Psycho Beach Party is not the campy little trifle you thought you were being served........... "},{"Title":"super psycho fun!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A silly, sick, hilarious movie!  We had so much fun--saw it on a rainy night in NYC; the theater was packed and a rollicking good campy time was had by all!You'll remember many gems of dialogue--especially a line from Nicholas Brendon that rivals fellow Buffy cast member Allyson Hannigan's shocker in American Pie!Anyone with the slightest affection for those AIP beach movies will love this one.  Terrific soundtrack too--why no album???   "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie. PERIOD.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A great movie with a lot of great performances by the cast. Especially Lauren Ambrose (Florence/Chicklet), who after seeing this movie, definitely deserves a lot more recognition. Recognition, I hope, that comes soon. Same goes to the whole cast also, who really made this low budget beach movie into my eyes, a hit. So please, if you have time, and live in New York, stop by to watch this great movie. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"A decent parody, but Lauren Ambrose is the real reason to see it","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho Beach Party is a parody of teen slasher horror films, taking place in the 1960's. It's a combination of beach movie, horror film, and camp. It's really not a very good movie for the general public, but as a cheesy camp flick it has its appeal, and it's worth at least a rent, at least for people who like this kind of John Waters-esquire camp. My main complaint is that it seems to try a bit too hard. But it's a great movie if you're in a certain kind of relaxed mood. Anyway, we have a copy of it in our collection, and re-watched it yesterday.Florence Chicklet Forrest (Lauren Ambrose, of Six Feet Under) is the highlight of the whole movie, and makes the film worthwhile just on her merits alone. Her character has multiple personalities, the main two being the nice, peppy Florence, but the hilarious one is her alter-ego Anne Bowen, a dominatrix minx. Ambrose switches back and forth seamlessly and hilariously between these two personalities (and a minor third one).The story Florence and her best friend Berdine (Danni Wheeler) get involved in a series of murders after Florence starts hanging out with the all-male surfers' club, wanting to be part of the group. Captain Monica Stark (played by writer, actor and novelist Charles Busch, who for some reason saw fit to be cast in this female part - he is not really funny, and the character is treated as if she were really female, instead of a obvious man in drag) is the officer in charge of the case. Add to the mix a sequestered B-horror film actress, Bettina Barnes (Kimberley Davies), Florence's picture-perfect mother, Ruth (Beth Broderick), psychology major dropout Starcat (Nicholas Brendon, of the TV series Buffy The Vampire Slayer), the catty Marvel Ann (Amy Adams, of Drop Dead Gorgeous), Swedish exchange student, Lars (Matt Kessler), Kathleen Robertson as the bitchy, wheelchair-bound Rhonda, whom you really just want to literally push out of her chair, and the supposedly omnipotent Kanaka (Thomas Gibson), a great soundtrack, and you've got a completely silly, fun film for lovers of the cheesy camp genre. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Gay propaganda? Get real! If you think this film is propaganda or an attempt to rewrite history you obviously didn't pay attention. It's just a fun, campy film that parodies bad teen movies from the fifties and sixties.  And it mostly succeeds. Some of the gags fall flat, but overall the film works.  The performances of Lauren Ambrose, Thomas Gibson, and Nicholas Brendon are especially amusing - they really capture the acting style that you see in a lot of those old B-movies. I also enjoyed how the film skewered various cliched movie scenes and hackneyed plot devices. but, as other posters have noted, how much you enjoy this film will probably depend upon how familiar you are with the type of films being parodied. "},{"Title":"Fun spoof of 60's beach movie","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A fun spoof of the Gidget type of movies.  In addition to the surf spoof, it also adds camp, noir and suspense, all in B-movie style.  The style itself is very '50s, with no details missed.  With the movie's shifting of suspicion to different characters all the time, it will keep you guessing all the way toward the end as to who killer is. "},{"Title":"Charles Busch is a genius","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, anyone who comes up with the movie title Sex Kittens Go Bossa Nova deserves some sort of award or national holiday in their honor just for that alone. I was sold on this movie way before the incredibly cool opening credits rolled. Actually, we saw the trailer for it in the theater, and almost instantly and simaltaneously said, we're there.There's about a dozen different elements to this fun flick that would have made me see it if only one of them had been present. First, I've seen almost every 60's Beach Party movie (though I'm sure Charles Busch has most people beat on the number of times they were watched) and this is not only a hilarious parody, but the 60's detail down to the costumes, sets, make-up, and hair is so dead-on I wouldn't have been surprised to see Donna Loren or Deborah Walley show up. The soundtrack is really, really great, some of the best surf music that wasn't actually recorded in the 1960's I've ever heard. The plot is actually really clever, with one of the best twist-upon-twist endings I've ever seen.  The opening credits and closing credits are great, and I'm sure any guys who didn't really want to see the movie but were dragged by their girlfriends will dig the hot Ann-Margret crossed with a Bada-Bing! girl go-go dancer.I first heard about this movie when I read about it in Fangoria of all places. I was impressed by what I read but thought, they better not screw this up. Once I saw about 30 seconds of the trailer I realized they knew what they were doing. The movie actually has more of an actual plot than many of the 60's beach movies did (not that either really needed one). The plot centers on a series of Blood-Feast type murders in Malibu. In their search for the killer, the female police detective (Charles Busch, who is probably the funniestof anyone in the movie) focuses on Florence (Lauren Ambrose, almost as funny), who suffers from a very entertaining form of multiple personality disorder but doesn't know it yet. There's a huge number of great supporting characters, such as her love interests Starcat and surf God Kanaka. Bettina Barnes, a B-movie actress on the lam from Hollywood, shows up to add extra glamour. Also especially funny-especially if you thought parts of those old beach movies got kind of homoerotic-are young beach studs Yo-Yo and Provoloney (next to John Waters, this movie comes up with the greatest names for characters of all time) who are suspiciously more interested in wrestling each other than checking out the chicks in bikinis.If this weren't enough, Busch also makes almost every single line include some sort of campy and hilarious 60's lingo. If you've read or seen the play the movie was based on, you know exactly what I mean. The young cast, which could have ruined the movie if they took themselves too seriously, are talented enough to take lines like, Is this a beach shack or the Malibu branch of the CIA? and They look like beatniks...should I unpack my bongos? and make them sound fresh and funny. Considering most of them probably weren't born until a decade or so after these type of movies came out (yikes), this is pretty impressive. Ambrose is perfect as Florence Chicklet Forrest/Ann Bowman, and if Busch (who played the part onstage)had to tutor her at all on how to play it, she picked it up pretty well. Busch has less scenes, but almost steals the movie- he's probably the funniest and best in drag I've seen since Divine. His facial expressions alone made me laugh so hard when I saw it in the theater that I was worried the usher might come over. Fortunately everyone else was laughing just as hard. There's plenty of shockingly raunchy jokes, but somehow the whole movie still seems as innocent and good-natured as if it were rated G. Ok, maybe not G, but you get the idea. Everyone involved in the making of the film obviously loved what they were doing. A completely fun, clever but brainless, campy movie with an awesome cast, screenplay, wardrobe and soundtrack, perfect from the font used in the opening credits to the to-die-for tiki torches.  It's pretty hard for me to think of anyone who this movie wouldn't at least bring a smile to. You don't even need to have seen a Beach Party movie to have a good time-it's not all in-jokey (though those who grew up on those movies will probably notice and appreciate some smaller details more). Even if you have no idea who Annette and Frankie are, as long as have a sense of humor, you should still enjoy it. If you liked Hairspray...well, now that I think of it, most fans of Hairspray probably have already seen the movie. If you liked that movie, if you're into surf or just surf music, or 60's movies, or if your favorite cocktail comes in a coconut shell or tiki mug, drop everything and rent this movie now if you haven't seen it yet. You'll have a blast. 10/10 *s. Dig?  "},{"Title":"silly fun (for grown-up)","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho beach party is a silly and enjoyable movie not very far from John Waters Cry Baby. There are parodies of the sixties surf movies, but also many references of Alfred Hitchcock sixties movies  a little of Psycho, some lines from Marnie and a few things, maybe, from Vertigo. Add to this transvestite policemen and women, a Z-movie actress, yeah, this is stupid, and great too because it is stupid. "},{"Title":"Best Late night movie ever","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was the best late night movie I have ever seen. I watched it at 300 in the morning with one of my room mates, and we were mesmerised. The movie was extremely odd but a whole lot of fun. I might not recommend it for daytime watching, but it is worth renting.  "},{"Title":"Deserves a much higher rating","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Seriously, this movie has a 6 out of 10?? American Pie has a 7 for goodness' sake! I suppose there's no accounting for taste. Funny, witty, and great acting from the girl playing Chiclet. It's hard to find such clean-cut but entertaining movies these days, so I'm really glad when I find them. Deserves a much higher rating the accents, music, ambiance and effects -- everything was spot on. And though it seemed really predictable from the start, I started to question the obvious conclusion along the way. It felt like a retro feel-good Scooby Doo show. Definitely give it a shot if you're looking for something light and clean to kill time with or to set the mood for a retro party. Then come back to rate it and raise the score because it needs one!! Gave it a 10 because although it didn't have insanely beautiful scenes as in Life of Pi, it was literally perfect for the genre and I can't point out a single fault with it. Now that's what a spoof movie should be like, not all the spin-offs from the trashy Scary Movie franchise. Boobs, toilet humor and profanity doesn't make a good movie. "},{"Title":"Camp, humor, dialog, and style done right!","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie by sheer accident one night it was playing on a pay channel, and since then it's showings have become an Oscar-night type event that my friends and I eagerly await with snacks, dimmed light, and a child-like glee that so few movies garner. This is usually followed by light discussion on the elements of the film that capture us, as well as things we didn't catch during the previous few viewings.If only every director/writer/crew/actors could be so passionate about the material in the movies they create, then we would not have to sit through the garbage that so many movies are these days... more so big budget ones.Every scene in this movie is polished and perfectly executed, while staying true to it's satirical tone that both pokes fun at those 60's style beach slasher films and also conveys respect for them at the same time. I think the film works so well because it stays true to itself right to the visceral end. There also seems to be a duality with most of the film... and the characters are stereotypical on the outside, but convey depth and sincerity.This movie is a satisfying treat indeed. "},{"Title":"Fun little B-movie","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I won't write a synopsis because you can see that elsewhere. I rented this mainly because I like Nick Brendon and wanted to see his work outside the Buffy realm. I was pleasantly surprised by this little gem. It's a bit of cheesy beach movie with a dash of slasher flick and comes complete with a dance-off to some band playing beach music.It reminded me greatly of movies like 'Hairspray' and 'Cry-baby' - it's sort of in that genre. You know, over the top acting and hilarious one-liners that leave you wondering if they really said what you think they just said.I'd recommend this if you dig anything by John Waters. Nick Brendon had a good part and it was fun to play 'Hey I recognize that actor' with some of the cast. Seven out of ten stars from me. "},{"Title":"Superbly Silly","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Anytime the phrases Psycho and Beach Party appear in the same sentence you can tell that what's about to follow won't be able to be taken seriously. This is one of those films that defies the conventions at face value while giving the finger to the loyal horror audience. The film follows a girl named Florence Forrest, or Chicklet as she is commonly known by the surfers, who just wants to learn how to surf. Meanwhile a psychotic murderer is killing people who have anything that could be considered an imperfection, ranging from a skin condition to missing a testicle. The film is filled with strange quirky dialog filled with puns, sexual innuendo and some coarse language. the jokes are layered on so thick that it's hard to see through them without a shovel and flashlight. The performances are played with a wonderful sense of silliness that it's obvious that the actors aren't taking themselves to seriously (Considering the content of the script how could they) but by far the best performance is that of Nicholas Brendon (Xander from Buffy) who plays Starcat, and he does so in a way that seems realistic yet silly. "}{"Title":"One of my Favorites!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies! I only bought it yesterday and i have already seen it six times! It is hysterical and very fun! The plot revolves around a teenage beach bunny named Florence (Lauren Ambrose of TV's 'Six Feet Under') who has multiple personality disorder. She is sort of a combination of Gidget and Norman Bates! Anyway her friends start getting bumped off and she does not know whether or not her alternate personality Ann Bowman may actually be the killer. She is excellent, very funny, and a very talented and promising actress. Many other talented actors stand out such as the ditsy b-movie bombshell, the two gay surfer guys, the mean spirited cripple girl, and Florence's mother who is sort of June Cleaver after drinking too much vodka. From the high energy opening credits, to the unexpected ending it is non stop fun. (even the opening credits are entertaining!) Sure the surfing scenes are lame, but that adds to the movie's campiness. Nicholas Brendan (TV's 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer') did not stand out a whole lot but he did well with what he was given. One scene that is particularly fun is the 'Dance Fight'(You just gotta see it). The entire cast does a great job! Very original, very campy, and overall just very entertaining! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The way a parody should be done.","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This has a partial spoiler. Practically the only thing I have against this movie is its second ending. I know that a false ending, followed by another one, is a horror film cliché, so this horror spoof had a reason for imitating that, but my problem with it is this- the rest of the movie was a comedy, and in some ways not all that DARK a comedy, in spite of the murders, because it's such a farcical one. But that second ending seems JUST PLAIN DARK, which doesn't go with the rest. Maybe that was the intention, I don't know, but I still don't care for it. Apart from that, I think it's better than most parodies I've ever seen, whether of horror movies, beach movies or anything else. For one thing, it's somehow less self-conscious (if that's the term I'm looking for), than so many horror comedies, let alone ones set in other decades. The writers had to really know those Gidget stories, and to some degree that other famous set of beach movies (the Avalon and Funicello ones). And they even worked other movies into it, like Marnie (which isn't little-known, but isn't a hugely famous Hitchcock film, I think). But one of the things I like about it is something that it DIDN'T do. It seems like almost every period kind of story I see (regardless of the decade it's set in), overdoes those reminders of which decade it is, like the songs and the topical talk and so on. This is certainly true (to me) of most of those ones set in the early ' 60s. But this over-the-top comedy - a combination Gidget movie and mad killer movie - somehow decided to go very EASY on that. About the most obvious example is the mother of Chicklet (played by Beth Broderick). She's played as a comical early ' 60s mom, but with just a LITTLE BIT of exaggeration. But in so many comedies that are supposed to be more down-to-earth than this one, and for that matter, in so many dramas (with that same kind of character), that kind of thing is laid on pretty heavily. And another thing is that the handful of songs were written for the movie itself, instead of how it's usually done with a period one, of any kind. And of course, practically the most underplayed thing about it was Charles Busch as the policewoman. Anyway, apart from the one obvious complaint, I think it's a great one. I've always been hugely attached to beach movies, but whether you love them or hate them, there's equal reason to watch Psycho Beach Party. "},{"Title":"A fantastic spoof of 50's, 60's, 70's films","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So with an awful title like Psycho Beach Party you'd think that this was yet another mindless sexed-up teen slasher flick, right?In fact this movie is a satirical send-up of many classic movies from the 50's, 60's, and 70's and plays upon all those things we suspect lurk beneath the surface.The movie uses the original Gidget film as its starting ground, and really just for their take on that alone it's a hoot. Along the way the director cleverly, if not campily, weaves in references to a wide variety of films including Hitchcock classics like Marnie. The serial killer in question? (AND THIS IS NOT A SPOILER) Someone who goes after all those who do not fit the perfect cookie-cutter standard of the 1950's. The high price of non-conformity indeed.Basically, if you've watched a lot of old movies - you'll catch the references and enjoy this clever, campy satire to the fullest extent. If you're without the 101 on classics, you'll probably be a little confused but at the very least you can enjoy the wry social commentary.  "},{"Title":"What is wrong with most of these people!!!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have no idea what people were expecting whe they saw this movie. But it was great!!!!!!!!!I do not think it was ever SUPPOSED to be taken seriously. Everyone in this film is fantastic. I was even surprised to see Kimberley Davies put in a good performance. This will definately become one of those cult films that people will discover years from now, and love. Above all things, it shows us that cinema does not have to be serious to be good. Anyone who loves to watch 60's beach movies because of how bad they are. Anyone who likes schlock teenage horror flicks, old and new. Fans of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, for its content not just S.M. Gellar's content. You will love this.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Beach Blanket Bloodshed!","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Several people don't seem to get this movie, and maybe it really does have something to do with the fact that beach party movies come from a more innocent time.  Kids today probably haven't watched Beach Blanket Bingo, the Gidget films, or even Clambake.  I just figured the beach party genre was something that would have seeped into everybody's collective unconscious, but maybe I was wrong.So yes, there is a heavy-handed parodic element to this movie, and anyone who is steadfastly unfamiliar with the source material is unlikely to enjoy every level present on the screen.  But for those who love a little luau with their life-threatening, Psycho Beach Party delivers in spades. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie and watch it every time it's on cable (which is at least once a week).  It's a great spoof on 50's beach/gidget movies and I love seeing Kimberly Davies after so many years of watching her as Annalise in Neighbours for all those years.  Double entendres and not so sub subtexts abound and Charles' Busch's straight woman detective is priceless. "},{"Title":"Campy Fun!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought that this movie was great fun.  It had a lot of my favorite small screen actors as well as some obviously from the Broadway play.  It was so much fun to watch, it makes me wanna go to New York to see a play.This movie reminded me of John Waters movies, except with no singing (thank god!).  It really was an unexpectedly good movie if you keep in mind what it was a take off on two decidedly un-serious movie styles, 50's beach party and 70's teen horror.   "},{"Title":"Surf's up, dood!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't too surprised when this movie hit direct-to-video, but it's an undiscovered gem!  It parodies without being vulgar and stretches to excess, but has loads of laughs along the way.  Too bad the timing was off for the release of this movie. "},{"Title":"Groovy Baby","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just saw this movie tonight on Shadow Lane! It was fantabulous! The main reason I decided to check it out was because Nicholas Brendan was in it... but what whole lotta shakin'! It was great, it was silly, it was ridiculous and hilarious! Better than any original beach party flick from the 60's! Tops! And Charles Busch was great! Everyone was great! I think I'll be watching this groovy flick again! =) "},{"Title":"Surfing USA","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"       Psycho Beach Party, I have to say, is a very funny film. Great cast, acting, directing, you name it. There was absolutely no flaws in this movie and it progressed beautifully, not missing a beat. Lauren Ambrose swept me away with her great acting, although I do believe she'd be better working on Broadway, and Nicholas Brendon, who played the lovable nice guy Starcat, was unintentionally funny at times which made his character the most interesting to watch. If not for the low budget distributors, this movie definitely would've been a hit at the box office. Instead it will forever be a cult classic at the look(like the passion to Cowboys in Western films) at the 60s beach era. Job well done.  "}{"Title":"Definetly a popcorn movie","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I first heard about this film a couple of years ago, when it was first being made, and i couldn't find any other info on it afterwards, but one time i was chekcing up on the trusty IMDb two years later and i found out it was being released here in Australia in the next month or two.....so i waited and searched every video store i saw, and FINALLY i came across it in a video and after so long my wait was over!It was well worth the wait as well! A lot of 'spoof' films just copy other films but twist them to make them funny, PBP is a spoof but doesn't show it to the extremes as Scary Movie or Plump Fiction. It comes across as a serious (original) film based on an old genre. This helps in making PBP such an hilarious film. Which it is, from start to finish, as well as a very twisted ending.cleverly scripted (based on a stage play) and directed with a groovy backing track, PBP is a great film to watch with a group of friends, with a bowl of popcorn or two!go out and hire it, it's no where near as dissapointing as Scary movie 1/2, plump fiction, wrongfully accused, silence of the hams and others in the genre. "},{"Title":"one of the all time best movies around!!!!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just got done watching Psycho Beach Party on tv and I have to say it is one of the funniest, most original movies I have ever seen. I've already reccomended it to all of my friends(both of them)and family.I liked the way that it blended the cultures of the cold war era to ours today, making Chicklet's schizophrenia reveal a dominatrix or a black girl with an attitude, or pointing out the obviousness of Yo-yo and Provaloney's homosexuality, things that were taboo for beach blanket bingo types of flicks back in the day. "},{"Title":"Pre-Six Feet Under Gem with a Buffy Kicker!!!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lauren Ambrose and Nicolas Brendon shine in this wonderfully funny film. While early Buffy roles kept Brendon's talents at bay, here he gets a chance to shine.  If you are a Six Feet Under fan, you will be amazed at the depths of Ambrose's sense of character, or should I say characters!!! Well done.  "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Campy! Clean retro film that mixes it up a bit. Think Ricky Lake and Leave it to Beaver. Just a great Sunday afternoon. Just when you think you know who did it, you realize you were right! Predictable but its a fun road. Rent it or wait for it cable. You must watch this film. You haven't seem camp until you've this. "},{"Title":"Awesome! I loved it!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This campy spoof couldn't have been done better.  The cast, music, visuals, dialogue, all excellent.  The supporting characters are hilarious too Rhonda, Marvel Ann, Yo Yo & Provoloney...  The Kooky, twisted storyline is great.  My favorite scene is the luau.  Lauren Ambrose (Chicklet) is amazing.  This flick should have had more widespread distribution!  Rent it! "},{"Title":"Most fun you can have without chemicals","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This homage to the cheesy surfermovies of the 60's is an absolute riot. Young Chicklet (Lauren Ambrose)want's to hang out with the surfers, and learn to surf herself. The great Kanaka takes her under his wing. Unfortunately, Chicklet suffers from multiple personality disorder, and turns into a maneating dominatrix at the drop of a hat...Meanwhile, somebody is killing the local teens, a B-movie actress is hiding in a haunted house and perfect surferdude Nicholas Brendon just want to be loved. Set in the 60's squeeky cleanliness, PBP is infected with cops played by drags, homoerotic surferscenes, unmotivated dance sessions and a swede named Lars. Unlike anything you will have seen before, but you will have to approach this movie with the right attitute. Sort of like a cross between Rocky horror picture show and Hershell Gordon Lewis. The most fun you can have without chemicals. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie. It's different, plot and character-wise, from the play it's based on (which is also very good), but the film was so true to the spirit, themes, style and integrity of the original that I enjoyed the changes rather than resent them. I attribute this to Charles Busch adapting his own text to the screen. He also plays a great Monica Stark, a character sadly missing from the stageplay along with Matt Keesler's hysterical Lars and Kathleen Robertson's bitingly wicked Rhonda. The rest of the cast is consistently excellent, with Nicholas Brendon, Amy Adams, Kimberly Davies, Nick Cornish and Andrew Levitas all having beautiful, show stealing moments. Danni Wheeler is a great Berdine (the only character I felt slightly cheated of, as she is much more important and much funnier in the play) and Lauren Ambrose should get an Oscar nod for her performance, were satire a genre ever acknowledged by institutions such as the Academy Awards. Sadly, that oversight probably characterizes exactly how this witty, decadent and ballsy film is being received more intelligent and honest than the majority of stupid box-office smash comedies (like NUTTY PROFESSOR and so forth), more original and uncompromised than the majority of mainstream movies for young people (like SHE'S ALL THAT and so forth), PSYCHO BEACH PARTY will doubtless be overlooked, misunderstood and/or hated by half of the American populace who, sadly, just won't get it or worse- be repulsed, and/or afraid of it.       "},{"Title":"Campy, riotous movie, What a funny movie","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is a throw back to the 60's genre where everything is very high camp, includes a murder investigations, teenagers trying to fit in... etc etc etc...It was a play by Charles Busch who also played a part in the movie, including writing the screenplay to the movie.  Very Very Very fun movie. "},{"Title":"Magnificent spoof; if'n ya ain't 35-55, ya won't get it","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It can't be better said than another reviewer who wrote For trying to be a spoof, it's great.  I have never seen a spoof that set out to be a spoof (since Airplane!) that was even a little funny.  Psycho Beach Party was uproarious; but the vernacular of the beach movies, the classist jargon, even the lighting techniques harken back to the early 60s, and while perhaps quaint, it will seem essentially kietschy and meaningless to those outside the demographic this joyful romp is squarely aimed at.If you ever (as a teenage boy)fantasized about Annette or (as a teenage girl) about Frankie or (as an emotionally defective teenager) about Buddy Hackett as Erich Von Zip, this technicolor marvel will tickle places that haven't been inappropriately touched since the last time you caught Muscle Beach Party on TV on a boring Saturday afternoon thirty years ago.If you were a teen in the 60s or 70s, expect 4 stars; if you were born in the eighties, expect to despise it or be baffled or both.Adorable starlette too (now Claire Fisher on 6-ft-under.) "},{"Title":"Complete snooze fest","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really liked the concept of the movie. A parody both on the slasher craze of the 80s and the teen beach movies of the 60s but sadly it didn't deliver the fun as it promised. The story is really badly written and the acting is just horrible. But it's supposed to be funny but it wasn't funny. The jokes are awful and didn't give me a chuckle and the cinematography is enough to to anyone a headache.It's a complete snooze fest. I literally found myself falling asleep more than I was laughing at the movie and that's not a good sign. I will not recommend this snooze fest to anyone not even a fan of horrible movies, check out scary movie or the 80s gem Student Bodies. "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews....","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho Beach PartyOne telltale sign that you have had sex on the beach is that human/jellyfish hybrid you just gave birth to.Luckily, the amorous adolescent in this comedy is avoiding interspecies breeding.Prudish Florence (Lauren Ambrose) wants to learn how to surf from The Great Kanaka (Thomas Gibson) and his crew (Amy Adams, Nicholas Brendon).While making great strides on the waves, Florence - now Chicklet - still struggles with the unpredictable blackouts that turn her into a sex-crazed psychopath.Meanwhile, a police detective (Charles Busch) has come to the seaside to investigate a recent rash of murders that seem to implicate everyone Chicklet knows.Based on the off-Broadway production, this subversive sixties surf movie spoof has ample seventy slasher film tendencies to please both fans of deliberate camp and low-budget horror.By the way, if you're going surfing after committing a murder make sure to wash the blood off beforehand.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A surprise to see Amy Adams!","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film tells the story of a beach town where gruesome murders keep happening. Suspects include a bunch of youngsters, including a teenage girl with dissociative personality disorder.It's good to know that Psycho Beach Party is a spoof, because there are done scene that are deliberately bad to be funny. The fake surfing scenes are quite bad, they are so fake that it's funny. The story is funny and the characters are all quite distinctive. The girl in a wheelchair is memorable, as she is very mean. The surfer dudes are funny as well, the fight scene in the beginning of the film is very memorable. It is a great surprise to see Amy Adams in the film! I enjoyed watching it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and enjoyable without too many flaws","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After joining up with a gang of surfers and their lifestyle, a woman fears that the serial killer running rampant through the group may be herself when she falls victim to a split personality and tries to stop it from continuing before all of her friends are killed.This was a pretty decent mixture of 60s Beach movie and slasher, though the fact that the stalking scenes are non-existent and never developed while the beach-party aspect of the movie is allotted full time to develop and go through it's paces clearly shows the slasher angle is just that, an angle used to give it a bit of individuality and distance itself from the pack. Still, it's not unwatchable, as the psychosis is pretty clever and generally pretty funny, the gay subplots are given enough room to be heard without overwhelming everything and the final revelation of the killer is pretty enjoyable. Still, had it done more with it's slasher setting, it could've had something really enjoyable instead of being just decent.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and Nudity. "},{"Title":"Great, camp satire.","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Based on the stage play that was also written by Charles Busch, I was wary about this as I struggled with another of his films Die, Mommie, Die! But I enjoyed this a lot more. A satire on the beach movies of the 50/60's, combined with slasher movies, the film tells of a young girl who starts to hang with a group of beach kids, then starts getting black outs, just as some of the kids meet gruesome ends. Is she the murderer?...The film is very clever as it satirizes genre films, in a B-movie way, but without becoming too stupid or cheesy. There is a fine cast, many of whom have gone onto great things, Amy Adams for instance, and there is a fine performance from Lauren Ambrose (from 6ft Under) who plays the split personality Chicklet brilliantly. There is also a good performance from 'Neighbours' star Kimberley Davies.The recreation of the era looks fine and whilst the film never resorts to gross out humour or slapstick, there are some very funny moments, often from Charles Busch as the Police Captain Monica Stark or from two of the male characters gradual realization they are attracted to each other. The film starts quite slowly, but gathers momentum as it progresses and has a nice twist at the end. It reminded me a little of John Waters films, such as Serial Mom and Hairspray, it has much to enjoy in a camp, funny and slightly twisted way.More of reviews at iheartfilms.weebly.com "},{"Title":"A Stupid Good Time","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is dumb -- probably exactly as dumb as it wanted to be.  Take it too seriously, and you'll be very disappointed.  Take it as a farce, with suitably hammy acting and deliciously cheesy dialouge, and you may enjoy it as much as I did.It's not art, and it knows it.  I might feel differently if I'd had to pay anything to see it, but as a freebie, it's very likeably ridiculous. "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious...","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What I love about this movie is that it spoofs the corny beach movies, and adds a touch of slasher films.  Great fun.  Great writing.  Great directing.Instant cult classic is correct.  And Michael D Gerstbrein (whitezomby@aol.com), Shock Treatment is NOT the sequel to Rocky Horror.  That's also to everyone else.I would recommend this movie to anyone who loves movie spoofs and men dressing as women.8 out of 10 *'s. "},{"Title":"A great one if your in the mood!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie worked for me in all areas of its' intentions.  I think you have to be in the right frame of mind and can let yourself escape into the kind of madness this movie portrays.  Not for the serious minded. You should know in the first ten minutes if you will enjoy Psycho Beach Party.  Try it you might like it "},{"Title":"sensational tongue in cheek humour","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Whilst viewing this film I realized that I had come upon an almost undiscovered gem of a movie.  It was witty, colourful and full of that sensational tongue in cheek humour lacking in many films of today.An avid viewer of the 'Gidget' movies I found this Parody an absolute delight.  Lauren Ambrose was sensational as Florence/Chicklet/Ann Bowman.Even Kimberly Davies manages to shine as the ditzy c-grade movie actress.My greatest disappointment with this film is the ending.  It is so trite and tired to end it this way.  One can only assume that the decision was made because it was so 'kitsch'.The Big Kanuka (Kahuna) and Starcat (Moon Dog) are fabulous. As is the underlying tension between the other two male surfers.All in all this is a must watch.  "},{"Title":"Stupid and smart at the same time...","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho Beach Party is a rare example of a movie that can be stupid and smart at the same time.  At an glance it's just going to seem like a goofy, pointless movie, but there is certainly a lot of depth here.  This is the best parody i have seen in a long time, as the story and direction exactly mimic that of the cheesy old surfer movies, combined with the equally campy horror movies, but the dialogue is molded perfectly to crack jokes at itself.  A few familiar faces here, depending on your knowledge of B movies, but Laura Ambrose takes the cake in terms of acting in this movie.  Take a look if you're willing to take more that just a look...7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Okay, but not the best one at all","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Before I watched the movie, I thought it would be a horror movie. But just after a few minutes, I knew that my first impression was wrong. I think this movie's more a comedy and it's really crazy. Sometimes the movie is much too foolish(e.g. the police officers- man dressed as woman and woman dressed as man). You really can't take this movie serious. But it can entertain you! "}{"Title":"Truly off-the-wall.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not 100% sure they knew what they were doing when they were making this  film, but what they came up with is an offbeat, entertaining mess. Lauren Ambrose is cute and fun in her role(s); her performance practically makes the movie. The rest of the cast, comprised mostly of unknowns, is also likable and has conviction (though Busch's transvestite cop is somewhat annoying). If you're looking for a mindless and insubstantial film that won't insult your intelligence, Psycho Beach Party should fill the bill.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Extremely fantabulous!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I saw this movie for one reason the prospect of an hour and a half of gorgeous Nicholas Brendon (the lovable Xander from Buffy) with his shirt off. I was totally delighted with the whole thing.SPOILERS Take a teenage girl with multiple personalities disorder (a perky American teenager, a seasoned dominatrix and an African American check out chick) who wants to learn how to surf. Florence Chicklet Forrest is played superbly by Lauren Ambrose (Can't Hardly Wait). When the group of beach bums won't let her learn, as surfing is for guys only, she seeks the help of the world champion surfer the Great Kanaka.The Great Kanaka (Thomas Gibson, Dharma and Greg) quickly falls for Ann Bowman, Chicklet's dominatrix alter ego. He agrees to teach her and then devotes his time to turning Ann on and off... in more ways than one.However, Chicklet doesn't feel the same way about the Great Kanaka, she has a little thing for the 'perfect' Starcat. Played by Nicholas Brendon, Starcat is the incredibly intelligent psyche student who is also funny, gentlemanly, brave and, needless to say, incredibly hot. Unfortunately, he is swinging towards Marvel-Anne, the local er, 'bongo' girl.While Chicklet is busy making new friends with Yo-yo, Provoloney (one constipated, both gay) Junior and TJ, she neglects her rather feminist best friend, Berdine. Berdine, who wants to be more than a little closer to Chicklet, doesn't just take this lying down. She spends the summer working for Bettina Barnes.Bettina is a B movie star hiding from her agent and directors until they agree to her terms. She's sexy but at the same time naive, and lives in the old 'haunted' house of murdered family, the Alkins.Suddenly, their peaceful lives are disrupted by the horrific murders of the resident 'abnormal' people. Cue Captain Monica and Cookie, the hilarious cops. Captain Monica is played by Charles Busch, and has somewhat of a past with the Great Kanaka. She's hunting for the murderer, and all signs seem to point to Chicklet and her friends.Strangely, every time there's a murder, Chicklet can't remember a thing that's just happened to her. Is it her multiple personality that is 'the butcher of malibu beach'? Or is it her straight laced mother? Perhaps it's Lars, the foreign exchange student from Sweden? Maybe it's Kanaka, tying to impress Ann Bowman? Or Bettina, who can't stand being the helpless movie heroin?This movie will keep you guessing until the end. Speaking of the end... it's quite unexpected. The performances of the whole cast are steller (keep in mind that they're supposed to be acted that way) and the soundtrack will make you want to get up there and dance with them.  "},{"Title":"Sunny and funny","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was really surprised to see this movie. Ok, it's a BAD film, and technically poor (did they really had a photography director?), but it's sense of humour and it's lack of pretensions  gives the movie a naive and genuine touch.It's funny. Nothing more, nothing less.Please notice that Lauren Ambrose, the main star, is the fabulous Claire in the tv series Six Feet Under. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, great, a cult movie","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Absolutely funny. One of the most hilarious and delirant movies I've ever seen. It will become a cult movie, sure. It's specially indicated for seen it with your friends.A touch of thriller, comedy, psycho logical drama, surf movie, horror movie, musical... just all mixed.It will bring you a lot of laughs (only if you have a minimum sense of humour, of course). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Querky,groovy and fun","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A Fun film full of 1960's surf action and a dialogue full of great lines. This has to be one of the greatest spoof slasher movies made in the last 3 years. This film is made a million times better thanks to a great performance from the wonderfull and sexy nicholas Brendon and of-course Lauren Ambrose.its full of twists and turns and not to mention cute guys in shorts.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Flick","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *SPOILERS*     I had mixed feelings about this movie. Some of the less savory things about the movie include loose ends. An example is when the two girls are about to kiss and there was no recovery for the rest of the movie. I did enjoy Lauren Ambrose's performance. Her excellent impression of a dominatrix and a diva made me laugh good and hearty. All in all I think that it was an entertaining movie. It's not something that I would nominate for an award but if you want to kill and hour and a half I'd reccomend it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie + Incredible Soundtrack","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho Beach Party was one of the best unexpected movies in the last couple of years!! The movie is really a hole lot of fun and full of sarcasm. Especially all surfing guys should watch it, at least because of the Soundtrack. It combines some of the coolest surfing-smash-hits of the 60`s!!! Go for it!!! "},{"Title":"Gidget Goes Berzerk!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" That was the alternate title given to the late-1980's stage play version of this destined-to-be camp classic. When the play came out, former WNYW Film/Theater critic Stewart Kline enjoyed it. This is a man who's known as a crumudgeon who never likes anything except old Fred Astaire & Ginger Rodgers movies, and has displayed a clip from one on an irregular basis. Everything from this movie is authentically early-1960's right down to a supporting character named Marvel-Ann. The only anachronism I found were the hubcaps on the hot dog truck which are clearly from a Ford Pickup Truck of the late-1960's. Also, Chicklet's third personality a sassy African-American housewife named Tyleen may sound like something out of a post-segregation American sitcom at first. And let's not forget the third-rate wannabe Marilyn Monroe hiding out from her B-Movie production company. I don't know if Charles Busch is the new John Waters, nor would I consider homosexuality as a cure for constipation, but I do know that if you've ever found yourself afraid to admit you had a thing for early-60's Beach Party-type movies, you'll laugh your head off at this one. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so great. It's just so enjoyable and funny. Many people say it's stupid, but it's supposed to be that way, that's the beauty of it. I loved the way it was filmed and all the actors were hilarious. Lauren Ambrose, who's incredibly beautiful and has a striking resemblance to thora birch, plays a perky surfer chic wannabe with two personalitys. Psycho Beach Party is a great movie in every way 10/10 "},{"Title":"An interesting find","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had seen a trailer for this movie last year and just remembered it recently.  So i decided to rent it.  The movie wasn't all that bad, considering it being low budget.  Lauren Ambrose was hilarious.  Her performance was what made this movie entertaining. She is a wonderful actress.  I would suggest anyone who is in need of a good laugh to rent this movie.  and now.. my favorite line from the movie, who do you have to f*ck to get a hotdog around here!-chicklet "}{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As movie filmed on an extremely low budget, the movie wasn't that bad.The plot was kind of out there, but then again it was suppose to catch the beach movies of the 60s.I wouldn't be surprised that Psycho Beach Party was a rough cut for a potential blockbuster and the performance of Laurence Ambrose was brilliant.Overall it wasn't that bad.  "},{"Title":"Surf's up!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the shrillest, weirdest, most over-the-top movies I've seen in a long time. Even the bad jokes are parodies of bad jokes, and there is not one single cliché that's not made fun of, including Hitchcock-style psychoanalysis, repressed childhood memories and cheap 1950s B-movies.Lauren Ambrose as split-personality Florence is a real treat in all her personalities, be it parody-of-1960s-sweet-high-school-girl or dangerously-fatal-and-possibly-murderous-femme-fatale. She's also extremely cute, although I fear that my own repressed early-childhood memories from the 1960s may somewhat influence what kind of woman I find cute. Still, Lauren Ambrose _is_ extremely cute. ;-)The rest of the characters are not explored to such depth, but performances are solid, and the actors apparently had a good time on the set; all of which amonts to 90 minutes of good fun.I thought the end was a bit strange, as it completely turned the movie around, still it did make some sense, though I'm still not sure what to make of it.Still, great stuff for anyone who likes parodies of any kind. 8/10, easily. "},{"Title":"A great cheesy, campy parody of a 50's beach movie.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is absolutely one of my favorite movies of 2000. There isn't anything that wasn't good about it. A perk was seeing Thomas Gibson, who plays the Great Kanaka, doing some of his best comedy work. I also thought that Lauren Ambrose who plays the lead girl Chicklet, was amazing good and funny. It's twisted, campy, cheesey and laugh out loud funny. What can you say about a drag queen police detective, split personalities and sexually repressed teenagers? Gotta watch it!! "},{"Title":"Beach Blanket Berserk!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho Beach Party is a sick and twisted parody of the campy beach movies of the '60s.  It recalls the work of John Waters, as well as the schlockiest movies of the '50s.  All mixed up with some real vulgarity!  Seeing drag queen Charles Busch, you know what you can expect! "},{"Title":"A fun time at the beach...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I honestly loved this movie.  It's great how COMPLETELY campy it is, mocking Beach movies left and right.  Then there is this crazy side involving switched roles.  I loved the woman as a police officer/Charles Busch as Monica Stark, Monica Stark being the Career person in the relationship with Thomas Gibson, The Wheelchair girl making fun of the popular people, you can find them everywhere. It's great fun.  I really wish that I had had the chance to see the stage show.  Lauren Ambrose.... My God.  I have loved her since Can't Hardly Wait.  Man, she has got to be the funniest person ever. She did such a fantastically great job in this movie.  I kept getting confused when they commented about how she wasn't feminine etc etc.. I thought she looked freaking gorgeous... Oh well. This movie=GOOD. 10/10~ "},{"Title":"Had it's moments","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a cornball movie. There's a killer loose, and they don't exactly like personal defects(ie cripples, one-testicled peoples, hairlips?). While this is going on, the lead character is flipping her lid as a blocked memory from childhood is resurfacing causing her personality to shift from time to time. It's got a hot cast, and all in all I liked it. I hope to see Kathleen Roberson in new up-coming films,too. 7 out of 10 *s "},{"Title":"Far-out, happening movie, man!!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie that every fan of B-movies, campy movies, John Waters movies, etc. should run out and see right away.  It straddles the line nicely between paying homage to B-surf movies and being a B-surf movie.  Surreal, hysterical and just really, really fun.  I wish more movies like this were coming down, not just every few years.  Plus, kick-ass soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Let your mind go","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I originally was excited about seeing this movie because one of my friends has a small part in it, but I enjoyed this movie because it's so corny that it's funny.  I got wrapped up in the plot very quickly and was laughing throughout the entire thing.  I recommend that you see this in the theatre if you can (movies loose something when they're seen outside of the theatre), let go of all the preconceptions you have about this movie and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Gidget Gone Ga-Ga!!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A spoof of the 50's Sandra Dee film 'Gidget' with murderous twists, transvestites, and not to mention major psychotic episodes. A good laugh for those who enjoy dark humour, but for those easily offended this might not be a good choice. Personally, 'Gidget' and the two sequels 'Gidget goes Hawaiian' and 'Gidget goes to Rome' inflicted much more emotional harm. Psycho Beach Party takes the murderous emotions most people feel today when watching Gidget,(those who have seen Gidget recently will understand), and turns it into great cinema. Hilarious, even if you haven't seen Gidget, but if you have then you MUST see this film. It will make you feel a whole lot better. "},{"Title":"Oh to have grown up in the 60's of American Surfer dudes...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not sure if I missed things that would be obvious to you folks who grew up with the beach culture, but this film was fun to watch even if you didn't.  It was nice to see Kimberly Davies on the big screen instead of in Ozzie soaps....typecast as the ditzy blonde again however!!!!  I loved the sly campy humor.  Never thought Thomas Gibson could be so versatile.....all in all a romping good time!! "}{"Title":"Clever seriocomic spoof...","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just saw this in South Beach. It's a pretty good movie. It's not quite as clever-funny as I'd have liked, but it's still pretty smart, spoofing and referencing almost all the Annette Funicello/Sandra Dee beach movies AND a whole lot of Hitchocock too (Marnie, Vertigo, Psycho) as well as all sorts of other fifties/sixties B-movies it's just too bad it couldn't have done clever and funny at once instead of alternately. It's still enjoyable, but it needs to be about 12 minutes shorter, and could have used slightly snappier camerawork, although the way its shot is also a reference to the sort of bad B-movies character Bettina Barnes makes. The acting's pretty good too, and the soundtrack is a scream. "},{"Title":"What a mix!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is surprising how many genres are present in this movie. Wonderful movie! It is exactly what I needed! It was pure magic, pure perfection! It's a classic! Intelligent fun script, amazing acting, wonderful set, funky costumes. My mind is blown away.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious and clever parody","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A very funny and well written spoof of the '60s beach movie.  Hits all the right campy notes.  All the cast members are wonderful, particularly Lauren Ambrose, who shows evidence of a major comic talent - she is definitely going places.  My only complaint is that like many theater adaptations the action gets stagey at times - a few more camera setups would have helped.Don't miss out on this movie! "},{"Title":"This year's Being John Malovich","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is hilarously twisted. This movie should revive a wider release than Strand is going to give it, because unlike other Strand Releasing fare it has a very wide apeal. First of all let me just say with everyone in the indie world on a high over Being John Malkovich (a funny and creative movie with awsome plot twists) this movie out does it's self. Go see it if you have a chance because it might not stay in your neighborhood for long, even if it opens their at all. The movie bashes the beach movie hillarously. The films homosexuality element seemed a bit drawn out, they should have been briefer (not that I am homophobic, it's just it's joke ran on a little too long, and a scene relating to it in a police station took some unnessasary moves for it's charactors) All and all it's diffenatly funny and very campy, who knows in ten years people could be lining up around the block for midnight screenings of this movie, it deserves it's place in cult film history. "},{"Title":"good, but...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  cheesy, badly acted (mostly), dumb, but fun. Chicklet is NOT schizo, she's a multiple personality. the first thing that struck me about this camp parody was the obvious gay overtones; two of the muscle beach hunks were always discovering their sexuality, the lady cop is played by a man, one of the girls wants to be (very) close friends with another. how hard is it to parody '60s beach party movies and low budget horror? not very. it's been done with varying degrees of success for years.not as good as Back To the Beach, but better than Surf Nazis Must Die. "},{"Title":"Was it good?","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It took a lot for me to find this video at a video rental store, but I did it.  I sat down to watch the film and it seemed okay during the beginning. I was really looking forward to actually getting to see this.  During the film, I thought that it was okay... Not as good as I had expected.  But after I had watched the film, I really loved it.  I'm not sure what happened.  I think that the cast really did a superb job in this film, and I liked the idea of a murder mystery 50's beach movie.  So, all in all I was satisfied with the film.  It is now one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Twisted, campy fun","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's a spoof of the 1950s/60s beach party movies, crossed with a murder mystery, with many demented campy twists.The whole thing meshes together beautifully. Great performances by the whole cast, and lots of silly subplots. "},{"Title":"After them, Scooby! (spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho Beach Party is one truly odd comedy. The plot nearly makes no sense, the ending (when you discover who is the culprit of this murder mystery) is completely ridiculous and unbearably drawn out, but yet, it is something so different, it is entertaining. If you enjoy strange comedies like Pumpkin (including the retro 60's-esque atmosphere), Ghost World, Drop Dead Gorgeous, or Surf II, then Psycho Beach Party is probably a title worth checking out. It is a slasher spoof combined with a Beach Party spoof, and something of a Scooby Doo adventure (without the dog).Life's a beach! Lauren Ambrose is terrific as star, Chicklet Forrest/Anne Bowman, bubbly red head turned bad girl via a bad case of split personality (I love her Joan Crawford impression). Things ain't so hot on the beach. Murder is a foot at the beach, and anyone with noticeable handicaps are getting bumped off. Chicklet is the main suspect, always conveniently popping up after a murder, but likewise conveniently not remembering anything that happened moments ago. When her personality changes, she has blackouts. But she's not the only suspect. Leaving no good clues to assess the killer's identity, Captain Monica Stark (writer/director Charles Busch), the lead investigator of the murders, has a an atmosphere of completely wacky characters that arouse suspicion from rhyming beatnick surf studs to burn out horror movie actresses to obsessive perfectionists. It is such an oddball story, and one that really doesn't make sense, and at times, fails to hold your attention (though, this occurs more towards the end when you're waiting for something good to come about in this murder mystery saga instead of more cheap ploys and boring diversions). The problem with strange movies like these is that they tend to operate more on jokes and little broken bits of entertainment instead of pulling together an interesting story in its entirety. And usually, like Pumpkin, and several others like it, not only is the ending boring, but it becomes far too exaggerated to enjoy what there is. I guess, Psycho Beach Party really does model the cheap 50s and 60s horror films in that respect. It could've been a really great film if there was more going on. Well...it does have some good moments, and offers a few great laughs (most coming from the dimwitted, bubbly Florence/Chicklett and her split personality, Anne, and the other sassy attitude character she portrays).If for nothing else, watching it simply to see something different. It is still quite an oddball comedy in everything from the scenery (a throwback to the 60s Beach Party style) to the characters to the dialogue (sort of). Lauren Ambrose is great as the split personality Chicklet/Anne Bowman (Joan Crawford isn't the only impression she does). Boogie on this Psycho Party! "},{"Title":"Gidget Goes Sybil","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You have to love camp to like this flick; as Lauren Ambrose's Chicklet learns about boys and girls, 60's style (with some 90's surprises thrown in.)As far as I know, Annette and Moondoggie never met any multiple-personality slashers (Too bad) but Busch's film more than makes up for that lack. Introducing cross-dressing cops, constipated surfers searching for their sexual identity and a possible serial Mom, Psycho Beach bends and blends teenage angst and softcore slasher porn.Best scenes Starcat explaining his relation with MarlaDene to Chicklet; Starcat accidentally removing MarlaDene's bikini bottom while retrieving his frat pin...just because they are so totally out of the genre.6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Bad is too good of word to describe this nightmare","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie because it had Nick Brendon (BtVS).  I sat down ready to laugh at the B-type movie.  This was bad enough to be embarrassing to the actors.  I have enjoyed Lauren Ambroses' work (try to catch a repeat of the Law and Order with her or watch Six feet under) but this was just plain bad writing and acting.  I think that I would rather sit through Scary Movie again and that one was painful! "}{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A spoof of a film genre that hasn't been popular in 30 years, and which was already adequately spoofed in Back to the Beach. By no means as hilarious as the writer and producer seem to think, and the attempt at social commentary -- it's ok to be different -- belongs on Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood. The climactic kiss between YoYo and Provolone -- when the surfer dudes realize that they're in love -- is interrupted because Provolone has to go to the bathroom.  Who thought that might be funny?  "},{"Title":"Cult Possibility?","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, this movie will never win an Oscar, but it is not bad enough to win the Raspberry Award.  After watching this movie, I had to say that the movie was campy.  It poked fun at the 50's surfing flicks and the drive-in movies (people don't go to drive in movies to watch Oscar films.  They go to make out! It makes me wonder why Drive-Ins are almost extinct?)  Lauren Ambrose was very funny as the psychotic girl with a split personality.  This movie, like the Blair Witch Project, will achieve cult status. "},{"Title":"Gidget Goes Berserk","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I like this movie. The premise is sort of like what if the first slasher film had been made by the production crew who made the Frankie Avalon/Annette Funicello movies. Lauren Ambrose is made up to look like Gidget as she plays a character with a split personality. As people start getting killed, she wonders if she is doing them. A drag queen of a sheriff is played for laughs but at least he/she takes his/her job seriously. Beth Broderick who plays Zelda from Sabrina The Teenage Witch also stars as Lauren's mother. Kimberly Davies is a Marilyn Monroe-like actress on vacation staying in of all places a haunted house that even has a role in the murder mystery. The opener even has her in a dreadful Attack of the Fifty Foot spoof. Kathleen Richardson from Scary Movie 2 also stars. Filled with all sorts of Gidget and surfer movie references, this is one film that horror fans and fans of surfer movies can really get together on ! "},{"Title":"Processed cheese","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Murder-mystery send-up of the teen films from the early '60s--complete with a schizophrenic Gidget at the steering wheel--is keenly aware of what it wants to be, and how to duplicate the look of those A.I.P. beach flicks...yet it never develops a rhythm of its own. The cast is game, but green; co-star Charles Busch, in drag, also adapted the script from his own play, and maybe should have directed as well none of the other performers matches his irreverent tone (although he does give himself the wittiest lines). The plot, about a killer amongst the surfing set, is a dull, talky one, and the camera-work is as insecure as the general handling. A fair attempt, this was probably a lot more successful on a small stage in front of a salacious audience. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A psycho? Yep. A beach? Uh-huh. A party? Check.","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There is so much ugliness in the world. Can't there be anyone who is utterly perfect?What an odd combination of a slasher, dance numbers, surfing, cross-dressing, split-personalities, a murder mystery, and campy humor. I only chose to see Psycho Beach Party because of the presence of a young Amy Adams, who I will watch absolutely any movie for. Without her, I wouldn't have had much of a reason to finish this. I love campy, cult movies, but Psycho Beach Party didn't particularly amuse me. It wasn't bad, but this movie is really only worth seeing if you're a fan of the cast (which includes Lauren Ambrose, Thomas Gibson, and Kathleen Robertson), and for the cheesy, awesome ending. Watch the trailer, it should give you an excellent idea of whether this is for you. "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A spoof of a film genre that hasn't been popular in 30 years, and which was already adequately spoofed in Back to the Beach. By no means as hilarious as the writer and producer seem to think, and the attempt at social commentary -- it's ok to be different -- belongs on Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood. The climactic kiss between YoYo and Provolone -- when the surfer dudes realize that they're in love -- is interrupted because Provolone has to go to the bathroom.  Who thought that might be funny?  "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful and unfunny parody of a parody.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As the 60s Beach Movie genre that 'Psycho Beach Party' attempts to parody were already tongue in cheek exercises in camp surrealism themselves, the question remains how can you parody a parody and make it worth watching? I'm sure it can be done somehow, but this isn't it. I know absolutely nothing about the stage play that inspired this movie. Maybe it was amusing, I really don't know, but this translation to the big screen is one of the stupidest and dullest movies I've had to endure in a long, long time. A third rate cast of TV faces, has beens and never will bes, try their hardest to add some life and fun to this tiresome script, but within 20 minutes I was yawning, and by the half way point I had troubling staying awake. 'Psycho Beach Party' is absolutely awful and unfunny. Avoid this one at all costs! "},{"Title":"nice, but a missed opportunity","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this film overall but it could have been so much better.  It seemed like they were trying to parody '50s teen melodramas, '60s beach films and '70s/'80s slasher films all at the same time-they bit off more than they could chew.  The script has some laughs here and there but is annoyingly uneven.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed the concept and approach.  Recommended to cult film fans who don't demand perfection. "},{"Title":"The Flip Side of Cool....","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Where did this movie come from??  Herbal refreshment didn't even make this funny.  Me and my friend rented this movie sheerly because of the title to freak the cashier out but now I'm embarrassed.  How do movies like this get made??  It was totally pointless.   "},{"Title":"Wipeout","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Even a spoof needs to have high production values.  This movie doesn't. Perhaps the one bright spot is Lauren Ambrose, who was not only cute, but showed some acting depth despite the horrible role.The title alone should have alerted a discriminating viewer to look elsewhere for a well-crafted movie.  Perhaps if you really despised the original beach party genre, then you might feel support that this movie, by its stupidity, was an affirmation that the originals also lacked value. "}{"Title":"Movies like this give me hope as a film director.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have a quirky taste in movies so I naturally turned up to see this movie, sounded right up my alley. Sadly, the movie was quite a bore. I would've walked out on it but I was too busy nodding off. The first tell-tale sign that this movie was in trouble was when I saw that it was based on a staged play. I'm sure watching the play when you're ten feet from the actors the story springs with life but up on the screen it plays, well, flat. Scene after scene a whole bunch of nothing kept happening. How did this movie get green lit? More importantly, once it was made, why wasn't it shelved so no one could see it? That sort of thing happens all the time. But then I realized that it was shown to give the young directors of the world hope that if this movie can get made and released, anything can. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Seriously?","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am aware this movie wasn't supposed to be taken seriously. However, being made in 2001 the acting was horrible and the whole story was ridiculous. It actually could have been really funny if done a little better. It also could have been a great scary movie if there were better actors and effects. I don't recommend this movie at all. HORRIBLE. The effects were just cheesy as well as the dialogue. I actually recongnized some of the actors/actresses from movies or TV shows, but in this movie they all did a horrible job. Even though it was cheesy dialogue the actors/actresses could have done something to make it less painful. "},{"Title":"Dreadful parody","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No one would ever argue that AIP's Beach movies were high art, but compared to this awful pastiche of campy cliches they might just ascend to that level. Apparently an adaptation of a stage play, the film is badly and unimaginatively shot, and the acting is strictly off off Broadway.Go and see Hedwig and the Angry Inch instead.  "}]