[{"Title":"Easy on eyes and ears....fun film","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun film and has several things going for it. Firstly it is sexy without being vulgar, proving that comedy without vulgarity is feasible. Secondly it is easy on the eye (Penelope) and the ears (Latin Rhythms). Thirdly, it is a fairy tale, both in content and format and hence totally unbelievable. And like all fairy tales, this one too has a moral...which is for the viewers to discover. The best thing about the movie it its old world charms, which is so endearing. Though eminently forgettable once you are out of the cinema hall, while inside, it is worth every minute of yours.Recommended to take along someone you love. "},{"Title":"Penelope Cruz displays her beauty and abundant talent","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Isabella (Penelope Cruz) meets her soul mate in her native Brazil, marries him, and becomes the renowned chef at his restaurant. She suffers from motion sickness so she insists on driving the car, leading in a dance partnership and more. Husband Toninho (the handsome Murilo Benicio) tires of being second in command and develops the roving eye syndrome. Stunned by her husband's actions, Isabella flees Brazil and travels to San Francisco. Once there, she catches the eye of a television producer who helps her become a small-screen celebrity with her own cooking show. Out of the blue, ex-husband Toninho arrives and wants his wife back. What will she do?Penelope Cruz shines in the leading role; she's drop dead gorgeous and gives an irresistible performance. Benicio, also, initiates flutters in the hearts of any female viewers with his charming persona. The movie has many humorous plot elements (a cross-dresser, catty television employees) that keep the plot interesting. Those seeking an entertaining movie with charm and chuckles will be delighted to happen upon this lesser known movie. "},{"Title":"Very nice, colorful, funny movie! (with a sexy Murilo Benicio and a sensual Penelope Cruz)","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw Woman on top yesterday and I found it very nice. It's a very funny story set first in Bahia (Brazil) and then in San Francisco, when Isabella (Penelope Cruz) became a TV star in a TV program about food. Penelope Cruz is very good in the role but it would be better if the role of Isabella was given to a brazilian actress (like for example Giovanna Antonelli, who would be perfect for the role), because a Spanish actress, even if she is good, who plays a sensual brazilian cook do not sound such well. Murilo Benicio (Toninho), one of the best brazilian young actors, is very good, very funny and so handsome and sexy! The story is very colorful and the music is beautiful, with many brazilian bossa nova hits like Aquarela do Brasil and Vocè. The idea of Isabella having a best friend who is a drag queen is very good and also the idea of the TV program about the passion in brazilian cooking is excellent (and it remembers the role of the sensual cook Dona Flora played by Sonia Braga in Dona Flor and her two husbands by Bruno Barreto). If you want to feel the passion, the color, the music of Brazil, you have to watch this movie, even if, I repeat again, a brazilian actress would be better for the main role. I give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Penelope Is Pretty, But Script Is Stupid","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This started off very well....really well...and slowly got stupid, very stupid. The film is a fantastic vehicle, however, for Penelope Cruz to show us her beauty. The two men chasing her are all right, neither one particularly annoying.The annoying part isn't the actors, it's the script. In this story, you can pray - and get a positive response - to the sea goddess - while other ridiculous curses and superstitions abound. Also, a lead character in here - portrayed as perfectly normal - is a transvestite. Despite these strange doings, the film has charm and beautiful, bold colors to it. If only the story wasn't so stupid. "},{"Title":"It's gonna be one hot summer.","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ''Woman on Top'' is not a big movie. In fact, it's a little silly and easy to be guessed, although it has some nice elements to be showed. I am a Brazilian girl,so for me, it's nice to see a movie who tells a little bit about my country's story or traditions. But if you are a foreigner, please, do not think that all the cities of Brazil are like Bahia or have the same habits. Not everybody here practices Camdoblé as well. The best character of this movie got to be Harold Perrineau in the role of Monica the guy had a complete transformation to be like a transvestite! And he has a great performance, I do need to say! Well, only brazillians who are going to watch this movie are going to see some famous faces around here, like Lazaro Ramos or Daniele Suzuki. "},{"Title":"Woman on Top","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think you have to understand myth's and ideas in other parts of the world to be able to understand the movie. Personally, I loved it. It gives you that trip to Brazil without leaving your house.The music was great, the story was a bit cheesy but refreshing. Open your eyes to other cultures. Allow yourself to enjoy the simple things such as cooking. I think it was sensual, funny and refreshing.I think Penelope Cruz did a great job. Having seen most of her movies, I can say that her best movies are the ones that are not overly popular. Woman on top gives women the opportunity to be successful and show men that we can do it. "},{"Title":"Uninvolving, unbelievable twaddle featuring a very beautiful woman.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Low rent pseudo passion and magic, without a trace of real emotion.  Visuals are below par, except for the gorgeous Ms. Cruz.  Too bad she lent herself to such self-conscious arty shallowness. Otherwise I really liked it.  "},{"Title":"A Tasty Dish, but more of just a side dish","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" WOMAN ON TOP is one of those films that was made, publicized and viewed as pastiche and because of its honesty as a simple romantic comedy, it rates higher than many of the over the top and overproduced competitors. The film is colorful, filled with wonderful Bossa Nova music, and has enough eye candy to almost make you forget the main dishes! Isabella Oliveira (Penélope Cruz) lives in Bahia, Brazil totally in love with Toninho Oliveira (Murilo Benício) where the two have a restaurant featuring Isabella's passionate cooking and Toninho's macho front man role. Isabella has a problem motion sickness - she cannot fly, ride in a car, or assume the bottom position during sex or she becomes violently ill (it seems that the sea goddess compensated her problem by making her an inimitable chef). All is well until Toninho has a brief affair that drives the crushed Isabella to move to San Francisco alone despite her love for Toninho. There she moves in with her old friend Monica from Bahia (Harold Perrineau as a superbly enacted crossed dressed drag queen) and begins her unsuccessful search for a job. In order to overcome her longing for Toninho and regain her culinary skills she makes a pact with the sea goddess, forsaking ever loving Toninho again. Eventually Isabella lands a TV show on Passionate Cooking when desperate producer Cliff (Mark Feuerstein) gets a whiff of her talent. She is an immediate success. Meanwhile Toninho, unable to endure life in Bahia without Isabella, flies to San Francisco and begins a series of Bossa Nova serenades to win her back. Cliff places Toninho on Isabella's show as background music and the ratings soar. But it is the ultimately the conflict resolution between Isabella and Toninho that brings the story to its expected end.The story may be light and the script may be pedestrian, but the direction and camera work suffuse this film with Latin American magical realism and that keeps it lighthearted and fun. Cruz is terrific, Perrineau is the true star of the show displaying a sophisticated and sensitive acting skill that is very special, and Murilo Benício is not only a hunk and eye candy but also a fine singer and a warm actor who deserves a lot of attention. Story five, stars six. Have fun with this one! Grady Harp, March 06 "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, wholly forgettable fairy-tale","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a modern day romantic fairy-tale, minus the charm. The storyline is silly, the treatment of the subject -- if there is one - is disappointingly silly, even for what's supposed to be a lighthearted romantic comedy.I don't know who the target audience of this film is; surely today's moviegoing young women know that a woman deserves better than to be stashed away in the kitchen; and surely they know that educating a boyfriend or husband is a difficult task (if at all achievable), requiring more than running away to fashionable S.F. and applying some hocus-pocus. Perhaps the film is aimed at men, who get an extended chance to drool at Penelope Cruz, who indeed looks lovely and fetching. As for myself, I'd rather watch this lovely actress in better films, such as All About My Mother. "},{"Title":"Penelope Cruz never looked or acted better!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I loved this film! It's very picturesque, and imaginative and tells the story of love very well. The script is solid and has Penelope Cruz (pre-Hollywood rubbish and Tom Cruise days) starring as Isabelle, a beautiful young cook who moves to San Francisco when her husband cheats on her. She becomes a very popular and highly rated TV show host which helps her husband to track her down and try to win her back. This is a very romantic film! It just tugs at your heart, makes you laugh, makes you cry and makes you want this sort of romanticism in your life! Oh and by the way, What is San Francisco without a drag queen? and this film serves up one as one of the main characters in the most deliriously hilarious way! A+ A must see! "}{"Title":"Isabella is Brazil, and Brazil is Isabella.","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Who could ever get tired of Penélope Cruz? No matter what she does, she is fantastic. Seeing her in this early film before she went all Hollywood, is pure pleasure.She has the energy, the charm, the passion that is Penélope Cruz, and she makes eating seem like the most fantastic thing on Earth.She splits from her husband (Murilo Benício) and heads to San Francisco to take up residence with her best friend Monica (Harold Perrineau). She gets a TV gig after being seen by a producer (Mark Feuerstein).Now, her husband has found her and works to get her back. Of course, the producer is also after her, and Monica is working both men to improve them and make them worthy.With a stirring soundtrack featuring the music of Toquinho, Paulinho Mosca, Xavier Cugat and His Orchestra, and more. "},{"Title":"This movie needs a new recipe.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Attractive actors and colorful sets don't make a movie.  This movie needs a new recipe.*************Mild Spoilers*********************************************News Flash.  Penelope Cruz just isn't a very good actress.  I haven't seen her give a good performance yet in the 3 or 4 films of hers I've watched.  Hopefully she can do better than this.  She simply doesn't have the charisma to carry a film.  Enough said.Supposedly this is a fairy tale about a woman who strikes out on her own when she catches her husband cheating on her.  Actually this is more like a poorly written soap opera than a fairy tale.  The movie never finds the right balance between fantasy and reality.  There are so many idiotic plot contrivances in this film that you'll find yourself laughing with incredulity.  You can see it in the eyes of the performers  what am I doing in this stupid movie?  And you'll be asking yourself  what am I doing watching this insipid film.  70/100.  Not a memorable film.     "},{"Title":"A charming fantasy","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Though this movie was no earth shaking tour de force of filmmaking, it indeed was charming.  It was lite hearted and moved quickly. It was refreshing to escape into a fantasy world that not so bogged down with typical formula crisis. It had a few touching moments and was funny without being silly, I liked it and would recommend it as a lite comedy. "},{"Title":"Cruz on Top.","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woman on Top (2000) Dir Fina Torres / Cast Penelope Cruz, Murilu Benicio, Mark Feuerstein, Harold Perrineau Jr.Anne Ramsay Observant romance about control starring Penelope Cruz as a Brazilian woman who grew up in the kitchen. She has a severe case of motion sickness meaning she will not get in a car unless she drives. She gets married to a singer and they open a restaurant together but when she catches him in an affair she leaves for San Francisco where she hosts her own cooking show. While predictable its foolishness evolves around the sea god these people pray too for fish. Scenes such as this can seriously jeopardize the tone of the film but luckily the leads hold strong with their innovative pursuit. Director Fina Torres tackles interesting issues regarding relationships and food all done in superb visual style. She is also backed with three principal actors that prevent the material from sinking too far in silliness. Cruz delivers a fine performance with charm and appeal, and Murilu Benicio is equally superb as her remorseful husband. They are intriguing together and create a genuine sense of romance. Mark Feuerstein plays an executive who falls for her and creates a few humorous moments. Other roles are unfortunately flat and generally lack anything to render them watchable. Silly but worthwhile film about relationships and food. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"film? OK  Penelope? WOW!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Yes, it's sappy and kind of silly, but it has a neat story and great music. Overall, I would rate this film as good 7, but in the romantic or date night movie category it's really a 10.The characters are sizzling cool and quirky enough to be humanly interesting. It is a timeless story of hope... most of all a love story about a woman loosing her love of her soul-mate, yet by following a somewhat funny path (away from him) she finds that the love returns and she owns it again. And I challenge ANYONE (man or woman) to watch this cute little movie and not fall just completely in love with Penelope Cruz. Beautiful and sweet doesn't do it - she is, instead, absolutely mesmerizing. "},{"Title":"How COULD she? Squeezing her coconuts for all the world to see!","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Machismo. It's that thing that means a man is always King of the castle, even if he has no castle.In this land, here Brazil, Isabella (Penelope Cruz) was the man. She had to be in control, and her husband Toninho (Murilo Benicio) suffered the laughs of their friends and acquaintances.He could stand no more, had an affair, and she left.A move to San Francisco, a little witchcraft, and success appears as she forgets Tohinho completely. Oh, and there is Monica (Harold Perrineau), a real blast!Director Fina Torres gives us a funny and romantic film with great Latin music in the background. "},{"Title":"It was a breezy, cheesy and visually nice to watch. Penolope Cruz looks stunning.","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Penelope Cruz looked the prettiest I have ever seen her. She kinda bugs me usually. In this one, she was more likable. I don't think I have actually seen her in anything lighter before like this. I do not think this movie was for American audiences. It felt like a Spanish movie. With the cheesy mystical touches and music. It was a little weird, but I liked it. The guy who played the husband was handsome and not bad. He can sing. The supporting cast was good. The story was as all Romcom's tend to be, totally unbelievable. She get's on TV in a day, and it feels like she has been there only a week when they move the story along, they did not make an effort to show any kind of time passing so it feels disjointed time wise. That is also one of the good things, the story moves along fast. It is like reading a light romance novel. You know what is going to happen, there are no surprises but you still enjoy it. I think it is worth a viewing. I watched it on Netflix.. "},{"Title":"A parable of Penelope's career? (dvd)","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was her first American movie and it bottles up all her future career The story is about a Latin girl coming to the states where she will find fame but it's only with her roots that she will find happiness and love. I don't know if Penelope had this insight of how personal this movie could be but it adds surely a great flavor, all the more than the movie is also a bit mystic(by the way, the divinity looks like the Starbucks icon!). Personally, I don't feel ties with Latin cultures (spanish or Brazilian) but as I'm a great fan of Penelope, I'm open to where she goes. It's great to hear her cute English accent and she was sweet playing a torn wife without aggressiveness. All the cast and production draws in the modern fairytale. In conclusion, not a masterpiece but a good recipe! "},{"Title":"Penelope Cruz Is Definitely The Woman On Top","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I saw Woman On Top,I was expecting a foreign movie that would be somewhat be considered an independent film by Hollywood standards.I was wrong.What I saw was an entertaining movie that featured Penelope Cruz in her pre-Hollywood stardom.Penelope Cruz played Isabella,who happens to be a great cook.She was definitely responsible for making her husband's restaurant a great success. During her sexual encounters with her husband,she must be on top to control her motion sickness.This makes her husband,Toninho lead to insecurities and causes him to cheat on her.Heart-broken, she leaves for San Francisco and lives together with her childhood friend, Monica, a cross-dresser. She then makes an offering to Yemanja, the goddess of the sea. Yemanja responds by allowing Isabella no longer love. This makes Toninho heads to Frisco to win her back only to find her in a popular TV show and being courted by the TV producer.This film is clichéd and predictable from beginning to end.But Cruz brought a lot of excitement and entertainment with her portrayal as Isabella.The cinematography should be commendable especially with the scenes in both Brazil and San Francisco. It may not be the greatest of films but nevertheless,it can bring a lot of entertainment to viewers watching this film. "},{"Title":"Penelope at her best","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As picky as I am with films, this is a movie that warms my heart. As a woman, I hate mushy love stories, especially those about girl loses man, girl chases man. Woman on Top is a sweet movie, and (almost) perfect to watch after a break up.What makes this movie stand out is how Penelope Cruz portrays the main character with believable strength. Isabelle (Cruz) is a cook from Brazil who finds that her husband is less that faithful. Feeling unappreciated, she makes a bold decision to be out on her own, and from there the movie becomes magically. The supporting cast is enjoyable as well.One other stand out point would be the music. It added such flavor to the tone of the story that you just can't help but smile at the end of this film. You won't regret watching it. "}{"Title":"Problematic film","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film was troubling to me. Penelope Cruz is beautiful. You can't take your eyes off of her. And the other two good features were 1. the production design, carefully and artistically executed, and 2. the music. it was great, smooth, Brazillian jazz. But this is where the good part ends. The movie itself was confused. The writing was not very good; it was vapid, simple- minded, anything but clever, trite and unintelligent. Further, there were few turning points and value changes. Many themes were repeated; jokes were repeated; visuals were repeated; a Brazillian band appears out of nowhere playing to prostitutes in San Francisco, a transsexual is released from prison for an unknown reason that had nothing to do with anything. If the writer wanted to make a surrealistic, fantasy-filled, colorful movie, she should have rewritten 90 percent of the dialog to be clever and meaningful. The good actors in this film could not begin to save it from the bad writing. "},{"Title":"this film is timeless","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" i have watched this movie about 10 times!! its really Fantastic.i have done the same to my husband just like Isabella to her husband in the film!!hope you see the real passion and love in this movie. sandy.b. please don't judge a book by it's cover ! you need to see it about 5 times to like the film.trust me.the most important message it has ,is that she tries to walk away fro her true love but she cant.she even goes to the voodoo lady, and still then she regrets that.And of course her husband.....OMG!!!!he is so sexy,so nice .the music and the food are amazing!!i haven't tried to cook what she cooked in the movie ,but only because i,m scared ti wold be to spicy for me. "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Gem","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Let me qualify my comments by identifying myself as a septuagenarian movie buff. Well, a movie buff until I was driven out of the theaters by noise passing for music, mumbled duologue and a concerted degrading of cinematic values.I was not surprised to find that the generation of movie goers that has reduced film making to the dark age of cinema would rate this delight of magical realism as less than mediocre. It is in fact the first movie that I have seen, with the exception of Chocolat, that successfully invites the viewer to enjoy art as reality. The director delivers his vision without disturbing the telling of an amusing story. The duologue is well constructed and UNDERSTANDABLE. The music is soft and supportive to the cinematic theme.It is the joy of watching Penelope Cruz with her winsome, effortless beauty that makes WOMAN ON TOP very special. How can anyone who loves movies not believe this movie is extraordinary? "},{"Title":"A favourite for anyone who loves Brasil","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I LOVE this film! Being a San Franciscan who spends a lot of time in Brasil, it meets the two disparate cultures and makes for a yummy blend. The dialogue is funny and clever, the casting outstanding (Harold Perrineau Jr IN DRAG!), the music to die for and the story is charming and light. This is a sleeper in my books - I tell everyone about it!Woman on Top is made by a Venezuelan but gives a fair insight into the Brazilian culture and mentality - the male unfaithfulness, the religion, that music and sex solve everything.For my money, a romance that is not too sweet, very sexy and full of great one-liners and snatches of music that make you want to grab the first Varig flight and get yourself to Salvador, Bahia! "},{"Title":"An otherwise wonderful movie ruined by a gay black guy.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The one thing that sets this movie apart from any other is the seductive music adorning most of the scenes. This matches perfectly the sultry look of the heroine and creates an almost magical mood that makes the fairy tale nature of the story readily acceptable. It was in search of this music that I find myself here, but alas, I have found everything but the music. This could easily have been one of the most unforgettable movies that I have seen was it not for the entrance of the black gay friend into the picture. The movie producers should have followed the advice of the TV producers in the movie and gotten rid of that unlikable character and not have ruined a perfectly good movie. He did more to spoil the flavor of the movie than anchovies on chocolate. What could possibly have driven them to force this unsavory character on their audience? Was he an important investor investing on the movie on condition of being included in the cast? I'll still give it 6 out of 10, just for the ethereal beauty of Miss Cruz and the toxic flavor of an incredible musical score.Ali Mo "},{"Title":"Overrated and cliche","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My boyfriend brought this one home on VHS the other night.  I'd heard alot of good reviews about it when it came out, particularly about Penelope Cruz-- let me say this don't bother with unless you're a sappily romantic man or a 13-year old schoolgirl.  The character of the boyfriend who wooes Penelope Cruz's character is a horrible stereotype of a macho Latino man who believes he has the right to sow his wild oats.  Cruz cast as a *cook* is not credible, considering she makes Callista Flockhart (Ally McBeal) look like Roseanne.  To this comment my boyfriend said, But alot of famous cooks are thin, and I said, But she's not just thin; she looks like she's been in a POW camp.The fairytale setup of this ridiculous movie is predictable and insulting to assertive, modern women.  Woman on Top is an ironic title. "},{"Title":"Brazil with Spanish accent","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The director showed she had admiration for what she portraits as an easy-going, more open-minded Brazilian way of life but this film, as many others, failed to capture Brazil's real soul. Penelope Cruz is Spanish and her Portuguese was as bad as any other foreigner's, so she was not convincing as a typical woman from Bahia. Watching the movie we get the impression everybody hangs around in Brazil with a guitar playing Bossa Nova or serenade songs. Despite the usual misinformation, this is a funny movie, especially the culinary part.  "},{"Title":"this movie is great!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you're feeling down in the dumps, then run don't walk to your video store and get this movie!  Movies don't get more fun than this.  Mix one part whimsy, a pinch of great music, a dash of well-fleshed out(not to mention) fun characters.  Especially  leads that heat up(make that melt) the screen,  throw in some really oddly appealing supporting characters mix well, heat at 350 for 2 hours and voila!  You have one of the greatest movie desserts of all time.  This movie doesn't pretend to be War and Peace, but that's not the point here.  If the sole purpose of movies is to entertain then this movie succeeds admirably.  For sheer entertainment value it would be hard to beat it.  It's nice to see you don't need $20-million dollar stars, cars blowing up every 2 minutes and all those other necessities we've come to expect to make a good movie.  Watch this movie with someone you love.  "},{"Title":"I had low expectations for this movie, and even these were not fulfilled.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The acting is good from Harold Williams, mediocre from Penelope Cruz, OK from Murilo Benício, and below average from Mark Feuerstein.The story line is lame and the ending is an anachronism, even for a romantic flick such as this one. It's unfortunate, since this movie had potential. The movie is watchable, but there is so much more out there that is much better.Share some quality time with one you love... go see something else. "},{"Title":"Embarrassment to Brasileiros","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What a wretched film this was! First of all, I know there are absolutely NO Brasileira actresses in the US or Brasil who could have played this role....the role being so complex and deep. So they get an actress from Spain with no grasp of what an English-speaking Brasileira would sound like. Worse yet they compound that error by surrounding her with real Brasileiro actors with the correct accent...appalling, really. Most of the Brasileiros are presented as ignorant, superstitious, oversexed, etc. The film's one redeeming value is the bossa nova/samba soundtrack.....buy the soundtrack, forget the risible film! "}{"Title":"Cute premise, cop-out ending","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a cute movie, I liked Penelope Cruz and the passionate Brazilian chef, she's the only reason to watch this movie. It's a little long, and a little boring. And the ending, it's like they wrote two endings, and decided to go with the unjustified and unpopular choice. There's hope for Penelope, but not for this movie. "},{"Title":"a waste of time and talent...","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A puerile waste of time and talent.  Penelope is easy on the eyes...but that's about all this movie has going for it.  Unusually shallow and silly, the script appears to have been written by a 7th grade English class (remedial).  Just a goofy callow send up of romance comedys. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Colorful, beautiful and utterly meaningless","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie you can put on when you want your TV, and maybe even your whole living room (if you turn out the lights), to sparkle in intense flaming colors to illustrate that you're feelin latin today!. It's the movie to put on if you have a girl (or boy) over, and all you wanna do is make out.    This movie is so bad, you won't remember any of it two hours after it has ended. Sure, the latin lovers look incredible. And they are probably both good actors as well. When they act. In this movie they tend to focus on saying their lines effortlessly, which I must say, sadly isn't working very well. But I actually gave this woman on top 3 out of ten stars. Why, you may wonder?    I gave it one point for the beautiful colors. I took that point back for the complete lack of enthusiasm the movie left me with. And then I give every movie with Penelope Cruz three stars, just 'cause she's there. And you can't take those away.    So I'm left with three stars. They're essentially meaningless. As is the movie. Go with Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan for the funny romantic stuff. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable and tasty film.","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable and tasty film that stars Penelope Cruz as an adorable chef who leaves Brazil and her cheating husband behind her for San Francisco to make a fresh start.  Cruz herself is good here in the lead and she's backed by a fairly decent supporting cast (Harold Perrineau, Jr., Mark Feuerstein, and Murilo Benicio).  The only qualm that I have about the movie is the title itself.  "},{"Title":"I'll Take Some More of the Passion Food, Please.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Despite its simplistic plot, which drags in a few (and far between) places, Woman On Top is an adorable and passionate love story.  Penelope Cruz has got to be one of the most beautiful women in the world, as well as an incredibly talented actress.  The smooth Latin music added a sensual, moonlight-breezy atmosphere throughout the fairy tale, creating lovers' candy on film.  At the end of this movie, I felt a little sexier, a little happier to be a woman.  We do have quite a bit of power if you think about it, ladies.But, damn, I wish I had a Brazilian accent. "},{"Title":"Fun and frothy way to spend two hours","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I've read some of the other comments on this film, and I'd agree with many of the criticisms. Yes, Hollywood. Yes, Foreign Film Lite. Yes, predictable plot. Yes, stereotypes here, there, everywhere. And it is not deep.  This is a bit of a guilty pleasure, in my opinion. It's charming, with a fun, atmospheric soundtrack and some enjoyable performances. By the end of the movie I wanted to be dancing on a beach somewhere in Brazil. I'll forgive a lot of sins for a movie that makes me laugh reasonably often and has good visuals and music. If you like romance and fairy tales and fun and aren't in the mood for something penetrating or plausible, this would be a good one to check out. Penelope Cruz cannot help but be a movie star--she has a lot of charm in addition to her looks. Her husband character, Toninho, was very easy on the eyes. Their combined visual assault reminds me of the double-wattage Latin aesthetics of Catherine Zeta-Jones and Antonio Banderas in the Mask of Zorro--I enjoyed that film less than this one, actually. And her best friend, Monica the trannie, had a somewhat stereotypical gay supporting role, but was extremely funny--Harold Perrineau, Jr. made this his own.   "},{"Title":"Such a potential for a great movie blown away","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Penelope is great and the part of the drag queen friend is fantastic, same is for the music.But otherwise, it's a movie which in parts are badly linked, it is terribly chauvinistic and the supposedly hot, romantic deeply in love male part is SO inconvincibly performed, that it leaves you with that feeling of discontent.But you surely will enjoy it better with no expectations at all, and with the knowledge that it is a Hollywood production, with all its implications. "},{"Title":"a charming star vehicle","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Penelope Cruz has the charm to make this gentle fable work. Of course it is not the Seventh Seal. It does not pretend to be. But people who enjoy the heavy stuff should not FEAR light movies. When the stars are properly aligned even the most repressed in their black berets may enjoy this. But I will concede that if you go in there thinking It's All Quiet on the Western Front, you will come out mighty irritated. And the movie is not strong enough to win you over if you go in there with a show me attitude. You have to relax & let it's charm wash over you. Then a day later, go see a Bergman movie if you feel guilty.  "},{"Title":"a bit...","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ...stupid.Penelope Cruz is too good as an actress to play in a movie that is so naive in its straightforwardness as that one. Haven't we seen this all before? The desperate lover (what else could he be). The want-to-be-lover (there has to be one). And the transvestite friend (Could not be a man nor a woman instead and at we need a person like him to cheer up the plot a bit...). And what else could happen than the two lovers being eventually united again.Oh god, she is so cute... .. OK, I take it back. Go to see the film! Forget about the s****y plot! Penelope alone is worth it..! "},{"Title":"No charm or magic","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Penelope Cruz is beautiful but her charms cannot overcome a leaden script, uninspired direction and lack of charm that curse this lead balloon. A film like this need to seem magical and float in the viewers mind. The film sinks in comparison to better movies that combine cooking and romance. Very disappointing. "}{"Title":"Delightful and delicious","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie cannot help but be compared to Like Water for Chocolate and, although Like Water for Chocolate was by far the better film, being much deeper, more metaphysical and more complex, Woman on Top still had the same  enchanting feeling and the same basic theme  a woman who has a major disappointment with a man turns to her second passion, cooking, and lets out all of her love and creativity in that venue as opposed to the sexual one.By far, the best thing about this film is its star, Penelope Cruz, who seems to me to be a combination of Julia Roberts and, dare I say it? Audrey Hepburn.  She is absolutely stunning on screen and in this film truth follows fiction and that very attribute is a lot of what the plot is about.  The other actors all did a good job, but it was Ms. Cruz that made this movie as delicious as it was.  I felt that the weak link was the drag queen part,  which was written a little too Whoopi.  At any rate, I would recommend that you could see this movie with your old-maid aunt, your little child or your gay neighbor and you will all be as delighted as I was with a fluffy plot, beautiful people and wonderful score.  You'll come out ready to fall in love and humming the bossanova.  "},{"Title":"Cute - lively - well done -great acting by Penelope Cruz","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As a light comedy, it was very well put together. Each character was played very well.It is not the typical movie for an Oscar, but it was a nice, refreshing, light comedy with plenty of laughs to end the first summer of the third millenium.Penelope Cruz performed great as usual. "},{"Title":"A playful, luscious, funny little movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a playful, luscious, funny little movie.  The score virtually all Brazilian, mostly Bossa Nova is appropriate and enjoyable.  There isn't much of a plot, but this kind of movie doesn't need one. The actors are believable and sometimes hilarious in what is essentially a fantasy/comedy not an easy genre to pull off. Woman on Top not, on my opinion, a very good title is a delightful vacation from the ubiquitous action movies which are filling our theaters. I hope that it will catch on.  "},{"Title":"Hot and sweet, never sour.","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What an excellent name for a movie, no? I thought so too. Quite frankly the movie lives up to it's sexy name. Woman on top is not a hard core porn on Spice channel- but an intelligent whacky comedy with style and dare I say oomph!Penelope Cruz , is almost as indecipherable as that human vocabulary dicer Salma Hayek, but unlike Hayek, Cruz can act. Clever facial expressions and quick delivery make the words seem improved instead of carefully studied and directed.  Penelope also happens to be quite steamy on the retina. I'm no clam digger but  if I was- she is one hot tamale female!Story goes...Isabella (Cruz) has a terrible problem with motion sickness. She'd  be all right if she just didn't have to move. This means no sex . Her husband  Toninho ( a very studly peacock Murilo Benício by the way) is not emulsifying too well with that idea. He also happens to be a colossal prawn dick. So she takes of from the husband, sad and disillusioned she heads from Brazil to San Francisco. Land of Gay Rights, beautiful hillsides and fancy food lovers among other things. Did I mention Isabella can cook. I mean that in every sense of the word. Picture Emeril LaGasse only he's as handsome as Ralph Fiennes   (or insert feel free to the man /woman of your fantasies). A good looking cook is a super sexy thing folks. Ahh, the good old fashioned combo of, cooking and sex. Needless to say, Isabella shortly has a run away hit tv show! It is appropriately named Passion Food! Viewers tune in to catch her grind and saute, bruise and skewer various foods in her own special way. But mostly to blatantly stare at her sexy physique and not for the night's nouvelle torte rustica recipe.Hmm, out of her husband's frying pan and into 30 million viewers frying pans.  Poor Isabella, will she ever find happiness?Actress Penelope Cruz is going to be here to stay with American audiences, I'm  sure. She's not new in the business-in case your wondering. Penny's just not mainstream yet. All you guys that are drooling over her- there's more she-steak coming your way- later this year she'll star in Blow (about cocaine), alongside Johnny Blow? Dope? Ohhhh, I thought it was another thriller by the Fargo guys on weather or something when I signed- swear! Shoot Depp.Woman on Top's stories been done before, but this is a foreign film gone American. Think of Like Water for Chocolate- without all those pesky subtitles to get in the way. What's sexier than food and sex? Absafriginlutely nothing! Sure some parts are just plain middle- of- Texas- without- a- spare- tire- stupid,   but the over all feel is sweet and delightfully rich like a nice slice of Strawberry New York Cheesecake. Mangia.Snack recommendation Brazilian fare with plenty of hot sauce on the side! "},{"Title":"Cruz = good, schmaltzy script = bad","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  With a title like this, you just expect more. Instead, what you get is a fairly innocent fairy tale with a lot of promise and very little performance. The saving grace? The raw beauty and charisma of Penélope Cruz. Control-freak Isabella Oliveira (Cruz) leaves her native Brazil to start a new life after she catches her soul-mate in the arms of another woman. She hits San Francisco and quickly hits the big-time as the surprise star of Passion Food, a televised cooking show. During her first broadcast, the director coos, The camera loves her! The same is true for Cruz. She somehow rises above the thick layer of schmaltz that settles on this film. It might be good for Cruz to cut her teeth on a little movie like Woman on Top. She appears ready for prime time. Harold Perrineau Jr. also should be given props for his standout role as Monica Jones, Isabella's cross-dressing buddy. But when the best thing you can say about a film is that its cast has promising futures, you know it might not be worth your while. "},{"Title":"Charming and full of sensual delights","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This charming film features uniformly excellent performances by the four leads. The director is successful at blending the magical realism of Garcia Marquez with the sensuousness of Like Water for Chocolate and the romantic comedy of classic screwball films of the 1930s and 1950s. "},{"Title":"A sweet if not innocuous romantic-comedy-fantasy.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  In January this film was edited down another 20 minutes to  make it a thrift 85 minutes of sweet romantic-comedy  fantasy. Young, beautiful Isabella (Cruz) is crushed by her macho  husband's (Benicio) cheating, so she flees her native  Bahia, Brazil to the comfort of her best friend, the  transvestite Monica (Perrineau).   By praying and giving  homage to the Brazilian goddess Yemanja - asking for her love for her husband to disappear, she magically is rid of her feelings for him.  Isabella's culinary talents charm a local TV producer (Feuerstein) into giving her a cooking show of her own - which is a hit.  He also falls in love with  her.  All seems well, until her husband follows her to San Francisco to win her back.  His beautiful singing voice lands him a job on her show and causes her ratings to sky rocket.    Should she go back with her husband, who loves her, but  is too macho to let her be on top, or the producer who  seems to love her any way he can get her - or does he? Although this chick flick  film drags in the third act, and has one plot resolution that rings false, it provides some real laughs and romantic moments.  A nice first date film. "},{"Title":"Needs a New Recipe","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The recipe for this film is no good!  This movie is just plain boring.  Even the sex scenes are boring.  It's a candidate for one of the worst movies of the year.   I've only seen Penelope Cruz in a couple of movies ... and they were both disappointing.  She's very attractive and I hope she can find better roles than this.  As for this movie, it's not worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Surreal vision of a Country","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't matter if you had fun or not, or whether are you interested or not on the charming gifts of Penelope Cruz, as she's the star of this odd film. Trouble is the whole script is basically an amount of nonsense. Which makes all of these reasons absolutely useless.The screenplay has a distortive view of Brazil. Of course, the natives of Bahia state are very much into African religion. But to assume it as a rule is completely pointless. The Worst thing the leading actress speaks English throughout the whole tale, which adds to it more Alice in Wonderland thoughts on the factual points of the motion picture. Even more surreal and almost impossible. Even worse is that it's not written by Lewis Carroll.The soundtrack uses the bossa nova as the main musical style. Okay, it's retro, cool, although barely Brazilians listen to this kind of music through a day-by-day basis. The Axe music, as it's called over here, has been the main flavour since before 1997.It would have been all right, though, if that sound track had been kept on the Brazilian bit of the film. Troubles again come up the songs are heavily used when the action moves to the United States of America, when she becomes, fastly, an important TV star. Quite odd.To sum up, that was a failed attempt to make an artsy film mixed with comedy. If you got this DVD to enjoy Cruise's girlfriend you'd better pick another one.1 and a half stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"Hot woman, wonderful music","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Penelope Cruz is a visual delight, but the movie seemed like a hodge podge of scenes.  The Brazilian music, however, was wonderful from beginning to end, so much of the time, I read a good book and just listened to the music as I read!  (hooray for cablevision.) "}{"Title":"This much crap needs a shovel","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have been sitting here for the better part of fifteen minutes, trying to figure out where I should begin.I'll start with the script. Lord knows why, since it doesn't seem that anyone actually involved with this film considered the script a priority. Was it written from a Spanish perspective, one unfamiliar with American audiences and how we relate to each other? Was it translated from another language in the most literal manner possible, creating unintentional hilarity in the process? I would hazard a guess that the answer to both of my queries would be yes.There is a sense that the people involved here were trying for a sense of frothy fantasy. One does not accomplish this by beating the audience over the head with fantastic scene after fantastic scene. The effect loses its originality when it is used every eight to ten minutes.Further lack of reality In a number of weeks she goes from working at a cooking school to wandering into her own cooking show to being on the verge of a network production. Where are the consequences for walking away from the school after attracting all those new students? How, exactly, do networks divine long-term ratings success from a show that is supposedly on the air for less then a month? Come on!The husband teaching his fellow inmates to sing in the holding cell? Riiiiight.The production company applauding when she walks out of the studio? I'm sure that somewhere, a group of people might applaud when the actions of one temperamental diva renders them unemployed. Right? Anyone? Helloooooo...?About the only genuine thing in this movie is the San Francisco scenery, but somehow they managed to even screw up that. The apartment for Ms. Cruz's character -- the exterior, at least -- was shot in the Lower Haight, an area of the city dotted with housing projects, homeless junkies, and grimy streets.I liked the music, though.If you are caught in a situation where you might be forced to see this movie, bring along a shovel or some hip waders. You're going to need them. "},{"Title":"Two words-Chick Flick","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you had to define what all men call 'chick flicks' this would be one. In my opinion, uninteresting characters, boring dialogue, dumb plot, but to a woman it's romantic, cute, and lovely. It's just one of those films I guess.I usually like Romantic comedies like As Good As It Gets and Sleepless in Seattle where both sexes can enjoy the film equally. Woman on Top (just by the name) is obviously not the case. Woman will tend to love it, guys-you'll hate it. 1.5/5 stars- "},{"Title":"No, no, no","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Woman on top is one of the most forgettable movies I've ever seen. It's poorly written, poorly directed and above all, poorly acted. The worthless attempts of Spanish actress Penelope Cruz trying to be Brazilian are pretty pathetic. It's two thumbs down for me.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful fantasy","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  There are a surprising number of harsh reviews of this wonderful film. I think the hard nosed critics forget that it is a fantasy and a fable. Sometimes it's better not to be too analytical. Sure, this is a piece of fluff. But it's very high quality, attractive fluff. Penelope Cruz makes Julia Roberts look like an untalented anorexic. The film brims with wonderful Brazilian music. And there is a tremendous cast of supporting actors and oddballs. It's a happy, warm film. Not a bad thing in these difficult times!  "},{"Title":"Highway Robbery Chick Flick","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  You've gotta be kidding me. You call this dreck fun? The last morsel of understanding I still had in me for chick flicks went straight outta window 10 minutes into this one. Wife made, no, forced me, to watch this here crap with her last night on HBO and I hafta tell ya, one has to start wondering what exactly is the message, if there is one? Is it that women should take all the crap from their men, then go back to them? Or is it that one should not trust the judgement of a Brazilian woman? Or, that intelligence is no substitute for sleazy men? Oh, come on, for heaven's sake, do the world a favor and sack this brain cell lacking flick already!Mike Wilson "},{"Title":"What's the lesson?","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  So what this film teaches us is that...  if you cheat on the woman you love, break her heart, she will take you back if you act like a stalker.  Also, all nice guys are gay.It's a shame.  All the elements were there for a nice story.  But instead of the leading lady trusting herself on her own, she digresses back to her old flame because he sang to her.Dumb. "},{"Title":"What A WASTE","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a bad joke.Even the rating is a joke it should had been PG.Penelope Cruz is a hell of a actrees,why in the hell she got involve in this project will be a mistery to me for a long time.They rated this trash R for strong sexuality, there is one scene almost at the end where she make love with her ex and even that they manage to screw up.Penelope is one of the sensual actress I've seen in this so call sexy movie she look so cold and out of place.They use her face and body (breast which you don't see by the way)like a Barbi Doll.The love scenes are the worse.I owne two movie of this actress Jamon,Jamon and Open Your Eyes men that girl can act a storm to use an actress just for her beauty is bad enough but to amke her look dumb and stupid is very sad.Please anyone don't be fool by the rating and what it's say's on the box it's not there. "},{"Title":"Top cooking, but bottom of the barrel comedy/romance","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts out looking like a light-hearted take-off of Like Water for Chocolate, which gave us food, sex and magic realism in a Latin American setting. Penelope Cruz, last seen as the nun with AIDS in All About My Mother, indeed eats the lens as Isabella the provincial Brazilian champion cook, and she and her husband Toninho (Murilo Benicio) are a handsome couple. The fact she is a martyr to motion sickness to the extent she has to be on top when making love makes her the more interesting, though five cent psychiatrists will undoubtedly write her off as a control freak We aren't surprised when Toninho decides he'd like to be on top for once and Isabella catches him in flagrante with a neighbor.  Disgusted, Isabella high tails it from Bahia to San Francisco, a strange choice, but it seems her best friend, Monica, a male transvestite (Harold Perrineau with far too good an American accent), has migrated there. She gets a job in a cooking school and weaves her culinary magic for roomfulls of spellbound men, who find the combination of her beauty and the aroma of her spicy cooking irresistible.Then things start to go downhill. One of the men she charms is Cliff (Mark Feuerstein), a TV producer desperate for a new show, and he persuades the station to put Isabella on live in prime time as the Passion Cook. Well, that's pretty improbable but naturally she is a great success. Meanwhile, Toninho realizes neither he nor his restaurant, not to mention the local fishing industry, can live without her, and arrives in San Francisco to woo her back, complete with a six man orchestra who get there by magic. At this point the originality starts to fade and we are in familiar light comedy romance territory. There's a nice soundtrack of Brazilian music, the Van Ness cable car makes a guest appearance, and there's a bit of thunder and lightning and some imaginative underwater shots, but it all fades to that accursed last line `we all lived happily ever after.' As for the magic realism, the only bit that really stretched credibility was Cliff the apparently heterosexual TV producer settling down in Bahia with Monica the transvestite. Still, I guess in San Francisco you can't take anybody's sexuality for granted.So it was a bit of a flop, overall. I am, however, grateful for the tip on how to avoid getting sore/smelly fingers when preparing hot chillies &#150; put some cooking oil on your fingers first.  "},{"Title":"A truly abhorrent and pathetic film.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of the hallmarks of independent cinema is that the filmmakers do not under-estimate their audiences, who tend to be better informed, more intelligent, and more demanding than those who view only Hollywood's outpourings. Thus, they are emancipated from the necessity to be blunt. They can create films of integrity, subtlety, and convey emotions and intellectual content that is never present in more mainstream films. However, this is not the case with Woman on Top. Despite being an independent film, distributed by Searchlight, who also handled the excellent Boys Don't Cry, it seems to want nothing more than to be a mainstream film. This is, perhaps, what is most offensive about it.It is at this point that I ought to inform you that in the proceeding paragraphs, there are comments which may reveal elements of the plot of this film, such as it is.In the hour or so that I managed to stomach of this unrelentingly vapid film, the plot barely managed to limp forward from its starting point. The characters were not developed beyond their appearances. The primary character, a female chef from Brazil who moves to San Francisco after the breakdown of her marriage, and all her actions, seem based solely on her aesthetic appeal. Indeed, this is also one of the few sources of the tired humour present in the film. These comedic moments are, without exception, crude and desperately unfunny. Listless slapstick moments rub shoulders with endless scenes of men drooling over the young Brazilian woman and staring in disbelief at her transvestite friend, evidently present to add some essential uniqueness to the film and because, as everyone is aware, anyone who lives in San Francisco is either an intellectual or a transvestite.Cinema, without doubt, has huge potential as a medium for artistic expression, and there are independent films that are intelligent, well-made and engaging. However, Woman on Top, in striving desperately to be a mainstream success, sacrifices any shred of dignity or integrity one could hope to see in a film. Thus, and in sum, it is nothing more than a lazily made, dim-witted film, painfully unfunny and, if taken as an indication of the drift of independent movies (which, incidentally, I don't think, or at least hope, it is) rather worrying, and certainly sickening. "},{"Title":"The spiciest cook in San Francisco wins stomachs and hearts alike","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There is something inherently humorous about watching an extremely photogenic star like Penelope Cruz get caught up in funny little theatrical moments - like driving a taxi down Lombard Street, flipping her larger co-star on his back and hanging out with a tall, athletically built transvestite.While the scenes of her cooking class will melt hearts and endear her to American audiences, the comedic moments she embodies so well are the real class of this picture. I'm just wondering if some TV station hasn't tried this formula somewhere? I really enjoyed this picture right up to the point where the requisite dark blue TV suits get in the way of more fun and originality. The rest of the movie kind of tiptoed away a little too carefully.Anyway, hats off to Ms. Cruz in an endearing and auspicious first 'American' film role and to Harold Perriman Jr. who has extended the size range and taste of women's wear. I would like to have seen more of their shenanigans and 'girltalk'.I would definitely recommend this film for a multi-couple date night. Think of the delightfully varied and opinionated conversation over expensive cappuccinos afterward. "}{"Title":"Penélope Cruz is a fish","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This, overall, is a cute movie. While Cruz is far and away the star of this movie, the stories strong point is that it is a chick flick with an attitude. The best performance comes from actor Harold Perrineau Jr. who plays a gay side kick to Cruz. Much like the movie, Cruz is unique and at many times sexy. Although this is a romantic comedy, there is drama to be found. Cruz is something between a fish and the hot chili like peppers that are used in her character's cooking. She is simple like a fish, yet she is exotic and original like the peppers she uses to make her simple dishes breath taking. This is not a sexually driven movie, although the dishes she makes in the kitchen are nothing but sex, sex, and more sex. Overall, a nice story that puts a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've even seen. Its boring, meaningless, purposeless and has not any plot. Don't waste your time guys. The actors were not good at all, and all the story was repeating itself.It was not even a good romance story.  "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, entertaining, Penelope Cruz film about love and cooking.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Penelope Cruz as Isabella is the only actor of note in this very entertaining film I rate 7 of 10. From birth in Brazil she has suffered from motion sickness. The only way she can avoid it during movement activities is to be in control. So she drives the bike while the boy sits on the back. She takes the stairs instead of the elevator. The name of the film comes from where she has to be during sex to avoid getting sick. When she goes to S.F. she pays the cab driver extra to let her drive.Isabella also developed a keen cooking ability, more like fabulous and just the scent of her food drives men crazy. She and her husband have a very successful restaurant where she cooks and he entertains. She leaves Brazil and moves in with a friend in S.F. after she finds her husband cheating on her, after all he has to be on top occasionally. She has a voodoo lady cast a spell so she won't love her husband anymore. She gets discovered and has an immediate hit TV cooking show. The young producer tries hard for her hand but he really is too much of a nerd.Her husband doesn't give up. He recognizes his mistake and follows her to S.F. and keeps trying until he makes amends, but she still has to reverse the spell to be able to love her husband again.The film is very well done and both funny and genuinely entertaining. I cannot understand how so any viewers rated it anything under 5 or 6, which many did. My rating of 7 is a very solid one, similar in overall enjoyment to films like Return to Me or Forces of Nature or Hope Floats. I saw it on DVD and the surround sound was used very effectively. The Latin flavor music throughout was also very nice. "},{"Title":"Opinion on somebody else comment","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Someone here have said a comment on how bad its that Isabella go to the Goddess of Sea for help and this person is said that it is stupid idea. Do you know the tradition of Brasil??!! It obvious you do not! Because in Brasil to some of the people this is very important Goddess! Her name is Lemanja and she answer to you and fix your problem when you give to her white and blue flowers, the candles, the perfume, and the champagne. If you do not know about this Brazilian tradition maybe you have not got right to comment! You should know what you say before you say it because you sound like Naive person! I love this movie, even if her accent not sound Brazilian, its beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Great romantic/Comedy film","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As far as the Romance-Comedy Genre goes this movie is one of the most entertaining in it. Story is a bit of the top but it's forgotten by the great acting (Especially the lovely Penélope Cruz) and a magnificent soundtrack, some of the best Latin romance music you will ever here. This movie will definitely leave you with a smile and a hankering to eat some enchiladas while listening to the sound's of Latin music's finest. "},{"Title":"Cute,... but that's all it is","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Watch it... and forget it, that should almost sum up this film. No real plot, no depth in the characters, and certainly no great acting ! so enjoy for what it is, which is a light comedy which doesn't try to be specially intelligent, and forget it.. as I will On the other hand, if you really want to see what a film on food should sound or look like, take a peek at the following Eat drink man woman, le festin de babette, Tampopo, like water with chocolate... if the producer/script writer of this film had only seen one of them, and stolen a few ideas, perhaps woman on top would not be so insipid... which, for a film about peppers, is quite an achievment !!! "},{"Title":"doesn't quite deliver","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Cute entertaining flick but fails on a few of points it oversells the sexiness, with nearly none to be had, the supporting acting was abyssmal, and some of the dialogue was inane.  Overlooking that, the movie had a nice, whimsical feel that helps you suspend reality enough to buy the magic and Penelope Cruz is endearing and engaging enough to capture your heart, though every once in a while, the camera catches her in an angle in which she looks like she's recovering from anorexia. Doesn't quite deserve the really bad reviews it got as it was a fun watch but almost.   "},{"Title":"Too slight to savour","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Harmless fun, but strongly reliant on a leading lady who certainly looks the part, but lacks the va-va-voom of personality her character requires to really convince. Lady Penelope needs to build up her acting muscles before she can shoulder a movie. Enjoyed the music, though. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Actress, Beautiful Music....And that's all!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I fail to understand how good actors and actresses lend themselves to these kind of silly movies! Sure the music is wonderful, in my opinion the best part of the whole movie. I saw it on late night cable, and that's the deserved place. But Penelope....why??? Are parts that hard to get?? Sorry....I love Brazilian Music and I love Penelope! "},{"Title":"Sizzle turns to fizzle","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Woman On Top tells of a Brazilian woman/chef (Cruz) who leaves her husband because he cheats on her because she gets motion sickness and so she conjures a spell from some god of the sea...aw, never mind. Suffice it to say this film, which is supposed to be a romantic fable/story laced with sensuous Brazilian sambas, cuisine, and hocus-pocus is a silly, awkward attempt to pound square pegs through round holes and just doesn't work. Cruz mopes through most of the film while her ex-to-be-husband/hero isn't even likeable. Acting is stiff, the story ambiguous, continuity poor, and the sensuality and romance lost in the struggle to get from beginning to end. Recommended only for channel surfers desperately in need of a little something romantic. "}{"Title":"Embarrassment to Brasileiros","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What a wretched film this was! First of all, I know there are absolutely NO Brasileira actresses in the US or Brasil who could have played this role....the role being so complex and deep. So they get an actress from Spain with no grasp of what an English-speaking Brasileira would sound like. Worse yet they compound that error by surrounding her with real Brasileiro actors with the correct accent...appalling, really. Most of the Brasileiros are presented as ignorant, superstitious, oversexed, etc. The film's one redeeming value is the bossa nova/samba soundtrack.....buy the soundtrack, forget the risible film! "},{"Title":"Falls short of its promise","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Based on the media coverage this movie received during its debut, I was expecting more than was finally delivered. While Penelope Cruz is certainly a feast for the eyes, as are the landscapes in Bahia and San Francisco, the storyline and writing lacks substance. Also, the terrific bossa nova soundtrack is offset by the heavily accented English-speaking stars that had an effect akin to hearing finger nails on a blackboard. The film would have benefited greatly if it had been in Brazilian Portuguese and subtitled.Overall, a disappointment, but mercifully a short one (less than 90 minutes). "},{"Title":"Cruz Comes Out On Top","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  	This is a story about food, motion sickness and love-- but not necessarily in that order.  `Woman On Top,' directed by Fina Torres, stars the alluring Penelope Cruz as Isabella Oliveira, a young woman endowed with both a gift and a curse; her gift (besides being beautiful) is that she is an absolute magician in the kitchen, having learned the culinary secrets of exotic dishes at an early age in her home town of Bahia, Brazil.  Her curse is that she has always been susceptible to motion sickness, a condition which at the most inopportune times has had a significantly debilitating effect on her.  As with her cooking, however, Isabella learned early on how to master the situation.  To overcome it, she learned, she simply has to be the one in control-- in a car, she has to drive; on the dance floor, she has to lead; she takes the stairs instead of the elevator; and even while making love, she has to take charge.  And, as is often the case with one who aggressively works to overcome a difficulty, it's made her strong.  Without even thinking about it, Isabella has learned not only how to transcend her problem, but how to control her own life, as well, which is good-- up to a point.  But as she one day discovers, it can also lead to certain complications; complications that have to do with matters of the heart.  With love.	One day, at a restaurant near the beach in Bahia, Isabella meets a young man, Toninho (Murilo Benicio), who happens to own the restaurant.  When he sees Isabella, it's love at first sight.  He is swept away by her beauty, and when he discovers what she can do in the kitchen! well-- he simply does not rest until she consents to be his wife.  And it's a marriage made in heaven.  Almost.  They love each other passionately, and with Isabella in the kitchen, the restaurant begins to thrive.  But while Toninho is out in front with the customers taking bows, Isabella is hidden away doing the cooking.  Which is fine with her; they have each other, and they are doing what they love.  Still, there is the matter of Isabella having to be the `one on top' all the time, and even though Toninho understands why, it begins to subtly eat away at his ego.  After all, a man must be a man, no matter what-- and when finally, though he loves Isabella deeply, he feels he must give into his `urge' and do something to reaffirm his masculinity, problems begin to arise.  And that's when Isabella discovers how mixed the blessings of her life are, and realizes that she, too, has some reaffirming to do.  So she makes a decision and sets a course that ultimately changes her life, as well as Toninho's, and soon she is many miles from home, settled in San Francisco, where she is about to use her expertise to tantalize the palates of an unsuspecting public.	With more than a touch of spice, Torres serves up a touching, and often amusing love story that is every bit as pleasurable as the many delightful dishes Isabella concocts with the touch of her magic ladle.  It's an engagingly sensuous and romantic film, with implied sensual overtones that makes it a banquet rather than just a one course meal.  Torres, you could say, is quite a chef in her own right.  She tastefully plays up and maintains the romance throughout the film, and her use of that as her main ingredient is what makes her story and her film so appealing.  That and the fact that she has some delicious characters with which to work, beginning with the wonderful Penelope Cruz.  	Cruz is simply marvelous in this role, parlaying her natural beauty and charisma into an endearing, memorable character.  She uses all of her charms to great effect, while establishing a character whose moral tenets are never in question.  Isabella's dignity is never compromised, and the passion she exhibits in all areas of her life have a sense of refinement that makes her accessible and someone you can readily embrace without qualification.  Cruz is quite simply a class act, and the fact that she could create a character of such singular, sensuous virtue is a tribute to her abilities as an actor.	Benicio pulls it off well, also, creating a likable cad in Toninho.  He's a macho guy, but when it comes right down to it, he's not afraid to let you see his weak side, and Benicio shades him perfectly with that sense of humanity that makes him real and someone to whom you can relate.  By showing you the boy that still resides within the man, you can at least understand him somewhat, instead of just wanting to whack him upside the head to make him wake up.  It's a good performance, and he and Cruz definitely have some chemistry together.	The supporting cast includes Harold Perrineau Jr. (Monica), Mark Feuerstein (Cliff), John de Lancie (Alex), Anne Ramsay (TV Director) and Ana Gasteyer (Claudia).  This is a romantic comedy that should appeal to a wide audience, as Torres has successfully navigated the waters of the genre, keeping `Woman On Top' afloat while avoiding any stereotypes or tired cliches.  It's a refreshingly romantic film that steers clear of anything close to being `sappy,' without ever letting you lose track of what it's really all about, which is food, love and motion sickness.  And not necessarily in that order.  I rate this one 9/10.           				  "},{"Title":"A feather-light date flick","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This feather-light romantic comedy has a script that is as skimpy as Penelope Cruz's wardrobe.  The comedy, while mildly amusing, is extremely predictable as is the ending.  The film succeeds at being very sexy without any actual sex, relying on Cruz's provocative looks and the unshaven machismo of Murilo Benicio, who plays her husband.  It drips with schmaltz at every turn to the point where it becomes extremely corny at times.As a showcase for the talents of Penelope Cruz, this film is one-dimensional.  It provides an opportunity for us to see a full measure of her alluring beauty, but the role does little to expose the breadth and depth of her acting ability.  Likewise, Benicio's role is so stereotypical that it offers little by which to judge his acting.  Harold Perrineau, Jr. turns in the best all around acting performance as Monica, Isabella's cross dressing assistant and best friend. This is a film to just sit back and enjoy, like a breezy spring day.  It is charming and fluffy with little to dislike.  I rated it a 7/10.  It makes a good date flick for the young at heart. "},{"Title":"Delightful and delicious","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie cannot help but be compared to Like Water for Chocolate and, although Like Water for Chocolate was by far the better film, being much deeper, more metaphysical and more complex, Woman on Top still had the same  enchanting feeling and the same basic theme  a woman who has a major disappointment with a man turns to her second passion, cooking, and lets out all of her love and creativity in that venue as opposed to the sexual one.By far, the best thing about this film is its star, Penelope Cruz, who seems to me to be a combination of Julia Roberts and, dare I say it? Audrey Hepburn.  She is absolutely stunning on screen and that very attribute is a lot of what the plot is about.  The other actors all did a good job, but it was Ms. Cruz that made this movie as delicious as it was.  I felt that the weak link was the drag queen part,  which was written a little too Whoopi. At any rate, I would recommend that you could see this movie with your old-maid aunt, your little child or your gay neighbor and you will all be as delighted as I was with a fluffy plot, beautiful people and wonderful score.  You'll come out ready to fall in love and humming the bossanova.  "},{"Title":"A FAILED STUPID TO CREATE POETRY","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  WOMAN ON TOP is poetry North American style, meaning it is not poetry at all.  There is no MAGIC it is just the apparently only american dream of becoming MEDIA FAMOUS.  This movie copies (very bad) things from really art movies DONA FLOR AND HER TWO HUSBANDS and a LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE. They used a Brazilian writer but  he has no idea about magic or some Hollywood executive converted the story in something any person concerned only in the usual AMERICAN MATERIALISM AND LACK OF REAL THOUGHTS could understand.  What is even worse, for a movie that demands a certain erotism (like both movies already mentioned), it has no steam at all.  Even the ABSURD MORAL that because she is married, she cannot go to bed with anybody else (even when her husband betrayed her). It is unbelievable that PENELOPE CRUZ accepted such a mess.  This movie in Europe will only cause laughs and probably destroy her career.  If somebody really like this movie it will probably be a kindergarten kid or a REDNECK adult with beer in his brain. "},{"Title":"Terribly disappointing","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was going to be one of those shallow but sweet fluff pieces. Instead, it was incoherent and badly acted. What a waste!It makes me wonder what really happened to bring this  unredeemable ramble to the screen. "},{"Title":"Original writing it is not a issue here","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I do not intend to offend the fans of Spanish beauty's Penelope Cruz but the outcome of this so called romantic comedy turned out to be just a mix of a lot of things seen so many times in other movies.Woman on top really lacks of original writing. It seems that the only thing that matters here is to force introducing Penelope's undeniable beauty to the audience so bad that it gets to the point when the hole story gets so silly and repeated. "},{"Title":"I actually watched this???","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I had won sneak preview tickets to watch the movie. I had not heard of this movie, just what little I saw from the contest. I thought it would be interesting to see something different, broadening my horizons... I checked out the comments on IMDB before I went and noticed one long flame. It looked like an independent flick so I would cut it some slack.When we showed up to the movie, we didn't think that many people would be there. It was packed! We were stuck in the second to the front row. This helped the experience out I must say.The movie itself SUCKED! The acting was bad, the plot was stupid, and the little amount of sfx that was in it was just ridiculous. I will never be able to get that time back.... This movie I probably would have never seen even if it was to be on tv.Save your money and watch something else! "},{"Title":"Probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen!","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw some of the reviews and I'm amazed! Good things The only good things about this movie are the Brazilian music and the fact that it's really short (although it will seem like an eternity!) Plot/characters The idea is not bad - Isabella is a great chef in her husband's restaurant in a little city of Brazil. He cheats on her, so Isabella decides to go to San Francisco and start her own cooking career. Usually, movies that involve food have great success, but this one is not centered on food... It's on the aroma and the effects of the ingredients. The story seems nice, but it's an illusion. It's developed poorly, the acting is awful (yes,Penelope Cruz included) and even the ending is disappointing. The most complex and kind of funny character is Monica, the heroine's transvestite best friend. (not joking)It's a real waste of time, I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone! "}{"Title":"Worst I have ever seen!","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie is by far one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It is a joke and I can not believe an actress like Penelope Cruz who has been in a movie like Blow could ever say yes to such a movie. I should add that I do not know which one was made first. The whole movie is about how beautiful Cruz is. The only reason I am still writing is because there is a minimum amount of lines because there really is not anything else you could say about this movie. I can not believe that the average rating is as high as 5.3. So for everyone who had planned to watch this movie but has changed their mind by now I might as well say that in the end she goes back to the man who cheated on her. What kind of ending is that!! "},{"Title":"The Ending is HORRIBLE","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I wanted to spend some time summing up this movie but I am having a hard time doing it briefly. There are so many different plots and issues throughout this film that its hard to keep everything straight. Its not a difficult movie to watch - just a difficult movie to explain. I decided I will just hilight what I liked about the show and what I didn't like about the show.LIKESI liked the main character (Isabella) a lot - she isn't one of those annoying beautiful people who knows she is beautiful.I liked Isabella's best friend (Monica) more than Isabella - she really made the show and was pretty funny.I liked the idea of the movie and its elements. It is one of those scorned lover goes off and finds a new life for herself movies.DISLIKESThe husband is absolutely annoying. What's with all the songs he sings throughout the movie?? Plus he walks around like oh woe is me - why did she leave me? which is totally annoying too.The producer is really dorky. He is cute but of all the men in San Francisco, why him?? And what happened to him at the end?? Did he go for Monica?? I am so confused.The ENDING SUCKED! I am sorry but no strong woman in the world should go back to her cheating husband!! I was so disappointed by the ending. I was sure she shouldn't be with the dorky producer guy but I certainly didn't want her back with her husband. Ya he was good looking and what he did for her at the end with the new restaurant was cool but no woman should ever take back a cheating husband!! "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Such a bad, terrible and boring movie! Even if I try, I cannot find any positive point in this movie. I cannot understand that it has such a high voting! Penélope Cruz isn't an actress, really not! The story is stupid and unrealistic. Why they did that to us??????? WHY?!?!?!?!?!?! ********************************************************How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?How can I fill 10 lines about that crap? How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?How can I fill 10 lines about that crap?********************************** I really regret that I spent money for that! "},{"Title":"Spicy Cruz - Hot tomata!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  WOMAN ON TOP (2000) **1/2 Penelope Cruz, Murilo Benicio, Harold Perrineau, Jr., Mark Feurerstein, Ana Gasteyer.  (Dir Fina Torres)Penelope Cruz is on the cusp of major movie stardom with several films in the can coming out this year and in her latest she is this close to being a household name.Cruz, the gorgeous Spanish actress best known as a repertoire player in Pedro Almodovar's outrageously romantic films, in her first starring American role, plays Isabella Oliveira, the Brazilian, sexy, beleagured wife of hunky restaurateur Toniho (Benicio), and works in their caliente cocina (or hot kitchen) as a chef to be reckoned with, preparing with earnestness and blood, sweat and tears while he shamelessly flirts with the female clientele.Isabella also sustains a unique, seemingly Hollywoodized psychosomatic condition that causes motion sickness to the nth degree whenever she is not in control - driving a car or as the title refers to, being on top sexually - which leads to her frustrated husband into the arms of another woman she catches him sleeping with.  When he explains to her that as a man he HAS to be on top sometimes only fuels her sadness to leave him and jets off to the United States, specifically San Fransisco, where she first becomes a culinary instructor and reunites with her transvestite recently paroled best friend Monica Jones (Perrineau, best known as the paralyzed Greek chorus in HBO's `Oz' prison series), who offers her his/her undivided attention.Her sensuous cooking soon takes over the community and in one of the film's infinitely fablistic ways has Isabella walking along the street with a phalanx of enamored army of men a la the Pied Piper of Hamelin.  One of the bewitched, beguiled and bewildered is eager beaver tv producer Cliff Lloyd (Feurestein, late of tv sitcom `Conrad Bloom' and semi-regular on `Once and Again') and on the spot offers the fair Isabella a gig as a tv cooking personality.Immediately he is smitten and also finagles his ratings crazed station manager to accept the saucy chef.  Overnight Isabella becomes a sensation sending the city in a tailspin of hooked viewers including a local bar of tough looking mugs including her Toniho, who has treked to San Fran searching desperately for his beloved regretting big time for cheating on her.Unbeknownst to Toniho, Isabella has sought council in a black magic offering to a sea god to fall out of love with him.  Clearly he has his work out for him and the remainder of the film has him reuniting with a reluctant Isabella (who winds up working with him after he pulls an on-air stunt of serenading her with his traveling minstrels; only in the movies!)  "},{"Title":"Why oh why do they do this?","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  They give us a story about how evil it is to sell out to Hollywood -- to take the life out something wonderful -- and then do it! I just last night saw a much better film (Almost Famous) which made the same point and then transgressed in the same way. Do they think we won't notice?About ten years ago, Demi Moore -- then being pushed as sexy -- tried a similar film The Butcher's Wife. Also rancid.I can just hear the pitch Latin magical realism meets food and sex; we'll go lush and have a date-movie ending as the girl faces her real values. Lots of gay humor...can't miss. We don't need to waste money on A-list writers and directors since we've got Penelope.I hear a third of this movie was cut so that they could squeak it past the test audiences. Too bad. As Jennifer Lopez shows, a pretty nonactor Latin can be pretty much fun in film (Out of Sight). Bossa Nova (actually this music is more the samba from the south of Brazil) has real appeal (Try Tango for a Latin music success). There's lots of possibilities in food (try Eat, Drink, Man Woman) in sex and and in magic. How could they miss? Poor writing, directing and acting. "}]