[{"Title":"Intelligent story line. Great acting.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't rent this film if you are the kind of movie watcher/goer who doesn't like to have their brain engaged. (i.e. you only want car chases, explosions, bouncing boobies and bathroom humor.) You will be very disappointed.I adored this movie and will purchase it as soon as I can get my hands on a copy. Why do I adore it? A few reasons.First, it is not your run-of-the-mill story. The time travel concept is handled in a very interesting way. The back story, the photograph, the father's phone number -- all keep you wondering as they do Ruby (Tomei's character). Too, I appreciated the way the viewer is never quite sure (until the end -- and I won't give it away) if Sam (D'Onofrio's character) is really telling the truth or really is mentally/physically ill. I had a roommate for seven years who was bi-polar and borderline psychotic. It was scary how true this movie was in terms of what happens to the people who are dealing with (at least supposedly) mentally ill individuals.  The writing and Tomei's acting portrayed the enabling, co-dependant thing perfectly and how these types of relationship can spiral into dangerous places.Secondly, I liked the fact that the whole movie (except for a few brief shots at the beach and the ending) was filmed with a hand held camera. It gave it an almost documentary-like feel. I think the intimacy of the hand held kept the viewer's focus on the characters, rather like sitting in the room and looking back and forth between them. It also underscored their emotions, thereby grounding us in their reality. It just sucks you in. Because of this I never got a sense that this movie was trying to be a SciFi flick, and I don't think it was intended to be. The jerkiness of the hand held also was a reminder, subtle or not, of the shakey ground these characters were treading both separately and together.Third and last. D'Onofrio's performance. Outstanding. Man, he continually blows me away! His Sam had to be completely gentle and innocent on one hand, but very threatening and creepy on the other. Sam was so engaging and sweet at first but towards the middle of the film, while retaining those qualities, I was really beginning to wonder if he was a physical threat to Ruby. A fine edge to walk as an actor. And all the future and time theory babble was handled with apparent ease. I believed him. D'Onofrio has the ability to just melt into a character's skin, to completely transform himself. He gives it all.(On that note, there have been many in these reviews who say he usually plays evil characters and are surprised by this performance. He has done a few bad guys, but it is his other roles I love best. If you enjoy his work PLEASE check out - if you have not done so already - The Whole Wide World, Household Saints, Steal This Movie, and Good Luck. All good movies made GREAT by his performances. In my opinion he's one of the best out there and very under-rated.)The only thing I didn't like in the film was the score. It just didn't work for me.I felt it was intrusive and much too jarring. It seems like a misguided afterthought. For me, if I notice the score over the performances or it interrupts my ability to follow the story, it isn't doing it's job well. "},{"Title":"Interesting and Refreshingly New","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I tend to like character-driven movies and am quickly put off by movies that follow one of the familiar Hollywood stories.  This movie successfully ventures into interesting and largely untested ground.The story is about a man (Vincent D'Onofrio) who becomes romantically involved with a woman (Marisa Tomei) who has a history of co-dependence and failed relationships.  He claims that he is from the future. The plot takes us on the journey of their relationship and her questioning of the truth to his claims vs. whether he is another in a string of loser guys that she seems to cling to.The plot synopsis sounded a little odd, but it was my hope that these two talented actors could pull it off.  Both Tomei and D'Onofrio turn in excellent performances.  They present complex, interesting and flawed characters who engage our interest.  The writing is very good and enjoyable.My only complaint is the the story sags a little about 2/3 of the way through.  A little tighter editing of about 10 minutes of essentially redundant scenes would have made the movie a more engaging.I rate it a 8/10 and encourage those who like well-written, character-driven movies to check this one out. "},{"Title":"It's a happy accident that I found this one )","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei are fantastic as this couple that are in love.  Things are going great until Ruby (tomei) discovers that Sam (D'Onofrio) claims to be from the future.  GREAT, just what she needs.  It seems that she has tended to go for the loser type guys, and then tried fix them all of her adult life.  She is in therapy for this.  She is struggling to NOT fall for a guy with issues yet Sam is the best thing that's ever happened to her.  I don't know if this can really be classified as strictly comedy. Yes, there are lots of funny things that happen, and funny dialog, but the drama is more intriguing.  MUCH better than the big box office romantic comedies that are out there. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!!!!!  A third brilliant Anderson! (NO SPOILERS, just a plug!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WOW!!I had heard good things about this film, had liked Session 9 a lot, and will watch anything with d'Onofrio.  Even so, this film completely blew me away. It's science-fiction for adults, who prefer ideas and emotions to explosions and goofy makeup.  It's romantic dramedy at its best, with two memorable characters portrayed by highly skilled and REAL actors.   In fact both Tomei and d'Onofrio are close to perfect in these roles.It's a premise that continues to develop over the entire span of the film, never becoming predictable or plot-driven.It offers striking supporting performances from Holland Taylor and Jose Zuniga, and a flat-out GREAT scene with Tovah Feldshuh that's driven by subtle and moving screenwriting.It offers memorable and witty cameos from Mike McGlone and Anthony (just call me Michael) Hall.  And you gotta love the conceit of a guy who fantasizes about being A.M. Hall during sex!From the opening shot to the end, it offers countless felicities of mise-en-scene, camera movement, framing, and editing, courtesy of Brad Anderson.And there's a final shot that manages to be both very subtle and emotionally complex, while still seeming completely inevitable.I even liked the loose ends that were never wrapped up!SEE THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"An unexpected delight","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only reason I selected this movie as a rental was because Vincent D'onofrio was on the cover. I am a committed VDO fan and was not disappointed with this selection. This romantic comedy plays out beautifully on the screen and the element of time travel is handled with a refreshing spin of originality.Both Tomei and D'onofrio provide captivating performances the range of emotions they both convey make their chemistry on screen very pleasant to watch and their characters very believable.I also found the score to be an interesting touch that adds a light air of wonderment and mystery in just the right spots. My favorite spots were the flute solo in the beginning after Sam (D'onofrio) meets Ruby (Tomei) outside her apartment, it adds a feeling of innocence to a situation that ordinarily would not be described as such. The second is at the end when they meet at the intersection of Chrystie and Delancy after the much anticipated moment passes.Please rent this movie and discover your own reasons for falling in love with it. You will soon find yourselves committed to adding it as a permanent addition to you DVD library!! "},{"Title":"Watch this movie again...and again..and again...","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm always intrigued by small titles, because sometimes they're better than the big moneymakers. This one failed to disappoint, especially because of the superb acting and camera shots. Vincent D'Onofrio(still the bug from Men in Black in my mind) did a wonderful job of stepping out of that role and into one that's believable, despite Sam's odd story. The first time I watched this, I was intrigued by the possibility that Sam may be telling the truth. Fortunately, K-Pax hadn't managed to ruin that scenario completely for me. The ending was a complete surprise and there were some nice twists.I picked this up again to see if it was still as intriguing and to my surprise, it was. Even knowing Sam's true identity takes none of the emotion out of the film. I saw that this movie is not just the audience deciding whether or not to believe Sam, but Ruby deciding as well. It's a terrific inner conflict for her, as she struggles in the face of love and honesty after a string of horrible men. Haven't we all met someone that we loved and wanted to trust, but we didn't know we could? The time travel aspect makes this movie impossible but the characters are so real and deep, then the movie feels real and you find yourself thinking if only for a moment that it is perfectly possible. That's why I say that even if you know the ending, watch this movie for the quality that it is.  "},{"Title":"Surprising good","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A great, low budget indy that was very enjoyable and well made! Great storyline which can keep you involved to the very end, and you should stick around. The movie should have had better marketing when it was released so that it could have reached a larger audience.D'nofrio plays a great character that catches you and takes you on a ride. Marissa Tomei also shines. She gives another great performance as a concerned and confused lover, burned in the past and now wondering what comes next. You can see that they had a lot of fun working on the films. Check out the cameos, they're a hoot. Especially the scene in the art show. Rent or catch on IFC and you will not be disappointed "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We happened across Happy Accidents by happy accident there was nothing worth watching on any other channel and the description of the movie on IFC was enough for us to give it a go.We made the right choice.This is a sweet little romantic comedy. I had never heard of it before through the mass media; perhaps that's because nothing gets blown up in the movie, no guns are drawn, and only a few punches are thrown. Instead, Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio mostly interact with each other (as aided and abetted by Tomei's therapist and girl-friends). (Nowadays, does that make it a chick-flick?)One cautionary note If you've seen K-Pax, you may feel Happy Accidents is a bit derivative, almost like a trip back into the past, but hang in there. If you're a fan of either Tomei or D'Onofrio (probably most famous for his role as the bug from Men in Black), or even if you're just looking for a pleasant way to pass an hour and fifty minutes, catch this the next time it comes around on cable/satellite -- you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A chick flick I actually liked.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ruby Weaver, a person who has made bad choices in the boyfriend department, thinks she's finally found a decent life partner in Sam.  That is, until he claims he's a time traveler from the future.  She plays along at first, but Sam's stories become increasingly weird, and Ruby questions his mental health.This was such a cute little movie, I decided to by the DVD.  The two lead characters were actually entertaining, unlike the cardboard cutouts in most romantic comedies i've seen in the last few years.  Brad Anderson is a talented guy, and i'd like to see what else he's directed now. "},{"Title":"The man from the future","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What happens when a man from the year 2470 decides to travel back to the past? He lands in the Village, in Manhattan! What a natural setting for a movie that wants us to believe there is a chance for romance between an evolved man who has lived in the future, and a single young woman struggling to make a go of a career and to find the love of her life!Brad Anderson, a director we have admired before, is at the helm of this sunny comedy that connects two dissimilar people as they find one another and fall in love. Ruby a teacher from Manhattan one day meets Sam in a park, casually. Sam is taken with her and goes looking for her to return the book she left behind. Sam, who acts strangely, reveals he has traveled backward in time, something that Ruby can't digest too quickly, but his charm and good humor wins her over in a romance that could only happen to people like them.In spite of their differences, and the many questions in Ruby's mind, the relationship between these seemingly different characters, are never quite solved, but it's easy to see why she is attracted to a man that clearly loves her. In fact, Sam makes a dire prediction about Ruby that fortunately never comes true. In the end, one realizes these lovers are made to be together in spite of the times they have seen.Ruby is played by Marisa Tomei with the proper skepticism. The Sam of Vincent D'Onofrio is also right because he gives the character a whimsical quality that wins Ruby's love. The two actors have the right chemistry on the screen to sustain the comedy and our interest in it. Holland Taylor is delightful as Ruby's therapist. Tovah Feldshuh is seen as Ruby's mother, in a winning performance and Nadia Najani plays Gretchen, the best friend anyone can ask for.Happy Accidents shows Brad Anderson at his best with his inspired take on love at the end of the millennium. "}{"Title":"Now my favorite romantic-comedy.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife has had me watch almost every romantic comedy out there. Some of them are good, most are tolerable and a number of them are just bad. I tend to favor the comedy side more than the romance, but I do like a good romance, too. This movie had a lot of both.Happy Accidents isn't a typical Hollywood-Meg Ryan-style romantic-comedy. It's quirky and unique. The acting is very good. Dialogue is fresh. Overall, it is very original. A fun watch where you never look to see how much time is left. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Clever plot, well acted, nicely edited. Excellent movie.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure what I was doing when this movie came out, but I don't know how I missed it. It's likely go down as a cult movie like Somewhere in Time, because it's unusual enough to turn some moviegoers off, if all they do is read a plot summary. But it's great enough to want to buy the DVD and keep it in your collection forever. I just stumbled upon it on the Blockbuster rack.It seems implausable at first. How could a romantic comedy be based on a whacko guy who thinks he's a time traveler from the year 2470? But surprisingly Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio not only manage to pull it off, they make it credible and memorable. No small credit should go to the movie editors and director who made it all work with just the right amount of revelation at the right time, so when the movie ends it all fits together. Back in the old days they called that coming to a dramatic climax. Ya gotta see this one beginning to end.Maybe it was the R rating only for langauge that turned some folks off to this flick when it first came out. Truth is a little editing could have made it a PG-13 easily and could have earned Marisa another Oscar. D'Onofrio was just so darned likeable in this flick, you'd want to nominate him for an Oscar too.I guess this is what happens when great little movies get lousy advertising and promotion when they come out. Too bad. Everyone should see this one.  "},{"Title":"One of the better films I have ever seen","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent film indeed that has been somewhat underrated by many people who I know that have seen it. It is a strong character-driven story about a man named Sam Deed who traveled back in time from the year 2470 to avoid prosecution for his sister's accidental death, to resolve the issues of his life and to find himself. In our contemporary society, he meets and falls in love with Ruby Weaver, a woman who has had much bad luck with men. Sam seems to be a good guy but as this site's summary says someone not of this world. She thinks he's delusional (but I cannot blame her, as anyone would if someone claimed to be from the future--- I mean as time travel is not possible, as of yet anyway!). However, Ruby goes on to appreciate Sam for himself and wants to stay with him, making for a definite good story line for a great film.One of the greatest things of this film, at least in my opinion is that it is a contrast to many futuristic-style stories in that it has a somewhat happy tone. I will not risk spoiling the film here for those who haven't seen it by telling the major plot details or the ending, but it is a wonderful contrast to most stories involving the world of the future. Everyone knows the type, the futuristic sci-fi cinemas talking about in sometimes graphic detail of evil corporations and totalitarian governments and world dictatorships; the kind of films that seem to be designed to drain the hope from people. This film is a wonderful story of adventure, romance and hope and grand possibilities. The kind of film which can uplift one's spirits rather than drain them with evil forecasts for a future of world dictatorships and universal totalitarianism. Therefore, I have to give this film a 10! "},{"Title":"Happy Accidents a great love story","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie it was a great powerful indie flick. When you first start watching it you think something then toward the end you are stunned it is so easy to watch and Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei have great chemistry and light up every screen you watch it on. I tell everyone I know you rent it and watch it because I love it and it will be one of my best all time favorite movies. Even though there is cussing and inappropriate things it is such a great movie coming from a Vincent D'Onofrio Fan. If you like any actors that play in this film you will love it. It is a love story no matter what anyone says and even though the plot can be alittle strange it's very interesting. You will fall in love with it. Especially when Sam says I feel like my whole life has been a journey into your arms. That is a powerful quote and i give props to who wrote that. Rhiannon "},{"Title":"It could've ended either way","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Vincent D'Onofrio is such a unique actor that he almost -has- to play an alien or time traveler to explain his eccentricities. This role is made for him. I happened upon the movie, and didn't know what it was about at first, so some of his awkwardness seemed like bad acting decisions. Not at all. In the end, my not knowing the plot allowed him to slowly reveal -why- he's so darn weird. Why a woman would accept this behavior is another matter, and I'm not sure if this is explained to my satisfaction, but the performances by D'Onofrio and Tomei resonate so well as to melt my cynicism. These are two real people, and they meet the final test I was perfectly willing to accept the main character as crazy, time traveling, or whatever else he turned out to be, and to let the chips fall where they may accordingly. All is in place to let this story go either way,(up to the last revealing scene with the therapist), and the acting itself has no cheap giveaways. Even the 'death' scene, which would have been unlikely if no time traveling had actually occurred, was at least -remotely- possible on mundane level due to the actions of D'Onofrio in traffic and with the cabbie. A great love story that, even with a happy ending, has me wondering 'What if ?'. '. "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Last night, a friend pick up this DVD at our locale rental place. I had never heard of it before (which is saying something because I'm a MAJOR movie junkie).  So that was kinda odd, and then I didn't read the dvd cover. Therefore I went into this viewing with NO cluttering preconceived notions of who, what, where, why and how of this movie. Which in the end proved to be the perfect mindset to see it -- not knowing is part of the fun.Often films are soooo formulaic that I can see where a film is ultimately going.  Not the case here; the twists and turns kept me enthralled, exhilarated and delighted!!!I LOVED IT, funny and smart, intelligent character/plot development and great acting.  This film has a wonderful 'snap' to it.  Kudos to the actors (Holland Taylor is perfect), to it's storytelling and to the director.For me Happy Accidents was just that, a happy accident.  I'd never heard of it, but I'm very happy I have now.  Do yourself a favor and see this film for yourself.   "},{"Title":"Refreshingly fine romantic, time-traveling movie.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The film gets its title from a line mid-way when D'Onofrio's character tells Tomei's it was a happy accident that I spotted you in the park that day. However, when we piece everything together, maybe it wasn't an accident at all, maybe he knew exactly where she would be that day. You see, he claims to be from the year 2470, Iowa on the Atlantic coast, where they have learned the art of back traveling.some SPOILERS -- Like K-Pax the viewer has to decide whether the main character actually was what he claimed to be, or just crazy. As the events unfold most of us decide that he really is a back traveler, for several reasons. First, he appears to know that she will die on a certain day, at a certain intersection in NYC, run over by a taxi driver. Second, he meets up with someone he claims he recognizes from 2469, who must have back traveled a year earlier. And third, it appears near the end of the film that Tomei's shrink is also a back traveler. more SPOILERS - A side-effect of back traveling almost 500 years is that you have some residual oscillations which occasionally make things continue go backwards for short periods. The film actually begins with people and traffic in the street moving in reverse, then forward, as he watches from a window. Later, he gets nauseated during a dinner with her parents when he is watching food come out of the mother's mouth, re-assemble itself on the fork, then move onto her plate, not yet eaten. This ultimately works to his advantage when, in spite of his warnings, she leaves the apartment and is about to cross the street at the fatal intersection. He gets there and, as the speeding car is about 6 inches from mowing her down, he is able to back travel for a few seconds, just long enough to clear the path and save her.D'Onofrio and Tomei are two of my very favorite actors and both are fine in this film. The story is captivating and very believable, within the context of a science fiction film. One of the better ones I have seen lately, a good break from the great mediocrity of films put out in recent years. Highly recommended to anyone who likes a good story.Edit, May 2010 Just watched it again with Natalie and Andy, after alligator for dinner, and the movie is just as enjoyable. Funny, too.Edit, February 2015 Just watched it again with my wife, on the eve of our 23rd wedding anniversary. It still has the charm of watching it for the first time. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. LOVED IT!!! Unfortunately, it was released here in Philadelphia the week of the terrorist attacks and was lost in the madness. Went to see it with a friend I'd lost contact with and who usually likes edgier fare and he loved it as well. Great story, funny, engagingly paced, at times almost lyrical, and even a bit dark and suspenseful towards the end. A wonderful,funny and romantic date movie. Written and directed by a MAN. A man named BRAD!Due of on video sometime in December 2002. Look for it.*****out of*****!!! "},{"Title":"A not so new plot, taken to its best, with Marisa Tomei","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We don't get to see enough films of this quality. I could certainly include it among the top 5 films I saw last year. The plot is simple, and very much used in the past. But the way that it is carried out in the film is superb. A guy comes from the future in search of the woman he loves. Despite the risk of becoming sentimental the film is smart, coherent at all times, without giving away to much information or going sci-fi in any way. The characters are great as well as the performances from Tomei and D'Onofrio. Marisa Tomei looks like any girl you could meet, but she's remarkable appealing to look at even when she cries. Although I'm not sure if it's supposed to be a comedy, it makes you laugh several times. I'll strongly films were more like this one. "},{"Title":"A quirky, compelling love story I would see over and over.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie hits on more levels than one.  Often emotional, often funny, this movie is first and foremost a great and unique love story.  What is underneath that love story, as complex, smart and riveting as it is, is a beautiful secondary layer that only enhances the interest you have invested. Filled with top-notch performances(Tomei is astounding!)this story commands your attention and just when you think you might slip away for chips, it drops a bomb on you. One of the best things I have seen in years.  "}{"Title":"On the edge of my seat","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Started off pretty slowly, started getting into it when I found myself getting upset at the characters (!) and by the end of the film I was on the edge of my seat, literally, gripping tight with two hands. A totally great ride! Marisa and Vincent were fantastic-- suddenly 2 of my favorite actors. Thanks!  "},{"Title":"A Romantic Comedy That Throws You a Curve Ball","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Happy Accidents begins like a typical chick flick. Allow me to sum up the first few minutes of the film. Women talk about their relationships and toss photos of their awful ex-boyfriend's into a box marked the Ex-files. Tomei throws a hissy fit every few minutes and acts like she severely needs Prozac. She's in therapy for her co-dependency, quotes what her therapist tells her to do, and recites affirmations to a mirror.I tried watching it with my boyfriend and we turned it off after 10 minutes because neither of us wanted to see an overly dramatic, nutcase whine for 90 minutes. I decided to try watching it on my own. I adored Next Stop Wonderland, so I wanted to see more from the same director/writer. Happy Accidents isn't as polished as Next Stop Wonderland and I was very surprised to find out it was made after Next Stop Wonderland.After the first 10 minutes the film gets very strange. It is definitely not a typical romantic comedy. All of sudden turns into a sci-fi movie about 15 minutes into the film. I knew nothing about the plot before watching it and I think that really helped my enjoyment. I can usually predict where a film is going, but not this one.The pace is a bit frenzied. Instead of exploring dating like in Next Step Wonderland, Happy Accidents focuses on one relationship. The film is actually quite funny. I convinced my boyfriend to give it a second try and he really liked it after the character Sam Deed enters the picture. Vincent D'Onofrio is perfect in the role and the script is very creative.The over-acting in the film is a bit over-the-top for my taste and there are some weak points in the plot, but Happy Accidents is really worth watching. Just know that it gets much better after the first 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"This is my happy accident","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never even heard of this movie until I saw the DVD sitting on the shelf at the video store. Read the plot on the back and decided to give it a shot. I wasn't disappointed.I gotta say, I was surprised that Vincent D'Onofrio could play nice vulnerable guys, instead of the slightly-evil guys that he usually plays like in the original Men In Black, Impostor, or The Cell. I gotta say my respect for him as an actor has never been higher, especially after I saw him playing in the TV series, Law & Order Criminal Intent.Marisa Tomei played the neurotic ... well, like a neurotic ... she was wonderful! She does her mood swings just like the best neurotic girlfriends. And the chemistry between Tomei and D'Onofrio just sizzled in some places. Without spoiling too much, look at Tomei's reactions as D'Onofrio attempts to explain time travel to her, by demonstrating on her legs.  "},{"Title":"Romcom straight up with a twist","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Happy Accidents is all about Tomei and D'Onofrio so if you don't like either of them you can stop right here. The film is a romantic comedy which deals more with the struggle of making a relationship work than it does the sap and goo. And, there is a struggle because the male side of the equation is convinced he's from the year 2439 and has back-traveled through time to be with his NYC dwelling neurotic damsel. At issue Is D'Onofrio's character a total wack-o or a real time traveler?  Not your usual romcom fare, Happy Accidents mixes the opposing forces of reality and the metaphysical and comes up with a surprisingly believable story buttressed by two very solid leads performances. Solid three star indie entertainment for romantic comedy junkies. (B) "},{"Title":"Very unsatisfying and rather pretentious","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" *Contains spoilers* This is a most trying movie. The idea seemed good going on the DVD cover, but the reality is tedious and at time irritating.It could have been OK if only the scriptwriter hadn't had verbal diarrhoea and if the female lead hadn't acted the part far too often in a fit of hysteria. We have to endure groups having arty conversations that have very little to do with the plot - at times nothing at all that I could see, and worse, are excruciatingly boring.The heroine is irritatingly dim. She's had a history of loser lovers and when you watch her you aren't going to be very surprised about that. When her futuristic lover turns up, she's unable to listen to him trying to explain his situation because she's just too thick to understand anything much of what he's talking about. She doesn't have to believe him, but she could at least have some grasp of science and time so that the guy could feel he's talking to a woman with a brain. In other words, these two characters are totally unsuited - unless the futuristic visitor really wants just a bimbo? It's somehow not surprising that she has to keep visiting a shrink though she doesn't seem to improve from the visits.The most worrying thing is why this futuristic guy bothered to come back to find Ruby, but I guess it must be that man thing we women hear about that men fall for a girl's looks, not her intellect. This girl doesn't have much intellect. I have to say this may be due to the frenetic way the part is played. Perhaps the actress could have interpreted the script with something more measured than that style which Americans call zany. Perhaps it was all meant to be hilariously funny but I love funny stories and I didn't find much in this movie that's really funny.The hero tries, he really does. He acts the part pretty well. You can feel for him. It would have been good to hear more about his future time but we're told so little it's infuriating.There are a few interesting touches in what's mostly pretty long-drawn-out and disappointing. I particularly liked it whenever we were introduced to other time travellers, particularly the shrink - yes, that was a surprise to me, very clever. But those intro's were so rare and so brief. Once I knew there were others around, I was waiting for them and a few more would have helped liven up the movie.The solution to saving the hero from his problem re how to stay in now is one of those tedious ideas that love will do the trick. It was so, so cheesy. For all we know, it may really be the solution to everything, but I hope not the way it's put over in this movie. This is a movie based on a quite clever sf idea but the s has nearly all gone missing and it's very short on any interesting f.Vaguely watchable if you are desperate for something to see and take a liking to the casting.The issue of what happens if you change history by going back in time is always intriguing. A pity it wasn't treated more seriously in this tale, but I think this movie isn't aimed at sf fans. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Picked it up on a whim and was really glad I did. Am always a bit wary about movies who have that hand-held independent feel to them, so was bracing myself for something grainy, shaky, aggravating and surreal, with long-winded and disjointed diatribes, but it was far from that. Rather it was tight, smart, captivating and likable, with a fresh and elegant twist of romance, sci-fi and drama. A thinker's love story, if you will, and SUCH nice change from all the painfully dull, perfectly-coif-ed Jennifer Aniston-esque piles of cardboard crap. It even held my boyfriend spellbound for 2 hours, which was amazing, since he usually needs deNiro or Jason Statham to do that job. Of course you can rarely - if ever? - go wrong with d'Onofrio or Tomei, nor Holland Taylor or Nadja Dajani, and seeing them cast together was a huge draw. Great flick! "},{"Title":"Great film with a great payoff","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Happy Accidents follows the story of Sam Deed (Vincent D'Onofrio) as he stumbles into Ruby Weaver's (Marisa Tomei) life. Sam is a little odd, but nice, and kind, and we learn early on that Ruby has terrible choice in men. When Sam begins to treat her well, she starts falling for him, even as her friends alternately chide and tease her about it.Then Sam drops the bombshell &#150; he's really a time traveler from the year 2470, and he's escaping a hopeless future to live out his life here, in a more settled and peaceful time. Ruby thinks he's nuts, but there's just enough credibility to his story that you can almost believe Sam (and some of the details are hilarious and very well thought out). When Ruby's therapist explains that most of Sam's 'evidence' can in fact be explained away by a rare mental disorder, Ruby doesn't know what to believe.Most of the film lies in the performances. D'Onofrio is excellent here, really sharp, rendering Sam in warm, if confused, tones. It's easy to like him and you want to believe him all the way down the line, even as Ruby sinks deeper into doubt. More importantly, you want to believe *in* him, and there is the movie's triumph; despite being handed a perfectly rational explanation for Sam's behavior, you want him to be from the future. Tomei matches D'Onofrio's performance; Ruby is both needy and skeptical, flawed herself, and she has to decide not only whether Sam is ill or not but whether, since he loves her so well, it really matters. Tomei sketches the vulnerability of the character perfectly.I don't want to spoil how it ends &#150; indeed, I feel like I've spoiled too much already &#150; but the ending is the strongest, best part of the film; so many times we are led around a mystery, and when it is revealed, we're almost always disappointed. Not so here; all the build up pays off wonderfully, and the whole film comes together in a perfect instant. It may have indeed been a happy accident I found this picture, but you should make a point to seek it out; it's worth a viewing, definitely. "},{"Title":"Good, Interesting Movie","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was surfing through TV channels when I ran across the start of this movie, and it was the Cable Company synopsis of the man from 2477 that kept me watching initially.However, as the plot moved forward, I began to really enjoy Marisa's dilemma, is this guy for real, is this guy crazy and what does she do about it.I really enjoyed the little twist at the end of the movie ! I have no doubt that many people who do not take the time to watch this movie with an open mind, may well think that it is just another kind of romantic problem kind of movie - and it is in part exactly that. But the way in which the man from 2477 is continually having to explain himself, coupled with Marisa's attempts to determine whether or not the guy is for real, or just crazy, give the movie a humorous yet interesting sub-text.I also found it interesting to see the bug man from Men in Black 1 in a more normal context ! "},{"Title":"Happen Stance Movie","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was searching for something to watch on TV the other day when I happen to come across the movie called Happy Accidents. The name through me off as my mind started racing as I felt this flick would surely feel the wrath of my remote. When the opening appeared, I was suddenly immersed in its detail. I felt this movie captured your attention and your Heart. The characters were witty and spontaneously funny. I felt the need to be astounded by the quirkiness of this movie and its ability to mesmerize my senses. One can not judge a movie by its title alone. The direction of the characters is one that you can surely relate too. If your into capturing your girls attention, this is a must see.... "},{"Title":"Far-Fetched Premise Combines With Charming Idiosyncrasies in Original Love Story","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I actually think this 2001 low-budget, indie film has a quirky charm that's hard to resist, and credit goes to director/writer/editor Brad Andersen's singular film-making style. It's ostensibly a contemporary love story between two misfits, but he laces the plot with science fiction elements that seem contrived at first until they start to affect the characters tangibly. The irony is that these far-fetched plot developments are what make the movie resonate emotionally. The two people at the center are Ruby Weaver, a single woman with an unfortunate track record of enabling men to meet her lowest expectations, and Sam Deed, a stranger from Dubuque who may be either mentally ill or a time traveler from the year 2470. Ruby is immediately drawn to Sam's sincerity but when he confesses to coming from the future, she inevitably feels like she is recycling old behavior by trying to save him from his delusions.It reminds me a bit of John Carpenter's 1984 Starman (where an alien takes the form of a woman's dead husband) and a touch of Hal Ashby's 1979 Being There (where an insulated gardener tries to make sense of the world around him). However, Anderson puts his own idiosyncratic stamp on the movie by making Sam's seemingly insane assertions credible and Ruby's attraction alternately frustrating and empathetic. The acting by the two leads helps considerably here. Suffering from premature Oscar ejaculation, Marisa Tomei has slowly recovered her acting credentials, and this performance is among her best as she dexterously brings out all the hesitation and vulnerability in Ruby. As Sam, Vincent D'Onofrio tempers his trademark intensity with a genuine sweetness that makes his child-like wonder believable. Holland Taylor effectively tones down her sassy persona to play Ruby's impervious therapist, while Tovah Feldshuh grounds the film with warmth and sensibility as Ruby's mother. The ending is clever with a nice use of stop-motion photography, even if it felt slightly derivative of the legendary Star Trek episode where Bones is stopped from saving a peace-loving missionary (played by Joan Collins, of all people) about to be killed. This one is more infectious than you may be assuming from the set-up. "}{"Title":"Vincent and Marisa are perfect!","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" *This review has a tiny spoiler about the theme/plot of the film--but no big giveaways.Both Vincent D'onofrio and Marisa Tomei are two of my favorite actors so I don't know how this movie slipped under my radar for six years but I just saw it and LOVED it. It's so great to see a romantic comedy that's smart and sexy and real--despite the totally weird plot line to this film. In fact, this movie is written so cleverly that if time travel were actually possible you'd have to believe it would go something like what is depicted in Happy Accidents. I wholeheartedly recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of either Marisa or Vincent or who is looking for a smart, romantic film to watch. I rented this through Netflix and it arrived on Valentine's Day by chance--talk about your happy accidents! Marisa, in particular, is HILARIOUS in this film. No one could give the F-U better than her! And Vincent gives one of his awkward, clumsy and fully endearing performances. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Weird, quirky, but fun","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alright, HAPPY ACCIDENTS is a weird, pretentious movie. It has all the marks of an artsy-fartsy independent film--the handheld camera moves, the jumps in time, the improvised scenes--but it works. The fact it works is largely the result of the excellent leading performances by Marissa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio. Tomei makes her character (who's a bit of a doormat and whiner) into a likable, realistic person. If there's a better actor at playing characters who can't quite fit in their own skins than D'Onofrio, I haven't seen him. He's splendid in this film, and very funny and touching by turns. He's particularly good in the scene where his character dazzles a classroom of children with his language skills.The writer/director/editor Brad Anderson seems to be a bit self-conscious in his work (some scenes shout Look at me! I'm a quirky independent movie! I'm art!), and some of the film is frustrating. Is Sam Deeds, D'Onofrio's character, really a time traveller? Is he insane? Does it matter? Anderson never really seems to care about this. Then again, this ambiguity is one of the film's strengths. Perhaps the point of HAPPY ACCIDENTS is that love is what matters, rather than time, space, or mental health.It's far from a perfect film, but I'm happy I gave it 2 hours of my life, and I'll probably give it more time in the future.Wardicus "},{"Title":"Fantastic romantic movie with time travel!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic comedies that many have not seen.  I never heard of it until I looked up Vincent D'Onofrio's movies.  Marisa Tomei plays a girl who is always trying to fix up the guys she dates.  She finds Vincent's character, who is sweet, sincere, lovable, but a bit odd, he says, because he came back from 2470 to be with her, but can she fix him up by getting him to recognize reality, or should she become a co-dependent in his fantasy of being a time traveler?  There are certain elements of this that remind me Groundhog Day, another favorite movie that involves moving back in time.  Vincent is a tremendous actor, including many character parts that no one else could play, and he performs well here.  Marisa Tomei does a great job, too.  A very enjoyable movie, with that element of science fiction that adds just the right spark.  A great sleeper! "},{"Title":"What a clever movie!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Finding the movie Happy Accidents was truly a happy accident for me! What a joy of a movie!  Kept you guessing all the way through and then at the end.....Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio were just wonderful in their roles!It's definitely is a romantic movie with a twist.  I wanted to see the movie because on the back of the video it said that Sam was from the year 2470 and I love future/past time travel movies.  It's a little quirky but keeps you interested.  What can I say...I loved it! "},{"Title":"in the moment","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  a wonderfully beautiful and touching  film that explores the reality of *life*  through a delightful and refreshing modern fable. mmm...definitely five stars... "},{"Title":"Wow.  That was good.  Really good.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Seriously, this was one of the most real, intelligent, and emotional films I've seen in a long time... and it was essentially a fantasy.  The acting was superb; I truly cared about the quirky characters.  I don't understand how this didn't become a huge hit, simply poor marketing.  Happy Accidents was a treat - a rare gem.     "},{"Title":"Great Indie Flick","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After renting this movie on DVD I really have to say, it was quite good. Vincent D'Nofrio's performance in this is much different that many of his other movies. It was great. I thought his innocence was something that was lacking from his characters since Full Metal Jacket, it was amazing to watch. In any respect, the film was very well directed and written. TWO THUMBS UP! "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi lovers, Law and Order devotees and Anthony Michael Hall freaks will also want to give this one a try.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on an overseas flight and loved it.  The characters were passionate and the story was very intriguing.   While the story seems to be ordinary boy meets girl, the circumstances surrounding their meeting make this film worth watching.  The love story is approached in a similar way as the one in Seven Monkeys (also an excellent film).  Sci-Fi lovers, Law and Order devotees and Anthony Michael Hall freaks will also want to give this one a try. "},{"Title":"Excellent story that keeps you guessing up till the very end.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film.  Great acting jobs by D'Onofrio and Tomei. Although variations of this story have been told before, this one was very fresh and exciting.   While the script offers clues that can be interpreted to support either scenario,the key question throughout the movie--Is he telling the truth, or is he delusional-- is not revealed until the very end. I can't wait until this comes out on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Touching love story; thrilling mystery masterfully blended.","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was a powerful love story - about true devotion; giving oneself over. And it had a wonderful obsessive mystery plotline. This was one of the best movies I've seen this year.Marissa Tomei gives a really great performance - someone who is finally really in love, but with serious reservations about the sanity of her new love.  "}{"Title":"An absolute musta-gotta-haveta see!!!!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a truely great film, not with out its faults which are few, but...WOW. Marissa Tomei, the object of George Castanzza's (Seinfeld) affections turns out a winning performance, and new commer D'Offrio similiarly shines.  Two of my favorite topics for TV/Films romance and Time Travel step up and are wonderfully blended together.  You never can quite figure out if D'Offrio's story is true, or is he just a nut case, and you don't find out until just a few minutes to go.  The movie does borrow from the first Terminator film for a few ideas, but they are used in a far lighter way.  The writing, direction, and acting (Tomei plays a great nuerotic) are top notch and enjoyable.  Anthony Michael Hall's (as himself) cameo half way thru was a nice touch (I would like to see that guy get some credible roles) and added to the humour of the movie.  Its one movie that I can honestly and strongly recommend to anyone I see, and I think it will remain a favorite of mine for some time to come. "},{"Title":"SciFi, mystery and romance!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What more could anyone want or need?!  and NO SFX!! just an outstanding story with excellent performances by two first rate actors.  It is great to see Marisa Tomei in a role worthy of her talent.  Vincent D'Onofrio is always a pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy Reborn","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Brad Anderson has achieved what directors such as Garry Marshall (Runaway Bride) and Joe Roth (America's Sweethearts) have unsuccessfully attempted in recent years -- make an astutely romantic movie which is laugh out loud funny at times yet manages to touch that spot in our hearts that holds out hope for the love of our lives to walk around the corner and into our lives. Happy Accidents keeps you guessing throughout the movie without any condescension about the fate of the characters' relationship.  And makes one wonder why Vincent D'Onofrio is not more sought after by directors...his is he or isn't he subtlety proves him to be a better actor than one would have expected from the lovesick lobsterman seen in Mystic Pizza.  "},{"Title":"Lousy Film","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is supposed to be intelligent, right? So I watched it with a critical eye, not like the way I watched films like 'Rush Hour II' or American Pie II which were made exclusively for entertainment. The main reason I think this is a bad film, inferior to Session 9 is because it is so banal. The dialogue is banal, which, if it wasn't because of the good acting by both Tomei (despite playing a very annoying an pretentious character) and D'Onofrio, would be obviously ridiculous and pretentious. Even the science fiction element is bad and unimaginative. Of course, it is very difficult to get new ideas on science fiction topics, moreover on time travel, but, at least be a bit mature about it (the anarchist colony idea was kindergarten stupid, if you ask be, an idea that was explored and already ridiculous in the 50s. And a bar-code ID? I didn't think they used that idea anymore! ). It is funny though, in a Jay Leno way, recycling old jokes and situations that have been used a hundred types before about dating, finding Mr. Right etc, and the common paranoid new yorker, reminiscent of Woody Allen and Seinfeld. The film's intelligence is only superficial, those ponderings on the nature of love and relationships are from the mother templates; nothing new.The direction is good though, especially the lighting. Some of the doorway shots are interesting. The interior monologue style of narration is rather fresh (though making it part of a psychiatrist visit  is an often used idea, from 'There's Something About Mary' to 'Timecode').Overall this is lousy story and script. Everything else is fine. "},{"Title":"an enjoyably quirky romantic sci-fi/comedy-mystery","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Happy Accidents is an extremely well written film by Brad Anderson that drags just a bit but is brought to life by an amazingly strong performance from Marisa Tomei.  Vincent D'Onofrio co-stars and also delivers a strong performance in a difficult, challenging role.  Another stand-out in the cast is Holland Taylor, who looks fabulous, works well with both leads, and provides critical support to the film's surprising and engaging plot.As the director and writer, Anderson lets the story unfold very nicely, building suspense nicely.  Writing too much about the narrative elements of the film would ruin the experience, so I won't say too much here other than this I was totally sucked in and on the emotional edge of my seat for the film's climax.  Everything comes together quite nicely for a satisfying finale.It's a shame this film hasn't received wide distribution.  It's almost like a kinder, gentler, funnier cousin of Memento.  I liked Happy Accidents very much. "},{"Title":"Inspired indie offering","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Marisa Tomei is this, shall we say, therapeutic woman with a history of loser boyfriends as long as your arm -- assuming that your hand is at the end of your arm and is holding a yardstick. Vincent D'Onofrio is this guy she meets on a park bench.  He's sweet, funny, romantic, kind, prone to spacing out from time to time, apparently unfamiliar with certain common everyday objects, inexplicably terrified of small dogs ... by her standards, he's Prince Albert of Monaco.  It's only once they get to the whole part where they have to declare the importance of honesty and trust that he has the guts to tell her that he's a time traveler from the year 2470.Depending on your reaction to the above plot summary, this movie either is a lot better than it sounds or totally lives up to its promise. -)A lot of the dialogue is hysterically funny in a sort of throwaway way. The performances are good.  Tomei's makeup is a little puzzling sometimes, but maybe it's just part of her character to use too much rouge, badly blended.  My one criticism, and I don't think it's a small one, is that the camera work is occasionally awful.  Like, public access television awful. It's pretty clear that the filmmakers couldn't afford to reshoot the scenes that the cameraman screwed up, so they just went with them.  On the flip side, the director does some really creative things with montage during a few explanatory sequences. "},{"Title":"I created an IMDb profile for Happy Accidents","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wasn't expecting great things from Happy Accidents but thought it sounded intriguing and a cursory glance of IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes showed that there appears to be a fairly consistent approval of, even admiration for this film. The imbalance is the main reason for my contribution. I'm afraid to say that I hated the writing, hated the acting (especially Ruby and her best friend), hated the claustrophobic and drab photography but most of all the music drove me crazy. I guess some films just rub people up the wrong way. My god this one did me. It was compelling enough to stick it out to the end but I think I should have switched it off judging by this extreme and rather irrational reaction. Everyone else seems to like it though so don't let me put you off if you're keen! "},{"Title":"Hysterical Accidents","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this flick eight years after the fact. Its one of those movies that you are skeptical about for quite some time but that eventually just win you over to their side. The bottom line is that Marisa and Vincent's argument scenes are just so hilarious that it hardly matters what the rest of the film is about or does. Anyone who is married or in thick relationships gets into those arguments that are so stupid that logic, wisdom and intelligence become besides the point. The point is these two people and their wants, fears, needs and their underlying desire to love the person they are arguing with lead to a conclusion that may not make sense but becomes Cupid's compromise. I was not not familiar with Vincent O. but he was just great. And no one, no one, does New York better than Marisa. "},{"Title":"Pros and cons","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Happy Accident has a good cast. Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei shine in the leading parts. The direction is also good and shows a promising Brad Anderson. What's not so good is the pacing of the whole thing and the story itself. It's an unusual combination of genres, one has to admit that. Sci-Fi meets romcom, not too many movies have pulled that off successfully so far. Happy Accidents is quite funny and intriguing at times, but mostly it just moves on way too slowly and uneventfully. The story borrows a lot in style and substance from La jete and Somewhere In Time and apart from the lack of originality there are also hundreds of logical plot holes in the script. You can ignore those and enjoy the movie for its good performances and the dedication of everyone involved or you should prepare for a decent movie with a lot of flaws. Happy Accidents is definitely recommendable for fans of Brad Anderson, but it's not what I would call an early masterpiece. Just an interesting little indie flick, that's all. "},{"Title":"I'd have to give it at least 4 stars if not 5","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  ***** Excellent movie, lives up to expecatations and then some**** Decent movie, has few shortcomings, but could have been better*** Not bad only if you don't have any high expectations** Maybe a movie to watch while doing chores* I'd rather be at work for no pay than watching this filmYou can read the back of the box if you want to know what it is about, so instead of me reiterating that, I'll just give you all my opinion.  Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei were very very good in this movie.  Marisa plays the type of girl that any woman could relate to, the down to earth, dysfunctional at times, normal single woman.D'Onofrio plays his part to a tee.  If you ever saw Feeling Minnesota, then you can get an idea of what his character is like in this one, the two aren't too much different.Basically he meets Tomei in a park one day, then courts her in the most unusual and humorous fashion.  Now Marisa and her friends have a long history of attracting psychos, and after getting to know him, she realizes that he just may be the king of all the psycho men that she has dated yet!  But psycho in a cute way as opposed to a dangerous way, or so she thinks, but isn't really sure.After probing him, he admits the truth to her about his past, however it is so unbelievable that she just thinks he needs help.  However, this fantasy world that he seems to be living in keeps the relationship from ever getting stale, so rather than dumping him on several different occassions, she decides to keep him around just to see where it leads next, not to mention that there is something about him that she is attracted to. I don't want to give anything away, so I'll just say this.  If you ever saw Kpax, then this movie kind of has the same format.  Spacey in Kpax claims to be something so ridiculously unreal that at first it just seems like he needs mental help.  However, he has an answer for every question that anyone asks him, and by the end of Kpax you are left wondering if he really was telling the truth or not.  Well this is very similar to that.  While D'Onofrio doesn't claim to be from another planet, his claims are just as ludicrous.  Overall, I'd give this at least 4 stars, but seeing how I had absolutely no expectations for this movie that I had never heard of, it far exceeded what I had hoped for, and I really don't a have problem with any of it.  I thought it was very entertaining and time went by fast while watching it, and that usually doesn't happy with me.  I give it 5 stars! "}{"Title":"The Terminator crossed with Somewhere in Time, but not as generic as that sounds","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Happy Accidents is one of those movies you don't find every day. It goes just enough against the grain to feel fresh. Very much a romantic comedy (/drama?) rooted in science fiction.Central to this thing are good performances from Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei, the former for his gawky weirdness and the latter for struggling to decide (like the rest of us) if D'Onofrio is really from the future or just traumatically scarred. There's always a new seed of doubt to be sown, which is what made the journey vexing for me. The mystery is way too drawn out, and it ends up just a bit of a slog But the movie does have its winning features (particularly Ms. Tomei) and a decent payoff once we get to bottom of all of this.6/10 "},{"Title":"Joyful","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" no discrepancies for me - presume in write up about the accident may have used photo and quoted what was written on reverse. Anyway such a lovely film shame to spoil it. Also by changing what happens to Ruby he is creating a new parallel universe.. presumably in one he may remain in continuity loop looking for her !! my main complaint is how easy they seem to pick up boyfriends... maybe it is like that in the States (I am referring to my 20 year self) Got my 18 year foster girl to watch with me and she enjoyed it too - so timeless (which is quite appropriate)... I think Rubys' character is great too and good role model for both of us. Thought Vincent was endearing and loved Ruby.. and loved scenes at the beach, at the art gallery and the dancing, and the fights - great comic timing. "},{"Title":"Great Freaking Movie!!","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Okay the system wouldn't post with my all caps shout, but just know that this is a Great Freaking Movie!!The story is fresh, the dialog sparkling, & the production is well- executed. Vincent D'Onofrio is, as I have come to expect, superb. It was nice to see Holland Taylor, known to many as Alan & Charlie Harper's mom on Two and A Half Men, but will always remain in my heart the sexually talented Judge Roberta Kittleson on both Ally McBeal and The Practice. I had never before heard of writer/director Brad Anderson, Ms. Taylor's nephew, but will certainly look for his work in future. The big shock of this enterprise is Marisa Tomei. For all the movies in which I had seen her, and the maybe-she-won-maybe-she-didn't Oscar, I had just never been impressed. I am now. Her emotional presence in this role is outstanding. Furthermore, there are moments when she is just so cute I was drop-jawed, college crush beguiled. See this dang movie! "},{"Title":"Tolerable","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, I'll admit it, I watched this piece of nonsense because of Marisa Tomei. Such a cutey. And also because of the the word sci-fi in the TV description -- romantic comedy alone, is a no-go for me. So I sat through the whole thing, as baffling, silly, and self-contradictory as it was. Someone suggested Ruby was a bimbo fluff-head for not listening to and understanding Sam's complex science and ever-changing explanations. How could she not accept his hokum? How could anyone in their right mind accept anything from this creepy, pitiful character whose stories kept changing? Vincent D'Onofrio's Sam Deed was very hard to like -- too big, loud, weepy, goofy, doubtful. (Samedi, by the way, pronounced much like Sam Deed, is French for Saturday, the day after the dreaded Friday, when neither Ruby nor Sam could simply stay put for the day.) "},{"Title":"The future isn't what it used to be","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Brad Anderson's made a number of good, low budget features. This one, Happy Accidents, stars Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio as a couple who fall in love, break up and get back together. Sounds formulaic? Here's the neat part D'Onofrio's character may or may not be from the future and may or may not be mentally unstable.Shot almost entirely in Brooklyn, Happy Accidents utilizes a grungy, urgent style. The film does well to keep us guessing as to whether or not D'Onofroi's character is insane, and several of the film's mysteries have a fine resolution.While more psychodrama than comedy, the film does have a number of witty lines. It's core idea is also rather funny just when Tomei, who has had limited romantic success, finds Mr Right, he turns out to be completely nuts. Or is he? 7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Marisa Tomei can swear like a banshee...","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...and the movie is pretty good, too. Sam Deeds (Vincent D'Onofrio) is in love from afar and willing to travel a long way to meet the woman of his dreams--Ruby Weaver (Tomei). Sam is gentle and kind, funny and reliable--in other words, much better than the other jerks Ruby has found herself with over the years. However, he also has a strange tale to tell about the aforementioned journey. Is it true, or is he sick? And does it matter to Ruby? Ruby's friend, Gretchen (Nadia Dajani), her therapist, Maggie (Holland Taylor), and her mother (Tovah Feldshuh) help her figure it out, and each lends her own grace to the film. Tomei, an actress whom I love, leads us through hope, despair, fear, rage, and finally love for Sam. The moral of this engaging story is, of course, that a good man is hard to find--so don't cut bait too quickly. And I have one question that feisty guy at the gallery reception was he or wasn't he?! "},{"Title":"a quirky fantastic film a must see","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i thought i'd add another great review among the many that are here on IMDb. first off the acting was very superb by Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei. after about twenty minutes of seeing them acting together just sucked me in completely on this quirky but, fun romantic comedy/science fiction (romcom/scifi) film. their acting styles complimented each other so well and the chemistry was just mixed well in the film worlds laboratory (whether it was due to well editing or the actor/actress themselves). second this movie just kept me on a roller-coaster of a ride once i thought i had it figured out i was completely thrown for a loop back into the wacky roller-coaster design like that of the space traveling story that Sam gives and Ruby is just in the front seat of it all, as are we, the audience. i chose this movie based on it being a recommendation through amazon and thought what they hey! i'll get it. so i ordered it and have not been disappointed by my decision of getting it. this movie is a must have for any movie goers collection and to see with friends, family, or that special someone. trust me you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A modern romantic mystery","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bottom Line The movie is sexy, intriguing, and intelligent.I will say that at first, I was having trouble getting into the movie because Sam Deed, the main character, is played by a pretty bad actor! But, after giving it a fair chance, I realized that his awkwardness played perfectly into the characters background.Overall this is a great movie, and I enjoyed it. It really did keep my guessing until the end, and little bits of mystery are constantly being reveled.You have to watch very closely to catch all the small and interesting details, so keep your eyes peeled, and enjoy the intricate and well woven plot.Great movie to watch with your romantic partner! "},{"Title":"The Future Isn't What It Used to Be","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was a pleasant surprise. I enjoyed it. It keeps you guessing all the way through. I kept flip flopping in my analysis of the movie, I couldn't decide whether or no the Vincent D'Nofrio character was crazy or telling the truth. It was effective in keeping me guessing. The ending is great, it doesn't make you feel cheated and it actually makes sense. If you are into original indie flicks that buck the conventional (ie formalistic) Hollywood story lines, I recommend this movie. I think that this movie works largely based upon the great acting of the leads. They show real emotion. There is a scene in which Marissa Tomei's character is fighting with D'Nofrio's character and she gets frustrated at his refusal to leave her apartment and begins to screech. I can totally envision myself doing that. "},{"Title":"Righteousness prevails in the movies again.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The time to be right is wrong and the time to stand tall is small in these times of wrong and small, right and tall and malls to top it all off for heaven's sake.  This movie is about munchkins living in a time and place where tiny people aren't exactly what they seem to be because time-travelers rule the world.  If time travel weren't such a touchy subject I think that this movie'd have won the AA for Best Picture and Best Creative Thinkability in the Field of Relativity in this K-PAXIAN epic drama sci-fi comedy exstrawdinare.  Thank You. "}{"Title":"Very Charming","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers!!!When I first saw Sam I was certain he was an escaped mentalpatient. I always thought D'nofrio was a little strange anyhow, sothis role was perfect for him. He had a boyish charm like ForestGump, Starman...It was easy to see how Ruby (Tomei) could fallfor him. He was definitely off, but it was sweet, kinda the way youlove a three legged dog. I thought their conversations werehilarious. She kept trying to fix him since she's the fixer and hedidn't even really understand anything she said or the fact that shethought he was crazy for sure. Her and her friend decided that sheshould just play along as she convinced herself that this was justsome sort of kinky sexual role playing and she should just enjoyand not question it as long as the sex was good. Eventually it justbecame too much for her to take, but I loved that the director keptyou wondering through the entire film whether he was really crazyor he was indeed from the future. I won't completely spoil it and tellyou the end, but I thought it was a lovely story.  "},{"Title":"d'onofrio is a god","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  vincent d'onofrio can do no wrong by me.  this movie is a good as it is because of him.  like any great actor, he makes me believe everything he is saying.  he allows the viewer to suspend their logic and reasoning and trust him implicitly.  this is a great love story - and believe me, i'm not one for love stories.  it's a must see. "},{"Title":"Interesting and Refreshingly New","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I tend to like character-driven movies and am quickly put off by movies that follow one of the familiar Hollywood stories.  This movie successfully ventures into interesting and largely untested ground.The story is about a man (Vincent D'Onofrio) who becomes romantically involved with a woman (Marisa Tomei) who has a history of co-dependence and failed relationships.  He claims that he is from the future. The plot takes us on the journey of their relationship and her questioning of the truth to his claims vs. whether he is another in a string of loser guys that she seems to cling to.The plot synopsis sounded a little odd, but it was my hope that these two talented actors could pull it off.  Both Tomei and D'Onofrio turn in excellent performances.  They present complex, interesting and flawed characters who engage our interest.  The writing is very good and enjoyable.My only complaint is the the story sags a little about 2/3 of the way through.  A little tighter editing of about 10 minutes of essentially redundant scenes would have made the movie a more engaging.I rate it a 8/10 and encourage those who like well-written, character-driven movies to check this one out. "},{"Title":"crowd pleaser","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I showed this movie ... by accident .. to five tenth-graders ... and one eighth grader.  All between fourteen and sixteen.   They all loved it. They were making up some twists as the movie  went along.  Because I had not told them anything about the movie ... not even the description on the cover ... they were at first frustrated by the incoherence of the plot.  But they all agreed that it had everything they asked for in a movie -- romantic comedy, science fiction suspense, and intelligence.  I agreed with them (and I am a 54 year old fan of all kinds of movies).  It might not be great for repeat viewing and I might only see it one more time myself, but I would definitely recommend it to all my friends.   "},{"Title":"complex in a simple way","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had absolutely no budget, which is why in my opinion it was so good.  With no budget, the story had to be involving and fairly complex. The two main characters were fantastic, and so well thought out.  The direction, and the way the story was told added to the realm of complexity. Pretty funny at times, and also pretty bizarre, this is a chick flick that even the guys will like.  8/10 overall, could have got a higher rating if the cinematography was better.  "},{"Title":"So unbelievable yet so realistic","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not generally a fan of films that have way out idea's but this is one film that takes an unbelievable premise and makes it so honest and realistic. Happy Accidents stars Marisa Tomei as Ruby Weaver, a woman who after a series of awful relationships wants to move on with her life and beat her classic co-dependency with the help of her shrink Holland Taylor Sam Deed Vincent D'Onofrio then enters her life. At first his little quirks his fear of dogs, his spells, his drawings amuse her but as she questions him about his life, his story becomes stranger and stranger. Is he yet another freak she should show the door or is he for real? The story is fresh, funny and quirky. It provides laughs, romance and the ability to take a leap in the realm of the slightly off-beat. It is a magnificent showcase for the talents of the beautiful Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio. Why is that a man as talented as D'Onofrio, who keeps on putting in great performances 'Whole Wide World', 'Men In Black', 'The Salton Sea', 'Full Metal Jacket' to name a few is not a star? There are many lesser actors out there winning Oscars and receiving millions of dollars per role and yet the average Joe can't even pronounce D'Onofrio's name? The rest of the cast are also excellent, especially Holland Taylor as Ruby's shrink and a greatly timed cameo from Anthony Michael Hall. Happy Accidents is a fun movie with a lot going for it, the direction was great, the dialogue excellent and the cast superb. An great little gem of a movie hidden amongst a lot of fairly average fare at the local video shop. Well worth a look as you will not be disappointed! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Happy Combination of Romance and Sci-Fi","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasn't given a big opening as far as I can tell, since I had never heard of it until I saw 2 copies of it at my local video store.  But, it should have been more heavily hyped!  Marisa Tomei is fabulous in this as is her friend played by Nadia Dajani.   Marisa Tomei's character is a neurotic New York City woman who has the knack of always picking the wrong guy, until she meets Vincent D'Onofrio's character and initially things seem different from her past mistakes.  Right away I thought his character was telling the truth, but others I have spoken to have thought that Marisa's character was right in thinking that Vincent was a crazy loon!  The movie has a wonderful ending with Marisa's therapist.  I loved that they completely confirmed who was crazy and who wasn't!!!  Really different, really fun film. "},{"Title":"Delightful, delicious Marisa, dreadful score.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Is or isn't Sam Wood a time traveler?  Will or won't Ruby solve his story and find true love after a history of co-dependent enabling?Odd to see Vincent D'Onforio play human-size; almost familiar Marisa Tomei -- delightful, delicious and reminiscent of her role in Untamed Heart.  A juicy little movie that kept me guessing, but nearly ruined by that atrocious score.Tomei, despite her Oscar win and nomination, remains the most under-estimated actress in American film.  Every director in Hollywood should have a chance to see her work on the New York stage.  If her Salome with Al Pacino and Diane Wiest goes off-Broadway in the spring it should be required viewing for casting directors everywhere.  Failing that, she opens, probably in August 2003, in Sweet Charity.   "},{"Title":"Finding this was a... Happy Accident","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife picked this up on a fluke one evening when our 3-yr-old convinced her to cut the movie-browsing short <g> ... and I was very delightfully surprised.The movie is a bit hard to characterize, although romantic comedy fits pretty well. The characters are engaging, and the story pretty fast paced as the viewer is drawn into Ruby's story.Possible Spoiler Alert  The movie centers on Ruby's conflict about Sam; while her mother advises her to enjoy the precious moments in life, her friend suggests that she play along with Sam's lunacy, and her therapist keeps pushing her to clarify why she stays with Sam given her long line of unhealthy relationships.  Meanwhile we see Sam have episodes and hear his outlandish but self-consistent story of how he has traveled from the year 2470 as he speaks of and shows his love for Ruby.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"50% Romance 49% Comedy 1% Sci-Fi","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe he just thinks he's a time traveler, or maybe there's an altogether different reason for saying that he's a time traveler.  She loves him either way, but she would like to know why he goes on about it.  This movie takes place in modern times, and the only thing remotely sci-fi about this movie that that the guy thinks he's a time traveler.  I say that only because I've seen this movie in the sci-fi section where I think it really belongs in the romantic comedy section.   "}{"Title":"For `Happy Accidents,' Time is just the beginning.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In `Happy Accidents,' Ruby (Marisa Tomei) falls in love with Sam (Vincent D'Onofrio), an alleged visitor from the year 2470.  Ruby, in deep analysis, says, I am willing to find a balance between my own needs and my concern for others. She's a bit of a flake and he's just plain out there.Sam has come back in time to save Ruby from a certain death. As a half-hour `Twilight Zone,' `Happy Accidents' could have been a memorable romantic/science fiction teaser that left you wondering if Tomei ever could get D'Onofrio to the church on time.  As it is, the time traveling motif takes itself too seriously with too many hysterical Tomei scenes and too few of D'Onofrio explaining the delicious differences between the 21st century and the 25th.As a love story, however, this is a keeper.  The two lovers are oddballs whose caring natures get them in and out of trouble with affection. When Tomei's mother confesses her sex life with her husband died when he went on the wagon, you get the idea this romance could also derail if the protagonist weren't weird.  So it's good he might be from another time and she is lovingly out of her own time.If I judge correctly from  `Next Stop Wonderland' as well as `Accidents,' Director Brad Anderson likes these romantic comedies where you wonder if the lovers will really make it.' I do know this from those works the best chance for successful love comes from the souls that are, not the lovers you wish to make them be.  No accident, then, but happy ones for true lovers.As Shakespeare said, `The end crowns all, and that old common arbitrator, Time, will one day end it.'  For `Happy Accidents,' Time is just the beginning. "},{"Title":"This is a sincere love story with little surprises just like the title.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sadly in my area, this was an independent film that received too short and too limited a release. I am anxiously awaiting its arrival on DVD so I can share this pearl of a story with my friends. The actors are quite believable in this intriguing storyline. Both Tomei and Vincent d' deliver. I am hesitant to compare this to similar movies because I think it is well worth the subtle surprises. "},{"Title":"This movie is NOT an accident!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! This movie totally involves you with the characters and the plot! My friend and I went to see it at our local Indy theater and ended up going to see it once more, because we couldn't get enough of it!The chemistry between Vincent D'Onofrio and Marisa Tomei was dazzling. Sam's story was completely believable, and the twist at the end of the movie was completely unexpected! An absolutely stunning film, in all its simplicity. "},{"Title":"The Dao of Co-dependancy","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm always amazed when I read the user comments (since when have movie viewers been users anyway?  Are movies like marijuana?) to see how many people pick up some vague impression of the mood of the film (in this case, a tender love story) without any notion of the theme.  Maybe that's because the theme is so often (clunkily) explicated in one telling scene where one character (in this case, the mother) tells another what it is REALLY all about, & often everything we have seen before or after contradicts the point!So, our heroine's mother tells her co-dependancy is REALLY okay, & it's REALLY okay to string along with a person who has problems & isn't doing anything to solve them, because (get this!) you may enjoy some really great sex along the way!  Case in point alcoholism!  Had the person who wrote this scene ever gone to bed with someone so drunk he couldn't even get it up?  As far as I'm concerned, in a movie billed as science fiction, this was the most unbelievable scene, & it didn't have anything to do with time travel!Why is it in movies that include a therapist, the therapist is so often totally off the mark?  (The only recent exception I can think of is Panic.)  So, in this movie we have TWO mother figures, the evil therapist & the good mother.  The therapist tells her she should stop hooking up w/ losers & trying to save them (good advice, & exactly what I would tell MY daughter--what about you?).  The mother says, Oh, I don't know, honey, these dysfunctional guys can be really good in bed.  Fortunately, at the end our hero is cured, so it doesn't matter anyway. "},{"Title":"Logical fallacies do not detract entirely.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  **CONTAINS SPOILERS**Despite the numerous logical fallacies in the movie, it remains enjoyable. It is a movie which has the ability to make annoying charcters bearable, and there is never an awkward moment. Every event is a surprising and enjoyable turn of events.I found the lead character, Sam, to be very enjoyable and believable. He is obviously intelligent, but some questions arise when one wonders why he came back at all; the taxi-cab driver he was going to kill, to prevent the death of Ruby, but instead only injured, would not have killed her at all had he not been injured whatsoever. Therefore it would not have made any difference if Sam killed or did not kill him at all, or if Sam had even gone into the past.And because Ruby did not ultimately die, the photograph would not have appeared in Sam's database in four hundred years, thus negating his meeting with her and his backtraveling entirely.One also wonders what will happen in the future; will each die of old age in accordance to existence in 1999, or will Sam ultimately backtravel back to his emission from his mother's womb in 2400, also negating the possibility of backtraveling, meeting, and saving Ruby?This movie was excellent, and could not escape the impossibilities it held. A time-travel movie has never been so intelligent, and was thoroughly enjoyable. Go see it. "},{"Title":"One of Marisa Tomei's Best Performances","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The blurbs in the entertainment section of my local newspaper raved about this sweet movie. How correct they were. Shown only in Art houses, it is unfortunate that its available to a small audience. Both Ms Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio were outstanding. Their give and take, the constant mystery of it, the endearing ways they showed one another their love. Great writing, and its about time we see REAL people reacting to, and discussing, time travel and if it could be possible. It keeps you centered, focused, and in no way can you leave the theatre. Each viewer has to decided if Sam Deed is indeed telling the truth, or if he's just suffering from a mental disorder; TLE. Its unbelievably exciting - right to the very ending. With all the garbage out there in select theatres across the USA, its a refreshing movie to enjoy and ponder. Keeps ya thinking, while you enjoy the romance. Great combination. "},{"Title":"Improbably effective","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though Marisa Tomei recycles her character in Untamed Heart somewhat, this film still manages to be witty and unpredictable.  Without the use of special effects, it achieves a sci-fi element. Quite an accomplishment overcoming a precarious plotline with style, humor, and creativity.  "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really like that it incorporated so many elements--comedy, romance, sci fi, time travel, good dialogue. It was fun to watch. I enjoyed it. Marisa Tomei is funny, and real. Vincent D'Onofrio is the everyday guy (with a strange story that he pulls off very well.) Definitely becoming a Brad Anderson fan... "},{"Title":"Trust and love","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In Happy Accidents, Brad Anderson has created one of the best romantic comedies I've seen in a long time, an investigation of trust and love that somehow strays from formulaic plot structure, while adhering to the tradition of the craft.A brief description Co-dependent Ruby (Tomei) falls for new-in-town oddball Sam (D'Onofrio), only to find out that he thinks he's from the year 2470. Things get hairy from there, but Anderson does a stellar job of weaving the script to extremes without resorting to silly slapstick.D'Onofrio and Tomei are a nice match. Each scene between them carries that extra spark of new love. You want them to stay together, even though you know D'Onofrio is crazy.Too bad this hasn't found a distributor. It seems to do very well at the festivals. "},{"Title":"A romantic dramedy with brains","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film a second time at Nantucket, after seeing it at Sundance, and it holds up extremely well.   (With the unfolding plot, it's fun to watch it a second time knowing the truth.)   I agree that it's probably Marisa Tomei's best performance yet.   With less handheld camerawork than Next Stop, Wonderland, this is a major step forward for Brad Anderson, who wrote/directed/edited this romantic dramedy with ample amounts of brains and heart.   It's subtle, mysterious, and thoroughly engaging.   Whoever puts this out in the theaters should play up the Is he or isn't he from the future? plotline.   And push Marisa for an Oscar nomination.   > "}{"Title":"Excellent little film","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" About 4 months ago I started using my local public library as a poor man's Netflix. I would think up a film that my wife (and maybe I) would like to see and look it up in their catalog and, if they had it, reserve it for delivery to my local branch. There wasn't much they didn't have. At first I got ideas for films from titles I could remember. Then I consulted IMDb and did searches by actor of director, etc. to get titles.About a month ago, after I ran out of my remembrances and IMDb's cross-references, I searched the public library's catalog by year and media type (DVDs). Browsing through the results, in one recent year, I came across a title that seemed familiar and I right clicked it to find out more. The lead male was Vincent D'Onofrio, an actor I had seen in bit parts in film and TV, but who also was featured in a episode of one of my favorite TV series of all time 'Homicide Life on the Streets'. Yeah, I know. Stupid title. But I swear that show was one of the finest I'd ever seen on TV (bear in mind, I've never had cable). The best cinematography, best editing, best screenplays with the best dialog delivered in the best performances on TV I had ever seen. The episode I saw D'Onofrio in was an episode that was also featured in a two hour PBS documentary 'Anatomy of a 'Homicide Life on the Street', which was also excellent. D'Onofrio did a marvelous job in that episode. So good, I thought I'd like to see him in another lead role. When I came across it in the library catalog search, I decided to order the film even though the library catalog blurb read A single girl with an obsession for fixing the emotional problems of oddball men finally meets a guy who seems normal. The only snag is that he says he came from the future to save her life. Sounded kinda a smaltzy romantic comedy we recently viewed - Kate & Leopold. It even had Marisa Tomei in it.Unfortunately, it arrived with another movie I wanted to see more and so I just saw the first two minutes before I returned it to the library. But that first two minutes was so hypnotic and enticing that I added the D'Onofrio film to the another batch of library requests.Tonight I viewed it. I reran the first two minutes twice and it really wasn't as good as I kinda thought it was a month ago in it's first aborted viewing - it was better. About ten minutes in, I was beginning to think this might turn out to be my favorite film of the last year. About twenty minutes in, I was beginning to think this might turn out to be my favorite film in the last 5 years. About one hour in, I was beginning to think this might turn out to be my favorite film in the last 10 years. By the end of the film, I was beginning to think this might turn out to be my favorite film.This film has some of the best cinematography, best editing, best soundtrack, best sound editing (since The Conversation), best screen writing with the best dialog delivered in the best performances I had ever seen. "},{"Title":"A Lovely and Imaginative Fable of Love and Fate","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Happy Accidents is a lovely addition to the genre of romantic fate/coincidences/possible alternative universes (such as Sliding Doors, Twice Upon Yesterday, Me, Myself, I) and which writer/director Brad Anderson did one of the premiere such ones with similarly sharp dialog in Next Stop Wonderland. There's also resonance with Tom Tykwer's work, especially The Princess and the Warrior (Der Krieger und Die Kaiserin). This time it's the guy (Vincent D'Onofrio, as a lovable lug with a very determined core and an intriguing sci fi secret) who's absolutely convinced that the relationship is fated, and the woman (a perhaps too weepy Marisa Tomei) who needs more and more proof.Has the explanation of the flexibility of the time/space continuum ever been demonstrated before so erotically in the movies that it becomes memorable foreplay? (originally written 8/31/2001) "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rented the DVD last night and was pleasantly surprised. I liked the science fiction side of the movie. The two main actors of Sam & Ruby did a superb job!I hadn't heard of the movie before. I'm glad I saw it on DVD simply because it is the kind of show where you might just want to replay certain parts you don't catch the first time.-Neat Romance/Sci-Fi movie -One too many uses of the F word -Great acting -Worth renting  "},{"Title":"Love, the future","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  One of those great movies you stumble on half-way thru and go Oh My God, and then have to go on a quest to see it from top to bottom.Blazing, creative, thought-provoking, want to get the script.Talk about Men are from Mars and Women are from New York!Love D'Onofrio in just about anything, and maybe best in this.  or is he the best in everything? this is Marisa in the Cousin Vinnie crazy Italian love role, 15 years later.Fabulous perfect real best-friend New Yorker played by Nadia Dajani.And this Jose Zuniga as the pyschic friend is just great -- don't know where i saw him before, but he's perfect!As a New Yorker, this movie is technicolor real. it's like After Hours, Desperately Seeking Susan, Smoke, Tree's Lounge -- not Maid in Manhattan perfectly-lit Hollywood New York, but rather downtown indi-film real-life New York.  It's fast, sometimes sloppy, very verite, very street, beautifully unpolished. Incredible String Band-like music, flutes, ethereal court jester minstrels tootling the multitudes.Back-travel, fate, causality, telepathy-scopes, herb smoking, Love. Blinovitch's 2nd Law of Temporal Inertia.  -) Cheeseman's Emotional Therapy Theory -) not being able to afford an expensive back-story  -)i think we can all relate to that -- and how there are poor people in the future is kinda funny and against type -- where we think everyone will Not be poor in the time-travel future.  Hey, I paid a lot of money for that back-story!  What a rip-off! van Gogh and Lewis Carroll connected to time travelers;  nice homage to Kate Hepburn doin' the i'm-not-from-here gig;  Free Bird in the background  -)i was in this relationship -- i the crazy martian, and she the caring single New York Italian woman trying to understand the innocent, romantic martian-boy's weirdness and mid-western cluelessness.  and you?classic scene with Marisa & Vincent in a diner booth talking about time Not being a rigid line -- reminded me of Marisa's face & revelations in the witness stand in Cousin Vinnie.Marisa character's father stopping drinking, but losing his passion.Since daddy stopped drinking, we have . . .  lost our spark.  I know it sounds weird saying it, but i miss your father the way he was.It won't last forever.  Live and embrace Now.Love from the future, in a wonderfully contemporary New York. "},{"Title":"I tried so hard to like this movie","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really tried to like this movie.  And while it wasn't horrendous, I found myself getting more and more fatigued as it went along.  It perked my interest enough that I was too curious to just turn it off.  But it was SO SLOW MOVING that I felt like I was the one lost in a time machine.  The acting was not bad, but the scenery was unchanging and boring.  Although the ending was good, by the time it finally got there I didn't even care how it ended. "},{"Title":"A great story that pulls you in.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've been wanting to see this movie for awhile. I'm a big fan of Brad Anderson, and Vincent D'Onofrio. And I think everone likes Marisa Tomei! So when I finally got the chance to see this I was so caught up in this world that Sam lives in. I was really pulled in and when I try to describe this movie to others, they think I'm crazy, but how can you not love this movie? It is strange and funny and the actor's are superb. I wish that this movie had gotten a bigger response because it truely is original, but great. The script is so in depth and incredible. How Anderson came up with this world that Sam lives in is beyond me, it is so deep and involved, I wonder how people come up with this stuff... "},{"Title":"very surprised by this cliche premise being so well-made","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Somebody at the studio must have accidentally made a good decision.  Thepremise of this film - time travel romance - sounds like something we'd discard as February-release-filler.  For all I know, this movie was released in February. But it actually works!  Marissa Tomei is one of those Oscar winners who didn't really deserve the award and thus quickly retreated from prominent roles. But she's back and does a really nice job.  Even more impressive is the solid,realistic, non-fantastical script.  They let the guy direct it, which I think was really wise.I guess I saw it long enough ago that I don't remember a lot of details, but I highly recommend it.  This is the kind of movie that I normally wouldn't take a chance on, but it was recommended by a good friend and she was right. "},{"Title":"Oddest, most clever romantic comedy in years","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Vincent D'Onofrio pulls off one of his most complex, hilarious performances I've seen to date.  Marisa Tomei proves that her Oscar win was not a onetime performance and that she's actually grown as an actress.  The story pulls the rug out from under you about a third the way through going from cuddly to captivating.  Moments of the film are utterly hilarious.  Parts of it border on downright sinister.  I won't give away any details about the ending, but it's a beautiful revelation worthy of some of the best in cinematic history.  "},{"Title":"What a loser!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My husband rented this film and promised me that it was a chick flick and that I would enjoy it. Wrong! It may have been a chick flick. But I thought it would never end. It was much too long for the plot. And while I'm knocking it, let me also say that it was much too complicated. I never did completely understand why Sam came back to the present time and the call that Ruby made to Sam's dad. Btw...my husband didn't like it either. He fell asleep early on. "},{"Title":"Charming, a little slow, D'Onofrio miscast in my view","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERA girl's new lover is either a madman, or a time traveller - he says he is the latter (as any madman would). This leads to a number of scenes where the alleged madman or time traveller oscillates between very imaginative/narrative (he tells her about the future), very charming (he tells her he picked that year and place because of an old beautiful photo of her), very crazy (he has moments when he sees time flow backwards, this is the equivalent of jet-lag for time travelers).All in all this gives a number of scenes of unequal quality involving the girls, the guy, the girl's girlfriend, the girl's shrink (also a time-traveller, who came to evade taxes), all in present-day New-York. The scenes are of very unequal quality, and in my view a good number are so weak that they could have been cut altogether.In the end guess what, the girl very nearly gets hit by a car precisedly on the day the guy said she would, and before that she sees a photo of her that looks his drawings of his memories of that future photo of her - so yes, he is a time-traveller indeed!Could have been a charming, non-tech time traveller film. But the editing should have been much stricter. Also, D'Onofrio, with that face and build everyone remembers in either The Cell, or Men in Black (where he was the Cockroach), really does not fit the bill - completely miscast.I gave the film a 6. With a better cast (mainly replacing D'Onofrio), a better pace (thanks to better editing), it could have been a 7 or an 8. "}{"Title":"derivative","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately the decent actors and camerawork cannot disguise the fact that this film is a completely lame Hollywood version of Chris Marker's masterpiece - go see La Jetee if you like stories about time and love and obsession.  Happy Accidents did absolutely nothing new - too bad - some of the lines were funny and I think the actors were fine but the whole mind-twisting element is one of the flatter versions out there. Ultimately a dull film. "},{"Title":"Horrid attempt at arty indie movie","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I simply had to write this review to warn others about this awful movie, though I wish for nothing more than to never think about it again. Where to start? This movie is so slow it practically atrophies, none of the characters are interesting or sympathetic, there's too much silence (and when there is music, it's atrocious), the performances are uncomfortable and there's absolutely no hook, no reason to keep watching.I love romantic movies, I love independent movies, and what I love most is quirky independent romantic movies. It's logical to assume that I should have loved this. The problem with this movie is that the screenplay is resoundingly weak - the dialogue is, at times, laughable. The concept - an interesting one - is totally wasted. This could have been a funny/cute little fish out of water flick, but Sam isn't fazed enough by the world 400+ years ago, apart from a fascination with smells.There are no laughs to be had in this movie. It's dreary dreck, and the writer doesn't have the skill to pull off the musy, navel-gazing dialogue he tries so hard to effect. It's embarrassing, frankly.For a good fish out of water movie, try Enchanted. For a good independent movie, try Little Miss Sunshine - after this, we put it on, and tried to understand just why it's so much better than this horrible film.I'd give it a -1 if I could. Had I seen it in the theatre, I would have walked out. Thank God all I had to do was hit stop. "},{"Title":"An intelligent movie which features one of Marisa Tomei's best performances.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I happened to see this film of Brad Anderson (Next Stop, Wonderland) recently at the Nantucket film festival. It was such a popular film there they added an 3rd screening  Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'onofrio are in an interesting relationship. Thats all I will say about the plot. A very witty script, good characters, interesting editing, plus a cameo by one of the brat pack (A.M.H.) all add up to an entertaining story. See this movie!!!  "},{"Title":"Stupid movie. Period.","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Have you ever watched a movie without natural dialogues? Would you rather see something with lines only novel writers would use? How about a movie clearly made by amateurs that pretends to talk about time travel, but which ends typical Hollywood style? Now, would you watch a movie that carries unsympathetic weirdoes who even the most troubled person would avoid in real life, such as the unprofessional therapist and one of the more obnoxious guy you'd ever meet? If you were told you'd die in an accident tomorrow, would you eat packaged food brought from the store today? I could go on and on, but I should stop now before I waste even more time than I already have. "},{"Title":"This is one for all the Trekies","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What part of this movie was good??? Therapist that doesn't know psychology, a best friend who is not.What kind of New Yorker would be OK with someone who finding out where they lived, then followed them to work? Then there is a PhD in physics who gets mad at being called a time traveler? This movie could be good if you love Star Trek The Next Generation. You would love people making up what sound like technical creations and then rattling them off with a bunch of non existent words.If this is a movie you need to pay attention to in order to understand it, then we live in a short attention span country.Side note Some of his theories of time travel are true. Bending time, in order to time travel, does exist. "},{"Title":"Utterly Boring","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We reneted this along with Sweet Home Alabama.  Both movies were much too long for the tiny bit of plot they contained but this film was by far the worse.  At best the entire story could fill 30  minutes while still maintaining some flow.  Stretching this over 100 minutes makes for sureme tedium.Do avoid! "}]