[{"Title":"Desolate.","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a bus load of tourists from all walks of life runs out of gas in the middle of an apparently endless desert the set slowly gets staged not for a tale about survival via leaving the bus and searching for help, but of staging an improv version of King Lear that somehow manages to insinuate itself into the characters. While events predictably turn tragic for many if not all and the situation devolves into near-complete hopelessness (made the more intense by the use of digital video which creates a hell out of sunlight and sand), there is a sense of elements left untold and aspects left unexplored in THE KING IS ALIVE, leaving a bare-essentials character study which eventually semi-collapses in on itself.An interesting experiment of a film with great improvised performances by Jennifer Jason Leigh, Janet McTeer, Bruce Davidson, and Romaine Bohringer, and one that perhaps with subsequent viewings could evolve within itself like many experimental films tend to do, but that at this moment remains a little too outré for the usual film-goer. "},{"Title":"A Double Tragedy","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While shifting airports by bus in Africa, a group of passengers is driven to the middle of nowhere in the desert by the driver that is following a defective compass. They run out of gas and they reach a ghost village inhabited by a single man, Kanana (Peter Kubheka). One passenger that has experience with desert gives five advices to the others to survive in the spot, among them to keep the spirit high, while he travels through the desert seeking for help. One intellectual in the stranded group suggests the performance of King Lear to keep the morale of the survivors. Along the days, while hope decreases, the tension increases among the survivors. The King is Alive is a tragedy in a tragedy, with a group of people stranded in the desert performing King Lear to keep the spirit of the survivors. The story has a breathless beginning with the driver absolutely lost and the despair of the passengers and is raw and disturbing, when the survivors return to a primitive stage of human condition. The performances are outstanding and this Dogma 85 film was released in Brazil on VHS by Cult Films Distributor. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Rei Está Vivo (The King is Alive) "},{"Title":"A real life changer","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was speechless after seeing this movie. I started watching it late on a weekday, knowing I would have to get up the next day but couldn't tear myself away! I had to know what would happen to the characters. The situation was starkly realized, and I could feel the slow dawning of awareness as the bus passengers see how futile their schedules and agendas are, survival quickly becomes the priority. I think to center criticism on the chances of getting lost like that and other plot details miss the point. The choice of Lear as a play to put on to distract from the terrible circumstances does not seem contrived, and this would not be the first movie to work the Shakespearean tragedy into its story, with, I thought an awful premonition of what was to come. "},{"Title":"A brilliant and yet cruel tale of the human condition by the words of Shakespeare's King Lear.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brilliant and yet cruel tale of the human condition by the words of Shakespeare's King Lear. The true nature of this film is in the relationship between the rawness of the desert and the fragility of the social being. Amazingly, the spirit of the desert witnesses the demise of a group of people who are facing death, acting Shakespeare to deceive it and ironically get deceived by fate itself at the end. The realistic notion, given by hand-held camera as well by the wonderful colors captured, will dive one's in the crucial themes of the movie death, love and hope.  "},{"Title":"But The Movie Is Not","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films with a great potential. Brilliant actors, a debut from a very interesting director and a haunting Survivor-ish plot.But it does not work at all.To start with the good thing The cinematography is stunning. The beauty of the Namibian desert shows itself as a merciless surrounding, also in the pictures. And then there is the acting. Quite allright. Jennifer Jason Leigh has never been better. Bruce Davison also seems to have developed his character from Altman's Short Cuts.Then the disappointments Janet McTeer. Romane Bohringer. And the plot. Why on earth does Levring pick Lear for their play? The whole idea of letting Shakespeare articulate their despair and inner longings does not work. It seems like a facade. And it is clear that the tragedies takes place because of the choice of Lear. They just needs to fit in in the Script by Levring and Academy Award winner Anders Thomas Jensen.And the sex. It takes about three days, then more or less all of the characters are sexually frustrated. Dahh!! Sex is always the easy way out when you are in need of a crisis in a plot. Janet McTeer's part totally falls apart, mainly because of that ridiculous idea. The sex makes the plot fall promptly to the ground. Instead they could have focused on the dialogue. There must have been conversation between all of the characters, but we mainly see them talking in smaller groups. Their talking though is as dead as Lear and the rest of the film.The King Is Alive still is not the worst Danish dogme '95 movie yet. But comparing it to the most recent of the homegrown dogme '95 films Italiensk for begyndere by Lone Scherfig, this one fails badly. It is not a good film. It is a bad one. But it is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Razor sharp, original and a little disturbing. Excellence in Dogme95' stile direction.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A original and quite disturbing look at human psychology in a terrene rather different from what we are used to. It is rare that one can go ahead and call a film genius but in this instance it is not difficult. I have never seen a film which in such a simple manor built very strong character development, but this is what leads me to the location. Simple, visually stunning and to think about there seclusion from reality leaves you with only them. Which is why they are developed so well. They are raw and real to life each going through there own trials and tribulations.The basis story is while a bus is driving through the desert with tourists, it takes a very inconvenient wrong turn. they end up deep in the desert. Watching them fall deep into hell if fascinating. The conclusion to this film is extremely powerful and without any doubt will stay memorable for a long time. Seeing how powerful the desert is against us is excellent and seeing King Lear being recited within is quite unbelievable. In conclusion the deserts power and symbolism which was taken for granted is more powerful than our education and lifestyles.Kristian Levring directed this project fantastically and even though Dogme95' ended around 6 years ago I would like to see him take more stylistic choices. "},{"Title":"anything new here?","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remain unimpressed, worried, and confused about  Dogma. Is there anything fresh being done here? As for the existential possibilities of a group stranded together in unfamiliar, perhaps threatening conditions; as for the warped-mirroring of theatre and life; and as for disjointed filming and bumpy cameras -- please, don't anyone get their hopes up that there's anything revealing, glimmering, or  meaningful here. The film takes a small view of human nature, yet there is one character, the native who watches and narrates, who seems to have a genuine eye. Why couldn't this have been the film- maker's eye?  Perhaps ancient cultures are just not Dogmatic enough for this postmodern world. I am only glad that the film-makers had room in their hearts for this character. "},{"Title":"A consuming well acted film.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot pretend to understand all the subtleties of the film as I am sure they are tied metaphorically to the subtext of King Lear, which I am only remotely familiar with. However, this film captured my attention and kept it. Wonderfully acted and refreshing casual with it's loose style, the human drama and character relationships are immediately captivating. There are some slow sections and bits where the movie strains belief, especially in the sudden decision to do a play, but overall a worthy experience for those, like myself, bored with shallow, explosion ridden, special-effects driven blockbusters. At any rate, this is one of those where you have to decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Weird for the sake of weird","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie is being televised as I write.I simply forgot how horrible an experience I had watching it in the cinema.The whole idea of the movie is flawed. The fact that intelligent Europeans and Americans stranded in the desert forget all concept of morals and civilization within a couple of days is laughable. The madness of Lord of the flies was longer in the making.Details that annoy are plenty. One is the single African god-like character that mysteriously survives the horrible climate and have done so for ages without losing his mind and he seems to have no supply-problems either. Ridiculous. So too is the rescue attempt from the tour guide, an Indiana Jones look-alike, whose rescue attempt ends in tragedy and death a 5 minute walk from the hut. Then there's the choice of Lear, imposed onto the group by a guru-like joke of an artist. He reminded me of my hippie high school art teacher.The worst thing though is Levrings choice of Lear. Obviously is an intellectual brain-fart. How that ever was going to be an pass-time is never clear to me.Positives are few and far between. It's a beautiful movie, but that's never important.High school intellectualism. Weird for the sake of weird. It's a complete waste of time unless you like thrashing useless art movies. "},{"Title":"Dogme is Theatre","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really like this film. I'd come sense that many people dislike the phenomenon Dogme, especially this one. When I first heard about the plot and the story I thought it sounded too trivial, but I must say, this film is so much more than the frame. The ability to make people this cruel, and making us believe it, is fantastic, it's like watching Dogville or different Second War films. That's why Dogme is so fantastic. It's the acting which is in focus, not special effects and speed. Dogme gives the actors more freedom to develop their characters (like they do in theater). This tragic story, makes us questioning the humanity of the general human mind, and makes our ideals crack - just like the story of King Lear. I love this film. "}{"Title":"Pretentious Junk","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No, it's not the worst movie I've ever seen. That honor still goes to a dreadful piece about Van Gogh materializing in present-day L.A. (Nothing I see will ever be as bad as that film.) But this is right up there in the Stinkeroo Hall of Fame.POSSIBLE SPOILEROK, we're not supposed to take the story literally? So it doesn't matter that they stand out in the desert sun learning lines, instead of taking all the necessary precautions to fight for survival? Fine. Except that the film doesn't work as some artistic metaphor on the human condition either.There is no consistent, logical relationship among the film characters themselves, or between each person and the part they're assigned to play. There's no there there.We may despise mindless action films, or predictably plotted suspense/fantasy films. But there is truly nothing worse than the person who hides an inability to create coherent themes and logical stories behind the aura of experimental art. "},{"Title":"Tedious and morose","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Imagine a GILLIGAN'S ISLAND set in the African desert in modern times. Add people nowhere near as jaunty as the Skipper or Marianne--and enough angst to fill a German psychiatrist's office. Throw in a plot that manages to be interesting only episodically and literary parallelism that never delves deeply enough to truly satisfy. Season with a truly morose topic that's been exploited since the first world travelers found themselves very, very lost.If THE KING IS ALIVE weren't a product of the reigning czars du jour of Dogme 95, would this film be garnering as much attention? Dogme 95 is to Hollywood as Danish modern is to rococo. A byproduct of digital technology, this Scandinavian movement seeks--quite dogmatically--to strip away artificiality in film-making, by using more natural elements and returning to the essence of storytelling. PEARL HARBOR, for instance, is the Dogme Antichrist.Director/co-author Kristian Levring's saga ponders interpersonal relations and human nature when placed under the fire of a life-threatening situation. Eleven people aboard a bus riding through the Namibian sand dunes suddenly find themselves stranded in the remains of an abandoned town. An African local who does not speak their language serves as observer and narrator (whose insights are among the film's most trenchant). As the strongest heads off for a five-day walk to the nearest village, the others stay behind, surviving on dented-canned carrots and circumambulating their likely future as vulture chow. Former thespian Henry decides that this rather unappealing crew needs a diversion, and hand-writes KING LEAR from memory. He assigns roles, and the group passes many days learning lines and rehearsing, in an effort to divert their attention from the seemingly inevitable.Gradually the cast begins to lose it, and the savageries of their nature&#151;or, William Golding might say, human nature&#151;begin to surface. If you've ever seen LORD OF THE FLIES, you know that these things can get ugly, that being in a lifeboat situation can turn even Mother Teresa into the PMSing termagant of Calcutta.The film was shot using an international ensemble of American, English, French and South African actors, who, the Dogme dogma dictates, develop themselves and their roles quite organically. THE KING was also filmed chronologically, adding a sense of realism to the ever-increasing desperation of its characters. After up to three hand-held cameras shot in digital, results were transferred to 35mm film.The performance that compels most comes from Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays a boho Pop Tart trying to bolster the spirits of the group in any and every way she can. Henry (David Bradley) is another finely played character, whose passion for his life's work ultimately saves the gang from utter despair. It's hard to feel too sorry for the others&#151;cruel wives and their oafish husbands, hirsute old womanizers, sulky French intellectuals, wealthy men who have more important places to be than marooned in the Namibian desert. Beckett might hate this question, but why is this group riding a bus together through remote Africa in the first place? Life-threatening morbidity! Utter despair rendered in graphic detail! A relentlessly tedious pace! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A busload of European tourists, stranded in a deserted mining town in an African desert, attempt to perform Shakespeare's KING LEAR as they struggle to survive and stay sane.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was inspired to write this because the other review was so dismissive of the film.  The set-up may be contrived, but I found Levring's film compelling, visually inventive, richly atmospheric, and often surprising.  The relationships among the characters drew me in and the performances were gripping.  All told, the film provides an inspiring example of the Dogma approach to filmmaking that ventures beyond the formulaic Hollywood mold. Props to Levring and the actors! "},{"Title":"Wake Up, Time to Die","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Woman in the Dunes' meets `French Lieutenant's Woman' meets `Strangers in Good Company.'Films about film ideas are generally dreary affairs, engaging more on an intellectual level than the visceral world that is film's strength. Superficially, this film falls into that category with the `dogma' bit as a seemingly political statement. In order to support it, we have what appears to be an ordinary kind of genre story (damaged people stranded in some way, with the resulting scrapes and dents). Judged on this grounds, this film is a failure the dynamics among the characters just don't engage us by themselves.But a dogma film is supposed to not be a genre film, so what gives? Perhaps genres are impossible to avoid. Perhaps this film intends something different to be an exploration of acting and representation on screen. I take it as that. Although the filmmaker insists that the selection of `King Lear' is an offhand one, I do not believe him. `Lear' is all about the eye, and whether perceptions can be trusted, and what sort of hidden demons lurk on that road between the writer's and viewer's minds.It is the basis of a similar `dogma'-like experiment in music John and Yoko's `Revolution #9,' Playing precisely the same role there though not so explicit as here.Hundreds of films in the past couple years deal in some way with the merger of actor and character, and the conflating of the experience you see and another you see created (the film within). I have a database on these -- you'd be surprised how common is the notion. But among these -- and going back in time somewhat -- one of the most interesting along the dogma lines is Godard's `King Lear,' a truly amazing film. It is quoted here in a few places.The key point is that the `best' theater is close to the chaos of life, out of which the viewer can shape his own narrative based on their own demons. My narrative for this film is centered on the man who plays the King here, Brion James. He played Leon in `Blade Runner,' the intellectual of the four targeted (bladed) replicants. That film is similarly about seemingly self-generated impressions. I had it from Dick in the seventies that his story (and a couple others) was inspired by `Lear' and `Tempest,' precisely because of this untrusted, constructed memory thing.In `Lear' of course, the King dies -- and with him we are meant to think -- dies the bending of reality that he carried about with him, screwing up all that came close. But in the film, the King stays alive, which I take to be the point we never escape the perturbing lens of film. In `real' life of course, Brion died right after filming this. In the film, he merely suffers delirium and is replaced by the actor/writer/director of the play. That makes sense.Jennifer Jason Leigh takes on the Cordelia role, the one where Godard placed Molly Ringwald! Ms Leigh is among those actresses whose appeal is in her raw commitment. She doesn't work, she completely subordinates herself, just exactly like the sexual `performance' we see here. It's an annoying habit of these young filmmakers to pack irony into every crevice, so she plays the one character in Lear that is incapable of just this commitment to artifice. That childish insistence on the part of Levring (and so many others) drags the whole affair down a couple notches from being worth watching. Oh well.The surrogate for the filmmaker is played by David Bradley, who we have recently seen in a role deliberately taken from Lear in the Harry Potter 2 spectacle as the groundskeeper and his magically petrified cat -- petrified because of the reflection it saw. Flibbertegibbit!Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Artists are alive, too -- dogmas to the contrary.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A ragtag collection of Western tourists in Africa suffer the misfortune of their plane breaking down, so they're compelled to hop on a bus to travel across the Namibian desert to reach the nearest jumping-off point back to civilization. Not surprisingly, the driver's compass ends up not working, and they find themselves way off course, coming to a stop at a deserted ghost-town that had been a barracks during the fighting in WWII. They find some kerosene (useless in terms of re-filling the tank of their bus), a storage room full of half-poisoned carrots in tin cans, and a native hermit who views them with indifference. The one fellow amongst them who appears to have something on the ball in terms of survivalist techniques goes off to get help. They are to remove the tires from the bus and burn them if he's not back in five days hopefully, someone will see the black smoke.Does this sound interesting? Well, sure, even if it sounds a lot like *The Flight of the Phoenix* or any number of films in the deserted island genre. Which is why it's surprising that *The King Is Alive* is Number 4 (if anyone is still counting) in the ongoing Dogma 95 series, which, if I remember that ridiculous Dogma 95 Vow of Chastity correctly, proclaimed that genre films are strictly verboten. Oops. Well, anyway, you can tell it's gonna try and be all arty and stuff in order to compensate for the fact that it's a genre flick. Yep, it doesn't take long for one member of the group, a wizened old stage actor, to start scribbling down -- from memory! -- the various roles from *King Lear* on, well, rolls of paper. The idea is that performing the play will help while away the time. All of which really goes against the absconded survivalist's advice to stay optimistic (didn't the old actor ever do a dinner-theater performance of *The Odd Couple* just once in his life?), quite apart from such an activity being a colossal waste of precious time and energy.This movie is so bad I really don't know how to continue. It's so monumentally stupid, so full of absurd situations and characters that it beggars rational criticism. It may be a timely moment to offer Full Disclosure I despise this so-called Danish film movement to an almost irrational degree. I think my face even turns slightly red at the mere mention of Dogma 95. First of all, if the name of your movement has the word dogma in the title, you've already lost me; secondly, in this particular instance, the movement's insistence on the abnegation of individual artistic achievement is a recipe for arch hypocrisy when you consider that the filmmakers here are plundering one of the greatest works of the greatest INDIVIDUAL writer who ever lived. (But, doubtless, the Dogma crowd believes the Works of Shakespeare were actually penned by a consortium of Elizabethan bigwigs like the Earl of Oxford, Francis Bacon, Walter Raleigh, and the Queen Herself.)Hell, I may have forgiven the whole enterprise if it had played the scenario for farcical purposes (attacking the precious Dogma -- now THAT would be subversive!). But the movie takes itself very seriously, and soon devolves into the clichés attendant upon the genre in which it unmistakably belongs people turning against each other; the men growing beards; the inevitable deaths of a few of the principal actors. All with a straight face. Is this the promised end? Well, not quite we also have to endure the abysmal transfer of DV. For this is another Rule in the Dogma 95 Vow of Chastity hand-held digital video only. Some friendly advice to the Danes your movement is in trouble when your finished product has worse visual quality than an average high-school graduation home video. Professionalism belongs in an artist's bag of tricks, right alongside his own individuality. Artisan and artist are kindred words, Mr. von Trier not every jackass with a $100 hand-held can be a filmmaker. Pass it on. And by the way allow your Dogma directors to be credited for their films, while you're at it. The fact that the writer of *The King Is Alive* receives credit, while the guy (or girl) actually filming it doesn't, is just a wee bit hypocritical. Contemptible. 1 star out of 10. "},{"Title":"The king may be alive -","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  - but the movie is deader'n a doornail.  It reminded me of The Claim, another darling of some of our local newspaper critics.  Both films are pretentious and dull, with no characters to care about, and nothing much to say.  (The Claim, I guess, is saying that if you sell your wife and baby, you'll feel bad about it later even if you've made a lot of money in the interim.  Well, duhhh!)  The King is Alive is apparently saying that bus drivers not only navigate by compass in the desert, but are stupid enough not to notice that their compasses haven't moved a fraction of an inch over several score miles.  It is also saying people waiting around for rescue on the desert are going to get dirty, grow beards and get upset, which I already knew.  What I didn't know, was that people in such situations will engage in amateur theatrics.  Really?  Okay, but so what?A camera placed within five inches of the character's face may be of interest to a dermatologist, but brother, dialogue and body language reveals character, not extreme close ups.I couldn't make it to the end of The King is Alive.  I left as soon as one of the characters, presented as thirst-crazed and exhausted before he finds the body of the would be rescuer who set off several days before, manages to stroll back to the group somehow refreshed.Neither film maker seems to have taken to heart the concept of shot-continuity.  Come on guys, you MUST have heard of it in film-making 101.  Or aren't they teaching that anymore?If this is Danish Dagme, I'll take Dagmar.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious, Dreary, Ugly and Boring -- With Unlikable Characters","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a fan of survival films, especially desert survival films like Flight of the Pheonix and Sands of the Kalahari. Other films could partially fit this description as well, such as Lawrence of Arabia, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Sahara, The English Patient and even the recent Mummy flicks.The King is Alive is such a film. A bunch of travelers get stuck in the desolate Namibian desert and conduct Shakespeare's play King Lear to pass the time and keep their sanity.The King is Alive is a Dogme 95 film wherein the director is bound by various restrictions, such as actual locations, natural light, no soundtrack or special effects. This is not necessarily a bad thing; in fact, it could well lend a gritty realism to the picture.Unfortunately The King is Alive is a colossal bore. The characters are all incredibly unlikable; the story is dreary, slow and boring. The reenactment of King Lear comes across unbelievable and pretentious. The film basically shows the WORST in humanity and hence comes across negative, hopeless and pessimistic. Despite the beautiful Namibian photography, this is a very UGLY film.Want proof? One girl fatally poisons another woman for no important reason and an aging man literally urinates on a dying woman (!!). Need I say more? Needless to say, if you're looking for a hope-affirming film that will testify to the endurance, greatness and triumph of the human spirit, this is not it.I'm not suggesting that all films have to be optimistic in nature, after all, I'm a fan of some fairly solemn films (e.g. Apocalypse Now, Runaway Train), but this is ridiculous. I'd hate to meet the screenwriter because, whoever it is, he or she must be a very UGLY person.I give one star for the gorgeous cinematography, half a star for Jennifer Jason Leigh, the only remotely likable person, and half a star for the gritty realism.I saw the film twice and literally threw it away after the second viewing. Why not sell it or give it away? Because it's morally irresponsible to pass along garbage.Oh, by the way, the end credits rip-off the credits sequence of Apocalypse Now. Perhaps the director felt he had an equally great film on his hands. Not even close. "},{"Title":"'Pablo Picasso","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Somewhere along the line this strange and moody exercise in acting slipped from bathos into pathos. Individual performances saved the rather strained plot line from becoming a complete washout, and, although the mid-section tended to drag, THE KING IS ALIVE evolves into a moving and poignant film. At face value, a disparate group of tourist stranded in the Namibian desert who decide to stage Shakespeare's King Lear to take their mind off of their dilemma sounds more like farce than drama. This film demonstrates how Dogme 95 avant-garde film making can elevate an absurd or ridiculous premise to something which might be considered a work of art. "},{"Title":"Intellectual horror movie","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only Dogma movie at the 2000 Cannes film festival, The King is Alive is, like all Dogmas, pumped with negative energy and pessimism, yet remains strangely humorous and always entertaining. It tells the story of a bus breakdown in the North African desert, and the decent into lunacy of the already-eccentric group of passengers, who eventually decide to put on an absurd production of King Lear to pass the time.Admittedly, the injection of Shakespeare feels like something of a stunt, and some dissenters even complained that the desert was too unfairly photogenic for the Dogma principals. But The King is Alive grows horrific on its own terms, like a sophisticated Blair Witch Project but without an evil other for them (or us) to run away from.The offbeat cast includes Jennifer Jason Leigh, Bruce Davison, the great David Bradley, the late Brion James, and Janet McTeer who, as a neurotic American, vulgarizes her way through a killer scene where she demands to know about her husband's taste in women.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant and yet cruel tale of the human condition by the words of Shakespeare's King Lear.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brilliant and yet cruel tale of the human condition by the words of Shakespeare's King Lear. The true nature of this film is in the relationship between the rawness of the desert and the fragility of the social being. Amazingly, the spirit of the desert witnesses the demise of a group of people who are facing death, acting Shakespeare to deceive it and ironically get deceived by fate itself at the end. The realistic notion, given by hand-held camera as well by the wonderful colors captured, will dive one's in the crucial themes of the movie death, love and hope.  "}{"Title":"King is Alive is hattest movie alive","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow.  I was speechless after seeing this movie for the first time (a feeling I still experience even after almost a dozen viewings).  I've never seen such an eloquent, spellbinding, and above all logical, presnetation of King Lear.  Truly the best setting for such a play is by a broken down bus in a desert.The first thing that struck me about the film was the unsurpassed clarity of the footage.  Even in dark scenes around the campfire everyone's face is perfectly in focus and the viewer feels he is with this poor unfortunate bus travelers in where ever it was they got stuck.  The well placed cut aways of the lost traveler in the desert enhance the story-telling experience.Sike, this movie sunks.  "},{"Title":"this movie's about the endurance of the human spirit","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" if you're in the mood for a flick with some substance to it, go rent 'the king is alive.' you will not be disappointed! this movie has excellent writing, superb acting, and has a unique video-like cinematography that adds to the grittiness of the picture.when i saw this last month, i was expecting just another survival movie. and, i have to admit, in the first 10 minutes i was a bit put off by the low-budget look of it. if this happens to you, just give it 10 minutes, the writing and the characters will reel you in.without spoiling it, this movie is about a group of perfect strangers who get stranded, out in the middle of the African desert. in order to keep their spirits up, they prepare to put on Shakespeares' King Lear.this is an uplifting movie about the strength of the human spirit. I highly recommend it.-pran "},{"Title":"Well acted dark tale of people waiting to be rescued","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the Dogme 95, this is the story of a bus load of people who end up lost in the African desert thanks to a non-functioning compass. Stranded at a deserted mining camp the group decides to put on a production of King Lear to pass the time. Tempers and passions flair as emotions become raw and exposed in the burning sun.As with all Dogme films this is low tech and in your face. The people and the emotion are the story. These are films that allow actors to show you how good they are. These are also films that can irritate the hell out of you because very often they come across as extremely contrived. This film is an example of both being a really good actors showcase and being contrived.The problem for me with this film is that at the outset I didn't care about anyone. I found the group to be a bunch of high maintenance people who are now in a situation where they can whine some more. The feeling lessened as time went on and things begin to happen, but it took awhile. I think part of the problem was that I disliked the set up, which seemed far too artificial, though certainly it's plausible.I also wasn't that keen on how some of the film was shot. Like all Dogme 95 films its shot using only hand held cameras so the film has an odd feel at times. It mimics, as some people have pointed out, the look one would get if one had shot the film using a camcorder, which lends a sense of being an actual record, but at the same time it seems careless and jarring, and less than natural, despite the fact it strives to be.I liked this film. I didn't love it. I think I would have liked it more if I had come in a few minutes late and could have thought that I missed something. It's a rather bleak film with some people I didn't care for. It's a hard film to warm up to for that reason. If you're interested in an off beat dark drama I'd give this a try, though I would suggest you weigh your decision against how you feel about any previous Dogme films you've seen.6 out of 10 (your mileage may vary) "},{"Title":"Pull off your veil (if you can), turn off your TV (very difficult to do) and exit Plato's Cave","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film isn't for everyone. It is the second dogma film that I have seen, and if this is any indication of the quality of this movement then forget Hollywood affectations, this is where the action is. There are some wonderful moments in this film. Time seems to stop, and exists only within the film. These moments are existential moments that lead us closer to recesses of our collective humanity and inhumanity in real time than anything else I have ever seen on screen.These kind of films to me reveal the illusion (it happens so rarely) that the big, fat, overweight, overwrought, pompous emperor that goes by the name of Hollywood (who will have a heart attack in a few years or more likely give the culture one) really is naked, with mammon and everybody else in line grovelling at his feet.Pull off your veil (if you can), turn off your TV (very difficult to do) exit Plato's cave, and start watching Dogma films if you can. When you come back out of the light, everyone will call you crazy, of course, and most everyone else will agree, that is, if they are not totally enraged by the luminance and the light, then watch out! Or completely baffled by it, as a lot of people are. Just read some of these reviews.This is real drama! Dogma is truly where the value is. "},{"Title":"Dogme doo-doo is better than Hollywood's Diamonds","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is flawed, there is no question.But it's highest moments soar high above anything that the film making corporations could hope to attain.See it if you're not afraid to see the best and worst of humanity, in a story told by someone who makes films for adults. "},{"Title":"Cordelia  ....","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, they sent it on TV between midnight and 200 am - it seems like the right time to watch it, and then go to bed afterwards ...No, it was not really living up to my expectations. I think the Dogma concept is good, because the film then gets closer to what's really happening between the involved characters when you cut all the unnecessary effects and mood-making music out. But then again, this concept requires some interesting action between the characters.I cannot say, that I know King Lear (the Shakespeare version) very well, if I had known the play, I would probably have been able to predict much of the film.Well, a crisis can bring the best and worst sides of a character on display - and we certainly see some bad sides. Oh yes, the paint of civilisation and culture can be very thin, and behind this paint you may find an animal.If you then compare it with Italiensk for begyndere (Italian for beginners) or Mifunes sidste sang (Mifune's last song), you see the same but opposite thing A crisis can certainly bring people to view their life in a more constructive way. And if you dare do, you may win.When the film had ended, I thought to myself Oh that's why I haven't seen it before ... The film has its own beauty. The quality of the work of the cameraman, actors, etc is good. But the script could need something more. A plot maybe wouldn't hurt. "},{"Title":"Promises much more than it delivers","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see TKIA with high expectations, which might have influence on my opinion on it. I have seen all of the Dogme films, and this TKIA, is by far the worst. The story intertwines with themes from Shakespeare's play King Lear, but never succeeds in capturing the audience and making them care. The directing of the actors is very loose, even for Dogme style movies, and results in poor undefinable acting. The story lacks any dynamics whatsoever, and I lost interest very shortly. There are some scenes in the film which are there to shock the viewer, but I don't think they enhanced the story at all. Mifunes sidste sang and Festen are both Dogmefilms that proved to be well directed, and had good storylines, so I shall look forward to better Dogmefilms in the future. Perhaps Aake Sandgren's An Invisible Man-Dogme 6 will prove to lift the quality again. For he is, like Vinterberg and S.K. Jacobsen a skilled and educated director. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst?","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. Can somebody please explain the plot of this movie to me? Yes, I know the bus ran out of gas in the middle of the desert, after the driver never noticed that his compass wasn't functioning, but what then? And how did it end? Maybe I'm to stupid to understand this movie, but to me it was an absolute waste of time.My recommendation? Do not bother, there are far better movies to be seen. This movie ranks with my other all time low-low's (Going overboard - Adam Sandler and Fire on the Amazon - Sandra Bullock) "},{"Title":"A colossal waste of talent","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The King is Alive is a flawed and contrived mess of a movie which comes off like a self indulgent auteur's excuse to transport a bunch of actors to a Godforsaken Namibian desert where he can play major-Dogme-domo and film his selfishly conceived, silly, overwrought drama with utter disregard for the real forces of human nature, market appeal, common sense, and even good art. In other words this is one dumbassed flick and if you don't believe that, your penance is watching it.  Only for filmheads, critics, dilettantes, and the like. (D) "}]