[{"Title":"Not excellent, but often funny","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence is often trusty in the world of comedy.  Maybe I'm just overcoming his awful Blue Streak, but I felt this comedy--though saggy at times--was quite funny.  The premise is undoubtedly implausible.  How's a whole neighborhood going to believe that this undercover cop with a latex body that looks somewhat like Big Momma is actually Big Momma?  There's a lot of disbelief to suspend.  But the gags often worked and I can say I laughed about 75 percent of the time.  Some are predictable, like when Big Momma takes a karate class and starts beating the teacher--played by Anthony Anderson--to a pulp, but they still work due to the way they're handled.  And Lawrence turns in yet another fine comic performance, with a script that could've used a rewrite but was nowhere near as bad as the crackerjack script he had to work with in Blue Streak.  The talented comic helps keep the movie togehter, with a little assistance from the supporting cast.  Paul Giamatti, who was great as Pig Vomit in the acclaimed Private Parts, is funny as Lawrence's partner.  We also have Me Myself and Irene's Anthony Anderson and Cedric the Entertainer.  The plot is chaotic, sometimes predictable, and becomes more and more implausible by the minute but the comedy works and because of that we're able to excuse the script's shortcomings.  Big Momma doesn't deliver the biggest laughs, but it's good, fun entertainment on a lonely weekday afternoon.  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Funnier Than I Thought It Might Be","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was a surprisingly good comedy, despite the predictability of it and the typically-sappy Hollywood ending. Nevertheless, this film has a bunch of laugh- out-loud scenes and jokes and Martin Lawrence is a likable guy. He has the ability to make us laugh just by making goofy faces. His best were when he was trapped in the bathroom behind the shower curtain when the real Big Momma (Ella Mitchell) was taking a dump a few feet away! The looks of Lawrence's face during that period were hilarious! Lawrence eventually dresses as a big fat woman and provides laughs doing so. Ever since the early days of television and Milton Berle, people have laughed at men dressing up imitating women. Pretending to be a 300-pound woman makes it even funnier.Throw in a pretty female lead (Nia Long) and a little drama to go along with the yuks and it winds up being a decent movie. "},{"Title":"Not Nearly As Bad As I Feared","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why did I rent this movie? I don't really appreciate Martin Lawrence, not his old TV show nor his stand-up routine. But I did rent it nonetheless, fearing that I'd wasted my $2.99 after returning home.My fears were ungrounded. This movie is actually funny, hysterically so in a few scenes. Not to mislead the reader, I have to state that this movie is nothing great; it's actually just a trifle. Just suspend all belief as Lawrence portrays an FBI agent who dons a fat-suit in order to impersonate the 350-pound aunt of the lovely young suspect Lawrence and his partner are tailing. Of course, no one, not even the aunt's suitor, can tell the difference. If you can get by this absurd premise, Big Momma's House contains some really rib-tickling slapstick. When Lawrence, while impersonating Big Mama, is required to mid-wife a birth...that scene alone is worth the $2.99.  "},{"Title":"Script merely serves as a vehicle for Big Momma's not-so-hilarious antics and escapades","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Think of a Mrs. Doubtfire meets the Nutty Professor hybrid, with a smattering of Kindergarten Cop thrown in for good measure, and you've pretty much got Big Momma's House.  Except the former three are all reasonable films, and, unfortunately, Big Momma's House just isn't.When dangerous convict Howard Laster (Terrence Dashon) escapes from prison, undercover cop Malcolm (Martin Lawrence) is sent with fellow FBI agent John (Paul Giamatti) to track down Laster's ex-girlfriend Sherry (Nia Long), in the hope of luring the armed robber back in the direction of the slammer. This involves staking out the house of Sherry's Southern grandmother 'Big Momma', but when the latter leaves town Malcolm feels compelled to take on her guise, with the help of a few prosthetics and some extra padding. Things take a complicated turn, however, when Malcolm begins to fall for the beautiful, yet unknowing, Sherry.The film bounds along like an enthusiastic dog, with the script acting as little more than a vehicle for Big Momma's 'hilarious' antics and various escapades.  The action often degenerates into uninspired gross-out comedy and toilet humour as Big Momma stumbles from one rib-tickling predicament to the next, with Malcolm often only being saved by the former's reputation as a lovable and outlandish character.  Big Momma attends a self-defence class. Big Momma has nasty moments on the toilet.  Big Momma plays basketball. And Big Momma delivers a baby.  Cue many moments of roll-in-the-aisles hilarity.  Or not.Unfortunately, convict Howard is soon forgotten as the film focuses almost solely on Lawrence, and seriously begins to grate as Big Momma's Southern screeches make up about 95% of the dialogue.  The slowly developing romance between Malcolm and Sherry is also guaranteed to make audiences cringe with it's predictability.Lawrence and Giamatti make the best of a bad job, although the audience are left wondering exactly why they took on the roles in the first place, whilst Dashon is convincing as Evil Criminal on the Loose.  Predictably, all characters are shockingly two-dimensional, but to be fair, Big Momma's House does at least generate some laughs along the way.It is difficult to see specifically who this film is aimed at, but there must be some attraction, judging by a high-grossing opening weekend in the States.  However, non-existent plot and character development will ensure that many of the audience leave disappointed.  Only to be seen by those who know what they're letting themselves in for. "},{"Title":"Big Momma's Funhouse","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martin Lawrence goes undercover in a suburb of Georgia as an overweight southern grandmother in Big Momma's House. It's up there with Black Knight and Blue Streak as a ridiculous, predictable and stupid yet charmingly funny Martin Lawrence vehicle. Some of the dialog is almost non-sensical and seems to rely on Martin Lawrence's improvisational, uh... skills. Of course, why nobody recognizes that their friend/mother (Big Momma) is being impersonated horribly, I don't know. But that sort of adds to the movie I guess.The story here doesn't matter that much. Really, it doesn't. Paul Giamatti plays the signature goofy white partner, who occasionally gets pushed around by the neighborhood locals to much comedic success (it is actually pretty funny, if predictable, like everything else here). Nia Long reprises her typical role as the love interest, and then a bunch of goofy physical stunts are taken from Mrs. Doubtfire and given a slightly different flair -- playing on southern black stereotypes (deep fried home cooking, going to church, etc.).This movie is cheesy and ridiculous. I don't think you even need to watch the whole thing, nor watch it twice (though there is a sequel, and seeing that would basically be watching this movie twice). But for what it is, it's pretty goofy and entertaining.4.5 "},{"Title":"A Boisterous but Barely Original Drag Comedy Thriller","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" J. Edgar Hoover would spin in his grave if he saw how the Federal Bureau of Investigation nabs their nemesis in director Raja Gosnell's Big Mama's House. This boisterous but barely original drag comedy thriller casts comedian Martin Lawrence as a streetwise, gung ho FBI agent who disguises himself as a rambunctious 325-pound African-American grandmother in Georgia so he can capture an escaped murderer out to recover $2-million in missing loot from a bank robbery. Although not nearly as exciting as Blue Streak, Big Momma's House is a hundred times funnier. When Martin Lawrence transforms himself with prosthetics and padding into obese grandmother Hattie May Pierce, Big Momma's House makes up for all its lapses in logic with loads (and lards) of laughter.When Sherry Pierce (Nia Long of Soul Food) learns that her deadly ex-boyfriend, convicted bank robber Lester Vesco (suave Terrence Howard of Pride), has bluffed his way out of prison and is on the prowl, she packs up her young son Trent (Jascha Washington of Three Strikes), and they leave Los Angeles. Lester wants to retrieve the $2-million in cash that he stole from the bank. The authorities have suspected for a long time that Sherry may have helped him, but because they never found the loot they have left her alone. Meanwhile, the FBI has anticipated Sherry's move to contact her grandmother in Cartersville, Georgia, so they dispatch agents Malcolm Turner (Martin Lawrence) and his white partner John (Paul Giamatti of Sideways) to set up an around-the-clock surveillance on Hattie May Pierce (Ella Mitchell of Lord Shango). Just as Sherry rolls into town, Hattie May rolls out to tend a sick friend. Desperately, afraid they will lose their only chance to catch Lester, Malcolm mimics Big Momma on the phone and encourages Sherry to visit her. Feverishly, Malcolm and John whip together an unconvincing replica of Hattie May that Malcolm wears to hoodwink the gullible Sherry.Martin Lawrence is the whole show in Big Momma's House. If you love Lawrence (toned to a PG-13 rating), you'll laugh your ribs raw at his amusing antics. Most of Big Momma's humor springs from her rotund physique. The bathroom humor may offend some, but the scene where Malcolm's Hattie May delivers a baby with Cisco and a toilet plunger is alone worth watching. Big Momma proves that a crowd-pleasing comedy need not bow to logic. Hattie May on the basketball court trouncing two tough street kids at hoops; defeating a bumbling self-defense instructor; and give a sermon in church is funny but not for a moment believable. Martin Lawrence's energetic performance (as Martin again) overshadows these glaring mistakes.Never Been Kissed director Raja Gosnell milks Big Momma's House strictly for laughs. Some scenes will split your sides if you aren't careful. Gosnell refuses to indulge himself on the action scenes. Further, he gives short shrift to Terrence Howard's felonious escapee. Howard hovers on the periphery but never makes a deep impression. Although the Feds classify Lester as a cold-blooded killer, he spares a rent-a-cop's life. Repeatedly, Lester embraces adversaries with uncharacteristic charity. As a result, Big Momma emerges as a slick, sympathetic, one dimensional screwball comedy with only the stretch marks of serious drama. No antagonism burns like a fuse between Lester and Malcolm, and their showdown brawl is absurdly brief. Ostensibly, since this lackluster villain poses a minimal threat to either heroine or hero, the film lacks any dramatic catharsis. At best, as a director, Gosnell is efficient; at worst, he is a hack. Happily, he keeps this formulaic fracas moving at a brisk clip and confines it to a trim 97 minutes.The romance between Malcolm and Sherry sputters until he dons latex thighs and flour sack breasts. They make a generic couple, and their romance seems like supplemental fodder to flesh. Of course, while it adds depth, the filmmakers fail to make something out of it. Moreover, Malcolm breaks character, showing an interest in Sherry. John warns Malcolm that he is treading thin ice in his dealings with Sherry. For somebody who refused to be tied-down to a family, Malcolm appears hell-bent on courting Sherry and impressing Trent. Naturally, since Malcolm loves Sherry, any doubts in anybody's mind about the issue of Sherry's guilt should disappear. Any relationship with a character other than Big Momma, however, takes second place, so Malcolm lusts after Sherry in disguise. Sounds rather perverted, doesn't it? The flashlight scene in bed between them (prominently featured in the film's trailers) gets a chuckle.Clearly, scenarists Darryl (Soldier Boyz) Quarles and Don Rhymer derived inspiration for Big Momma's House from cross-dressing cinematic classics, such as Chris Columbus' Mrs. Doubtfire (1993), Billy Wilder's Some Like It Hot (1959), and Sydney Pollack's Toostie (1982) as well as romantic shoot'em ups like John Badham's Stakeout (1987) and F. Gary Gray's Set It Off (1996). Like the Richard Dreyfuss cop in Stakeout, Malcolm is determined to help Sherry, even if it intrudes on his ethics. Sherry's relationship with a notorious bank robber recalls a similar conflict in Vivica A. Fox's relationship with a bank robber and her subsequent firing in Set It Off. Sadly, despite the best efforts of Quarles and Rhymer, Big Momma's House amounts to little more than a series of cleverly staged vignettes a la Flip Wilson's Geraldine of Lawrence dodging into and out of character as a mammoth matriarch. Quarles and Rhymer stretch Big Momma beyond the bounds of anybody's credibility to accommodate some of the most absurd premises. A blind man could easily distinguish Martin's Hattie May from Ella Mitchell's Hattie May. Ella is bigger than Martin. Essentially, the filmmakers ask us to believe that Big Momma's lifelong friends would not be able to spot an imposter on the spot.Again, if you hate Martin Lawrence, don't enter Big Momma's House. Despite all of the obvious narrative flaws, especially in its flaky logic, Martin Lawrence's wide-eyed, rude humor and his prosthetic posturings redeem this crime comedy. "},{"Title":"average","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot is extremely stupid, but some of the comical elements are pretty decent. This is an example of one of those movies where everyone doesn't understand the humor, which may explain why some didn't like it. Not a great movie, but not necessarily unwatchable. 1/4 "},{"Title":"Moronic for sure, but hardly the devil's spawn.","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Momma's House is directed by Raja Gosnell, written by Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer, and stars Martin Lawrence, Paul Giamatti, Nia Long & Terrance Howard. Lawrence plays FBI Agent Malcolm Turner who goes undercover as Big Momma Hattie Mae Pierce (Ella Mitchell), so as to hopefully snare escaped convict Lester Vesco (Howard). Big Momma is the aunt of Vesco's ex-wife, Sherry (Long), who is on her way to Big Momma's to hide out after hearing of Lester's escape.In spite of baffling critics-and not finding many casual film viewers willing to say they enjoyed it! the film was a surprise hit and opened as the number two movie in North America. It went on to gross over $117 million at the box office and subsequently ensured that a sequel would follow down the line (it arrived in 2006). The film isn't pretending to be anything other than the mindless comedy it is. If viewed on those terms then it can be enjoyed. Sure some of the gags are puerile, and Lawrence is an acquired taste, tho his energy and comedy timing are first rate here. But it does work to a degree. It's been done better in the likes of Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire, and the plot, with it's boorish romantic strand, is merely an excuse for Big Momma to get into daft scrapes. Yet the action is nicely staged and the pace of the piece never sags. There's also fun to be had in watching Giamatti & Howard looking like they just know they should be doing better stuff than this!.Forgettable juvenile fluff for sure, but likable enough; in that brain at the door-bucket of popcorn-way. 6/10 "},{"Title":"An uneven comedy, but it has more laughs than I expected","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was in my early teens when this was released ten years ago, and I never heard of it at the time. In early 2006, I went to the theatre while this movie's sequel, Big Momma's House 2, was playing, but since I had never seen the original by this point and could see that the sequel was widely hated, it was obviously not the movie I was going to see. Instead, I went to see The Matador on that particular trip to the movie theatre. It took me over four years after that to get around to watching the original Big Momma's House, and just before seeing it, I had low expectations, thinking it would probably be a very unfunny comedy, even if it wasn't absolutely terrible. However, while it's unsurprisingly not that great, I did laugh.Malcolm Turner is an FBI agent who is very skilled in disguising himself for undercover operations. After it is announced that a murderer and robber named Lester Vesco has just escaped from prison, where he was serving his life sentence, Malcolm and fellow FBI agent John Maxwell are sent to catch him. The FBI believes that the criminal's ex-girlfriend, Sherry Pierce, was also involved in criminal activity, but they haven't been able to prove it. Malcolm and John go to the neighbourhood in Georgia where Sherry's morbidly obese grandmother, Hattie Mae Pierce (a.k.a. Big Momma) lives, and begin to spy on her. Sherry is on her way to her grandmother's house with her son, Trent, but before they arrive, Big Momma leaves town unexpectedly, so Malcolm decides to pose as the feisty elderly woman! He takes on her lifestyle while trying to get the truth from Sherry, and also finds himself falling for the criminal's ex-girlfriend! Before it is announced that Lester has escaped from prison and Malcolm and John go to spy on Big Momma's house, the film begins with the two FBI agents busting a dog fight, and I guess parts of this sequence are somewhat funny, but no more than that. The film continues to be mostly straight-faced after this, as we learn about the escaped prisoner, the two agents are sent on their mission, and Malcolm disguises himself as Big Momma. The early part where Malcolm has to hide in the shower while Big Momma defecates is memorable, but not in a good way. For a while, it didn't seem like I would be able to give Big Momma's House a rating higher than 5/10. I frequently snickered, but it didn't look like I would ever find any BIG laughs in the film. However, that eventually changed. While it's still not that consistent later on, it certainly can be funny with the things Malcolm has to do while in disguise, including a baby delivery. The scene with Sherry seeing Malcolm as himself and the FBI agent claiming to be a handyman is also a really funny part. The story and characters can also be interesting.This 2000 release is definitely not generally considered one of the great modern-day comedies, and after seeing it, I can understand why, but I've seen much worse excuses for comedy. I wouldn't have been too surprised if I had thought Big Momma's House was really lame when I watched it, but while I'm sure many people think it is, I can't say I do. It is uneven, but sometimes funny. Also, there isn't nearly as much juvenile toilet humour in the movie as that one defecation scene suggests! Martin Lawrence plays the lead role here. I haven't seen him in any other film and have only seen a bit of his stand-up comedy, so I'm not that familiar with his work, but think he does a pretty good job with his performance here. This film is a little cheesy and doesn't have the most original plot, and more thought could have been put into the ending as well, but if you want a silly, raunchy comedy, this particular one might work, at least in some parts. "},{"Title":"Offers exactly what we expect from this kind of movie; nothing new here. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Mamma's House offers exactly what you would expect in a comedy featuring Martin Lawrence dressing up as an old, grossly obese granny; this is a one-joke movie in which an undercover cop disguises himself as Big Mamma and participates in things we anticipate Big Mamma normally would not do. There are some big laughs involved with the size of the title character, as well as her with breasts, attitude, sexuality, and ignorance, but there are also some obvious audience pleasers that feel contrived. Although the make-up effects are astonishing and amusing, there are no surprises found within this material. We have already seen this film's punch line in better parodies like Some Like It Hot, Tootsie, and Mrs. Doubtfire. This movie is predictable, over-enthusiastic, and does not take off with its ideas.Martin Lawrence stars as a cop named Malcolm, who, with his partner John (Paul Giamatti), is assigned to investigate the jail bust of a convicted criminal named Laster (Terrence Dashon Howard). They suspect the murderer is after his ex-girlfriend, Sherry (Nia Long), and her son Trent (Jascha Washington), who may unknowingly own the stolen loot of a bank heist years ago. Sherry is somewhat aware of the danger she may be in, thus moves immediately to her relative's house, whom everyone calls Big Mamma (Ella Mitchell). Before Sherry arrives, however, Big Mamma leaves town for an engagement. John and Malcolm see potential involved with Big Mamma, thus they determine that having Malcolm go undercover as this character might originate information on Sherry's involvement with Laster's criminal actions. Martin Lawrence, reprising his Blue Streak character, is perfect for the fast talking Mamma in which he disguises himself. The actor is in nearly every scene and is basically what the movie structures upon one excessive comic situation after another featuring the concealed Malcolm participating in activities from karate class to a joyful church service and from the kitchen baking goodies to sleeping with the unknowing Sherry. Lawrence makes the movie succeed to the level that it does, however, his high spirits and willing energy only carry the film so far. It is only a matter of time before he wares out his welcome and becomes the only thing holding the story together. The film does not stay focused on the plot of Laster attempting to reach Sherry; if a comedy makes the misconception to take its plot seriously, then it requires consistence. Here, although the setup contains potential, the only tension involved is when Sherry will discover her Big Mamma is an undercover cop. Essentially the movie's story is just an excuse to have Martin Lawrence play a funny character who does funny things.The film's director is Raja Gosnell, whose Never Been Kissed and Home Alone 3 provided trifling laughs, just like Big Mamma's House does. In this film, he and screenwriters Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer attempt to do too much with too little like developing a romantic subplot that feels trite and predictable. No matter how much make-up or covering the filmmakers provide for their characters, beyond an occasional laugh there is simply nothing new here. "}{"Title":"Really tried too hard","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Once upon a time I did enjoy this film but not I have to ask myself what was I thinking watching this film?It goes to show how some comedy films actually look better on paper but this film didn't get the message because it has everything that should be ashamed of itself for.Well they try to have a serious plot with Terrence Howard playing the main villain and Martin Lawrence playing the protagonist however the film script really should have been review before ever getting a green light.Well I have to give it some decent points for trying to be creative the film just miss it mark. Some of the jokes in this film are just not that funny and it should have never been mention on film.The acting in this film is just about normal and it's hard to really say he gave a good performance or not but the film just look better on paper all together.I would say watch it if you're curious but other than that it's just not strong to get on DVDI give Big Momma's House an 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence as Big Momma in a Family Hit from the '90s","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martin Lawrence has many good comedies; I'm a large fan of his, large like Big Momma. Big Momma's House has tons of laughs and just as many feel good moments. It's a great family movie for the kids and all ages to enjoy. As people love to point out how bad and unfunny it is, they're overlooking just how strong a comedy premise it has, with Big Momma posing undercover in a huge woman's fat suit. Now, allow me to point out how bad the plot is; the bad plot gets in the way of Big Momma's House being a more all out comedy. It's no Mrs. Doubtfire, but it's still really good, and I won't point out how unfunny it is because it's not unfunny it's actually quite hilarious, especially for kids. Big Momma's House is a '90s classic. I love Martin Lawrence. I love Nia Long. Nia Long has a great name for her and she really adds to just how good and fun Big Momma's House is. Nia Long is so fine. I just thought that I would point that out, too. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Momma's House is nothing new or innovative, but it is a lot of fun and absolutely hilarious. Think Mrs. Doubtfire but with black humour. Typical of other disguise films of the early 2000's (like White Chicks), Big Momma's House certainly needs to be given the benefit of the doubt. Everyone knows there's something different about Big Momma, but nobody can tell the difference between Malcolm (FBI agent impersonating the southern voluptuous grandmother) and the real Big Momma. Of course, Malcolm falls for the girl who he's trying to incriminate. Of course there's going to be a happy ending and of course the bad guy is going to get caught. We all know that. There's no surprises. But Big Momma's House is absolutely hilarious and was a lot of fun to watch. Genuinely made me laugh out loud. I'd say it's up there for me in terms of comedy movies. "},{"Title":"Big Momma's Hoax.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Momma's House (2000) Dir Raja Gosnell / Cast Martin Lawrence, Paul Giamatti, Nia Long, Terrence Howard, Anthony Anderson A preview of what has been done before. Perhaps the best examples are Some Like It Hot and Tootsie. Title indicates authority as Martin Lawrence as a cop disguises himself as an overweight black woman in order to question a suspect. The real Big Momma has a sudden emergency leaving Lawrence and his partner to bug the house and stake out across the street. They await Nia Long who is fleeing from her boyfriend, an escape convict. Obvious outcome with pitiful comic situations such as the wig falling off Lawrence's head and every other woman apparently having wigs as well. Poor comic timing by director Raja Gosnell who made the superior yet formula driven Never Been Kissed the previous year. What he creates here is less entertaining than a hair gel commercial. Lawrence doesn't look like a female and his voice impersonation is over the top. Paul Giamatti as his partner is a waste. Nia Long is the standard damsel there for one reason and that is to be a potential romantic interest to Lawrence. Terrence Howard plays the criminal. The performance is standard fare with no depth and serves only as someone Lawrence will save Long from. Anthony Anderson plays a moron security guard. Pointless recycled dreck becomes a big free-for-all. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Formulaic, unfunny, plagorised material in film form","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Formulaic plagiarism This film copies Mrs Doubtfire - man in a dress has problems with fake face and pretends the quick fix is a beauty treatment, in this case needs tape to fix said fake face and in Mrs Doubtfire's case needing whipped cream.This film copies Kindergarten Cop - single male law enforcer pretends to be someone else to investigate a single mother who is suspected of having stolen money. The single mother in each case is running from a bad guy who lied to them and wasn't really who they thought he was. Each guy also lied about the women having stolen money so the bad guys could get their kids. Then the 'hero' protects and falls in love with attractive single mother (and son) and wins them over in the end even though he lied and thought she was a criminal. Coincidentally the hero also finds out the truth behind the stolen money story right before the bad guy turns up and takes the woman and child hostage.Unfunny stems from the fact that making fun of overweight people is supposedly funny and most of the 'jokes' were done better and first in other films. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Film!","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A few people have said that this film is unrealistic and yeah, you're right, but if all films were true-to-life, what would be the point in cinema.I admit that this kind of comedy may be an acquired taste, but I for one found it hilarious. It is mostly original, and there really is a laugh-per-minute script. For all of those that gave this a bad review, we must have been watching different movies, because I loved the film and all of the squeals!9/10 "},{"Title":"Well, it could have been worse","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When you have a movie with a title like Big Momma's House, you shouldn't expect high art. I certainly wasn't, but sometimes that's okay - sometimes you just want an excuse to laugh.Still, I have to admit that I was somewhat disappointed with what they did here. The fault lies with the screenplay. For starters, it is not exactly original. While I wouldn't call this movie a blatant rip-off of Stakeout, in several regards it's too close to that earlier movie for its own good. Speaking of familiar, another problem I had was that too many of the gags involving Lawrence as the cross-dressing FBI agent I had more or less seen in other movies before. Plus, the movie devotes far too much time to this than fleshing out the story - if what's here could be considered a story.On the positive side, the movie is filled with energy, both in front of and behind the camera. There's enough energy that some viewers not wanting to think while watching a movie might find the enterprise enjoyable enough. If that sounds like you, you'll probably find this movie adequate. If you want more nutrition in your cinematic diet, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sure Big Momma's House has the over-exaggerated characters, the typical modern crude humor and predictable plot - but I found the execution of the movie spot-on. It's got a very similar aspect as Mrs.Doubtfire, I think you can guess what that is, but despite the predictability, no character development and just mild dialog, I found the movie rather enjoyable because on how funny and well executed Martin Lauren's performance was. It's got all the same elements on the typical modern comedy, whether it'd be its crude humor, dialog or appeals but my opinion contracts it as a great comedy, that could easily be enjoyable on the same level of multiple viewings. It's very funny, got a good ending and also the little sad bit, a recommendation for every Comedy fan who wants a laugh but expect nothing special. "},{"Title":"Big Momma, why????","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Usually, most movies that are full of bad language aren't affected by their profanity. However, this is not one of those movies. Somehow, I found that the profane dialogue brought down the rating of this movie very much. Or it could just be the fact that it was hard to sit there listening to every curse that was said as I was watching it with my dad, and although I am 20 years old, it is still highly uncomfortable to watch certain things with your parents. Another reason this movie wasn't nearly as good as I had hoped, is the fact that Paul Giamatti played his part extremely poorly. I don't know how he could possibly work for the FBI for he appears to be a terrible agent. There's many other reasons for this movie turning out to be mediocre, but I'll summarize everything now. You might enjoy it, or, you might get somewhat disappointed. Only count on an overall rating of in the middle of bad and good. Trust me, I hadn't, and I was extremely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Enjoy","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have finally seen Martin Lawrence in string of funny comedies. Following the disaster Life, Lawrence starred in the awesome and funny movie called Big Momma's House.Everything about this film screams winner because it is definitely original in the way it presents the comedy. Lawrence has surrounded himself with a cast that is just as funny. For example, Paul Giammati is one of the best casting choices to play Lawrence's partner because he plays well of the comedy Lawrence exudes. I enjoyed how the plot unfolded from the beginning because it brought unexpected scenes. For example, the scene where he plays basketball dressed as Big Momma and the scene in which Big Momma takes out the self-defense instructor. The character development was incredibly rich because everyone seemed to believe in what they were doing. Big Momma's House was a blast to see because it was suspenseful, the comedy was hilarious and it had a well-written script. This is a movie for everyone to enjoy as well as watch the best comedy of 2000. I highly recommend this film.   "}{"Title":"No dialogue necessary!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one very funny movie, and I ought to know  I saw this in-flight after its release (on my way to my mother's funeral, no less!), and watched it without paying the $5 headset charge!  I couldn't stop laughing; the tears were rolling down my face.  Last night, I finally saw the movie on TV with words.  It was still a riot, but I actually think I enjoyed it more without sound!!   "},{"Title":"Tired concept but generally funny","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the only Martin Lawrence film I have seen (besides Blue Streak) and it was pretty funny. He goes undercover as a fat old woman so that he can find out more about a young woman who is accused of robbery (the old woman's niece) and comes to stay at big momma's house. There was little difference between this and The Nutty Professor movies, but this had some funny scenes and you'll end up with at least a few laughs. I give this 6 out of 10. If you like Martin Lawrence then you will probably love this movie, and if you dont like Lawrence, you will probably enjoy it anyway. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Big Momma Has Got Game!!!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think we should take Big Momma's House as a comedy, nothing more, nothing less. At first I thought it was really bad, but then I was watching it the other night and my ribs were tickling. When Big Momma was fulfilling the role as the local midwife, I was in a hysterical fit, as she applied the cooking oil, to lubricate for the pathway for the baby (sick I know). The security guard was an absolute nutter, when he walked into Malcolm's place, and he thought Big Momma had been carved up. If you haven't seen the movie yet, you should see what happens with the flashlight. Great Comedy, worth of a 7 out 10.  "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence Squanders His Comedic Talents","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is strange. Martin Lawrence goes from a jewel thief in his previous film, Blue Streak to an FBI agent in this 2000 20th Century Fox release. He was funnier on the other side of the law. The laughs re nonexistent in what should have been a hilarious film about disguise mastering FBI agent Lawrence posing as Big Momma, the grandmother of a single mother (Nia Long) who he has been hired to protect since her volatile ex has escaped from prison and is looking for her. Seeing Lawrence in a fat suit is sometimes more insulting than funny and an otherwise fine cast shouldn't have bothered with this one. "},{"Title":"This film was hilarious!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this film from Blockbuster and thought it was funny. Anyway an FBI agent pretends to be Big Momma to protect a woman named Sherry and her son Trent. It was funny when Big Momma finds a dog in her yard and she says You ever come back here and I'm going to cook some hot dogs. Once in a while the fake Big Momma would take her wig off. Malcolm, the FBI agent was fixing Sherry's doorbell. Sherry, Big Momma, and Trent go to the church because Big Momma was going to give something sort of like a speech. "},{"Title":"big fun","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Convaluted story but many moments of mirth.  Some of the scenes are very funny and should elicit a titter from the viewer.  The self defense class is a perfect example.  Tears of laughter are guaranteed. Watch it and be amused. "},{"Title":"Funny funny funny!!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I could watch this movie over and over again! the laughs are incredible, the cast great, and martin lawerence is over the top in humor (like always!). Nia Long plays the beautiful girl he's trying to spy on, and the story is good too. I love the ending (suprise party). a few hit lines is Not in big momma's house! near the end, hence the title. I give this movie two thumbs up and i recommend it. "},{"Title":"Great thing!!!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really loved Big Momma's House. I also got the dvd so I also saw the making of thing and so many of the other features the dvd has on it!I think it was really funny and NOT ridiculous! I think you should like this kind of comedy if you want to watch a movie like this..i really really do! I also love Eddie Murphy! he's one of the best ever bt back to Big Momma again. I really loved all of the characters! I liked Martin of course, his partner was soo funny too (remember that scene when the neighbors visit him to gave him baking goods and they said Im Mrs Peterson and this is the other mrs peterson....and then Martin's partner says totally confused that his name was Peterson too and then he goes hey maybe we're all related! =) I really love this scene!) alll in all its a great movie and Martin as big momma looks sooo real!  "},{"Title":"I found myself laughing out loud","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's much more to this movie than meets the eye.  Ella Mitchell is exceptional as Big Momma.  It's a shame that she's not in the entire movie as she's exceedingly talented.  Same goes for Cedric the Entertainer who plays the Reverend.  The plot isn't surprising, but the movie is light and it made me laugh out loud.  Seldomly do I give more that a chuckle when watching a movie, but I laughed several times during Big Momma's House.The special effect artists must also be congratulated.  Great job in transforming a handsome looking man into Big Momma.  And, finally, I'd like to thank the camera people who took some awesome shots during this comedy. "},{"Title":"Big ass comedy","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This comedy shows similarity to Mrs. Doubtfire but with a big momma this time.. Martin Lawrence becomes big momma when he has to go under cover to protect a federal witness. It's not a very original movie and indeed very easy to guess how the story will go, but I still think this is an entertaining movie witch is worth seeing if you like this kind of humor. The first Nutty professor movie might be better though but Big momma gets close to the Nutty professor II.  "}{"Title":"Cracked Me Up","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't think I'd like this movie.  But after seeing it I love it.  Martin Lawrence is one of the funniest comedians out there today.  His part as Big Momma was the funniest thing I've seen since Eddie Murphy in Nutty Professor.  Nia Long also is a great actress in this movie.  I love her acting skills, and she does this movie some justice.  The story is about an FBI agent who goes under cover to protect a woman along with her son.  Who does he go undercover as?  Big Momma herself.  It's great.  I really liked the basketball scene.  Lots of laughs. "},{"Title":"Funny enough","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot of this movie is very stupid, but there are enough laughs and wisecracks to make it entertaining. Martin Lawrence is funny though I sometimes question his selection of movies. Only white people seemed to think this movie wasn't funny. They prefer stuff like Mrs. Doubtfire. "},{"Title":"awful and unfunny","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was, in a word, horrible!  I expected more out of Martin Lawrence, and this movie fell incredibly short of what I expected.  It was not funny at all.  I tried to give this movie a second chance on HBO, and, I probably laughed the same number of times I did in the theater...and those were only forced chuckles.  Martin needs to try again, and I don't think his new film Black Knight is going to be his redemption film, although I should see What's the Worst that Could Happen. "},{"Title":"Big!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence plays an undercover cop Malcolm Turner, who with the help of cop-partner take on the larger-than-life persona of Hatty-May Pearson, or Big Momma as she is known to the neighbourhood. Her estranged neice comes to stay with Big Momma to lay low for a while, but when Hatty goes for a holiday, it's up to Malcolm to fill Big Momma's HUGE shoes... with hilarious results.The comedy in the movie isn't completely original, but it still has charm and is undeniably funny. Martin Lawrence puts in a great performance, and Nia Long (of 'The Fresh Prince' fame) is perfect for the role of Sherry.Grab your friends around, get the popcorn popping, sit back and have a great time. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Why did they make this movie?","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Is it really necessary to keep cranking out Martin Lawrence vehicles?  You'd think that he was actually a comic genius or a great actor by the amount of movies he keeps appearing in. This movie was pretty lame from the get-go and just followed the old comedic formula.  Very remniscent of the Nutty Professor (1996 version) but about twice as lame.  Does anyone really want to watch Martin Lawrence walk around in a fat suit saying oooooh! all the time?  Apparently so.  But not me. 5/10 (despite being awful, the sight of a 30 year old man in a big fat woman costume dunking a basketball does have it's moments) "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud most of the time","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although ripping off Mrs Doubtfire and Nutty Professor there's still something funny about someone disguised as someone else in latex. The film starts well and manages to keep the laughs going until the finale when it becomes tiring. I've never taken much notice of Martin Lawrence before but from now on i'll try to see more of his movies. Big Momma's House IS FUNNY! **1/2/****   "},{"Title":"Big Fun","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this film to very entertaining and downright funny. It's easily become one of my favorite comedies of 2000. It stars Martin Lawrence(in duel roles) and Nia Long. I guess the plot it rather cliched but I think it fares well, as is equally funny to Nutty Professor, which it is often compared to. Martin's sense to dress as an older woman and fool her granddaughter, as well as the neighbors is very convincing. I strongly recommend the film to anyone whose in the mood to laugh. "},{"Title":"I did not expect very much but was surprised!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I read the comment at this site about the film, I spontaneously decided to add mine. We saw the film in a lesson of Business English - which seems quite odd - but I really enjoyed it. It was not as flat as I expected, actually it was really funny and romantic. I had not seen a film with Martin Lawrence before and found him really cude. Also his girlfriend Sherry is very sexy... And at last, the music was really good The soundtrack met my favour and the gospel song happy day I could not sit quiet any longer... So my opinion about the film is much more positive I think it's the right film to pass a nice video session with some chips and laughter!!! "},{"Title":"isn´t a great movie, but it´s funny","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie is very funny, and is a good movie to see when you are bored, but you can see it only once... it isn´t sooo good... i think that the performance of Martin Lawrence was really , but really BAD, he isn´t a good actor... his performance was so poor, so fake, as malcom, but anyway he is funny as the big momma. i recommend you to see this movie only if you have time and there isn´t anything else to rent. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie, and I rented it because I had seen Blue Streak, another Martin Lawrence cop comedy.  This movie wasn;t as good as Blue Streak but it was worth the watch.  I am actually looking forward to a sequel. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as many think","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence exhibits a hard callused streetwise edge in his movies such as Big Momma's House.  He is all too often compared with Eddie Murphy, yet his sharp humor is more reminiscent of an early Richard Pryor.  His delivery is quick and full off off color comments which gives the film an heir of authenticity and innocence lost in the films of Eddie Murphy.  His comedic timing could be better, yet you get the sense that he is making up his world as he goes along.  If the movie is for rent cheap, see it for a laugh. "},{"Title":"Tired and overblown.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Other than watching Nia Long who plays Sherry and is easy on the eyes there is little of interest in this movie. Mainly because it appears contrived with laughs reliant on disguises and mix ups, which has been done to death.Also it intrigues me that it's not okay nowadays to make jokes about most types of people yet it's fine to paint fat people as laugh objects. If not done intelligently, the idea falls flat.Don't pick on the fatties or leave everybody open to ridicule, if comedy's the aim. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm......","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see this movie with pretty low expectations. The previews had seemed pretty amusing, but nothing that I would actively go out and see. But sadly, with little else showing at the movies I wasn't left with much of a choice.The movie started badly, and got worse. The cast tried hard, but really they had little to work with, and in the end it only appeared as a pale imitation of so many other films.The Mrs Doubtfire comparisons are very obvious, yet am I the only one who noticed that the plot seemed to exactly mirror Kindergarten cop.Hmmm.... whilst not the worst film I have ever seen, it would definitely fall in the worst five. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Borrows a lot!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is pretty much all Martin Lawrence. He's not only in nearly every scene but the action nearly always revolves around him either in his FBI character or his Mama character. The story borrows  alot from Stakeout, Mrs. Doubtfire and The Nutty Professor but doesn't really add much in the way of novelty. In fact, Lawrence already used some of the same mistaken identity gags in his last movie, Blue Streak. I really wonder why someone as unoriginal as Lawrence and his movies are bringing in the big bucks. "},{"Title":"It Could of Been So Much Better.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Big Momma's House was very disappointing. I expected a fun, witty and smart comedy, but that was definitely not the result. It was a boring, lame and silly try-hard comedy which didn't make me smile or laugh in any part at all. The acting and screenplay are also awful, the ending was really silly, and the direction needed improving.In short, Big Momma's House is a dumb we've-seen-it-all-before comedy that is not worth your time.Rating 4 "},{"Title":"A Funny One","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty funny!  Do not expect Oscar caliber performances here, it is not intended to be a dramatic movie; however, it does provide and hour and a half of laughter!  I live in Cartersville, where the movie is set, although the representation is poor, if not nonexistent, the movie is still funny.  Go and see this one! "},{"Title":"Stakeout, here we come again","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For those who have seen 'Stakeout' this film brings back that old idea and puts a little twist on it. Martin Lawrence and his style of humour is great in this film set in Suburbia where everyone's business is public knowledge. His partner is minor but essential as his 'sidekick'. I recommend you wait for this to come out on video as it is not a big screen film, but a good laugh all the same  "},{"Title":"Martin keeps you laughing.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie I really did not want to give it a chance.Hey all I have to say it's funny!The movie may not start off with a big bang at first but as the movie warms up it gets funny.The movies plot was kind of weak .Badboy's had a better action and comdey blend to it.But hey this is a (Comedy) and when Martin plays in one you will sure get just that (a big laugh). "},{"Title":"COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was O.K. However, its 90 minutes seemed to stretch to 2 hours or more of mediocrity. I expected it to be a side-splitting comedy, but the laughs were forced!Warning may be a small spoiler or two!Scenes of Big Momma on the toilet, with a severe case of the runs, was a complete gross-out, but funny if you enjoy toilet humor. Karate scene and neighbor giving birth were the best scenes. Martin Lawrence did not look anything like Big Momma though, he looked like 'just' Martin Lawrence in disguise! How could all the neighbors and friends (especially Big Momma's silly-old-geezer-boyfriend) not recognize this fact?Romance was predictable. The ending, with the predictable meeting up with the bad guy, was a fizzer. If more attention was focused on the convict getting his 2 million dollar stash, this would've been more of a consistent and believable story line. As it is, we focus on Martin Lawrence aka Big Momma masquerading as Mrs Doubtfire, but without the hilarious acting of Robin Williams!CONCLUSION A very long cliche. Wait for this to come out on video. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie; Plot and Humour =)","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of the best I've seen recently. It had a great plot and heaps of humour, which not many modern movies have. Martin Lawrence did a fantastic job as Big Momma and Malcolm. The people who say that this movie is too much like The Nutty Professor or Mrs Doubtfire, mustn't have been paying very good attention. They need to get over the Big Momma costume and watch the real plot; which was great! Don't miss this movie, it is worth going to.  "}{"Title":"Worth seeing...","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was worth seeing if you just want to get out of the house, but not as good as Lawrence's other movies such as A Thin Line Between Love and Hate or Life. The make up job was good but not as good as the make up the was done on Eddie Murphy in the Nutty Professor or in Life. 6/10  "},{"Title":"I Was Not Impressed With This Film At All","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a fan Martin Lawrence and some of his movies, like  Thin Line Between Love and Hate and  Life but it's films like this that make me ask why he made it.  Normal going undercover film, he plays Malcolm and man that goes undercover as a big lady to get close to a women, Sherry(Nia Long), suspected of helping her ex-boyfriend Lester(Terrence Howard) of robing the bank she worked for.  Malcolm has help from his partner, John(Paul Giamatti) to make up the suit and to keep him in check when Malcolm begins to fall in love with Sherry.  I really didn't enjoy this film but I'll admit that some of it was funny but most of it was boring.  I liked three preformances in this film, I liked Paul Giamatti as John because I am just a fan of him since his great role in  Howard Stern's Private Parts, I also liked Terrence Howard as the villian, though his role isn't large, when he is on screen, he is good, and last but not least I liked Anthony Anderson as Nolan, the dumb brother of one of Sherry's friends.  I don't suggest you go and see this film for laughs, I didn't get any, if you want to see a funny film, wait for June 23 and watch  Me, Myslef, and Irene now there is a funny movie.  "},{"Title":"This rating is from Jakenels99's friend.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Big Momma's House is the bomb. It was like watching Spaceballs while listening to Wierd Al. Martin Larwance really depicted the part of Big Momma really well. You would think the suppporting actors weren't even acting. (In other words, they were made for their roles.) If you want to see a movie with slapstick comedy, with wall to wall laughter, Big Momma's House is the movie to see. "},{"Title":"So Funny, I spent the entire movie wiping my eyes...","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie wasn't like the Nutty Professor, it was funnier!  Martin Lawrence was meant to play this part.  The entire movie was terrific to the point that I will see it at least 2 more times.The supporting cast was terrific.  The movie wasn't copying The Nutty Professor.  The closest it came was Mrs. Doubtfire because of the dressing like a woman.  You are missing a lot if you miss this movie. "},{"Title":"New Age Minstrel Show","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's sad to see so many talented black actors going to waste in the shameful mess.  Terrence Howard has great screen presence and Nia Long has proven to be a talented dramatic actress.  Even Martin Lawrence showed some genuine acting ability playing the straight man to Eddie> Murphy in Life.  What do we get here?   90 minutes of garbage that wouldn't be out of place on the WB.  If I hadn't been dragged to see it by my ladyfriend I would have stayed far, far away from this loser. 0 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't see how anybody could not like this movie, unless they are dry as a bone! It was hilarious, exciting, adventurous, etc. It may have been similar to Mrs. Doubtfire, but it had a completely different idea and plot to it. I got a kick out of it, and I haven't laughed so hard in many years! I would recommend this movie to anybody who has a sense of humor, and is willing to look at it in a different way than many people do, comparing it to a few similar ideas in other movies. It may be just a little predictable, but there's more to it than those other movies which people compare it to. I give it a letter grade of B+, and on a scale of 1-10, score; 8. If you don't have a dry sense of humor and are willing to give this movie a chance by seeing the humor and excitement in it, I highly recommend it for you! "},{"Title":"big laughs, just leave your brain at the door","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't compare this to an Eddie Murphy movie, Martin is not Eddie.  Don't read too deep into the movie, just enjoy it.  The laughs are aplenty but they are mostly predictable.  I liked the movie cause I was in a mood not to think, and the time moved quickly. You will definitly have to suspend disbelief.  I did think Martin put on a good performance in and out of the fat suit. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it's worth","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A movie like Big Momma's House isn't supposed to have an intriguing plot, I guess.  You go to the movie because a) you like Martin Lawrence, b) you want big laughs, or c) a combination of the two.  Martin Lawrence is pretty much what you expect - funny and deserving of the accolades he gets.  Many would look down at a role like this, but when you think about it, how many actors could play someone opposite their sex and 50 years older?  Normally I don't like it when movies make their stars unrecognizable under all the make-up, but here it's necessary.The problem is that the movie tries to be sick and sweet, a combination that I don't think has ever worked.  At the beginning we witness a nude, grossly overweight, 80+ year old grandmother with a bad case of the Hershey squirts.  Through the end we see Nia Long bonding with her grandma and then Martin in a very genuine way.Still, as I stated earlier, you go to see comedy.  Grandma in the kitchen, with a gun, testifying in church, at karate class, etc., this is all funny because of the talent behind Martin Lawrence.  Definitely wait til this comes out on video, then when you want big laughs on a Friday nite, go rent Big Momma's House.**1/2 (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Big Momma was a Big Flop!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie had a lot of potential. The premise An FBI official goes undercover to catch a criminal who's girlfriend might be an accomplice by disguising him self as the girlfriend's grandmother.This movie was peppered with gratuitous ways to evoke laughs with the audience the scene where the real Big Momma has a bout with the green apple splatters; a scene where a character goes into labor, and Big Momma just happens to be the girl's midwife. Malcolm wasn't really convincing as Big Momma. When we see the two FBI agents constructing the disguise, Malcolm uses Big Momma's picture as a guide, but when he puts on the finished product, he looks nothing like her. Then there were the basketball and the karate scenes to top it all off. Don't see this movie unless you want to see gratuitous humor, and forced slapstick. "},{"Title":"This movie is not very funny!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I consider myself to be a Martin Lawrence fan.  When the first weekend box total was so large I couldn't wait to get to the theatre.  I thought I would be in for a treat along the same lines as Blue Streak or Nothing to Lose. Imagine by surprise and disappointment at this lame attempt at humor.  I did laugh a few times but not often.  Don't waste your money with this one if you have to see it you can certainly wait for video. "}{"Title":"Nutty Professor meets Mrs. Doubtfire","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has it's moments of unique comedy, but on the whole the skinny-man-turned-fat, man-masquerading-as-a-woman motif can't be as funny as it's predecessors.  Martin Lawrence is obviously the highlight of this movie, and his portrayal of a southern late-middle aged midwife is adequate, as movie-goers have come to expect of Lawrence.  The plot has some inconsistencies and logic fallacies, and the desire for the typical Hollywood happy ending feels incredibly forced.  but if you are looking for a few good laughs without any deep-intellectual content, this movie could satisfy you. "},{"Title":"ITS JUST FUNNY!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some movies are just supposed to be funny, and this movie fits the bill. I hate it when critics go to movies like this and expect an oscar winner, becuase some movies are just made to entertain and not to teach. I really enjoyed this movie and it is one of Lawrence's best, besides Life and House Party. Sometimes his voice gets annoying, but his acting was comparable to his TV show. The sexy Nia Long helped provide a plot to the story, she didn't have to be funny she was just there to look beautiful and that she did. Terrence Howard's role was small and it was so unlike his funnyman role in The Best Man, but he was still good. The white guy (I forget his name) was funny too in a White humor kind of way. Because I have been to the South, some of the portrayals of Southern life and people are between accurate and stereotypes. But sometimes stereotypes make a movie more humorous. I would recommend anyone to see this movie, but I prefer they see it at matinee time. "},{"Title":"If you like fat humor, you will die; if you don't, this movie is not for you","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie had me rolling.  Everybody in the theater was nearly convulsing. The scenes with Big Momma and her boyfriend are to die for.  I would definitely recommend this to anyone needing a good laugh.  The only disappointing aspect is the thrown in love story.  Every movie doesn't need a love story and this movie  definitely would have survived without one. "},{"Title":"what a delightful comedy","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have finally seen Martin Lawrence in string of two good movies. He has come back from the disaster LIFE to star in this awesome and funny movie called Big Momma's House.Everything about this film screams winner because it is definitely original in the way it presents the comedy. Lawrence has surrounded himself with a cast that is just as funny. For example, Paul Giammati is one of the best castiong choices to play Lawrence's partner because he plays well of the comedy Lawrence exudes. I enjoyed how the plot unfolded from the beginning because it brought unexpected scenes. For example, the scene where he plays basketball dressed as Big Momma and the scene in which Big Momma takes out the self-defense instructor. The character development was incredibly rich because everyone seemed to believe in what they were doing. Big Momma's House was a blast to see because it was suspenseful, the comedy was hilarious and  it had a well-written script. This is a movie for everyone to enjoy as well as watch. the best comedy of 2000. I highly recommend this film.   "},{"Title":"Predictable, but worth it.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Martin Lawrence, you will like this movie. There are some obvious holes in the story, but this movie was meant to make you laugh and that is what it accomplished. Nia Long as Sherry displayed more of her incredible acting skills. She displayed a totally different persona w/Big Momma and Malcolm. This is a movie every one in the family can enjoy.  "},{"Title":"You have to have a great sense of humor to see this!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  All you people who don't have a sense of humor don't even bother with this movie! It was so hilarious! You have to see it. It was the best. One of those movies that you have to see at least one more time! I just hate the people who have no sense of humor that say that this movie was lame because people need to lighten up and relax and enjoy the movie. Grab a friend and go see it and have fun. Don't be a tightwad and critize every little thing. If you are looking for a funny, comic movie then go see it. Also all you little uptight critics can just take your stuffy selves and go jump off a bridge or something. Don't ruin everyone else's opinion of it cuz some people do have senses of humor unlike yourselves! GO SEE THE MOVIE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Predictable, but worth it.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Martin Lawrence, you will like this movie. There are some obvious holes in the story, but this movie was meant to make you laugh and that is what it accomplished. Nia Long as Sherry displayed more of her incredible acting skills. She displayed a totally different persona w/Big Momma and Malcolm. This is a movie every one in the family can enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Mildly funny....same old Martin.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Everyone in the crowded theatre was screaming with laughter...everyone except for me.  I had seen Shanghai Noon a week earlier and thought that movie was hilarious.  I guess it spoiled this movie for me. Too much Martin and bathroom humor to suit me. "},{"Title":"One Word FUNNY!!!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was the funniest movie I have ever seen. Just wait until the child birth scene. Bring your kleenex however, because this movie will make you cry laughing. Hilarious from start to finish. The whole audience was cracking up. Can't say enough, ten stars out of ten. SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Another good comedy from Martin Lawrence.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you enjoyed Martin Lawrence's television series Martin, and his previous movie, Blue Streak, then you'll really enjoy Big Momma's House. The plot isn't too strong, but that doesn't matter as all those things seemingly fly out of your head as you laugh all throughout the picture.  If you go see Big Momma's House, you'll be leaving the theatre very happy with your sides aching! "}{"Title":"a nutty professor rip off with half the laughs","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't love The Nutty Professor with Eddie Murphy, but I thought it was fun and entertaining. That's a lot more than I can say about Big Momma's House. The plot, about a detective going undercover as a fat woman, is extremely lame. If you so much as think about this movie, you know exactly how it is going to end up. It's so elementary that you have to wonder why Lawrence took the role. I enjoyed Lawrence when he disguised himself as a pizzaman in Blue Streak, but this role in Big Momma's House is ridiculous. It's a lousy script and a waste-of-time movie. "},{"Title":"Run of the Mill Comedy","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martin Lawrence is FBI agent, Malcolm Turner, and he specializes in going undercover in disguise. He gets a case involving missing money which turns out to be tied up with a former girlfriend of the bank robber named Lester. Sherry(Nia Long) is implicated in the robbery of the bank, and her grandmother, big momma has a large house which Malcolm is staking out. When big momma leaves for a couple of weeks, Malcolm puts on a dress a wig and impersonates the large woman, even to the point of fooling Sherry and her ten year old son. She believes that grandma is acting strange due to senility. Lawrence is a talented comic, and he does well as the cross dressing FBI agent, and Nia Long is beautiful as the love interest. I have an allergy to men dressing as women, whether it's old clips of Milton Berle, or Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon in the horrendous, Some Like it Hot, I am not amused. Big Momma's House is just another run of the mill slapstick comedy, and a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as it could have been with some radical revisions","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The biggest problem with Big Momma's house is that you can often see just how funny it should be, but the cast and crew are not able to sustain the occasional hilarious parts with any consistency.It doesn't seem to help that Big Momma's House wants to be more than a comedy. Writers Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer shoot for a combination of a crime comedy ala Beverly Hills Cop (1984) and a romantic comedy. But the core comedy is absurdist, while the mostly serious crime stuff is so underwritten that it would be better absent, and the somewhat serious rom-com stuff is so generic and predictable that it has all the surprise of attending Mass.To me, the comedy being absurdist is a plus, but it doesn't mesh well with other modes. It's ridiculous, of course, that Malcolm Turner (Martin Lawrence) is trying to pass himself off as Big Momma Hattie Mae Pierce (Ella Mitchell). That's a large part of what makes it funny. However, director Raja Gosnell's decision to play the rest of the cast as mostly deadpan is a strange one. It leads the viewer to take the film in a more realist mode, but if you're doing that, you keep asking yourself why anyone else would believe that Turner is actually Big Momma. Gosnell should have gone for another approach during the Turner as Big Momma scenes. It's not that they're never funny, but too often the deadpan interaction breaks the humor.However, the deadpan attitude works wonders when Mitchell is Big Momma. Mitchell is a fantastic here as a comic actress and especially Paul Giamatti as John is hilarious interacting with her. Once those too-brief scenes ended, I was wishing they wouldn't have, and when they reappeared again at the end, it made me more fully realize how much better they were. A whole film could have and should have been written around Mitchell as Big Momma with Giamatti and Lawrence interacting with her and beautiful co-star Nia Long via some other story.Even with these problems, Big Momma is an enjoyable film. My wife enjoyed it even more than I did, we're looking forward to watching Big Momma's House 2, and we'll certainly watch this again in the future. But it's a case of moments of brilliance poking through so that you see just how much better it could have been. "},{"Title":"just not funny","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i suppose this movie was funny for some audiences. those made out of not so smart, white teenage boys for instance.the whole movie centers around the one joke of a guy dressing up as a fat old lady. obviously?! a big fat black southern woman can only have bad (bathroom)manners and her daughter is to stupid to see the difference between her mother and some guy dressed like her. this daughter is of course a single mother. providing both sexual tension (for aforementioned teenage audience at least)with the mother and some 'family-moments' with the boy. after a little more toilet humor we are served a happy ending, with only one down sight the possibility for a sequel is left wide open.i could complain about this movie a lot more but i would't want my comment to get any more debt then the dialogs in this poor excuse for a film. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Momma's House is a brilliant!! movie, one of the best I have seen in a long time. I think that Martin Lawrence played a great part as big momma in this film. My favourite part of the film is the bathroom scene!!, how can we all forget that scene in a hurry, When Martin Lawrence character Malcolm Turner sneaks into big momma's house and hides surveillance equipment in big mommas house and while he is doing this big momma comes into the house so Malcolm turner hides in the Bathroom away from big momma, then big momma came into the bathroom and ran to the toilet pan and put her pants down to her ankles and says bless this oh lord and after that Malcolm turners character is nearly sick with the smell, then all of a sudden big momma starts to take her cloths and you see her fat ass and well lets just say that it was not a pleasant sight. The other scene I like in the film is the scene where a Girl is having a baby and The fake big momma, tries to get the baby out by plunger. I would advise one to see this movie because it sure made me laugh but it had a sad twitch to it. "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Film Could Be Better","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I Wouldn't Go As To Far To Say This Movie Was Poor But It Wasn't Exactly The Greatest Film I Have Ever Seen. There Is A Quite A Few Funny Moments In The Film And A Few Funny Catchphrases Which Make It Seem Good At Times, But However This Film Is A Bit Cheesy At Sometimes Like There Is A Few Cases Of Bad Acting But Martin Has A Good Role In This Film And Does The Part Quite Well I Think But I Think You Could Tell His Voice From The Original Big Momma Which Is A Let Down. Another Scene Which Seems Quite Unreal Is The Basketball Scene As If You Would A Old Women Doing That.But Apart From That It Is Quite A Good Film. "},{"Title":"very enjoyable","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have finally seen Martin Lawrence in string of funny comedies. Following the disaster Life, Lawrence starred in the awesome and funny movie called Big Momma's House.Everything about this film screams winner because it is definitely original in the way it presents the comedy. Lawrence has surrounded himself with a cast that is just as funny. For example, Paul Giammati is one of the best casting choices to play Lawrence's partner because he plays well of the comedy Lawrence exudes. I enjoyed how the plot unfolded from the beginning because it brought unexpected scenes. For example, the scene where he plays basketball dressed as Big Momma and the scene in which Big Momma takes out the self-defense instructor. The character development was incredibly rich because everyone seemed to believe in what they were doing. Big Momma's House was a blast to see because it was suspenseful, the comedy was hilarious and it had a well-written script. This is a movie for everyone to enjoy as well as watch the best comedy of 2000. I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"Watch the trailer","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Seriously, I felt that upon watching the trailer for this film, it would be hilarious, but instead, I recognised that every genuine funny bit was contained within this trailer. Save yourself <length of film> - 30 seconds by watching the trailer.The trailer is funny, the film is not, in my opinion, except for these trailer bits. Be prepared to watch padded out sections, waiting in anticipation for something to be uniquely funny, as opposed to many other films of this genre, and be disappointed until you recognise something that you've seen before...from the trailer.I watched this movie waiting for sections that were funny, and just thought, Ah, that's where it fits in with the trailer. Watch the trailer, not the film.  "},{"Title":"For Lawrence Fans only","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE (2000) ** Martin Lawrence, Nia Long, Paul Giamatti, Jascha Washington, Terrence Howard, Ella Mitchell,  Cedric `The Entertainer', Anthony Anderson. (Dir; Raja Gosnell) Martin Lawrence is a specific kind of on-screen presence he's a motor-mouth who best bounces off another person, usually a fish-out-of-water buddy (like Luke Wilson in last year's `Blue Streak') or a comic team (like his snappy patter with partner Will Smith in `Bad Boys').  Here he basically plays off himself, or rather his assumed identity, in this frequently amusing comedy that incorporates `Mrs. Doubtfire', `Tootsie' and `48 HRS'. Lawrence stars as Malcolm, an FBI agent whose unique skills of undercover work exceeds his better judgments and both are on display when he and his partner John (the estimable comic character actor Giamatti, best known as Howard Stern's nemesis `Pig Vomit' from `Private Parts'), are assigned to an escaped bank robber cum murderer named Lester (Howard, late of `The Best Man'), who is en route to reunite with his ex-girlfriend Sherry (the sexy and undersused Long) for his hidden loot.  Guessing correctly that Sherry will high-tail it for safety and the only source of family is her grandma, Big Momma (Mitchell), who lives Down South. Malcolm and John stakeout Big Momma's house from across the street and create an elaborate costume and make-up alter ego of the hefty woman who conveniently takes a two-week leave from her dwelling (after the two agents learn thru bugging the domicile) making a perfect chance to impersonate her and await Sherry and Lester.  On cue,  Sherry arrives with her son Trent (Washington) in tow, and unbeknownst to her, assumes Big Momma to have a sudden change of heart about their long estrangement. Malcolm as Big Momma has his hands filled with trying to maintain the façade and learning as much from Sherry regarding Lester and winds up falling in love with her, and protective of Trent.  Naturally a series of mistaken identities, slapstick ensuing interactions with the unsuspecting neighbors and his  quick-on-his-feet thinking enables Malcolm to prepare for the final countdown of Lester's inevitable appearance.The film on the whole amuses and may be a proven crowd-pleaser, but I felt it was a one-joke gimmick that had been done better before and the make-up didn't always seem convincing, unlike say Eddie Murphy in `The Nutty Professor' (and his upcoming sequel, `The Klumps', later this summer). Unweildy and unconvincing at times, which could also be said of the by-the-numbers script by Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer.  Lawrence seems hamstrung to let go with his rapid-fire smart aleck one-liners when he is reduced to either cloying moments (including a mid-wife birthing scene, that actually is funny when Big Momma asks for an oven mitt and a plunger!) or showing the weighty matriarch doing an Air Jordan on the local basketball court.The film seems uneven particularly the angry tone of the nasty Lester. Although convincingly chilling thanks to Howard's performance, it just seems to belong to another film.  Even when it resorts to toilet humor, in arguably one of the nastiest bathroom scenes since Jeff Daniels felt the need to relieve in `Dumb and Dumber', the film is not a total loss, thanks largely to Giamatti in his intermittent scenes and a memorable appearance by Cedrict `The Entertainer', the cult stand-up comic of the so-called Chitlin Circuit, as a righteous minister. Sadly the sexy Long is used mainly for ogling by Lawrence and not given much to do except be his straight woman, more than a love interest.  She deserves better. Not a total loss, but not exactly memorable, it delivers in its go for broke broad comedy and that may be just enough for Lawrence's hard-core fan base.  "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, bad and Martin Lawrence isn't funny.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As far as I can remember I simply can't recall when was the last time I've watched a movie that was such a disturbing and a painful experience to watch as Big momma's house. This is simply a horrible, ridiculous, lousy, stupid, annoying and awful movie and a bad project to even start with. Big momma's house is a comedy that just doesn't make you laugh. To me it rarely even gave a smile. Eddie Murphy already did all this in The Nutty professor and he did it so much better, so I guess there was basically no need to waste time, efforts and money to even make this movie in the first place. Biggest problem of the film is definitely Martin Lawrence himself. He just isn't funny and that's it. He tries so hard but he isn't. When he plays the character of big momma we can clearly observe how limited he actually is as a comedian. If you want to see a splendid role comedy, watch Mrs. Doubtfire starring Robin Williams and observe a comic genius at work. Forget this nonsense, it's not even worth a peek. "}{"Title":"A mix of Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire mixed in with some crack","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked Martin Lawrence's TV show, so I had big hopes for him when he crossed over to film.  So far, I haven't seen anything that even looks promising for this talented actor.  And Big Momma's House doesn't even come close to showing his talents.As far as I'm concerned, this was essentially Mrs. Doubtfire mixed with some Tootsie, and some dashes of crack (because I don't think the writers and Lawrence were in their right mind when they made this film).  At least Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire were lovable characters.  Big Momma (at least played by Lawrence) doesn't even come close.  He's more annoying than any thing else (kind of like Adam Sandler in Big Daddy).  Oh, there are a few laughs here and there, but it steadily sinks into a boring flick.  If you need Chinese water torture for your enemy, get the DVD of this move, strap them into the chair, and make sure replay is hit.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Big Momma's House should have been demolished on sight.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence has yet to really extend his popularity beyond the US (which isn't exactly A-list even there), lacking the diversity of Will Smith, the true comic talent of Eddie Murphy, and the engaging personality of either. The man's following is unlikely to have gotten a boost from Big Momma's House - in fact, he may have LOST a few potential followers.An alleged comedy from the director of Home Alone 3, this is about a reckless FBI agent and master of disguise who as part of a plan to catch a dangerous criminal (and the money he's stolen and stashed) stakeout his wife's grandmother's house - and when said woman is called away on an emergency, our hero does a Mrs. Doubtfire and stands in for the Big Momma of the title, plays host to the crook's wife, warms to the son, makes viewers vomit...The movie effectively channels the spirit of comedies past; unfortunately, the comedies in question are ITV sitcoms of the 1970s with the crassness quotient jacked way, way up (e.g. all the jokes it fits in about his leering at Nia Long), and Lawrence in woman mode is loud, energetic, and never, ever funny (when his great-grandson punches him in play, I was cheering for him to do it again). Plus he's never believable as a woman to begin with. To be fair, a lot of the fault has to go to Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer's screenplay (which is not only ludicrous but also never finds a good balance of gross-out jokes, menace, and sentimentality... though even a good writer would struggle), and to the almost-as-annoying supporting cast (Long and Jascha Washington excepted), but this is Martin Lawrence's vehicle, and it's executive produced by Martin Lawrence. It does fit; we will not acquit. Stick with Stakeout or Kindergarten Cop.  "},{"Title":"The problem is we've seen this before with Eddie Murphy, and frankly, he did it a lot better","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Basically I saw Big Momma's House as Martin Lawrence trying to move into the comedy world of Eddie Murphy. I think Eddie is still considered the king among comedy actors, or at least in the upper tier along with Jim Carrey and Robin Williams. Lawrence has had some success in the past, but nothing to match Eddie Murphy, so when a script comes along that allows Lawrence to jump into a big body suit and become a large, elderly woman, he jumps at the chance.The straight forward plot is that Lawrence plays FBI agent Malcolm Turner who is tracking a dangerous escaped convict named Lester. The FBI figures that Lester is going to go straight to his ex-girlfriend Sherry (Nia Long) since she was a suspect in a robbery he pulled off couple years ago, but it was something they couldn't prove. Sherry heads to Big Momma's house, and when Big Momma unexpectedly goes off to a friend's house for a couple of weeks, Malcolm becomes Big Momma. And of course along the way, Malcolm also meets Sherry as himself, and starts to fall in love with her. Good guys win, Bad guys lose, and Love survives the day. It's not like this is a story we haven't seen a thousand times before. So of course the big draw to this film is the chance to see Martin Lawrence dress up and act like an elderly woman. Which of course was one of the best scenes in The Nutty Professor when Eddie Murphy dressed up like his entire family. So seeing something like this isn't new, and on top of that, Lawrence is going to have to try and outdo Murphy in order for people to see this movie as funny. And personally, I think he fell short. First off, I can't believe that Big Momma could live in a small town for her entire life, and then all of a sudden have Martin Lawrence play her, and no one notices. Not her best friends, not her lover, not her grandchild, no one. All of a sudden a woman who has to run to the bathroom every five minutes can play basketball in the park? And no one says anything? Come on... On top of that, while I do enjoy Martin Lawrence (especially in his best film, Blue Streak), he can't hold a candle to Eddie Murphy. Most of the humor from this movie came from a toilet scene, and sexual humor dealing with a flashlight in bed. And there were some continuity errors I spotted as well. First there was duct tape, and then there wasn't. He goes to bed with a moustache, and wakes up without one. The comedic scenes were too few and far between to make this movie funny. The plot wasn't going to help pick it up, as it was something, like I said earlier, we've all seen before. And even if I try not to compare Lawrence to Murphy, I still don't think the movie was that good, and I didn't think Lawrence's portrayal of a large, elderly woman came off that well.  On the other hand, the supporting cast was pretty good. Nia Long looking spectacular in the stock role of the woman. Paul Giamatti in the stock role of the partner was funny in a been there done that type of role. Terrence Howard as Lester the convict was dutifully scary. And of course Ella Mitchell as the original Big Momma was a lot funnier than Martin Lawrence as Big Momma. And I'm not saying Lawrence was bad necessarily, just that the movie itself wasn't written all that well, and there really wasn't a whole lot Lawrence could do as Big Momma. There wasn't enough of a story for him to let loose and go crazy. Seeing a large, elderly woman play basketball and do karate is only funny for a couple of seconds. So overall I thought Big Momma's House was just an OK movie. It had some funny scenes, the cast was good, but the story was nothing special and in the end that hurt the comedic value of the film.  "},{"Title":"Comedy with Martin Lawrence with very few laughs...","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  1st watched 4/15/2001- 3 out of 10(Dir-Raja Gosnell) Comedy with Martin Lawrence with very few laughs.  I'm sure Lawrence had the character before the story and worked the movie around it, and this is what it looks and feels like.  Some funny scenes, but too many scenes that you know are going to happen(Aka. Lawrence disguised as Big Momma having an uncomfortable scene in bed with a beautiful lady that he happens to be attracted to as his FBI character, his emotional involvement with the women in the previous statement etc.) I had a hard time laughing at much of the movie because it was so predictable, and the one joke mentality that the movie started with(Lawrence disguised as an overweight straight-forward and rough African-american woman)doesn't make an entire movie. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some of these people who put comments out on this movie just don't have a sense of humor. This movie was very funny. Not the best, but definately not bad. Some people just need to actually get a good sense of humor, and watch this movie again. I will admit this is not as good as Nutty Professor, but it is still good. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence has always been a comic genius, I enjoyed him when he played Big Mamma.  I thought he did a good job with that role and the movie was funny.  If you are going for a good laugh go watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Big Momma's House ***Big Momma's House is one of those no-brainers which doesn't even take an IQ of 1.3 to get the jokes. It's fun, funny, and full of laughs. Now, I know it's not as good as Nutty Professor but it doesn't rip the movie off. It's different and original in it's own way.Malcom (Martin Lawrence) goes under cover as Big Momma, hence the title. He is there to look after Sherry. Sherry is the niece of Big Momma. Malcom thinks Sherry is involved with a crime committed by her ex-boyfriend. But Malcom starts to  fall for her, like in all movies like this this.Lawrence does a good job trying to do what Eddie Murphy did. He doesn't succeed AS well. There are some moments when the make-up looks like it was glued on then painted quickly. But Lawrence IS funny. The first few scenes with Big Momma are hilarious. Another thing I noticed, Lawrence doesn't get ALL the laughs. Paul Giamatti steals some of the scenes. This guy has been in numerous movies playing unnoticed characters. He doesn't get enough praise and attention. In Momma he is hilarious. The real Big Momma is also very funny. We see her in the beginning and at the end. But, was showing her butt really neccisary? Nope. Besides that fact, she is hysterical. They couldn't have casted a better Big Momma.The movie is filled with corny jokes and just plain misfires, but for the most part it was funny. You just have to watch this movie in a relaxed mood. You can't watch this movie expecting it to be good. You have to watch it with an open mind. If you do, I think you will enjoy it... I did! "},{"Title":"Mrs. Doubtfire meets Bad Boys","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is absolutely horrible.  There is no redeeming value to this movie.  It was probably the worst of the summer.  The jokes were not funny, the plot was weak, and of course the acting was terrible.  This was the biggest waste of an hour and a half ever.   "},{"Title":"Is Martin Lawrence supposed to be funny??????","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Oh please, spare me!! I should have known!! Why? Why did I see this film?? With Martin Lawrence in the lead, I just know in advance that it just can't be any good. I just know that the script's going to be cheesy, that the dialogue's going to be bad, that the jokes are going to be cheap and lousy, and that Martin himself is going to be unfunny in his usual I-wanna-be-Eddie-Murphy-even-though-I-don't-have-his-talent kind of way.Eddie Murphy used to be a kick-a** comedian in the eighties, and still delivers once in a while. But wannabe Eddie's like Martin Lawrence, Chris Tucker, and Chris Rock, never seem to come off as anything but loud, stupid, and childish, in my opinion.Big Momma's House is a cheesy story about a stakeout of... yes, you guessed it Big Momma's house. And as you can find out from any trailer for the film, Martin's character has to go under cover as the old and overweight lady Big Momma. This is supposedly where Martin Lawrence's comedy routine should work miracles. But as you probably figured by now, I don't think the guy is funny. I don't even think his die hard fans could enjoy this one, because believe me, it's even worse than Blue Streak.Please people, don't spend your dollars, or yens, or kronor, or pesetas, or whatever on this crap. At least I saw this film for free, since I work as a movie projectionist. Don't let the producers of movies like this get any richer and fatter, unless they can give us something better than Big Momma's House. Remember they are already counting their money since this film has become a financial success. And they need to read more good scripts instead of counting more money.Nia Long - Hot damn! That girl is fine!! Ohhhhweeee!!!Nuff said!! "},{"Title":"Where have I seen this before?","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warning... lots of spoilers lie ahead...Big Momma's House is a rip-off of Kindergarden Cop. It's the same general idea an unlikely detective, with zero sensibilities, goes undercover by disguising himself as something he is definitely not (in this case, a fat woman) in order to find out where the ex-wife of a burglar hid the money of a heist (by now you should see there are lots of similarities in the script). He discovers that the best way to do it is by befriending the son of the woman (sounds familiar? keep reading!). And then, the detective falls for the woman. AND THEN, the ex-husband appears in the scene and gets the kid... AND THEN... well, by now you get the picture.I can't believe they got away by stealing almost scene by scene Kindergarden Cop (a nice film, not excellent but can be watched). Besides, the dull bathroom humour is just that, dull. Boring film from start to finish. Skip it.  "}{"Title":"That's not Big Momma,that's Momma Payne!!!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just saw this one the other night and its was side splitting hilarious! Martin Lawrence is absolutely funny as the FBI agent who goes undercover as a fat woman in order to catch a notorious bank robber(played by Terrance Howard). Nia Long was excellent is this one,but it could have been a whole lot more. It was nice however to see some of his co-stars from his old TV show(like Techina Arnold,who played Pam)from years back. But the funniest part is in the church where Big Momma is like Momma Payne which had me laughing hard,and crying at the same time...its a riot!!! This was a far cry from his last film that he did(the very disappointing Blue Streak where the only thing funny there is when Lawrence played the pizzaman here),but in all aspects very good. The director(Raja Gosnell who directed the x-mas crap of Home Alone 3)should have put more detail into the film which could have made it more enjoyable. Note It will have a good fight on it hands with all of the summer blockbusters,but in turn Big Momma will be facing Eddie Murphy and Chris Rock for and even Jim Carrey for summer glory. Very Good but Darn Funny. "},{"Title":"On my top ten comedy list","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Start with a police stake out with Martin Lawrence and Paul Giamatti and toss in Anthony Anderson (a cop want-to-be security guard) and you have everything for a hilarious film.  Add a little oh so fine Nia Long, who is the base line of the film, and let Martin do his trademark high jinks as this film gets funnier by the minute.  A must see for Martin Lawrence comedy fans.  Don't watch the TV version! "},{"Title":"Don't fall out of your seat laughing","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is way too funny.  You will be falling out of your seat laughing, and if you aren't, you will want to. It is so funny is all I have to say. I thought that Martin Lawrence was hilarious as Big Momma.  You will laugh just looking at her and all the things she tries to do.  "},{"Title":"A big disappointment.....","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I expected Big Momma's House to be a smart, hilarious and enjoyable comedy. I have 2 words It wasn't. Big Momma's House was like a nutty professor rip-off, the acting was terrible, the story was flat, the direction was bad and it is not a smart or clever film, plus it tries so hard to be funny its laughable in a different way. The only thing I can say a good comment on is the make up, which will no doubt get an Oscar nomination in 2000.If you enjoy boring and silly comedies which aren't even funny, I highly recommend Big Momma's House.Rating 5 - only just. "},{"Title":"Big BAD Momma.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"      Hey look people, Martin Lawrence is wearing a dress!  Isn't that funny?  Hey look, there is Martin Lawrence wearing a different dress, isn't that still funny?  That seems to be the continuing running gag in the new film staring Martin Lawrence titled, BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE.  A film that tries to pull off the same male dressed as female jokes that we've seen before in TOOTSIE, SOME LIKE IT HOT, and MRS. DOUBTFIRE.      Lawrence plays Malcolm Turner, a federal agent who is after a escaped convict, Lester (Terrence Howard), who is looking for his ex-girlfriend Sherry (Nia Long) who might or might not have the $2 million dollars that he stole during a robbery.  Before you can say, STAKEOUT, Malcolm and his partner John (Paul Giamatti), travel to Georgia to watch over the house that belongs to one Big Momma (Ella Mitchell), hoping that Sherry will show up to see her big grandmother.  When Big Momma makes a unexpected departure, Malcolm decides to play Big Momma so he can help capture Lester.      The plot to this film is as routine as Lawrence's last film, BLUE STREAK.  And like BLUE STREAK, it also has another element missing, humor.  The jokes in this film are so predictable and lame.  And to get the 12 year olds in the theater laughing, they also include some more left over potty jokes from READY TO RUMBLE, which were just as stupid in that film.  And to get the audience groaning, they have a shot showing Big Momma's behind.  Why they did that, I still don't know?      Lawrence use to be funny on his t.v. show and in the movie BAD BOYS.  Here, he's just playing the same role, Martin Lawrence, just this time he's dressed up as a woman.  When Robin Williams and Eddie Murphy dress up as women, they at least add some personality to their disguises, and make their fictional character seem real.  With Lawrence, it's just good ol' Martin wearing a wig and dress.  And character actor Paul Giamatti is wasted playing the bumbling partner of Lawrence. Giamatti has been in some excellent films like PRIVATE PARTS, NEGOTATITOR, and MAN ON THE MOON, among many others.  Why is he in this film, I still do not know.  And Nia Long is also wasted playing the girl who notices the little differences in big momma, but just shrugges them off.      What's bad about this movie, everything.  There are no jokes, ripped off plot, stereo typed characters and stereo typed situations that the average movie audience has seen a dozen times already.  I guess the people who never seen classic drag films like SOME LIKE IT HOT and TOOTSIE, would enjoy this. But for those who love and enjoy those films, will pity the filmmakers of this film.  There is one good thing I can say about BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE, it will keep BATTLEFIELD EARTH company for one of the worst movies of the summer.  * (out of five) "},{"Title":"Good Makeup. Fair Movie.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Lawrence is an FBI agent who disguises himself as the titled character to protect witness Nia Long and her young son in this typical silly comedy that is little more than a cash cow. Stupid situations abound are the only things that give the movie any fluid movement. Plays too much like a sitcom to entertain the way it should. It is bad when the makeup effects are the strongest asset in a film. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Some funny parts","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsA lot of people have slammed Big Momma's House,but,appreciated on it's own levels,it's fairly enjoyable.There are some inventive laughs in the plot,Martin Lawrence is an effective comic performer as he had proved before in the excellent Bad Boys,although perhaps a little too crude and self styled in places.The plot seems a bit stretched out as well,but overall,this is much more engaging and funny than the awful Nutty Professor.**  "},{"Title":"Not laugh out loud funny,but still good and better than the sequels,","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Mommas House is s fairly funny movie but it wont have you laughing out loud,but I still think its quite good and better than the sequels,I do like Big Mommas House 2 though but Big Mommas Like Father Like Son should have never been made.Martin Lawrence saves these movies with his brilliant portrayal as Malcolm Turner and the fake Big Momma.Martin Lawrence stars as Malcolm Turner,an Fbi agent who investigates on a case with his partner John (Paul Giamatti),by dressing up as a girls grandmother to get Sherry (Nia Long) to confess what she did,not knowing he's an FBI agent.However Malcolm starts to fall for Sherry and feels she is innocent. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt the funniest movie of last year","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Malcolm (Martin Lawrence) decides to investigate the case of a criminal who recently escaped from prison. The way Malcolm investigates the case is to dress up as a famous neighborhood icon, Big Momma, after the real Big Momma leaves for awhile. The woman he is going to investigate is Sherry (Nia Long). Sherry was the former lover of the man who escaped from prison. Little does Malcolm know that he will become attracted to Sherry once he meets her. I didn't really think that Big Momma's House was a ripoff of The Nutty Professor. They have a lot of similarities, but I think it's a lot more like Mrs. Doubtfire. I thought Big Momma's House was funnier than Nutty Professor II The Klumps. While both are great comedy movies with tons of laughs, this movie wins my vote for funniest movie of the year by far. Just about all the movie's pranks and lines are hilarious, especially when Malcolm slips up and says or does things that'll make you wonder if Malcolm has forgotten that he's dressed up as Big Momma. Anybody who likes comedy movies such as Tootsie or Mrs. Doubtfire should really like Big Momma's House, it's the must see comedy of the year! "},{"Title":"Big Mommas House Of Fun.","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martin Lawrence from 'Welcome Home Roscoe Jenkins', Nia Long from 'Are We There Yet', and Paul Giamatti from 'Shoot Em Up' deliver equally excellent performances in there underrated 2000 comedy known as 'Big Momma's House'. Okay, it may not be Oscar worthy, but it does have a great sense of humor which makes this movie a real kick to watch.In this comedy, Martin Lawrence, an FBI agent, has no choice but to disguise himself as Nia Long's grandmother in order to protect her and her son from a criminal played by Terrence Howard.With the help of Paul Giamatti, nothing can go wrong...right? It just goes to show that posing as an obese grandmother isn't as easy as someone would like to believe.Here is a comedy with a good cast and some funny moments, but turns out to be an extremely underrated film that some people just love to hate.Trust me, 'Big Momma's House' isn't just any ordinary movie.It's a fun house.Waiting for 'Big Momma's House 3'. "}{"Title":"One of the stupidest movies of all time","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I never saw this movie during its original theatrical release. I never saw this movie during its original showings on premium cable. I only viewed it some eight years later. I wish I had never seen it at all. This has got to be one of the stupidest movies I have ever watched in my whole life. Almost, but not quite as bad as Weekend At Bernie's. The whole premise of the film is a complete insult to just about anyone's intelligence. The key to making even a very incredulous plot line palatable is to create one in which the audience will at least WANT to believe. To me, this film doesn't even come close to meeting that test. But one redeeming value I got from it was that it made my mind up very quickly that I will never watch Big Momma's House 2. "},{"Title":"Far, far worse than Meet Dave in fact, downright offencive","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Malcolm Turner is a cop and in order to solve a big case and stop a major bad guy he has to disguise himself as the sweet old lady, Big Momma, who is away on holiday while this charade is taking place.The film aims to be in a very similar vein to Kindergarten Cop with Lawrence in the starring role, however, while Kindergarten Cop had all the kids and a certain charm factor because of that, this film instead has Martin Lawrence dressed in a fat suit looking nothing like Big Momma and yet everyone that big momma knows assumes that Martin Lawrence is Big Momma? I would expect that any white person who suggests that all black people look the same would be, quite rightly, ripped to pieces and fed to the dogs, however, when Martin Lawence appears in a film that suggests that all fat black people look the same, this is okay. Isn't it? ...No, it is not! If you're gonna do a film like this then the make-up better be something special and it is not. You know what Hollywood, fat people look different and their loved ones are not gonna be fooled when some tool wearing a foam latex fat suit would not fool them.The jokes are quite poor and of the Mrs Doubtfire course variety, whilst it will appeal to young lads who find some of the toilet humour funny, for anyone older than 16 who doesn't adhere to the fake Californian view of what people are like will probably be deeply offended by it.Disgusting. "},{"Title":"Much better than the sequel!","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow, this is my third 8/10 in a row, i know how to pick my films, first there was The Italian Job then Staying Alive now this, this deserves the 8/10 for sure, i didn't laugh much but it was more the story than the laughs that got this film my seal of approval (welcome to the list my friend!)*The following plot is taken from Wikipedia FBI agent Malcolm Turner (Martin Lawrence) is known best for being a master of disguise. Malcolm's latest assignment sends him to a small-town Cartersville, Georgia where he's assigned to trap a brutal bank robber and a recent prison escapee (Terrence Howard) who they suspect will be coming down to visit his ex-girlfriend Sherry (Nia Long) and her son, Trent (Jascha Washington). Malcolm sets up a stakeout across from the home of a larger-than-life Southern matriarch named Hattie Mae Pierce, aka Big Momma, who's about to be visited by Sherry. It's a simple plan, but there's one big problem; unknown to Sherry, Big Momma has unexpectedly left town. So Malcolm, decides to impersonate the cantankerous, Southern granny. Using a few tricks of disguise, he completely transforms himself into Big Momma, even taking on the corpulent 70 year old's everyday routine-from cooking soul food to delivering babies to testifying at the local church. In the mean time, Malcolm starts falling for Sherry, who may or may not be hiding some stolen cash. Now, Malcolm must somehow find a way to nab his criminal and the lady.So overall, it's a very enjoyable film, i recommend the sequel, though it's not as good.8/10 "},{"Title":"Martin in drag was a good gag","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" And now you've done it. Martin makes a hit. Until Big Momma's House, Martin's film career was less than stellar. He had some bit parts and a starring role in Thin Line Between Love and Hate as well as Bad Boys, but of course Bad Boys co-starred the very popular Will Smith. This movie allowed Martin to truly be funny by having him be in costume. Much like Eddie Murphy, Martin (to a lesser degree), is good at doing different characters. Even in his T.V. sitcom, some of the funnier moments and funnier characters were those other than Martin. As Martin he could be annoying and just wear on your nerves, but as other characters he could purposely be more animated and it worked. Big Momma's House was Martin at his best. "},{"Title":"Relax!!!! its a comedy","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you don't think the karate scene or the baby delivery scene or the church scene are funny then you never should not have watched this type of movie in the first place. I am not a Martin Lawrence fan nor was this movie anywhere believable but that was not the point. Its just easy watching comedy. No way this movie rates below a five. The acting is good and Anthony Anderson is flat out hilarious. Once again, you cant get caught up in whether he looked like the real Big Mama or not. Or whether the plot has holes. Once the bathroom scene was shown early in the movie you could see there would be a lot of juvenile comedy. who cares!! Get a life and a sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Make sure your seat is comfortable","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had not seen a comedy for years so I decided this might be quite funny. Predictable but still funny.It was very predictable that is for sure. And not that funny.I found scenes where Big Mama hits people in the nuts not funny. Or using Crisco to deliver a baby much more gross than funny. What is funny about someone sitting on the john?I guess this movie was aimed at about 12 year olds.I laughed maybe 2 or 3 times but they were kind of desperate laughs trying to find it more funny than it was.It is padded with long periods between anything potentially funny. My chair got very hard and uncomfortable...if you have to watch this do it in a comfortable chair because you are going to get bored. "},{"Title":"Basic, But Amusing Comedy","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martin Lawrence isn't bad in this film, the script isn't bad, the dialog isn't bad, the story is contrived and cliché, but it isn't bad. The movie on the whole isn't bad. But it also isn't good.There are some amusing moments, some moments of superior acting, and some comedic incidents, but everything in between comes off pretty lame. I'm a casual Lawrence fan, but he needs a good supporting cast in order to carry it off. Unfortunately for fans and casual movie-goers alike, this time, that one saving element was lacking.It rates a 4.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"freakin masterpiece","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not sure why but for some reason when you watch this movie and eat a Papa Johns Pizza and drink Coca-Cola with this movie it's perfect. It's like peanut butter and jelly, who would have thought it goes great together. Try it and let me know what you think. Also if you have some other meals with movies ideas let me know.I freakin love this movie it's so tight I was watchin it with my Bubba (my gramma) that's what we call her in my family cuz I'm from Serbia. We call my dad tut. Like King Tut.Directed brilliantly by Raja Gosnell, and skillfully written by Darryl Quayles, Big Mama's House is well crafted and ingeniously clever, making it one of the greatest films of the 90's. While Big Mama's House may not have garnered critical acclaim as such films as Silence of the Lambs, Big Mama's House is, undoubtedly, as influential as any film to date.I was very happy that I saw this movie. It's funny to see Martin Lawrence dressed up as a big, fat, black grandma who is the grandmother of a woman in danger of her ex. A bunch of better co-stars make this movie very funny and easily watchable. Paul Giamatti and Nia Long do their roles perfectly and I enjoyed them a lot. the script is very good and the direction is excellent. martin Lawrence does it again.Overall the whole movie is a tight feel good that I could pop it whenever I freakin feel like it. Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Flat-out funny, excellent comedy which is a little crass at times","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE, in my opinion, is a flat-out funny, excellent comedy which is a little crass at times. If you ask me, Malcolm (Martin Lawrence) was very good at masquerading as a southern granny. Still, he wasn't much of a chef, though. This was especially my opinion when he attempted to make porkchops. The reason for this is because of the amount of butter he used. When I saw that, I wanted to vomit. Ugh! I still enjoyed this movie just the same. In conclusion, if you like Martin Lawrence, I highly recommend this film and the sequel, although I haven't seen that. When you see this movie, prepare for lots of big laughs. "},{"Title":"A classic comedy, Hilarious!","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Fbi agent Malcolm Turner has to go under cover as big Momma, because of the visit of Big Mommas granddaughter Sherry (Nia Long) who may be involved in a crime. So out goes the shirt and jeans and in comes the extra large dresses, when acting as Big Momma Malcolm comes across mayhem and havoc as well as having to deliver a baby and TRY to cook! However the main side to this story is that Malcolm/Big Momma finds himself becoming attracted to Sherry, and things start getting difficult, but this all adds to the fun of this classic comedy, starring Martin Lawrence and Nia Long! It is a treat for anybody thats up for a good laugh! "}{"Title":"Review Big Momma's House","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rating 0 out of 5 Oh my god... do not see this movie. In case there was any doubt, this is among the worst movies ever made.The basic premise is just ridiculous. Martin Lawrence is an FBI agent out after this woman, Shirley, who robbed a bank. In order to catch her, he dresses up like Big Momma, a woman who Shirley has known all her life, and trick Shirley into confessing to the crime. Fortunately, Big Momma is conveniently going out of town for two weeks just as Shirley arrives.I don't know about you, but I'm pretty sure that I could tell the difference between an old woman and Martin Lawrence wearing a mask. Unfortunately, every single stupid f***ing joke in the movie revolves around the flawed premise that nobody can tell that Martin Lawrence is not Big Momma. Ha ha ha, funny... Big Momma is playing basketball! Big Momma is preaching in church! Ha ha ha.. hilarity at its best! This film should replace the death penalty as punishment for mass murder. Just shoot me. For God's sake, how did this movie make it out of the studio without being used to wipe the producer's ass? This film should be destroyed immediately to protect the souls of our children and grandchildren.So, I give it a whopping 0 out of 5. Do not see this in theaters. Do not rent it. Do not watch it when it's on TBS in two months. "},{"Title":"RUBBISH WITH A CAPITAL R!!!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Big Momma's House (aka Big Mama's Haus) is truly a dire affair, Laurence is on unsurprisingly terrible form.  I turned this off towards the end because it is so gay I can't beieve I ever wanted to see it.  It could not be well any worse (Marginally, The Mummy Returns is the very worst), unless you like crap like this, then I would strongly reccomend you stay away from this kind of rubbish.  "},{"Title":"Mrs Doubtfire Meets Kindergarten Cop.","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot is basic and funny of occasions, but I can't help thinking that they trashed Mrs Doubtfire, which was far better. Martin Lawrence's performance in this is slightly dellusional and extremely hilarious. But did anyone else think that it was in comparison to Mrs Doubtfire and Kindergarten Cop.If they put Arnie into the Doubtfire costume, it would totally be the same. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie!!!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i just saw this movie yesterday, and thought it was hilarious! I don't know y people r comparing this to the Nutty Professor. The ONLY similarities Two men in a fat rubber suit. Differences School teacher, and FBI Agent. So anyway the story's about a master of disguise FBI Agent Malcolm(Martin Lawrence), who goes deep undercover as a fat old woman to protect and hopefully to get information from her granddaughter Sherry(Nia Long) on a bank robbery her ex-boyfriend commited. Malcolm has to stake-out Big Momma's House, and in the process he finds out she's going out of town. So he dresses up as Big Momma. This movie is hilarious! And i didn't even see the real version. I give it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Not nearley as good as I was hoping.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I bought BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE, I was hoping for another BLUE STREAK. Martin Lawrence is a really funny actor who I like a lot. But in this film, I discovered he cannot be funny sometimes. The previews make this look like a high-powered action comedy, but sadly there is little humor that is actually funny and there is hardly any action in the movie at all.Nia Long and Paul Giamatti co-star as some more characters who are not that funny, cracking lame jokes every four minutes or so. The plot is not that bad. It is original, and I admit there is some original humor in here. The best part of the movie is probably the end showdown sequence. That is the funniest part of the movie and that is when there is the most action. So, I do like this movie. Just not that much...BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE gets 2/5. "},{"Title":"dumb, but not unwatchable","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have seen this movie a few times in the last year, and I think its pretty silly, but it is somewhat entertaining. The only well known star in the movie is Martin Lawrence, and Nia Long and Paul Giamaitti are known by some. I think if they could have had a few more people in the movie that are somewhat well-known, I might have been a little more confortable with it. I do agree with the 4.6 rating. "},{"Title":"Totally not a Nutty Professor rip-off.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ***Starring Martin Lawrence, Nia Long, Paul Giamatti, and Terrence Howard.What I don't understand, is how somebody could say that this movie is a Nutty professor rip-off.  Let's compare plots The Nutty Professor- An obese professor makes a formula that makes him lose weight and have an evil alter-ego. Big Momma's House- A cop goes undercover as a fat woman named Big Momma to catch a killer who may kill a woman and her child. There is one thing similar. A good actor in a fat suit.  That's not a rip-off!  Now for my review.  What can I say, the movie is hilarious and Lawrence has yet an other great movie. I've explained the plot so I don't think I need to say more.  A must-see for comedy fans. "},{"Title":"Great movie with great cast","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was very happy that I saw this movie.  It's funny to see Martin Lawrence dressed up as a big, fat, black grandma who is the grandmother of a woman in danger of her ex.  A bunch of better co-stars make this movie very funny and easily watchable.  Paul Giamatti and Nia Long do their roles perfectly and I enjoyed them a lot.  the script is very good and the direction is excellent.  martin Lawrence does it again.Overall the whole movie is a laughable movie that I could watch anytime.  Rating 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"one joke premise with a talented cast","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Protracted but occasionally funny comedy in the realm of the more innovative Nutty Professor stars Martin Lawrence as a federal agent and master of disguises who must go undercover as an overweight, sassy southern grandma to acquire vital information from her granddaughter involving a bank robbery case. As you'd expect, comical havoc ensues in more ways than one. One-note story is nothing more than an excuse to exhibit the talents of star Lawrence who does seem to be having fun with the role. There are plenty of genuine laughs, and the supporting cast is game, but all of their enthusiasm can only carry this silly story so far. ** "},{"Title":"A likeable film of standard formula","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What was nice about this film was Martin Lawrence's costume portrayal of Big Mamma!  He did a great job of making it believable!  Nia Long, a single mother without a husband, provided the standard love interest of a standard formula of a cop falling for the pretty girl and proving that she was not guilty of a crime.  The church scenes were quite enjoyable as well as the musical performances.  It's nice to see older actors with many roles in this film.  Today's movies with all young people may be popular but are unrealistic as real life people have older parents, relatives and other associates.  The on-film chemistry between Lawrence - Long was good!  You should enjoy this film for the fun that it provides.  Don't look for too many morals, other than good triumphs over evil!  "}{"Title":"silly but relatively funny comedy","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In `Big Momma's House,' Martin Lawrence goes the Some Like it Hot/Tootsie/Mrs. Doubtfire route, dressing up in drag and embroiling himself in a mess of plot complications - just as Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, Dustin Hoffman, Robin Williams and a whole host of other comic actors have done before him.  This is practically a rite of passage for any movie comedian, harking back to a tradition that is as old as drama itself.  You really can't go too wrong with this cross dressing scenario, particularly if you happen to have a talented comic actor buried under all the makeup.  Luckily, this is the case here.  `Big Momma's House' may be far from original in its premise and execution, but the film does manage to deliver its fair share of laughs &#150; enough, at least, to justify giving it a once-over if you happen to be in the mood for some undemanding, mindless entertainment.In terms of the setup, this film fails to deliver even the modicum of credibility that distinguished its predecessors.  This is mostly due to the fact that, in the previous films, the men in drag were portraying characters no one in the film had ever met before.  Lawrence, on the other hand, is playing the part of an undercover FBI agent who dresses up and passes himself off as a figure named Big Momma who is a well-known person in her family and in her neighborhood.  That he is able to bamboozle all these friends, family members and acquaintances into believing he is indeed Big Momma does require us to suspend our disbelief even more than usual with a story of this type.  Be that as it may, the truth is that `Big Momma's House' is a fun, fast moving and enjoyable little comedy, due, in no small measure, to Lawrence's skill in bringing the character to life through the expert use of vocal inflections, facial expressions and mannerisms.  The script relies on some fairly conventional slapstick routines involving split second near-misses as well as dialogue that ranges from the clever and sassy to the crude and vulgar.  Still, in comparison to the truly raunchy `Nutty Professor II,' `Big Momma's House' seems like a genteel Sunday school picnic.`Big Momma's House' certainly doesn't rank up there with the classics of the genre &#150; `Tootsie' or  `Some Like it Hot' &#150; but it does get the job done, which is more than can be said for lots of other comedies these days.    "},{"Title":"Big Momma is Big Laughs!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  FBI agents Malcolm Martin Lawrence and his partner, John Paul Giamatti are assigned to watch Big Momma Ella Mitchell after a killer escapes from prison. Big Momma goes out of town right before her grandaughter and ex-girlfriend of the crimnal and her son show up for a surprise visit. Malcolm dresses up and pretends to be Big Momma, hoping to crack the case. While he's busy cracking the case, you'll be cracking up. It's well done and funny, but predictable.   "},{"Title":"This is funny? I don't think so.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although critics claimed it had plenty of rude jokes, there were virtually none. Malcolm goes undercover as a suspect 's grandmother to find out how much she knows about her former boyfriend, a dangerous felon. Although the look and feel is very much like MRS. DOUBT FIRE, it is nowhere close. Since I wanted to like this movie, it's kind of a shame to know that it is pretty much BLUE STREAK, or a sequel of it. Martin Lawrence definitely has to get a better act going for him sooner or later. The jokes seem to just keep getting dryer, no matter how original they are. "},{"Title":"pretty good comedy movie...............","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty good for a comedy, martin lawrence was hilarious in his performance they are lots of laughs. I recommend this movie to martin fans.i give this a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Heap Big Momma is heap big fun","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow. WOW. WOW !!! This flick rules ! Lawrence Fishburne is a comic genius, and so cute, and that guy with him, Pauly Gilotto or something, supports him really well. The trump card this movie plays is to make jokes out of fat, old women - they are SO funny. Way funnier than Chris Rock or Denis Leary. And the tubby guy from Saved by the Bell is also great, especially in the defence class scene. And Big Momma, the woman who Lawrence has to protect, she'd give a dog a bone ! I'll get this as soon as it comes out on DVD, probably second in my list.11 out of 10 - it's that good !  "},{"Title":"Don't playa hate!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why is everybody comparing this movie to that of the Nutty Professor and Mrs. Doubtfire?  Martin is not an Eddie Murphy wanna be, he has his own style and it showed in this movie.  My husband and I are avid 'Martin' fans and this movie was no exception!!  It kept us laughing the entire 90 mins!! And for all of you who are playa hating, don't hate Martin because he's funny!  Somebody, including me, out here loves him or else he wouldn't be able to count all that money that YOU and I put in his pocket!!  This movie was funny especially the church scene!!  If you need a pick me up, this is the movie to go see!  It will keep you laughing and have you feeling good when you leave!!!!!!!  Keep up the good work Martin, YOU GO BOY! "},{"Title":"This movie sucked, dont go see it!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie had some funny parts in it, but that is all. I found that this movie had no plot to it at all, and thus resulting in the average rating of 5.5 out of 10, as of June 24th 2000. I would strongly recommend not seeing this movie, unless you like looking at fat people. Good luck in finding a good movie! "},{"Title":"wobble, wobble and drop it like its hot","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BMH is outstanding. It's so funny. People try to take it seriously, but shouldn't. Its funny for what it's worth. It might be a ripoff of Kindergarten Cop (didn't even think of that one) for Ms. Doubtfire or Nutty Professor it ain't. It's funnier! Did Robin Williams deliver a baby with oven mitts? Did Eddie Murphy dance and say s*** in NP? No! That's what makes it so good. Some parts are so funny and catch you by surprise. Also, the soundtrack is awesome. I love that song, I Got To Have it By Jermaine Dupri...It's awesome. BMH9 BMHSDTK10 "},{"Title":"Holy cow that's a bad movie.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If it were not for the fact that I was with a 12-year-old who wanted to see this movie, I would have walked out in the first half-hour.This movie could have been funny, and Lawrence could have been great. But the script was awful, the ending was weak and the chemistry between actors was non-existent.The 12-year-old liked it, though. Thought it was funny, while I found it very hard to find something worthy of more than a brief chortle. "},{"Title":"Yawn.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Last time I saw Martin Lawrence in a movie, he was a criminal trying to be a cop, now he's a cop trying to be an old fat woman. This was an absolutely terrible film. The laughs were sparse and unconvincing, the plot was dropped into a blender and then reassembled in any random order, and the vast majority of the film itself consisted of scenes completely unrelated to the story which seemed to be thrown in just to take up time. If these scenes had been simply left out altogether (the basketball scene, for one among many examples), the entire film would have been maybe 15 minutes long.Big Momma's House was so tedious that I probably spent more time looking at my watch during the film than I did looking at the screen. I can think of no redeeming values at all to mention about this film. I feel that it was a complete waste of my time, and I am shocked that Martin Lawrence agreed to act in such garbage.  "}{"Title":"One of the funniest undercover comedies ever!","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A few years ago I bought Big Momma's House on VHS at laughed all the way through! This movie is as close to perfection as a comedy can be, it can bring out your silly side, your emotional side and your serious side.Big Mommas House tell's the story of two cops who get put on a case to find a murder, in order to catch him they have to also make his ex-girlfriend confess to hiding evidence to the police although when they find out she wants to stay with her long lost grandmother, they have to go undercover on the grandmother who likes to call herself 'Big Momma'.Martin Lawrence (Bad Boys) gives a genius performance as Malcom who goes undercover as Big Momma and has excellent comic timing, Nia Long (Stigmata) plays Sherry, the ex-girlfriend of a criminal on the run to find her and his son. She also gives a great performance and for a child actor Jascha Washington gives a great performance.Excellent script, Excellent cast and Excellent story...Great all round! "},{"Title":"I had an open mind and sadly, I didn't enjoy Big Mama's House","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I will admit it up front, I really dislike Martin Lawerence, I think despite his comedic appeal, his act is normally hateful. But a couple friends told me that they kinda enjoyed Big Mama's House, so I figured that I should give it a chance. I sometimes like these kind of movies, I especially enjoyed White Chicks, and Big Mama's House seemed simular, so in some ways I guess that I was kinda excited, maybe it was stupid humor that only a few would get or not want to admit that they liked, but I was wrong.Malcom is a FBI agent who is investigating a deadly convict on the run, this convict might be paying a visit to an old girlfriend and their son. The girlfriend decides to go visit Big Mama, her grandmother, but when Big Mama leaves town unexpectidly, Malcom disguises himself as Big Mama and convinces the girl and the whole town that he is her. But he is falling for the girl in the mean time and has to keep his act up as her loving grandmother without going too far.Sometimes stupid, stereotypical, and offensive, I can understand why this movie isn't well received by most. It isn't well acted and it is completely predictable, this is better than most Martin Lawerence films I've seen, but that's not saying much. I'm not sure if I'd recommend this movie to anyone, but who knows? Someone might actually enjoy this movie, good luck, pal.2/10 "},{"Title":"If Martin Lawrence retired after Bad Boys, he'd be in the Hall of Fame","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Get this, this cop goes undercover to try to catch some gangsters, problem is he has to dress up as a big fat nanna! Martin Lawrence (playing half his screen time as a cop, half as Big Momma) is the star vehicle of the movie, and does OK, but this movie is crazy on so many levels it's ridiculous. How no-one works out Big Momma is a man dressed up had me beat. There were plenty of times where he was hugged, touched etc where people would think hey, that felt cushiony. Anyways, the film revolves around Martin Lawrence pretending to be an Aunt of a woman and her son trying to escape from her dodgy boyfriend.The cops find out she's planning on staying at her Aunt's, so they dress up Martin Lawrence as Big Momma and hope to find out some info that will lead them to the gangsters. There's lots of complications and capers along the way eg Martin Lawrence almost getting caught about a billion times, Big Momma's boyfriend dropping by,love interests and more. It's no Police Academy 3, but it's OK for what is, just utterly ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but that's no surprise.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an almost totally worthless movie, aimed at people who would have enjoyed Mrs. Doubtfire and Tootsie if only there had been more toilets involved.Big Momma's House isn't plausible but it isn't meant to be, so that's not really a major fault in this case. Instead, it's just not funny. It's stupid. Har de har har, Big Momma's in the bathroom and Martin Lawrence has to hide, ho ho, now he's lubing up some woman's birth canal with cooking oil. I'm going to say SPOILERS here to avoid getting in trouble, but c'mon, this stuff is so formulaic that just about everybody will figure out what's going to happen by minute three of the movie.Anyway--strictly for people who think that bodily functions are the height of hilarity, Big Momma ends on one of those brainlessly saccharine notes; after being fooled for days (weeks?) by Lawrence, Sherry still falls in love with him after a requisite How could you deceive me?! speech. And don't forget the final church scene, another maudlin and by-the-book attempt to turn a 90 minute fart joke into a touching romance. That in and of itself makes the movie worse than it would be otherwise--if it would simply admit to being a dumb comedy instead of attempting to convince us that it's teaching an important lesson about life and love, I could respect it a little more.In short, Big Momma's House is a bottom-of-the-barrel sort of comedy, somewhat entertaining at times but more often inane and totally formulaic. I guess the best thing one can say about it is that it doesn't SEEM to be trying for anything original or creative; it's just a slapdash attempt at some box office cash. I hope.  "},{"Title":"Very basic but has good moments","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A FBI agent is assigned to watch over and protect Sherry and her son, as she is an important federal witness.  Once on the job he sees his opportunity to get close by pretending to be Big Momma and move in during the real Momma's absence.Following Eddie Murphy making out in a fat suit in The Nutty Professor, Lawrence figures he'll have a go too.  The plot here doesn't even pretend to matter &#150; we have the set up at the start and then the predicable end.  In between we have lots of scenes of either humour or romance.  Much of the humour here is too basic to be very funny, too much is crude or just plain silly.  However there are funny moments and if you want a no-brain silly comedy then you'll probably find yourself laughing along.Lawrence is his usual self &#150; if you like him then you'll be OK with this.  Nia long has a harder job as Lawrence's straight man for most of the film &#150; however she looks great and can't help draw the eye no matter what's going on.Overall this is basic and crude &#150; even by Lawrence's standards.  But it's still very funny if you're in the mood for a daft comedy. "},{"Title":"One of Martin's best...","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Big Mommas house is one of Martin Lawrences best! Maybe not the funniest, but it's definite this film is one of his best. You might not want to see it if you dont like to look a fat butts. You see Big Momma's butt. Sick. But funny. This is a definite best of his. It was really funny, too. I don't see why people say it's not funny. It was hilarious. One of his best! "},{"Title":"Not Lawrence's finest hour","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There have definately better Martin Lawrence starring vehicles than this.  Life, Blue Streak, even a Thin Line Between Love and Hate (which wasn't a real comedy) were better than this.  This is just Lawrence using the makeup talents used in Mrs. Doubtfire and Nutty Proffessor (which were much better than this).  Very few, if funny parts, and the only thing that might make this film possibly watchable is villain Terrance Howard who is like a protege of Gary Oldman and Nia Long as the sexpot who is the catalyst for this disaster.  Sorry Lawrence, but the light has to end somewhere.  It might not be over yet, but Lawrence is not funny right now.  And, unfortunately, this film proves it.  C- (for Howard and Long) "},{"Title":"The whole experience is very trying.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Big Momma's House By Dean KishMartin Lawrence stars in his second Hollywood vehicle but can his film overcome the comparisons to an `Eddie Murphy comedy' or `the black Mrs. Doubtfire'. Lawrence stars as undercover FBI agent Malcolm Turner, who is trying to capture a nasty prison escapee and bank robber before he can escape with the money. While tracking the con, Turner discovers the bank robber's girlfriend is leaving the abusive con and fleeing to her grandmother's (or Big Momma) house. After assembling a stakeout outside of the grandmother's house, Turner discovers that the grandmother is leaving for a trip. Panicking Turner assumes the role of  Big Momma and greets her arriving grand-daughter. Big Momma has a lot of problems. Lawrence tries his very best to try to make the material funny. It's sometimes sad to see such a talented man so lost in such an ugly script. Why did Hollywood place this poor actor in this so obviously unfunny project? I can remember the 1980's and the huge success of Eddie Murphy but what made Eddie so successful was that the scripts accented his unique comedic talents. In recent years, the subtler Murphy has found success with the `Nutty Professor' and `Dr Dolittle' but they have never recaptured the magic of his earlier works. I believe the key problem with `Big Momma' is the script and that it can't seem to bring out the comedy trapped in Lawrence. Also the main comedic elements in this film are things we have seen countless times before. Some of the elements are the fat jokes, the man in the woman clothes gags and the dashing around as the main star tries to assume two identities at the same time. Some scenes are a direct rip-off of Mrs. Doubtfire with a black theme tucked in. During the cooking scene, I was waiting for Lawrence's huge fake breasts to catch fire but they never did and neither did the humor. Maybe within this film there are some elements that will appeal to some audiences but for me I found the whole experience very trying. (1 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Uneven, but  nowhere near as bad as I feared","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Looking at how this movie looked in advertising, part of me wanted to avoid it. However, years later I gave it the benefit of the doubt, and while it is an uneven film it is nowhere near as bad as it could have been. The story is briskly paced, but rather predictable and thin in places and some scenes do feel a little rushed. There are some funny lines and gags, but also ones that rely on gross-out humour and come across as uninspired. The characters can have a tendency to be irritating and also to be stereotyped. However, the movie does look good with striking locations and the filming is more than decent, and there is an energetic soundtrack. In the dialogue and gags that work, they are actually quite funny. The direction is better than average, as are the performances. Martin Lawrence seems to be really enjoying himself, and it was nice to see Paul Giamatti in support. In conclusion, not great but not bad either. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"So why do they make these kinds of movies?","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Momma's House is mainly good for a few laughs, with Martin Lawrence playing an FBI agent posing as an old woman to protect a witness (Nia Long). Yeah, it seems like a story that we've seen before, but there are some funny scenes (I really liked the martial arts scene). A previous reviewer said that this movie had absolutely no good qualities, but I don't totally agree. True, it wasn't any kind of masterpiece, but it wasn't intended to be. One just has to accept it as nice, ridiculous fun. Nowadays, we can really take note of it because it stars Terrence Howard (of Crash fame) in one of the roles. Also starring Paul Giamatti and Cedric the Entertainer. "}{"Title":"better than Kindergarten Cop!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Momma's House is a movie very similar to Kindergarten Cop starring Arnold Schwarzennegger. When you mention the name in front of a person who's seen it, they'll get confused with the storyline. Did some cop pretend to be a kindergarten teacher? Or did a cop pretend to be a fat old lady? The movie is about a cop called Malcolm, played by Martin Lawrence, who is sent undercover to protect a witness, Sherry and her son from her boyfriend, who is a killer and hid some million dollars where no-one can find it. Malcolm reckons Sherry has the money. But to prove it, he has to go through very funny and totally ridiculous situations.If you're a Martin Lawrence fan, he won't disappoint you in this movie. People who have heard of this movie but don't want to watch it, you'll be surprised, how many times you'll laugh. In fact when the movie finishes, you'll start imitating some funny things that Malcolm did in the movie, and laugh your head off. This movie won't disappoint you. I nearly guarantee it.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"It is funny!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't let the 4.6 vote or these morons detour you from watching this movie it is great! I'm not a fan of Martin Lawrence by any means but he's great in this movie. Paul Giamatti is also great and Nia Long is so sexy in this movie. Martin works in the FBI and takes over the place of Nia's big fat grandmother to spy on here to see if she knew anything or was involved in her boyfriend's robbing of a bank. It's just a fun movie with some very funny moments, and Martin just looks funny as a fat woman, see it! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Forget Big Momma this is BIG STINKER.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What was the reason for this piece of rubbish? Big momma's house is about as bad as a film can get. Martin Lawrence stars as an undercover cop who try to get information out of convicts girlfriend. Thats it as far as the story goes. Nothing else to report exept 90 minutes of childish jokes that defy explenation.what makes this one of the worst films i have seen in a long time is after enduring this drivel they all end up in a poxy church and try to patronise the viewer with religious clap trap. The worst film i have seen in the last 12 months and  one of the worst i have ever seen. 3 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Why in God's name, why?","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are days when I just want to lash out at Hollywood and scream, why!! Why in God's name, why do you make movies like this?!?! I don't follow through because I already know the painful answer. Movies like this have a target audience who pay their good, hard-earned (in most cases anyway) money to see what they want to...  oh, the hell with it! It's terrible!! My God, don't you people see how bad all of this is?! Can't you see it? Can't you? It's no use. "},{"Title":"Offers exactly what we expect from this kind of movie; nothing new here. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BIG MAMMA'S HOUSE / (2000) **1/2 out of ****	Big Mamma's House offers exactly what you would expect in a comedy featuring Martin Lawrence dressing up as an old, grossly obese granny; this is a one-joke movie in which an undercover cop disguises himself as Big Mamma and participates in things we anticipate Big Mamma normally would not do. There are some big laughs involved with the size of the title character, as well as her with breasts, attitude, sexuality, and ignorance, but there are also some obvious audience pleasers that feel contrived. Although the make-up effects are astonishing and amusing, there are no surprises found within this material. We have already seen this film's punch line in better parodies like Some Like It Hot, Tootsie, and Mrs. Doubtfire. This movie is predictable, over-enthusiastic, and does not take off with its ideas. 	Martin Lawrence stars as a cop named Malcolm, who, with his partner John (Paul Giamatti), is assigned to investigate the jail bust of a convicted criminal named Laster (Terrence Dashon Howard). They suspect the murderer is after his ex-girlfriend, Sherry (Nia Long), and her son Trent (Jascha Washington), who may unknowingly own the stolen loot of a bank heist years ago. Sherry is somewhat aware of the danger she may be in, thus moves immediately to her relative's house, whom everyone calls Big Mamma (Ella Mitchell). Before Sherry arrives, however, Big Mamma leaves town for an engagement. John and Malcolm see potential involved with Big Mamma, thus they determine that having Malcolm go undercover as this character might originate information on Sherry's involvement with Laster's criminal actions. 	Martin Lawrence, reprising his Blue Streak character, is perfect for the fast talking Mamma in which he disguises himself. The actor is in nearly every scene and is basically what the movie structures upon one excessive comic situation after another featuring the concealed Malcolm participating in activities from karate class to a joyful church service and from the kitchen baking goodies to sleeping with the unknowing Sherry. Lawrence makes the movie succeed to the level that it does, however, his high spirits and willing energy only carry the film so far. It is only a matter of time before he wares out his welcome and becomes the only thing holding the story together. 	The film does not stay focused on the plot of Laster attempting to reach Sherry; if a comedy makes the misconception to take its plot seriously, then it requires consistence. Here, although the setup contains potential, the only tension involved is when Sherry will discover her Big Mamma is an undercover cop. Essentially the movie's story is just an excuse to have Martin Lawrence play a funny character who does funny things.	The film's director is Raja Gosnell, whose Never Been Kissed and Home Alone 3 provided trifling laughs, just like Big Mamma's House does. In this film, he and screenwriters Darryl Quarles and Don Rhymer attempt to do too much with too little like developing a romantic subplot that feels trite and predictable. No matter how much make-up or covering the filmmakers provide for their characters, beyond an occasional laugh there is simply nothing new here. "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence & Nia Long were Outstanding","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great entertaining film, full of comedy, drama and just down to earth funny situations you almost face in every day life. There is a bathroom scene where Big Momma has to sit on a toilet and do # 2 while another actor is hiding in the shower behind a curtain and how quickly the actor has to poke his head out the bathroom Window for AIR. Nia Long, (Sherry Pierce) was very attractive and showed her body parts off perfectly according to Martin Lawrence, (Malcolm Turner) big round eyes. Every actor in this film gave a great supporting role and I look forward to seeing BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE # 2 when it hits the BIG SCREEN. If you missed this first picture, I know you will want to watch #2. "},{"Title":"Very Lazy Comedy","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The premise for BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE is something we've seen in countless other movies  A bad ass criminal escapes from jail , the cops have a rough idea where he's going to a couple of cops have to trap him . We've seen this type of plot in 48 HOURS , STAKEOUT and countless other films . I'm afraid I have to point out that we've seen a similar type of plot in countless other better films ! The problem isn't just with the very lazy plot that must have taken all of five minutes to have thought up but it's with the comedy itself . It tries to appeal to the sort of people who enjoyed both SCARY MOVIE and MRS DOUBTFIRE . Believe me very few people would have enjoyed both the gross out humour of SCARY MOVIE with the more traditional farce of MRS DOUBTFIRE . When Martin Lawrence says the line  I've seen some scary sh*t in my time but ...  I honestly thought he was talking about the script , scary in the way that someone thought this was going to set the box office alight . A very short review for a film that's very short on laughs "},{"Title":"Big Momma's House","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is pretty much a copy of Mrs. Doubtfire crossed with a bit of Rush Hour, or something with a cop. Martin Lawrence plays Malcolm Turner, a master of disguise cop who is on an assignment to find some kind of gangster. This gangster wants to get Sherry Pierce (Nia Long), or possibly her kid, and kill them. Malcomn and his partner John (Paul Giamatti) find out that Sherry is soon going to visit her relative, Big Momma. They view the real woman to get an idea of what she's like, and after she has left, Malcolm becomes Big Momma. An interesting story with some quite good comedy moments. Sometimes gross, but interesting laughs. Worth watching! "}]