[{"Title":"Zhang Yimou at his best again","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  6 March 2000Not One LessIt's the first great film of this year for me. `Not One Less' is storytelling at its dead straightest - most like the work of the contemporary Iranians Makhmalbaf and Kiarostami but also directly connected to the great Neorealists DeSica, Rosselini and Bunuel. All revel in telling culturally specific stories that reflect universal human experiences that are resonant across all time and place. But as I sat there, freshest on my mind was David Lynch's `The Straight Story.' Both Lynch and Zhang take us on a small journey that reflects a world's worth of living. Both show us that harrowing experience and heroism, seemingly small scale in their films, can be writ in large and commanding script across the lives of ordinary people.Shi Xiangsheng's script is a rural fable based on his own story set in remote China, Hebei - the dry high plains, an undoubtedly stiffening existence. It's shot as beautifully as any of Zhang's films - he's a deft colorist, one of the great painterly directors in cinema (see `Ju Dou' and `Raise the Red Lantern'). The children are crimson-cheeked with complexions warmed and toasted by the unfiltered sun - but they will surely, eventually become worn and parched like their elders, Teacher Gao and Mayor Tian. We see an honest poverty here in great detail. The film's camerawork lets every detail seep into us, allowing us to feel the film's atmospherics and making us thirst in its arid heat and dust. (When the 26 children share 2 cans of warm Coca Cola after a long and hard day, we, too, want to get in line for our sip.)Thirteen-year-old Wei Minxhi is dragged along by Mayor Tian to the village' s ramshackle one-room schoolhouse to meet Teacher Gao. She is to become the school's substitute teacher for one month while Gao leaves to tend to his ailing mother. He can't in good conscience leave this child to shepherd his children but he is without a choice - it's the kind of hard rationalism that is part of everyday life here. Before leaving, he counsels her sternly and provisions her with only a ragged lesson book and one stick (and only one stick) of chalk for every day he will be gone. He shows her the narrow bed in the adjoining room that she will share with 3 boarding students.Teacher Gao is an old man who has suffered a lot of dedicated and dictated poverty in order to improve the lot of his village's children. We come to know his commitment to his work even at this stage of his life when he warns her that conditions are hard in this village and that the vicissitudes of life weigh very heavily on the children here. When he says he has already lost 10 students you know he has felt the loss of every single one. He commands her to keep the body of his school together and that when he returns, he wants to see every one of his students present - and not one less.`Not One Less' is about young Teacher Wei's struggle to meet his simple challenge. We see immediately that she has more reluctance than skill or gumption for this task. But in a culture that expects obedience, she has no recourse. And nowhere else to go. She is more like a sullen older sister than a teacher. And because they are children, the students begin to test her a little. They aren't bratty kids, just rambunctious and resistant to the discipline of schoolwork. She hasn't a clue about how to make them work, so she just writes the lesson on the board and posts herself against the door, barring any escape. Her handwriting is neat and orderly but as the film progresses, we come to see that Teacher Wei is only a little more schooled than her charges.The great thing about `Not One Less' is its unstinting perspective on the innocence and naiveté that only a child lives in. Teacher Wei and these children are completely guileless, without a window on the wide world, and have none of the knowledge or calculation for the simplest complexities of modern life. The film's crisis is that the class troublemaker, eleven-year-old bumpkin Zhang Huike, leaves unannounced for the city so he can earn money for his destitute family. Wei feels the absolute fear of her failure to keep her pledge and is desperate to go and find young Zhang. Figuring out how to get to the city to find him - for her and these children, it might as well be a search for the Holy Grail. It seems as fraught with myth and legend. Yet she, in her naiveté, is undaunted. Many schemes are attempted and when each fails, she just begins walking, having no idea how far it is or how long it will take her or what lies ahead when she gets there. She just knows she must find him.Her journey is the quest of her young life just as Alvin Straight's is the culminating quest of his life. It is a defining act for both. There are no earth-shattering twists of plot to keep from you. It is the unfolding of a redemptive story, a boldly honest portrait of a world away from our experience and a young girl's attempt to navigate it with all her will and perseverance and naiveté - and only that - to sustain her. In the end, we feel we have been somewhere we've never been before and, perhaps, learned something that we had long forgotten. It is the singular power of cinema to transport us this way, to jack us directly into a net of experience we can feel so deeply in our hearts.  "},{"Title":"A delightful story","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It might be a good idea to show this film in all schools in the `civilised' world! This is, anyway, a delightful story for all the family, hugely enjoyable, simply and lovingly told, and with just the most marvellous little Chinese girl imaginable! She has to stand in for the local schoolmaster who very definitely must go and visit his mother who is ill and dying. He leaves her in the middle of about twenty kids only a couple of years younger than herself to get on with the job as best she can, so as to earn 50 yuan in a school which is falling apart.Now you might think that such a building could not possibly be a schoolhouse in remote rural China, or anywhere else. I assure you I have seen such schools &#150; and not in such remote areas &#150; in Indonesia, India, Afghanistan and in what was Portuguese Timor. Even here in Spain, in rural villages high up in the sierras, my wife has worked in schools in little villages where either the floorboards were rotting under her feet in front of the blackboard, or the plumbing did not work, or the lights did not switch on when you wanted them to, or the wood-burning stove in the middle of the room gave off billows of smoke so that you had to open the windows &#150; with 10ºC below zero outside, or the window panes had no putty in them, and so on. And this, only a few years ago, in a modern, civilised European country.Minzhi Wei playing the part of Wei Minzhi, who is herself with her own name (in Chinese the surname is put first) is a thirteen year old who will never make it to Hollywood, but is just the most beautiful school mistress you could imagine! I will not say anything about the story you can see it for yourself. This young girl had to do it all &#150; she is barely ever off the screen. Yimou Zhang has given us a little gem, a beautiful story, with such wonderful participation by all those children, as well as the fine photography and Bao San's occasional accompanying music.How nice to see a lovely story so naturally told! Can't we do things like this in Europe and the USA without it being all violence or overladen commercialism for the hungry masses? Can't we tell a real human story without all the technological special effects? Can't we make honest cinema&#133;&#133;&#133;.? "},{"Title":"A definite MUST-SEE or NOT-TO-SEE, depending on...","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the moment this art house gem of a film rates an IMDB 7.9, so obviously many of us film buffs love it. This film is innovative, delicate, and harshly authentic. If you enjoy international film festival flicks, you MUST see this film. Actually I believe this film should be required viewing for film students who aspire to be directors, cinematographers, etc.However, if you prefer action, Hollywood formula flicks, car chases or even complex plots, then avoid this film. You will probably fall asleep or just be irritated.If you watch this film with your heart, with a good dose of patience, you you will then understand the message. If tears do not come to you during the main character's emotional appeal, then you are probably not aligned with the spirit of this film.Personally I was stunned by the deep impact this film had on me. Yes, it was indeed 'slow', but this allowed for the genuine portrayal of common hope and suffering. I have been a film buff for over 4 decades and this film stands out as refreshingly different. By the way, it is supposed to be a true story, and this added significantly to the film's realism. Also, it does seem that none of the people in the film were professional actors, which is amazing in spite of a sort of documentary feel at times.  If you have an open heart and mind, see it! "},{"Title":"A quasi-realistic fairy tale of modern China","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wei Minzhi (played by Wei Minzhi, essentially playing herself) is a 13-year-old peasant girl pressed into being Teacher Wei at a small rural elementary school when the regular teacher must take a month off. She knows one song (a Maoist propaganda song) and that not very well. She hasn't a clue about how to manage a classroom. Her arithmetic is suspect and her people skills are those of a self-centered beginner. It's not even clear that she wants to do the job. In fact she seems more concerned about the 50 yuan she's supposed to get than anything else.Thus acclaimed Chinese film maker Zhang Yimou sets the stage for a most compelling fairy tale which illustrates how the determined spirit of a little girl might triumph over poverty, ignorance, and the hard-headed reality of the post-Maoist bureaucratic society.And is she determined! She is given 30 pieces of chalk and warned not to waste any of it. The lesson plans are to copy some lessons on the chalkboard and to get the students to copy the copy. That's it! Both the regular teacher and the town's mayor point to the other as the one who will pay her. When the regular teacher starts to leave without paying her, she chases after him. She is told she will get paid when he returns, and if all the students are still enrolled, she will get a ten-yuan bonus.Thus we have the movie's title and the source of Teacher Wei's determination. When one little girl is picked to go to a sports camp because she can run, Wei hides her from the authorities. When Zhang Huike, the class trouble-maker (played by Zhang Huike), quits school and heads for the city to find work, Wei schemes ways to get him and bring him back.At this point the magic begins. With this common goal both teacher and the kids figure out ways to raise money to send Wei by bus to the city and back.They figure the cost for Wei's round trip and for Zhang Huike's one-way trip back, with the kids themselves taking the initiative at the chalkboard with the math. Wei makes them empty their pocketbooks, and when there is not enough she takes them on a field trip to a brick-making factory and together they move bricks to raise the cash. Again they calculate how many bricks they must move at so many cents per brick.I mention all this because what is demonstrated, by the by, is some real teaching and learning taking place. In fact the mayor comes by and peeks into the classroom and is delighted to see that the substitute teacher knows how to teach math!This sequence of events is very moving and is at the heart of the film. Any teacher anywhere in the world will recognize how brilliantly this is done. The kids become so eager to learn that they learn effortlessly, which is the way it is supposed to be. Furthermore, one of the phenomena of the profession is exemplified that of the real teacher learning more (partly because she is older) than the students from the lessons they encounter.Now, it is true that director Zhang Yimou does not show us the real poverty that exists in China nor does he point to the horrid dangers encountered by children who go to the city to work. Neither the little boy nor Teacher Wei is preyed upon in the manner we might fear. Recapitulations of the baser instincts of human beings are not part of Zhang Yimou's purpose here. This is in fact a movie that can be viewed by children, who will, I suspect, identify very strongly with the story. Zhang Yimou is talking to the child in all of us and he does it without preaching or through any didactic manipulation of adult verses child values. It is true he does manipulate our hearts to some degree, but with all the ugliness that one sees in the world today, perhaps he can be allowed this indulgence.Although I would not say that this film is as good as Zhang Yimou's internationally celebrated films such as Red Sorghum (1987) (his first film) or Raise the Red Lantern (1991) (which I think is his best film) or The Story of Qiu Ju (1991) (which this film resembles to some extent), it is nonetheless a fine work of art exemplifying Zhang Yimou's beautiful and graceful style and his deep love for his characters and their struggles. And as always his work rises above and exists in a place outside of political propaganda as does the work of all great artists.Perhaps more than anything else, however, one should see this movie to delight in the unselfconscious, natural, and utterly convincing amateur performance by Wei Minzhi as a most determined and brave little girl. She will win your heart.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"none","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was moved not only by the cultural value and socio-economic perspective of the movie, but also by the themes of compassion, hope, and diligence. As a middle school teacher, I also like how it brings out the idea that meaningful learning (in the classroom and beyond) takes place through real-life commitments, situations and applications.As a note aside, notice the credits; although this movie is based on a Chinese novel, the director selected actors and actresses from the real world to play their real-life parts&#151;complete with their real names and titles. Thus teacher Gao really is teacher Gao! Mayor Tien really is mayor Tien, and the kids, together with Minzhi Wei, really are village children, who have no acting experience. Thus the movie really is realistic in a true and meaningful way. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Let the reality show and speak and shine","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wei Minzhi plays Wei MinZhi, Zhang Huike plays Zhang Huike, the village mayor plays the village mayor... As a matter of fact, and in a clear statement of sort, the whole cast of this movie are real and ordinary people.Zhang Yimou has gone the extraordinary miles to let reality tell the stories, stories of the decline and poverty in parts of rural China, of heart-wrenching conditions for schools and education under such poverty, of heart-warming spirit of happy, lively and adorable children in Shuiquan school blissfully ignorant of their condition, and of the 13 year old peasant girl Wei Mizhi's single minded determination for Not One Less.This movie is Zhang's daring experiment to use normal reality to tell reality, and he has achieved convincingly his goal. All characters in this movie are real, as in reality real. They are real because they have no means of being unreal, and that is the whole point of using real people.Wei Minzhi's self-display (since I can not use the word performance here) is what she is a 13 year old poor, good-natured, no-nonsense, single minded and tenacious peasant girl. She quickly learns to use her toughness to discipline or even bully her students. She seldom smiles, but is actually a pretty good leader because of her no-nonsense and toughness and single mindedness. She is extremely tenacious and is obsessed with Not One Less.The blissfully happy 10 year old trouble-maker and prospect kid migrant worker Zhang Huike's display is just so good that it is almost unreal. The village mayor is a natural real. Sun Zhimei, the girl who lost Zhang Huike in the city, is also as real as you can get.The people I really like in this movie are the three girl students who sleep in school Zhang Mingshan, Jiao Jie and Ming Xinhong. Zhang Mingshan is just so pretty and adorable. She is also smart and is a student cadre. Jiao Jie has a such vivacious smile and has already some good business sense as she comes up with the moving brick idea and the cheating on bus ticket idea. Ming Xinhong loves to run, and her fleeting smile in the car leaving for athlete training school is simply priceless.Ironically, notwithstanding the poor condition in Shuiquan school, I feel very warm and touched by the good spirit of the children. Shuiquan school is actually working, and working quite well, thanks to good teacher like Gao, good village mayor like Tian, and also to the student cadre system, all of which are legacy of Mao's era. Just look at how smart, creative and participating the students are in trying to solve the bus fair problem for Wei Minzhi, you know something is very right in that school. One of the right things in that school is the student cadres like the pretty, smart and caring Zhang Mingshan who's title is study commissar (xuexi weiyuan), usually the most responsible student in class and a teacher's favorite. We also see a boy student cadre in charge of morning military drill and flag raise ceremony.Wei Minzhi is most of the time an uncaring teacher, except the issue of Not One Less which involves her pay. The one who real cares and helps out the class is the beautiful study commissar Zhang Mingshan. She writes out a student name list for Wei to do roll calls. When Wei sits outside letting trouble maker Zhang Huike reign free, she tells Wei that it is her (Wei) duty as a teacher to do something. When Huike knocks the precious chalks off the ground, she picks up these chalks and telling the tugging and struggling Wei and Huike don't step on the chalks. She even criticizes in her diary (read out by Huike in class over her protests but at the insistence of Wei) that Wei is not taking good care of chalks like teacher Gao would...A little girl living in poverty and in that utterly dilapidated school but still writes a caring dairy of what is going on in class, something is very right.Unlike many other Zhang Yimou's movies which are persistently followed with complaint by Chinese audience for being tailored and catering to foreign taste and curiosity, Not One Less is very well received in China. In a surprise reversal of Zhang's fortune with Chinese authority, this movie has even been promoted as a propaganda material of sort by the Chinese government in its campaign for better rural education. "},{"Title":"A very good film!","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less (English title) is a movie that concentrated on why are there so many Chinese children who quit school. Let's face the facts of life...poverty can ruin one's plan for the future, and this was evident in the film. You'll really see how hard life in mainland China is, even though this is a movie. The story is gripping and very realistic. You'll really feel the hardness of being in poverty and having to quit what you're doing. For the characters, Wei is a substitute school teacher who would go to extremes (high determination) from handling a class to walking around the city looking for a missing person.I highly recommend watching this Chinese movie to any movie lover out there. This film is NOT a waste of time, it is simply VERY GOOD. "},{"Title":"A gentle and involving film that touches the heart","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less (1999), directed by Zhang Yimou (Ju Dou, Raise the Red Lantern, Shanghai Triad) is a bittersweet drama set in a poor public school in the remote Chinese village of Shuiquan in Hebei province. Based on a book by screenwriter Shi Xiangsheng, who worked as a schoolteacher in Xinjiang, Not One Less illuminates the conditions of children in rural China who have little access to education and are without schoolbooks or teachers with drive or experience. As the film opens, the regular teacher (Gao Enman) must leave the school to take care of his sick mother and a 13-year old peasant girl (Wei Minzhi) with no previous teaching experience is hired by the Mayor to become the substitute teacher for one month. Teacher Gao, already upset by the number of students who have left the school, tells Wei that when he comes back the number of students must be not one less. Wei, concerned about receiving her pay of 50 yuan, promises that no student will leave while she is there. The young teacher must control and teach 28 students, most just a few years younger than her. With little resources other than a few boxes of chalk, Wei can do little else than have the children copy an assignment from the blackboard while she sits outside the door to prevent them from leaving.Teacher Wei runs into difficulty in keeping her promise to Gao when one student is recruited to go to a special sports school. Another student, a bright but mischievous 11-year old, Zhang Huike, is also taken out of school to find work in the city of Jiangjiaou to help his family's finances. The story takes a sharp turn when Wei, determined not to lose any more students, makes plans to raise money to go to the city to find Zhang and bring him back to school. The process of finding the money to allow her to take the bus to the city enables Wei to teach the eager students by constructing real-life problems in simple mathematics.When Zhang gets lost in the city and lives on the streets, scavenging for food, Wei must summon all her inner resources to try to find him. The scenes in the city use hidden cameras during Wei's interactions with crowds to create a semi-documentary style that reminded me of recent Iranian films that blend fact and fiction. In the process of looking for Zhang, the naive girl from the countryside encounters bewildering obstacles and bureaucratic bungling that are reminiscent of an earlier Zhang Yimou film, The Story of Qui Ju. At first, Wei's motives in finding Zhang are to make sure she gets paid when Gao returns. However, she soon develops a true affection for Zhang and the result is a desperate search that will take you on an emotional roller coaster ride. While Not One Less is specifically about economic conditions in rural China, the appealing innocence of the nonprofessional actors (who used their real names to add authenticity to their performance) gives the film a direct emotional appeal that is universal. It may lack the scope and dramatics of earlier Yimou works, but Not One Less is a gentle and involving film that truly touches the heart.  "},{"Title":"Amateurs Present Good, Simple Story","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There isn't much to this story, I but I still liked it. The lead character, played by Wei Minzhi, is supposed to be playing a 13-year-old girl and was really interesting to watch, as were the young students and some of the other people in this film.Oddly, all these actors were amateurs, real-life students and people of varied professions. It's nicely filmed, too, despite the bleak background many times. I find the dialog of many Chinese films to be very pleasing. Yes, there is a lot of receptiveness, at least in the translations, but it's tolerable. There is very little profanity and plenty of good old-fashioned values and feelings of people, simply told. You don't find much of this is in modern-day movies of the Western World. The colors in here - the reds, yellows and oranges - are always a treat for the eyes and the Asian kids' faces are intriguing.This film is very different from anything Western audiences are used to, but I recommend it for those who realize that fact and are okay with it. "},{"Title":"Literally determination personified - Even one cannot be less","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the depiction of a true story with the two lead characters performed by the actual person Wei Minzhi, 13 year old young girl who is a substitute for the village teacher, and Zhang Huike, 11 year old young boy who left school to go to the city to find work to pay for family debt.It is DERTERMINATION personified. She is one young lady who's not worried about her looks or other people's criticism. She is truly one track minded to find the lost student and to bring him home back to the village, and does not care if others are curt with her, or impolite; she's just very focused on achieving what she came to the city for - to get Zhang Huike back to the village school - no matter what it takes!Simple setting. Poor village, city hustles. Children interactions/reactions are always a joy to watch. Lead character is devoid of guile and her stubborn determination is direct and innocent. The hesitation in her speech, her pause and silence held her own. Her performance is guileless - plainly so - that's how precious the performance is. An occasional smile is not easy to detect, as she is so engrossed in her mission; the continuous smile towards the end is well earned. There is magic after all.This is a rare gem from director Zhang Yimou, quite a different flavor from his film collaborations with heaven-sent leading lady Gong Li.  "}{"Title":"young girl may be acting less out of altruism than self interest but our eyes do not leave her","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I suppose 'heart warming' are the first words that come to mind but lest that put anyone off, I have to say that it is the way Mr Zhang involves us from the very beginning that is the reason for the film's success. Beautifully shot with some wonderful natural light, our first glimpse of the rural backwater is astonishing. Almost immediately though we are drawn into a drama involving a thirteen year old girl being put in charge of a school of youngsters. The usual teacher has to visit sick relatives for a month and he leaves the girl behind with specific instructions to keep the schoolchildren from leaving school. Hence the film's title. Of course one goes missing and she follows to the city to try and find him, which becomes the story of the film. It is fascinating to see and believe the degree of poverty in the village and wonder as the children do at the difficulty of surviving in either place. The young girl may be acting less out of altruism than self interest but our eyes do not leave her and her concerns are ours. Seemingly non professional cast do a magnificent job, which must in no small part be down to Zhang, but then nobody seems to put a foot wrong. Excellent. "},{"Title":"A quiet simple gem","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A simple film with a linear narrative which reminds us of the complexity of modern life. Looking into this tale from the urban world reminds us that life is so very different elsewhere.Set in China but the themes could be matched to many places in the developing world. Rural v Urban, Poverty v Prosperity, the contrast is stark. It's a scary place looking for a lost boy in a strange city when you could so easily become lost yourself. The teacher struggles through grasping at one straw after another finally by determination and a bit of luck over achieves her goal.The happy outcome has a moralising whiff, good values will win in the end, unfortunately this tends not to happen so often in the real world. "},{"Title":"Everyoine gets a sip","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Zhang Yimou Duration 108 minutes I have been a fan of Zhang Yimou since 1999 when I watched his amazing film _Raise the Red Lantern_ for the first time in my East Asian Novel class. I have since had the pleasure of watching _The Road Home_, _Happy Times_, and _The Story of Qiu Ju_. Similar to Hou Jianqi's _Postmen in the Mountain_ and a number of the films mentioned above, _Not One Less_ depicts the natural beauty of rural China next to the abject poverty in which quite a number of farmer families live. The film begins simply enough with the mayor tugging along the pretty, slim Wei Minzhi who has been hired by the village to teach in the place of an older teacher who must leave town in order to look after his sick mother. Minzhi does not bring much to the table, however, because she is only able to sing one song in praise of Mao and her teaching ability seems to be limited to copying information on the board and then ordering her students to copy what she has written. Also, did I mention the fact that Minzhi is thirteen years old? Minzhi was hired because she was the only one willing to work in the little bumpkin village. Of course because of her age she is not only taken advantage of by her students, but the mayor as well who tries to swindle his way out of paying the young woman fifty yuan, around maybe twenty dollars for a month's work. However, when Minzhi is offered an extra ten yuan by the old teacher if she is able to keep all of her students during the month, Minzhi becomes determined to keep all of her students in place. However, one soon joins a school specializing in sports and another leaves for the city to support his sick mother.Like Yang Zhang's film _Quitting_, all of the actors, all non-professional, play themselves. Filming is still highly censored in China, so Zhang Yimou had to veneer the true messages of the film. So under that happy ending and bubbly children, this is a serious social critique which needs to be seen to be appreciated. "},{"Title":"A marvelous neo-realist Chinese film for family viewing","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Long after De Sica made Bicycle thief and Fellini his La Strada, neo-realist traditions grab me like no other in cinema history. The Chinese film Not one less made half a century after the Italian masterpieces, underlines several aspects of neo-realist traditions&#151;non-actors can transform into great actors provided you have an intelligent script and a talented director, poverty attracts anyone with a conscience, the candid camera is a marvelous tool, and human values exist to be appreciated irrespective of national boundaries. It truly deserved the Golden Lion at the Venice film festival.A reluctant substitute teacher taking on a job that would fetch a doubtful 50 yuan from a village mayor with questionable priorities transforms into a national hero in less than a month as she strives hard to ensure the number of her students do not dwindle until the regular teacher returns. Her resolutions transforms the economic state of the school, makes her students into socially responsible young adults and teaches a lesson to the wily mayor, a gatekeeper in the city TV station who goes by rules rather than by her discretion.The brilliance of the film is that the film hooks the audience as a thriller would until the film ends. Yet there is no sex, no violence, no beautiful face, no delightful music or engaging camera angles&#151;only reactions caught by candid camera (at least most of the time).The most poignant comment was the young student's comment I loved the city but it made me beg for food For a contemporary Chinese film made under tight censorship&#151;the film's director Yimou Zhang seems to offer layers of comment beyond the obvious story line. Did Teacher Wei do what she did for the sake of money or as a responsible teacher? Are you likely to forget propagandist songs but recall simple songs on family values? Are individual greatness (teacher Wei) more appreciated than group actions (school as a group, nation's need for good athletes overriding permission of the parents of potential athletes)? Is the richness of rural lifestyles discounted by rising urban materialism? Does it require an individual's actions to underline the demands of the rural poor? These are hidden questions for each viewer to answer.I have only seen one other film of director Yimou Zhang and that is Red Sorghum. Not one less towers over Red Sorghum in every department of film-making.I saw this Chinese film on an Indian TV channel. I only wish more such international films get shown widely on TV throughout the world. It would raise the bar of what constitutes good cinema to many who currently have little idea of good cinema except those made in their own countries. Recent mainland Chinese films like Peacock and Not one less have established their world class credentials.P.S. I was more than amused to find Ford and Coca-Cola financed the film in part, which is probably why the school kids in a remote Chinese village know about Coke and relish rationed drops of the liquid. Who was pulling whose leg here??? "},{"Title":"A compelling reality","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Surprisingly, I never lost my patience or got bored while watching this, even though it is very slow, understated film in which there is a great deal of repetition and very little character development. Zhang Yimou takes us along with a 13-year-old substitute teacher, played, like the other characters, by a nonprofessional actor (the credits even tell you where each person comes from, and that most of them actually do the jobs in real life that we see them doing here).It is fascinating to see the bonds develop between the teacher and her students almost without anyone trying. The film barely even seems like it needs a quest, but when one develops, the teacher's plight is even more poignant. I will say that I'm not sure I got any great insights into the problem of poverty in rural China, but the mindset of the characters as Zhang shows them &#150; obstinate and determined &#150; was quite captivating. "},{"Title":"To Wei, With Love","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A true story, or not? It doesn't matter. This is such a brilliant movie on so many levels its hard to recount them all.This is a great movie for just about anybody. It gets better if you like a story that features an un-compromising, absolutely determined female child in the lead role. But its even better if you happen to have had a teacher in your life you endeared, or are a teacher and have had a favorite pupil. It gets better if you're a father looking for a strong role model for your daughter. Its better still if you have Chinese ancestry in your family. It gets better if you have an interest in learning more about the daily conditions of modern-day rural and urban China, delivered via a master cinematographer. It gets better if you think education occurs best when children take an active role in lessons situated in a context meaningful to them (see the math lessons in the movie). And finally, if you are many of these, there's a message at the top of the credit roll that will either break your heart or confirm your knowledge of the relentless unfairness of the human condition.On top of all this, the movie is littered with priceless vignettes the children writing single-character calligraphy on the chalk board; the misbehaving students and the absent teacher; the dedicated teacher who will stand for two days at the security gate asking every passerby if they are the general manager; the famished child waif guiltily but aggressively eating someone's leftover dinner from the tabletop of a street-side café; the pervasive role of money on life's most basic pursuits.This movie has the emotion of To Sir, with Love and the honesty of Himalaya.Yimou Zhang doesn't just use actresses and actors to portray the parts; he uses the real thing, culling the mayor, students, and teachers from rural villages, the television station manager, the restaurateur from the city, etc. How he manages to capture these people in the natural presentations of their characters is impressive. The performances were so convincing I marveled at their exquisite, authentic qualities. I kept asking myself how did these actresses and actors nail their parts so well? When the credits rolled the secret was revealed. "},{"Title":"current social problem, poor quality of education in the villages is cleverly linked in to a proper story.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An excellent movie. Hats off to the director Yimou Zhang for getting wonderful performances from non professional actors. The way a burning social problem, effects of poverty on the education system and poor children, is interestingly woven into a story and captivating plot structure. The substitute village teacher, Minzhi Wei, a 13 years old girl, wants to buy a round trip to the city by bus from her workplace to fetch a missing student and does not have money. She succeeds in convincing the whole class to do labour,carrying bricks, to mobilize money. The ensuing mathematical calculations in the class and on the black board add to the school goings on while touching the emotional chords of the audience. The teacher's struggle in the city to trace out the student, her stubborn 'never say quit' attitude form part of the later half of the film that ends on a positive note by bringing the problem of education into focus. The contrast in the village and urban life styles is well brought out. some scenes that impressed me strongly are the teacher running after the van carrying a student. argument by the teacher and students with the brick kiln owner. teacher's walk to the city. the writing of posters by the teacher and the posters being swept away while the teacher is asleep. the innocent enquiries of the teacher at the TV Station entrance. the broadcast talk of the teacher addressed to the student. the joy of the students when they get lots of colorful chalk.a must watch for all the socially aware citizens of the world. "},{"Title":"One More About Real Life","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is also a well-received and well-applauded film in the international scene. Not surprising for it is a film directed by the same man who gave us Raise the Red Lantern, Hero, and Zhang Ziyi (via The Road Home, which I have yet to see) - Zhang Yimou. Based on There is a Sun in the Sky by Shi Xiang Sheng, who also wrote the screenplay, the story tells about a young girl who actually represents China's poor and practically illiterate sector. Oh, but that's getting ahead of the story.In the movie, Wei Min Zhi, young and barely out of her teens, is given the task to substitute for the very dedicated Teacher Gao at the Shiuxian Village's school in Beijing. Having big and understandable doubts, Teacher Gao still hands over the reins to her for a while as he is left with no choice. It being a job, Wei asks for payment. They argue until they both agree to a decision, that he will make sure she gets paid provided that in his absence, no student leaves schooling to work, not one less. Wei intends to keep this promise, a promise that eventually becomes threatened when one of the students runs away.It is obvious that Not One Less is a movie intended to serve as an eye-opener and does not pretend to be anything else. It touches on issues such as poverty, child labor and illiteracy. It is realistic enough as who are we to say that a situation such as Wei?s does not exist? While you maybe amused by the story from time to time, you can?t help but feel pity for the characters. Imagine a 13-year-old kid forced by the need to earn and teach other kids almost her own age. I winced between chuckles as Wei struggled to find the right words for the only song she claimed she knew, the right answers to simple mathematics, and the right way to find the missing boy in the jungle called The City.The story is told in quite a simple manner. No music, no flairs and, save for one - Li Fan Fan - no real celebrities. Read the credits and you?ll soon realize that none of the cast, whether main or not, were real actors. In fact, everyone used his/her own name! Wei Min Zhi was actually a student from Zhenlingbao Village Middle School. Trouble-maker Zhang Huike was actually also another student from another school. Teacher Gao (Gao Enman) was a real primary school teacher. Though the story was not based on a particular and actual person's life, the cast played their own roles, from the young runner-athlete to the village mayor to the TV anchor.There is no great acting. I must say the better. Raw acting can sometimes make everything more believable. Watch it and you'll see what I mean. Heck, it's like seeing a familiar situation in my country's own backyard! A plus for Zhang Huike?s infectious smile. But even that, I missed the first time I saw him cry and in this particular scene Li Fan Fan Do you like the city? Zhang Huike Yes. Li Fan Fan What is good about it? Zhang Huike The city is beautiful and progressive. Much better than the countryside. Li Fan Fan What?s the most lasting impression? Zhang Huike (pauses and the smile fades) That I had to beg for food. I will always remember that. So if you feel you can break away from all the hi-tech, gory and adrenaline-rushing flicks, opt for a simple and realistic story. Here it is and don't expect any butt-kicking Wei Min Zhi anytime soon. Just isn't going to happen. "},{"Title":"Tribute to Human Spirit","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At the Honolulu International Film Festival in 2001 I was able to ask several Asian film directors about which new films they recommended. Two especially admired 'Not One Less.' After seeing it, I completely agree with their recommendations and with praise by A.O. Scott and other film critics. Zhang Yimou had earlier taken us with equal impact into the lives and struggles of Chinese villagers in 'Story of Qiu Ju.'. but 'Not One Less' takes place long after Premier Deng had 'broken the iron rice bowl' and left poor rural people in China to find their own way. The village school where 13 year old Wei is hired as a teacher cannot even afford to buy chalk. It certainly cannot hire an adult to teach the large group of children in one classroom.At first, her efforts seem hopeless. Yet, she won't give up. At the end, she succeeds in holding the class together. Anyone who has ever tried to teach children will find deep satisfaction at the end, when her students finally start to learn. For all of us, 'Not One Less' is a tribute to the human spirit. "},{"Title":"Movie with  a message","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am generally not a big fan of movies made only to send a message, tending to agree with the Hollywood director who famously said, If you want to send a message, go to Western Union. And make no doubt about it this is a message movie. And in case you might miss the message, the director flashes it across the screen at the end. That said, this is a beautiful and heart warming story about an aspect of Chinese culture one generally does not hear much about in the West the situation at rural schools. As Zhang Yimou lets us know at the end, more than one million students drop out of schools in rural China because of poverty. From what I understand, this is a pretty accurate picture of the situation in many places in the Chinese countryside. Forget about having a computer in the classroom; this place has to worry about having enough chalk. To add to the authenticity, Zhang Yimou used real people from the Chinese countryside to play the roles (although to clear up one misperception, this is not a true story). It is certainly a different China than the economic superpower we hear about in the news. But for anyone wishing to get a more complete picture of China, this film provides a vivid depiction of the plight of rural schools in a very moving if somewhat contrived story and is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Teach your children well","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  NOT ONE LESS (2000) *** World renowned Chinese filmmakerZhang Yimou's strong story telling skills come through evocativelywith an almost documentary like account of a teenage substituteteacher (Wei Minzhi as herself) whose green tactics are put to thetests of many endurances &#150; spiritually, emotionally, physically &#150;while working as an assigned primary school teacher in a smallimpoverished modern-day village and embarks on a  soul-searching odyssey when one of her rebellious and  obnoxious young charges is forced to move away from his familyto forced labor to work off his familial debts.  What makes the filmunique is the way its humanity overspills in simplified yetcompelling terms of matter-of-factness without pandering orplucking the audiences' emotions for cheap sentiment, but ratherof just how well off many nations truly are.   "},{"Title":"A Lesson in Humility.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not One Less (1999) Dir Zhang Yimou / Cast Wei Minzhi, Gao Enman, Zhang Huike, Tian Zhenda, Sun Zhimei Sweet foreign film that relates to the Biblical parable of the lost sheep by emphasizing the importance of a single human life. Set in a poverty stricken village where a teacher leaves town for a month leaving the children in the care of thirteen year old Wei Minzhi. She accepts the task but realizes its challenge too late when a particular misbehaving kid is pulled out of school for employment purposes Wei decides to track him down. One aspect that doesn't work is her using the kids to assist in raising money. Directed with great passion by Zhang Yimou who previously made the acclaim Raise the Red Lantern and the poorly received Shanghai Triad. Minzhi does a wonderful job displaying her frustration yet care as she struggles to do the task asked of her right down to finding one kid. Gao Enman plays the understanding teacher seen briefly but the role is pivotal. Zhang Huike plays the kid gone missing who will learn that growing up too fast is harmful, and that others do care. Tian Zhenda plays the Mayor. Sun Zhimei plays a middle school student who assist in the search in the confusing city streets. Well crafted film with great location shots. It is a touching film about taking time to care and risking much for the better of another. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps Zhimou's best","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The substitute teacher in a remote poor Chinese village is a 13 years old. Wei Minzhi plays Wei Minzhi, the mayor of a poor village plays the major of this fictional village, the teacher is the teacher, and the TV Host is the TV host...Mr. Zhimou has created a fictional story, however, with the movie's style (as it was based in real life events) and with the use of reliable elements (non professional actors playing themselves), he makes it so believable, so, at about the first half of the movie, the bystander already feels identified with the film, it's touched by it, by its beauty, tenderness and sorrow.This is not a real story, however, it shows a reality in every day China (and perhaps other countries). Since it was impossible to do a documentary criticizing the Chinese government, he made this outstanding, touching, brilliant film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A sensitive depiction of some aspect of contemporary China.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was not until the credits rolled at the end of Not One Less that I discovered the director to be Zhang Yimou. This movie is not like other films I associate with Mr. Zhang, e.g. Red Sorghum, Ju Dou, and Raise the Red Lantern, none of which is, if I remember correctly, set contemporarily and all of which are stylish and somewhat mythical. In contrast, Not One Less tries to portray typical Chinese people in typical Chinese lives, going so far as to employ as actors people whose roles in the film reflect their real life occupations &#150; park ticket taker, TV announcer, local mayor, stationery store owner, etc.The story is tale of coming of age. A thirteen year old girl agrees to substitute teach a class in the countryside for a month for 50 Rmb. She has no experience teaching and is given little guidance as to what she should do. As an adolescent, her main goal is to follow the letter of the law as set down by the vacationing teacher, Mr. Zhang. Circumstances force her, however, to become a real teacher &#150; that is, not just a person responsible to teach the three Rs but to act as a moral model for her students.Not One Less is refreshing. Having lived in China for a number of years, I was very happy to see (and hear) in this movie people and places that were entirely familiar. Rather than trying to tackle large social and political issues, Not One Less explores some of the contradictions people in China face today. While the ideal of everyone helping each other is lauded, the characters are poignantly aware &#150; as people in China and throughout the world are &#150; of the gap between the real and the ideal. "},{"Title":"A substitute teacher set on a search for her lost student in the city.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nothing like an insightful and touching film like Not One Less. I can't understand Chinese, but it didn't hinder me for getting the message it was portraying. This movie is so good, you could cry your heart out. It makes you wonder how many people in our world today would risk something like that in order to find one little boy in a giant crowded city. I was just floored with the story, I was touched with the characters' personalities, I was impressed with the acting. I could've passed it as a Hollywood blockbuster, but it was certainly not a Julia Roberts caliber can do. It was innocent, heartwarming, and straight to the point. There were no hesitation, it was a direct hit in telling the fact that there is a hero in all of us and other people need to be told to be aware of how much our fellowmen is suffering while they live in the comforts of their own home. Definitely, one of the saddest movies I've seen. And the actors did an AMAZING job! 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Gripping story, lovely film","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Whew.  I felt emotionally drained after watching Not One Less.  I've enjoyed all the films by Zhang Yimou that I've been able to see so far, and I hope I can eventually see all his work.  Two or three minutes that seemed uncharacteristically sentimental are all that kept me from voting ten rather than nine on this beautiful movie.  In view of the enormous merit of the film otherwise this is a minor quibble, still I wish the editing could have been just a bit tighter.I don't know why it never occurred to me till the closing credits that these were (obviously, now that I think of it) not professional actors, but real people playing, for the most part, roles that they would be comfortable with from their own lives.  Maybe that's one reason that the film is so believable.  What moved me to tears several times during the film was the focus on human values, chief among them, as other commenters have pointed out, determination.  This is about as upbeat a film as anybody could possibly desire, yet without ever being preachy or trite.  One scene that will remain in my memory (among many) is the priceless one where each child writes a character on the blackboard.  The words they chose are moving.  I'm so glad a handful of moviemakers, including Zhang Yimou, are still producing films that accentuate human goodness and true-to-life values. This film was like a valuable gift, and my thanks go to the director and all his wonderful cast and crew. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie and will watch it many times","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can I say about this film? Far from being anything like a Hollywood movie, it shows realism in many aspects -- in China. The director of this film was telling a story and told it very, very well and the acting is excellent, but more than that, I loved this movie for showing me what the the director and actors may or may not have intended to show me -- about Chinese culture, about life in a small poor Chinese village and about the way people interact in China.A couple things that are particularly fascinating to me are the very clipped and matter-of-fact interactions between people, with smiles fairly rare. Living in Texas there are smiles everywhere and all the time, to be polite if nothing else. There is no such concern for such social graces in the interactions between the characters in this film, and the result is refreshing -- and revealing, I think, of a culture very different from my own. Reading the face of the main character, for instance, at the beginning of the film the first time I watched it had me thinking and feeling that she was someone who was basically in a bad mood and maybe had a chip on her shoulder. However, it becomes apparent during viewing of the film that she is a most inspiring person and very caring as well; she just has different ways of communicating and presenting herself that are foreign to me.The other thing -- and the main reason I want to watch this film again at least a few more viewings -- is because of the wonderful attitude and determination shown in this story. With what seemed like all the odds against her, she knew what she must do and she refused to falter from her purpose, no matter what the setbacks (which I won't mention in order not to give too much away) -- which were enormous.The Chinese are known for not showing much emotion, so I was surprised just how much emotion was shown at the end of the film -- perhaps not so much in the expressions of the individual actors as in the broad-heartedness and caring portrayed by a large community of people.This film is very well done. I can't say enough good things about it. And this teacher's story is one I think I will remember the rest of my life when times are really hard, to give me hope and to help steel my own determination when the chips are way, way down. "},{"Title":"It captured my heart...","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a trully wonderful movie that I happened to see accidentally and I am so glad I did! Human kind is expressed in its true form and emotions could not have been portrayed better! I only wish if we could all look in our hearts from time to time, be as good hearted as 13yr old Wei, and this world would be a so much better place.I rate this movie a full 10/10 as it has so much to show ... the reality! "},{"Title":"Didn't expect much but got caught by surprise","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have watched other Chinese films before The Road Home, Chungking Express, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon... and Asian films like The Scent of a Green Papaya. But this is the first Asian film that I rate with a whopping 10! One of the reasons I rate this film high is its genuineness. We are shown a poor, young country girl, taking up the position as a substitute teacher, primarily because of attractive remuneration. She does not think of the fact that she is not qualified. If they take her and pay her, then she has what she wants. And if the remuneration has a not one less clause, then she will fulfil that condition at all cost. But just like any 13-year-old, she is not able to muster authority in class. She uses irritation and Because the teacher said so as arguments to make the pupils do as she wishes. She sits outside the classroom and does not seek to discipline them. And when she had to convince her class to help her in her 'rescue mission', she says But I HAVE to go to the city! No other arguments. Accustomed to hardship and poverty, she persevered 1-1/2 days before a TV station because she was convinced that that was the only way she could achieve her goal. Teacher Wei was indeed quite a genuine character together with her very young pupils, including the class president. Shown with a beautiful backdrop, the film makes me want to go to China after SARS has been put under control! -) "},{"Title":"Humanity and beauty","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the second Yimou film I watched, the earlier was The Road Home. Just like The Road Home, this movie has fantasticly beautiful pictures of Chinese landscapes. I especially like the full-length pictures; the proportions, the golden section, the characters that are placed perfectly on the screen. The city views are good too. And I like the film they used.The acting is good and realistic, I think (I do not understand Chinese). It is emotional, and not as sentimental as The Road Home. I actually think this movie is slightly better. There are tragical moments but mostly it's joyful, there are mean people but most people are good, in a Frank Capra way. The music is pretty good too and is not over-used.  The story is good, and obviously also contains a message. The young teacher is not a heroine without flaws, she is an ordinary 13 year old girl with a good heart. The contact with reality makes the children learn mathematics, and it makes Huike Zhang become kind. Delightful.8,5 "}{"Title":"sky, happiness, water, flower","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A must-see if you like storytelling and Zhang Yimou style. Many little gems in this movie, like the early morning scene at the TV studio. Teacher Wei's character is written extremely well. I was glad it was subtitled, otherwise a lot would've been lost in the dub. Can't recommend it enough, forget the 10 o'clock news and watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Entrancing view with maybe a tad too much sugar","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed it, truly enjoyed it. Just watched the dvd 10 minutes ago. Have seen loads of Zhang's films, and interesting to see another of his 'small' films (similar feel to The Road Home), where characterisation and dialogue take centre stage. A simple story, but a REAL one, which touches the heart, sometimes wrenchingly, although the final resolution is a tad over the top. Excellent performances, as usual for a Zhang Yimou film, fantastic cinematography, a beautiful film. And in reply to those who seem to have found the children slightly too naive well, if you had lived there, you might not be so naive yourself. It's one of the reasons I'm moving back - I want to give my children a real CHILDhood.   "},{"Title":"Realism and dramatic simplicity yield unexpected delights.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Zhang Yimou's remarkable filmmaking career takes an unexpected turn and produces yet another masterpiece, albeit one far removed from the lushness of previous period dramas like RAISE THE RED LANTERN and SHANGHAI TRIAD.  NOT ONE LESS is set in contempory China, uses all non-professional actors, and tells its simple tale with a directness and clear-eyed unsentimentality that only enhances its emotional power.  In an isolated, poor rural village, the schoolteacher must hire a substitute so that he can visit his ailing mother.  The only person available is a 13 year old girl, barely more educated than her charges.  With misgivings, he leaves her behind with but one earnest admonition  she must keep the children in school at all costs; when he returns he expects to find every single one still in attendance, not one less.But one of the boys disappears, having traveled to the city to find work to help support his impoverished family.  The girl must somehow follow him, find him in the crowded metropolis, and bring him back home.  It's a seemingly impossible quest, yet she undertakes it without hesitation, without complaint, with nothing going for her but a gritty determination and singleminded persistence that is truly awesome to witness.  Her journey, along with that of the wayward boy, will lift your spirits and convey an appreciation for life's gifts that are all too often taken for granted.  It's a compelling story, immaculately told.  Watch it with your kids. "},{"Title":"pure. simple and fantastic","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow!!! I love this director. He never fails to surprise me. This is a very simple but realistic tale of a girl who gives everything she has to go after her goal. She went to the city practically without money to look for her student. Her struggle is so deep that we feel a knot in our throat as we watch her go through a number of ordeals. She doesn't care whether she sleeps or eats, never had I seen somebody as passionate as our hero, so devoted to a cause. "},{"Title":"Director Yimou Zhang's alive again with his Masterpiece","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Yimou Zhang has come back alive again with his masterpiece, and this time, so wisely, without casting international big stars such as Ms.Li Gong. After his draining years, and after a long run, Zhang seemed to understand that Simplicity is the most brilliant philosophy. He has become more mature dealing with real people and the fact of life in rural part of modern China. And most of all, with human touch.This is a must see. Don't miss it or you'll be regret. "},{"Title":"A powerful and moving film!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I decided to watch Not One Less for no other reason than that it was directed by Zhang Yimou.  I had heard nothing about it, didn't know the plot, story, cast, etc.  Needless to say, I was not disappointed.  Not only was I not disappointed, but I believe I have found what may truly be the most moving film I have seen in ages!!I usually reserve a rating of 10/10 for movies that are perfect in every way (from a perspective of an average viewer like me, anyway).  This includes everything from set design, special effects, sound, music, everything. However, the STORY of Not One Less and the way it was delivered was so powerful I can not give it anything less than a 10/10.  The utterly seeming simplicity of the story and characters is on the surface ... there is something that just draws you in like only the best movies can, and you find yourself feeling their emotions, living their lives.Not One Less is just such a movie.  You will fall in love with the characters, the teacher, the children; you will feel the pain and frustration, the poverty.These are characteristics of great film.  Not One Less is a must see. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Film.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A delightful coming-of-age tale, nicely realized by Zhang Yimou and all involved, which not only provides an informative look at certain aspects of life in rural areas of the People's Republic of China but also demonstrates that there is so much more to  growing up than the loss of one's virginity - with or without an assist from mom's baking. "},{"Title":"Simple, delightful and inspirational.  Cinema at its best.","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film feels so real you can almost smell the dust.  The characters are so natural, as one would expect since they are playing themselves in the recreation of a true story.The film might be too slow for the brain-dead Hollywood types.  It might not have the melodrama or complexity to keep the intellectuals happy.I don't care.  I loved this film. "},{"Title":"Zhang Yimou or Yimou Zhang? Whatever, he's very good.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A couple years ago after watching Raise the Red Lantern and To Live, I became convinced that Zhang Yimou (I don't know which order the names go either) was one of the best film directors alive. After watching Not One Less I realized that I was wrong about that. He isn't simply one of the best, I think  he is the best.Not One Less is a very simple yet very compelling story. Mostly set in a poor, one-room school in rural China, it tells the story of a 13-year-old girl who must become a substitute teacher while the regular teacher is gone for a month. At first she is indifferent, seemingly wanting the kids just to go away. And the kids just want their real teacher back.Eventually, of course, they warm up to each other. And when one of her kids goes to the big city and gets lost, she sets off on a determined mission to find him and bring him back.Yimou (or is it Zhang?) is wonderful at directing these youngsters, reminding you at times of Francois Truffaut at his best in The 400 Blows or Small Change. And his simple scenes have an enormous power to them The speech about not wasting chalk, the entire class sharing two cans of Coke, and the young substitute's sudden stage fright in front of the TV cameras.I eagerly await the next journey this most talented of all directors wishes to take me on. "},{"Title":"Zhang Yimou rules!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This neo-realist type of movie will come as a surprise to those who associate Zhang Yimou with the rigid formalism of Raise the Red Lantern It is actually close in mood to another excellent film of his, The Story of Qiu Ju.The narrative has a delightful simplicity to it and I especially loved the first half. The scenes where the teacher is trying to earn enough money for the bus-fare to the city are hilarious and unexpectedly moving. The kids are great too not those treacly tykes you get in so many Hollywood movies.I recommend this movie highly. My only complaint is that the city sequence seemed to drag on a bit too long & felt too emotionally manipulative ... but that's just a matter of taste. In terms of Zhang's other work, I will put this higher than Shanghai Triad but a bit lower than To Live. "}{"Title":"A simple flabbergasting film","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is simply a flabbergasting film or should I say, I was flabbergasted by this simple film... Anyway this is a moving story about real people, played by real people ... Minzhi Wei is maybe not a real movie actress, but she is so strong as the 13 year young teacher ... 'shy' when she arrives in the village, 'stubborn' when it comes to preserve her students from leaving the school (not one less)  ... the 'mise-en-scene' from Yimou Zhang is straightforward but effective ... no disturbing special effects or camera movements ... The people and the story that's what counts ... Some of the scenes in the city are so real, that I suspect Yimou Zhang of just shooting on location without warning the passengers ... When Minzhi Wei -on her quest to find one of her students- arrives for the first time in her life in a big city, you feel what an overwhelming power this strange environment must have on her .... The only clue she has is an obscure address ... not having a better idea, she starts to ask everybody on the streets for this address ... you actually see the amazement of the people for such a naive question ... it even gets worse when she takes post before the TV-station and decide not to leave before she has spoken with the director ...  "},{"Title":"Zhang Yimou scores again!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Leaving the sumptuous style used in the works that made him a worldwide-known director (such as in Raise the Red Lantern or Ju Dou), Zhang Yimou embraces here styles and themes already treated (to great effect) in his 1992's The Story of Qiu Ju... and does it again!Yi ge dou bu neng shao (Not One Less) is set in rural China, and depicts real life with an almost neorealistic touch. The main character, that of a 13 year old teacher, played by Wei Minzhi, will move to tear great parts of the audience with her tribulations, without ever falling into melodramatic territories.This movie is one to watch and remember, even if it is a little ruined by a way-too-much happy end, probably imposed by the Chinese government, that, it is said, was not too pleased with the depiction, given by the movie, of life style in rural China. "},{"Title":"Storytelling par excellence...","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are movies whose stories are so compelling that one can't help but wax enthusiastic RIDING ALONE FOR THOUSANDS OF MILES, TOGETHER, WHY HAS BODHI-DHARMA LEFT FOR THE EAST?, THE WAY HOME, RAISE THE RED LANTERN, THE ROAD HOME, MADADAYO, I LIVE IN FEAR, FOR THE CHILDREN, BAREFOOT GEN (both), GRAVE OF THE FIREFLIES, FROZEN, JU-DOU, IN THIS WORLD... The list sometimes seems endless (although it unfortunately isn't). NOT ONE LESS will wring you dry. The tearful ending is at once heartbreaking and uplifting. Like the very best of the very best movies, this one works like a magic spell from beginning to end. I can't recommend it highly enough. "},{"Title":"Unusual (and great) film from Zhang Yimou","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Somewhat didactic and sentimental, this film from Zhang Yimou is nevertheless irresistible. An unusual foray from Zhang into realistic films, Not One Less tells the tale of a young teenager in a Chinese village who is named as substitute teacher in the local school when the head teacher has to visit his ailing mother. Her skills as a teacher are barely adequate, and her students are just a few years younger than she is, yet she makes up her obvious shortcomings as a teacher with an utmost zeal in accomplishing her mission. Her superior has told her that not one of her students must drop out of school, so when one of the more trouble making boys heads to the big city in order to support his starving family, she has to go there to get him back. The movie is refreshingly sincere in stating that she does not search the boy out of a sense of social concern, but because of money, since she won't receive any bonus if any of her students are missing. The best part of the movie shows the naive teacher trying to find her lost student in the urban jungle of the city. Shot with a wonderful amateur cast, this look at rural China is beguiling. "},{"Title":"Hollywood doesn't rules","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This excellent movie, such as the iranian Sib, also know as The apple or La mela, demonstrates once again that a good story is ten thousands times better than a good special effect, much better than many multi million dollars productions. Foreign movies like this (and foreign cultures) are amazing because they show the real life, much different from the american or european style, and tell about real problems from their point of view. "},{"Title":"Simply biting social comment","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Minzhi Wei is marvellous in her eponymous role as the determined thirteen year old substitute teacher in a village primary school in 1990's China. Bearing in mind the artistic and cultural restrictions in China, this film is both a touching portrayal of individual humanity in China, and a searing indictment of the state of China's rural economy and the government's inability to tackle the level of need of its poorest people. By focusing on the individual, Zhang Yimou has none the less laid bear social inequality in Chinese society, and the resulting poor treatment and casting aside of the country's poorest and weakest citizens, with the skill of the finest of surgeons. "},{"Title":"Persistence And Belief In Education Pays Off What A Novel Idea!","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Thirteen year old Wei Minzhi's face will haunt you for days after you see this film; as an early teen, she is suddenly thrust into a provincial classroom as a teacher, and early on she chooses to chase after and bring home a lost student. This untried young teacher's stoic quest is the reflection of a brave people who have often had to face near insurmountable odds to achieve an education and upward mobility. Like Wei Menzhi, they do so without complaint, merely by quietly acting, steadily enduring, doing what is right to learn and grow. This is a film about childhood, too, without being drenched in treacle, without sappy cuteness; it demonstrates faith in the human condition, encourages us to be better than we are--and how many films sincerely make that attempt? A wonderful experience that demands patience and understanding from the viewer. "},{"Title":"A story of courage and determination of how a young girl went to the city to search for her lost student who had gone to the city to look for work due to poverty.","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" PLOT SUMMARY At a remote Chinese primary school, a thirteen-year girl, Wei Minzhi, was employed as a substitute teacher for the regular teacher, Gao, who had to leave for a month to look after his ailing mother. For her work she was promised fifty Yuan and Gao agreed to give her a bonus of ten Yuan if she managed to retain all his twenty-eight students, hence the title, Not One Less. As she was barely older than her students and her limited education she encountered difficulty in running the forty-five year-old school. She had to face a particularly disruptive boy, Zhang Huike. One day he failed to turn up to school as he was compelled to look for work in the city to cater for his ailing, debt-ridden mother. Determined as ever, Wei tried to raise the necessary funds with the help of the other students to go to the city and bring him back. To Wei and Zhang city life was alien and harsh as they struggled to feed themselves and sought shelter in the railway station. It was through the local television station's contact that they were finally reunited. Not only was her goal achieved but she managed to get other resources for the students and to rebuild the school, later renamed Shuiquan School of Hope. ANALYSIS Zhang Yimou, the producer of such colourful, mythified, melodramatic movies like Raise the Red Lantern and Red Sorghum had come full circle to produce this semi-documentary, realistic film. However, given his experience as a rural worker (1968 to 1878) during the Cultural Revolution, it is not too surprising that he had come up with this emphasis on real rural life in contemporary China, the prevailing poverty, children deprived of education and hardships faced by the inhabitants. This realistic film is underlined by the use of amateurs instead of professionals. Most played their real-life roles, for example, the mayor is actually Tian Zhenda, the teacher is Gao and two children Wei Minzhi and Zhang Huike played characters of the same name. Settings such as the school, the local television station and the city (Zhangjiakou) are real. The only connection with the Zhang Yimou of old is his preference for red which is depicted by the large red flower in front of the truck carrying the goods to the village. There are four major themes in this film. The first focused on courage and determination. Once Wei made up her mind to go to the city to bring Zhang back nothing could stop her. She was not concerned about her own safety in an alien environment and her limited resources. We first saw her determination when she tried to stop one of the girls from being taken away to the Sports academy. Although she was lost in the city and made to wait for one and a half days to meet the station manager she did not give up. It was her sheer courage and determination that won the day. These two qualities plus persistence and endurance are reminiscence of human qualities that we see in many of Zhang's films.The next theme is the prevailing poverty in the rural areas. We see the decrepit school condition, the broken school furniture and children migrating to the city to work to support the family. The third is the importance of money, including the lack of it. Money permeates this film from beginning to end. Early in the film Wei asked Gao about her pay and later we saw how she tried to raise funds for the bus trips and at the same time the students learned how to count. The lack of money meant Wei and Zhang had to sleep in the railway station and rely on leftovers to fill their stomachs. On the positive side money was donated to rebuild the school and settle Zhang's mother's debts. The final theme is the urban-rural dichotomy. On one hand, we saw beautiful natural landscape relatively untouched by man, on the other we saw the busy, crowded and man-made city landscape with high-rise buildings. This dichotomy is also the rich and poor divide. Coming from the countryside where everybody knows and helps each other, Wei and Zhang were misfits in this new uncompromising environment. Not only were their clothing different, they encountered unfriendly and unhelpful people like the receptionist at the television station. Zhang Yimou raised these themes of rural poverty and rural-urban dichotomy to highlight the prevailing social inequality that exist in China and hopefully generate some support to alleviate poverty. His final message stated that one million children had dropped out of school annually because of poverty. Financial help from various sources had enabled fifteen percent to return to school. This is powerful message that he had sent out in this film. "},{"Title":"not one less","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The director of Not one less is Zhang Yimou, and this movie was shooting in 1998 and the style of the firm is different with all his past work. This movie presented base with a nature, simple and touching way, it was popular after the movie showed up. I think people who are not live in Chinese rural cannot deeply understand the education in there. This movie shows the real situation in one of the north rural in China, it is the education issues of reality, but this situation leads many serious problems. I actually do not like the tradition style of Chinese movie; however this movie was touch my heart deeply. This movie is the most successful film for Zhang Yimou and it has one characteristic compare with Zhang Yimou's previous or later movies, he used all non-professional actress, and all actors used their own name and played their real story. The film tells the story of the rural elementary school, Mr. Gao is the only one teacher, but his mother was sick and he has to take a month holiday. Therefore, the school found a 13 years old girl (Miss Wei) to be a substitute teacher for Mr. Gao. Miss Wei's education is very low. Mr. Gao told Miss Wei that not one less, and this sentence became a responsibility to Miss Wei. This movie shows a group of pure rural children, they never been anywhere else, they only in that rural. One thing very interesting is Mr. Gao also has no high level education background, he does not know how to teach. He just writes on the blackboard everything in the book, and asks all the students to copy it down, and then it is a class. Do you think student can learn something? This is a big problem in some rural in china. Some teachers not even know how to teach student, then how student are able to learn things. Or maybe students learn some incorrect information. This also make me think that China is too big, and the gap between wealth and poor are too big, that caused many problems. In my opinion, there are two main parts in this movie. The first part is Miss Wei needs money, and if she takes over Mr. Gao's job for a month then she could get 50 RMB. Miss Wei is playing an important role here, if she wants to get the 50 dollars, she can't let any student out, she has keep every student in a save place in a month. Not one less is the only responsibility for her, therefore; she does not care how naughty students are, she just care not let anyone out. One day, there is some sport teachers wanted to take one of the students to a modern city and train him. But Miss Wei hided the student and did not let the sport teacher to take him out. This represent that Miss Wei does not know to let this boy out of the village is a good chance for him, but she has a responsibility to not let one less. This shows the wrong education way in rural China. The other part is Miss Wei searched for the second student is not only of the 50 dollars responsibility, it is because of the teacher reasonability, it is about love. The student Zhang huike went to a city, and Miss Wei asked all the students to search for Zhang huike in that city. This part was very touching, Miss Wei does not care how hard to find the student, she had to do what she promised Mr. Gao. Not one less. I can see that money is very important in the tradition Chinese society. Because of 50 dollars, Miss Wei has to search the student in a big city that she never been to there, and it was danger and hard. One the other hand, there are one shot that makes me feel uncomfortable, the shot talk about Miss Wei wanted to get into the T.V station to see the manager, but the reception lady used unfriendly and look down people's attitude to told Miss Wei that she can't go in. this represent that many big cities in China always look down some rural city. "},{"Title":"WOW!!! What a cute movie!!!","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gosh I just saw this movie on Cinemax and I confess I thought it would be some kind of violent criticism of the violation of human rights in China. But it wasn't. Thank God. It turned out to be an incredibly sensitive flick about a determined young girl who overcomes all obstacles to achieve her goal. It's a simple and sweet story. I loved the fact that it doesn't dwell only on economic and human rights but in a problem that many countries (including my own) have to face lack of education. It shows how important it is for kids to go to school, because ignorance is the root of all problems a country has to face. "}{"Title":"You can't go wrong.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Exhaustive deconstruction is the domain of film professors and professional critics. The more they say, the more productive they are perceived to be, even though each of their assertions (re. opinion) has a 50-50 chance of being wrong for 50 percent of the people. And after anything is deconstructed, it is no longer a living organism, but pieces in a jar.ANY element in a film that appears superior to a number of viewers is justification to see the film. So I'll pick one. Wei Minzhi's performance alone is worth the price of the ticket. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite all time movies?","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Other reviewers have already described this film fairly well, but what I would like to share with you is why this is one of my favorite all time movies. I got more emotional impact, more enjoyment, from Not One Less than any movie I've seen in a long time. The substitute teacher is the most incredible little girl, with the most incredible facial expressions, personality, and screen presence I have ever seen. Not One Less is a fable about persistence and Wei Minzhi is absolutely perfect playing the lead. In fact, the entire cast is perfect. Not One Less has more heart, more honesty, more truth, than most movies I've seen, ever. While I was watching this on DVD, I was constantly amazed the director was getting such wonderful performances out of these kids, and, the kids are totally charming, by the way. It was only when I was reading the credits at the end of the movie did I realize almost the entire cast was playing themselves and this is a true story. These wonderful people were not actors. That just blew me away. Zhang Yi Mou is a great director and Not One Less is a masterpiece of both cinema and the art of storytelling. This is a must see/must have movie and deserves a place in everyone's film library. "},{"Title":"A moving tale.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When the local teacher of a small, impoverished community in rural China has to tend to his ailing mother, a substitute teacher, a thirteen year old girl from a nearby farming community, is found to take his place. So the story of this simple, and, yet, moving tale begins. The story of Not One Less unfolds like a documentary and may get melodramatic at times, but underlying it is a strong message of hope, community and a shared responsibility of all in society to help those less fortunate than most.The cast of mostly non-actors/children are wonderful. Their simple, childlike innocence and unaffected goodness are such a welcome relief from all the bratty, snot-nosed brats we are used to in the Western world. For example, the way they all pitch in to help and bring back a fellow student who has to quit school to look for work in the city was genuinely touching. Also, the determination and grit of the substitute teacher, a mere child herself, to find this student in the big, heartless city is awe-inspiring, affirming one's faith that there is an angelic spirit residing in each and every child.Unlike Zhang Yimou's other, bigger and, perhaps, more adult-oriented films such as To Live, Raise the Red Lantern, or Red Sorghum, Not One Less is not as bold, brilliant, or immediately attention-grabbing. However, it is a great film, nonetheless, and should be required viewing for children of readable age. "},{"Title":"Would bring a tear to a glass eye!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Simplicity is the watchword in this charming story of a young girl's strenuous efforts to keep the group of children in her charge together. The film is set in a village school in rural China where the poverty is highlighted by the reverence the pupils give to a box of chalk, rationed at one piece each day.  We see a substitute teacher, not much older than the children she is expected to teach, given more responsibility than she is able to handle and struggling to keep them under control, especially one cheeky boy. When he leaves to go and work in the city the drama unfolds as the class try to raise money for the bus fare for the teacher to go and bring him back. It may sound pretty dull, especially given that the actors are non-professionals, but there is humour and charm in the story's telling without the reality of such poverty ever being watered down. As a reward for the children spending hours moving bricks in the heat of the day to raise money, they have enough cash to buy two cans of Coke between twenty-five of them. The expressions on their faces as they dutifully take a little before passing it on to their comrades is genuinely moving. This is a film well worth seeing, acting that comes from the heart, a story told with feeling and a bunch of delightful kids to be charmed by.  "},{"Title":"Not exactly biting social commentary, but nice.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definitely worth seeing.  Not quite as good as To Live (Huozhe) but certainly an excellent film.  Accurately portrays life in contemporary China-- some very powerful scenes, and avoids the soap opera sentimentality of King of Masks.I saw it with a friend from Guangzhou who complained about its overly optimistic ending.  He does have a point.  At times, the film seems like a government-approved public service announcement to combat truancy-- and of all the problems in contemporary China, grade school hookey seems like it should be towards the bottom of the priority list.Yi Ge dou bu neng shao remains one of Zhang's finest.  You'll never think about Coke the same way.  "},{"Title":"My comments go in to the way the girl acted as a teacher","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hi everyone wanted to put my views on the movie forward for you all to read. First I want to say that I found the movie inspirational and motivating. In the sense that Teacher Wei was only 13, and she was pushed into a job where she had to teach children only a year or two younger then her. Even if she was totally driven by the $50. She had no idea how to teach, no idea of how valuable small items like the chalk was. To us we will have gone to school for 4 years and be able to have the skills to teach, and items like chalk are not even thought of. One thing that got me was that one of the students who had the diary was aware of how valuable the chalk was. I felt that she has an in-built talent for teaching; she was thrown into the deep-end and at first just left the room. But when they needed money to get to the city and they wanted to move bricks the way she got the children to work out how many bricks she needed to move was teaching them maths without them relaising and probably did it without relaising it herself. Her decision to just leave the children alone while she went to get the boy was both good and bad, she wanted the boy back to get the money but also she wanted him to learn. It seemed to be extremely important to her for this little boy to get his education so he could have the best chance in life. But leaving the children alone to fend for themselves was totally wrong, for some of the children she was their teacher and guardian. If it was in this society and a teacher wanted to get a child back there would at least be a substitute teacher so that the rest of the class could be safe and continue getting their education. Finding out later that the movie was in modern time it showed me how bad things are in 3rd world countries. I must admit that while watching the movie I didn't think it would be in modern era I thought it was in the past. Most likely none of us will ever teach over there in those conditions but if I do I'm glad that I have had a brief look at what they have to live with. It also showed me that teachers in this society really have nothing to complain about, they are striking for small things like class size, money. Whereas in China they do it without complaining because they know no other way. After reading other e-mail's on the movie I see that the sub-titles was a major factor to many of us, but to be honest it didn't bother me too much. I was able to read and follow the movie at the same time, I think that it was a big issue because many of us were bored and couldn't give a dam about what was happening. Had it been a movie where we were all interested in I believe that none of us would have minded the sub-titles. I also agree with Lara Farrugia that the sub-titles made us concentrate on the movie more. I want to end with it was a good movie and I hope to be able to see more work by the director.  "},{"Title":"Very informative though difficult to understand","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Coming from Australia, a thriving Western World, it is very difficult to understand that this is what life can really be like. Our class viewed this movie, and as first year education students, many of them found it to be fantastic. Our class was looking at different issues coming out of the movie such as; commitment to students, teaching methods, using the most of what you've got. It was probably good for us to watch, as we can relate to it later on when we are teachers. I found the movie difficult to watch, as we had to read what was happening, and also found it hard to relate to, as I just can't imagine people or children living like this. Some other members of my class could easily relate to the movie, and found it to be informative, and very much what life can be like(For those who have travelled)For me it was more difficult as I've never been outside of Australia, a very safe haven. "},{"Title":"Modern China","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very simple contemporary story told in a straightforward manner, acted with conviction by people that on screen play what they are in real life students, a major, a teacher, a TV director. As usual in Zhang Yimou's cinema the female character is stronger than her male counterparts, and it's fascinating to follow the young girl who goes to the city to find one of the students under her custody. Although it gets a bit sentimental towards the end, it's still one of the best movies I've seen directed by Zhang, devoid of all the cinematic ornaments we have come to associate his movies with. "},{"Title":"Charming Movie","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slow in parts, this is nevertheless a charming movie about a tenacious teenager teaching in rural China.  The sense of disorientation when she goes to the town to find her missing pupil is a memory that will linger from this film.  The slightly cheesy ending is even forgivable.  Fans of Chinese cinema should make a bee-line for this film. "},{"Title":"Charming movie","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less is a charming film about a girl who just don't know when to give it a rest. It's a funny film, and the kids are very cute (though thankfully not cute in that awful Hollywood-way), but I think the pace was too slow. Or maybe I was expecting too much since I think Yimou Zhang's Raise the Red Lantern is one of the ten best movies of the 90s. Not One Less is a good film, but nowhere near the brilliance of Raise the Red Lantern. (6/10) "}{"Title":"A Sheppard of Sheep","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd like to examine the character arc of the young girl who comes to temporarily substitute at the poverty-stricken school Teacher Wei. When she first arrives, she seems really disinterested and apathetic towards the whole situation. The only thing on her mind is the financial rewards that she is promised by the mayor if, in fact, she's successful in maintaining all of the children at the school without losing any. When she begins teaching, it's simply to fulfill an obligation very routine-like.She allows the children to fight with each other without intervention, has them write a ton of complicated characters on the board that they don't understand, and expects them to copy it verbatim without cry or murmur. It's obvious, at first, that she has no desire to help these struggling children. This suggests something poignant about her back story&#151;that she, too, comes from the grounds of destitution. When given the chance to earn some money, she jumped immediately at the opportunity not knowing the full implications of how difficult it would be to Sheppard the wandering flock.When the young boy, Zhang Huike, goes with some travelers into the city to make money for his family, Wei is determined to follow after him and reclaim him. This presents an interesting dichotomy in her desires does she want to reclaim him strictly for financial rewards, or, is there a part of her that really cares for his well-being and wants him back in the fold with the other children? I think it's a little bit of both as the story unfolds (but more so out of love). Wei travels through tremendous moments of change to reclaim him&#151;each moment testing her resilience to stay in the game. She has an objective (e.g. Zhang Huike), but she is thwarted.She needs money to travel by bus into the city, but has none. She works for money by moving bricks, but is paid none because she and the children accidentally break them in the process. She sneaks onto a bus, but is thrown off. She hand writes a multiplicity of rescue flyers to find Huike, but none are seen by him. All of these moments show her steady dedication not to give up on the lost lamb. She is determined to find him. I believe this is where the theme of the story is revealed the Sheppard of a flock will leave the 99 in order to rescue the wayward one no matter the extremes.This theme becomes clearer as you see Wei conquer one battle after the next, stopping at nothing to find Huike (especially when she goes on live television). There, on television, with tears in her eyes and a plea in her voice, she asks Huike where he has gone&#151;why did he leave? In that moment, I became convinced that her care for him was genuine&#151;not something strictly lucrative. After all, she wasn't crying crocodile tears. It's a real touching moment when Huike finally sees the broadcast, as he, too, starts to become emotional. He begins to realize all of the things Wei had to go through in order for him to realize her love for him. He reciprocates and goes home.I think director Zhang Yimou was trying to portray the power of love one can have for a wayward child. With obvious Christ-like undertones, though perhaps not intentional, Not One Less is the story about what a person is willing to do when they feel separated from those who they love. It works really well in this particular story because I had ambivalent feelings of whether Wei's intentions were initially sincere, but as the story progressed I realized that she was being charitable, not selfish.I believe Yimou intentionally shot the film, in some instances, like a hidden camera documentary because he wanted the aesthetics of the film to compliment the meaning of the theme. Since the Sheppard theme is one possible theme to the story, it makes sense to say that the camera-work acts as a hidden device, away from the eyes of Wei. Wei is looking for the lost child, but he remains hidden from her eyes. So, too, there is also an omniscient camera looking at Wei as she looks for Huike&#151;a device that suggests perhaps the God of heaven watching over all of his wandering sheep (some respectfully more than others). One particular moment that heavily suggests the hidden camera is when Wei is asking the citizens in the city if they've seen or know the railroad instructor. The scene is shot montage as it shows her exhaust herself throughout the day. She looks helpless; always being observed from afar. The pity she feels in trying to find Huike is the same pity that the camera seems to have on her&#151;always watching; simply observing. "},{"Title":"Non-actors rescue the movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less verges on the maudlin and sentimental from the beginning, and by the end it's almost propaganda.The thing that saves it at every turn, and in fact makes it into an excellent movie, is the combination of Zhang Yimou's experience and ability as a director and the realism and freshness that the cast of non-actors bring to it.  Wei Minzhi in particular conveys the emotions and themes of the movie excellently. "},{"Title":"A movie I'd love to hate","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Zhang Yimou is pushing his 'docudrama' style of movie another big step further from 'Qiu Ju'. It is so natural that it seems like part of life, and in fact that is life in rural China. The 13-year-old teacher Wei Minzhi depicts a stubbornness that is so often found in Chinese people -- something we ourselves would hate to love, and love to hate. I think all city kids should see this movie and get to know more about what real childhood is, what life is without brandnames and all the city hype. "},{"Title":"Beautiful,","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am not able to write 10 lines, but I loved this movie. It's simple, it makes you nervous sometimes, it shows you something your are not used to. it has a great ending. the main actress plays at herself, and even if she doesn't act that well, she gets to the point. Sorry, i can write any more in English, I think it's enough for someone not living in a English spoken country. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. Thanks. Erase this please. "},{"Title":"The weakest of Yimou's work","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen all of master director Zhang Yimou's work, and this is one of the two films of his that I didn't love. I love all his work passionately except Not One Less, 7/10 and Keep Cool, 8/10. All his other films get a 10/10 from me.That's not to say I didn't like it. I was compelled throughout, but other problem with this film is that I thought it was a shameless rehash of the superior The Story of Qiu Ju with Gong Li. This also Yimou's most visually boring film next to Keep Cool, which atleast had a cool Wong Kar-wai, hand-held look to it. Another complaint of mine is that Zhang Yimou is good at being sentimental in his films without being manipultive, and thats one of the many things I love about his films. Not One Less was very manipultive.This is not a great film, nor a very good film, just simply a good film. I did however LOVE Minzhi Wei's performance, so this movie is worth buying or renting.7/10     "},{"Title":"A Feel For Life In China","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In all frankness, this is not the most exciting movie that anyone will ever sit down to watch. Having said that, it provides a somewhat interesting look at the state of Chinese education and at life in both rural and urban China. The story - which the closing credits suggest is based on a real event - revolves around 13 year old Wei, who is sent to a remote rural village to teach for a month at the local primary school while the regular teacher goes home to attend to his dying mother. Wei is promised 50 yuan for doing the job, and the teacher promises her an additional ten if all the students are still there when he returns. That's a concern, because many students leave school in China at a young age. Wei has the typical problems of any substitute teacher in getting the students to respect her - made even more difficult by her young age. In the midst of her difficulties, one student (the class troublemaker) disappears to the city to get work to help pay off his family's debts. The rest of the movie deals with Wei's journey to the city to search for him.It's pretty straightforward and simple. It's not exciting, as I said, but it does give the viewer a feel for life in China. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Substitute Failure is not an option","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less tells the story of a teen girl who takes a job as a substitute elementary school teacher in a poor rural village and must keep her flock of kids in tow despite her obvious lack of qualifications. Like most traditional Chinese films, this one has a moral which is something like A good heart and determination will lead to success even in the absence of resources and ability. The kind of film people will likely describe as quaint, sweet, charming, etc., this flick is all of those things including dreadfully slow. When all is said and done, one can only wonder if this lovely little tale was worth the time spent. Will play best with those into traditional Asian storytelling. With English subtitles and CC.  (B) "},{"Title":"Chinese parable","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Chinese filmmaker Xiangsheng Shi and director Yimou Zhang probably never read the biblical parable about the strayed sheep and the rejoicing that ensued when what was lost is found.  A society devoted to the State would have little use of religion.  Yet Judeo-Christian tenets completely enshroud the movie, Not One Less, from the tenacity of simple faith to the benevolence of a community.  The story, beautiful told and acted, is about a poor Chinese village that can barely keep its school children together and one girl's determination to make a difference.  Yet that poverty serves only to inspire rather than to deflate -  from the old, diligent schoolmaster who hasn't been paid for six months, to the precisely counted pieces of chalk that take on an intrinsic value, to two cans of Coke shared among twenty-six thirsty children.  The quest by the teenage school teacher, Minzhi Wei, to find her one pupil in the big city takes on such poetic imagery that you play it in your mind again and again.  Take the ink pen and the white poster papers written with the repeated message in a train station in the dead of night and the next morning when those same pieces of paper are carried away with the wind only to be swept up by street cleaners.  Or the verbal struggle between Wei and a 'paid' helper who could care less about finding anyone.  Or finally the dour faced girl who finally gets a chance to broadcast her appeal on television camera and is struck by stage fright.  The film wins you over with a touching grace and sincerity.  Whereas would you see schoolchildren try to help their friend by figuring out a mathematical problem of how many bricks to carry or an innocent girl trying to find the station manager by incessantly asking everyone that comes out of a building.  Not One Less represents the best conduct of any society, be it religiously based or not.  For in portraying their poverty, we truly do see the kingdom of God. "},{"Title":"Wake the Audience! But for what?","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less is an excruciatingly slow, repetitious movie that  has no clear direction. Who shall save these poverty-sticken   children who often drop out of school? The Government? The People? The Media?Rather than labor the dullness of this film, let me suggest a contrast an American short story by Toni Cade Bambara about a determined teacher, Miss Moore(yes, her name is symbolic) who inspires a young girl,actually the author, to fight for the large piece of the great American pie which predominantely white 1950s society holds out to her and denies her the prize at the same time. This story is worth a million vague dusty long shots of dry road and banal dialog. "},{"Title":"Wake the Audience! But for what?","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not One Less is an excruciatingly slow, repetitious movie that  has no clear direction. Who shall save these poverty-stricken children who often drop out of school? The Government? The People? The Media?Rather than labor the dullness of this film, let me suggest a contrast an American short story by Toni Cade Bambara titled The Lesson about a determined teacher, Miss Moore(yes, her name is symbolic) who inspires a young girl,actually the author, to fight for the large piece of the great American pie which predominately white 1950s society holds out to her and simultaneously denies her. This story is worth a million vague dusty long shots of dry road and banal dialog.  Read the short story-again and again! "}{"Title":"Good director choosing bad script","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yimou makes a noble attempt at showcasing the life of poverty-stricken children from a small village in China.  The methods used to accomplish this are all commendable, in fact there are no serious flaws with the direction.  Unfortunately, unlike Yimou's Raise the Red Lantern, or Shanghai Triad, or To Live, Not One Less is equiped with a story that is not only downright unbelievable, but rather ludicrous.  That is not to say that such events do not, or can not occur, but what sense is there in making films about them?  The problem is that the heroine of the film is quite bluntly less than intelligent, and Yimou does nothing to hide that fact.  Her solutions for overcoming every obstacle she encounters make very little sense.  Ok, so she is not very well educated, ok, so she is only 13, ok, so she comes from a culture based on obedience to authority - but there has to be more than that, that something is stupidity.  The idea of using children to tell a story about society is quite a good one, especially a society with such harsh censorship laws as China.  The Persians have been doing this for a while now, films from director Majid Majidi, for example, are brilliant depictions of life in Iran.  The use of children is a perfect solution because it is not only the most heart-wrenching way of doing it, but it is also the ideal way of passing the story by the censors - government sanctioned censors simply do not tend to excel greatly in sophistication.  The beautiful thing about films like Children of Heaven or Color of Paradise by Majidi is that the children at the center of those stories are thrust into situations that they have practically little control over.  But the girl in Not One Less by her own stupid choices creates the problem.  The end is a total cheat, it is as if we are expected to think that despite all of the stupidity of this girl, her efforts were worth it.  Basically, this is a great film, with amazing cinematography, wonderful use of colors, flawless direction, and a main character lacking anything that could make anyone with half a brain hold sympathy toward her.  I was actually hoping for about the last 1/2 of the film that some terrible, awful, signature Yimou ending would befall this dumb little girl.  Unfortunately ***SPOILER*** I got the lamest happy ending I have ever seen in a Chinese film.  It's a true shame, because Yimou is truly a great director, and the premise for this film was excellent...  I just don't know what happened. "},{"Title":"One too many. (spoilers)","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Thomson once suggested that the creative life-expectancy of any notable director nowadays is ten years; that the possibility of renewal available to the likes of Renoir or Lang are gone.  It looks like Zhang Yimou's allotted decade is up, because this is a truly negligable film.  Although in decline since 'Raise the Red Lantern', later films such as 'To Live' and 'Shanghai Triad' got by on sheer style and storytelling verve.  But this is Zhang Yimou made for American consumption (it worked, see below).  Gone is the adult eroticism (embodied in frequent collaborator Gong Li), the dangerous style, the insight into rituals of tradition and power, the astonishing colour, the capturing a wild, living landscape that both made a mockery of the 'naturalness' of power structures, and mirrored his transgressors' emotions.  All the things that made him a continual thorn in the side of the Chinese authorities.'Not one less' is an obscene fairy tale that makes a mockery of any social criticism, a narrative centred on kids to presumably conceal the lack of adult intelligence, bland views of a rural landscape that somehow contrive to make aridity and poverty picturesque, a glutinous Hollywood-style score, full of the Oriental equivalent of Riverdance, and, believe it or not, a product placement for a certain soft drink so blatant even Bond would have balked at it.  From the thrilling 'Red Sorghum' to this is a sad loss - I can only hope that it is laced in double-edged irony; that, like Shostakovitch under Stalin, Zhang is giving the authorities what they want, while covertly criticising them.  I hope so, but I doubt it.  The worst crime is that he has made his unique style more digestible - gone are the punishing long takes of 'Lantern', the expressionism of 'Sorghum', the fragments of 'Triad'; in their place is the conventional grammar of editing, camera movement, composition and close-up of a Hollywood film, so conventional that it might have been made by an American.  Ah...Even though it's hackneyed and obvious, the first third tries at least to show the reality of egalitarian communism in present-day China, the sterile desolation of rural outposts, where near-abandoned kids are taught in a tiny, dingy classroom, forced to copy out blodges of 'lessons' they don't understand; where the substitute teacher in charge of them for a month is only 13; where supplies are so low chalk must be preserved as sacredly as the Holy Grail, and the teacher hasn't been paid in months.  The school building (i.e. a room) isn't half a century old, yet is decrepit and ancient-looking.  Children are constantly dropping out; the poverty of the region is such that they leave for the big city to find work, even though they haven't reached puberty.  The pinched selfishness of the average Chinese bourgeois is revealed, although they are no more callous than any urban dweller anywhere.The film starts off as a weird variant on the 'Blackboard Jungle'/'Dangerous Minds' kind of school movie, with an unruly band of kids refusing to respect their sullen teenage teacher.  But then sheer fantasy takes hold, and all the recognisable signifiers of the little-boy-lost movie reassure us of an untraumatic outcome.  The agreeably disruptive lad gets lost, but he doesn't get too lost, he isn't a prey to paedophiles, he isn't starved.  Likewise, the teachers' quest seems hopeless, but as the syrupy music kicks in, we know there'll be a kindly man in power who will sort out everything.  The day-glo set of the TV studio where Wei makes her appeal suggests Zhang is as contemptuous of this story as we are.  The closing scene with the teacher and her reunited kids is hilarious, as they write words that express what they feel up on the blackboard, having gotten a 'voice' in a society that had ignored them; when one writes 'diligence' you could be watching one of those old Soviet musicals about tractors.  Once again government responsibility is evaded, and 'charity' encouraged.  How American.  Zhang uses the Kiarostami-like device of getting the actual participants of this true story to play themselves, and the brilliantly self-serving mayor is either a dolt or scrupulously self-aware or simply happy to be on film, such is the unflattering yet convincing power of his performance.  Go see 'Kikijiro'. "},{"Title":"Fresh acting, stinky plot","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *** May contain spoilers. *** However implausible the story, the acting in NOT ONE LESS is fresh and natural. I give all of the cast a great amount of credit because all of them -- the very young, and the very old -- go through their scenes without being distracted by, or playing to, the camera. The sincere earnest acting makes the film worth the watch.That being said, the screenplay of this film makes no sense. What motivated this substitute teacher to be so extraordinarily determined? It made no sense for her to be motivated by money because no 13 year-old could be so repeatedly fooled by the same adults. Also, as things went on it was clear that more money could be gained from working the kids in the brickyard than what might ever come from what both old men combined had promised.Two students leave her class. It made no sense for her to be so extraordinarily determined to return the big brat and not try to return the nice helpful girl student. Her 30 days of teaching would have been so much better without the trouble-making brat.And leaving the classroom alone for days -- what would make her think that she would be allowed to continue as a teacher when she returned? The substitute's actions were without thought and rational planning. At almost every turn, the viewer watching this film is left thinking that no one could be so dumb yet confident. In real life, people are cautious in matters where they are ignorant.Most of the detailed reviews here are far more rational and logical than the plot of this film. "}]