[{"Title":"Provocative, but credible","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Skipped Parts, and reading all the user reviews, I see why so many are repelled by the movie, but I'm one of the ones fascinated by it. In order to care about a movie, I have to care about at least one character, and in this movie, it definitely was the case, with the Sam Callahan young male part. Although it's true that hardly anyone went through what Sam and his young girlfriend went through, it was captivating to me to see Sam want, so much, to be a real boyfriend to his rather matter-of-fact fellow sexual experimenter. I identified his caring for, and attraction to, girls, with my own young life. As for his mom's character  yes, she was waaayy out there, but I have known women like that, so they *do* exist.  I think that, overall, Skipped Parts is one of those movies where you have to give in to the situation a little, and go with it. IF (and this is critical) you have been through at least some of the feelings, if not actual situations, these characters experience, I think you'll agree that the 93 minutes, or so, spent in their world is not wasted time (although I think one time was enough for me...too many other great movies out there to see!). "},{"Title":"Redefining the Family-Skipped Parts a Must See!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Jason Leigh knows her stuff.  After picking up Skipped Parts off the shelf, my choice based solely on the interest in Jennifer Jason Leigh movies, I was not disappointed by Skipped Parts.  A coming of age story of the American family.  You can call it dysfunctional but through all of the problems and obstacles this family saw, it seemed to have more love and happiness than the stereotypical suburban, white picket fence family we are so used to seeing in every movie.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is spectacular, yet again, and anyone who loves off-beat movies with a heartwarming feeling from a different direction (compared to other movies) this is a must see and ace on my list.  Watch it twice then buy it (as I will do shortly) "},{"Title":"I laughed very hard and cried a bit too, this one's a keeper.","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just got back from watching the world premiere of this film at the Seattle International Film Festival.  I must say, I enjoyed this movie a great deal.  Skipped Parts is a wonder to behold -- outrageously funny, poignant and bold.  It never shies away from the tough subjects it covers while at the same time enlightening us with its humor.  The acting is top-drawer, Jennifer Jason Leigh is brilliant once again, with standout performances by  young Bug Hall and Mischa Barton. I don't want to give any of this one away, but I highly recommend you check it out.  A word of caution, if you find sexual banter and activity between 14-year-olds disturbing, do not see this film, it is not for the close-minded. Slated to be released in September 2000. "},{"Title":"refreshingly compassionate perspective on sex","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this film to be a welcome relief from the self-righteous, hypocritical obsession with sex as evil in our confused society. I'm sure that viewers aligned with the extreme religious right are aghast at the sexual frankness of Skipped Parts. I only wish they were as upset over the war in Iraq, America's obsession with violence and the rampant intolerance still pervading the home of the free. Instead, sex and four-letter words top the list of moral outrages in the minds of far too many of our number.Skipped Parts is a compassionate view of outside-the-mainstream people at odds with the establishment. Granted, unprotected sex among teenagers is impractical and unwise, but hardly a reason to despise and condemn. Especially by those who have, as do some of the characters in the film, plenty of skeletons in their own closets.Well-written, well-acted and well-directed, Skipped Parts is a moral film in which the highest virtues are kindness, forgiveness, and love. "},{"Title":"Offensive to the Religious Right?","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Phrases like this movie will drive the Religious Right nuts get a lot of mileage. A number of reviewers have said it about Skipped Parts. So I'm wondering what the Religious Right really would think of this film if they examined it seriously.First, the storyline suggests that sex education for kids is not a good thing and may have unwanted consequences. The women who give the advice, Lydia and Delores, are pretty unsympathetic characters when they're talking to the adolescents. Are we meant to applaud the way they give explicit details (complete with taco shell, like a silly pantomime of a sex ed class) to 14-year-olds, while withholding the key point of where this might lead? I don't think so, because their recklessness is part of a commonplace theme that runs through the film - the kids are more sensible than the adults - and also because we're shown those consequences later. Lydia and Delores might as well give Sam and Maurey a hand grenade and tell them to play carefully. So score a point for Religious Right family values here.Second, the film doesn't take the view of abortion that the Religious Right might expect from so called Hollywood liberals. It doesn't present it as a quick and relatively painless way out of a jam, nor does it do any pulpit pounding about the dark days before Roe v Wade. The film could have made Lydia and Delores into proto-feminist heroes, enlightened before their time, but it didn't. In the story, there are two consequences of visiting the abortion clinic and neither one is a guilt free abortion. So score some big points for family values.Third, the film ends by affirming the stereotypical woman-man-girl-boy family the waitress, the Indian, the cheerleader, and the precocious young narrator. Sure, the narrator and the cheerleader have a baby, and the waitress is a grandmother before she's thirty. But unless the Religious Right has recently come out against grandchildren being raised by multi- generational families, I fail to see the problem. So what's there to offend the RR, other than the portrayal of Wyoming natives as rodeo loving illiterates? (And that's only offensive &#150;probably -if you're from Wyoming.) Well, there's the scene where the two young teens face each other in their underwear, saying something like, I think this is how it's done. It was uncomfortable and strange. But a lot of reviewers found it creepy, and I'm sure not all are card-carrying members of the 700 Club. And it doesn't change the fundamental themes of the story outlined above.Lydia's loose morals and rebelliousness are sure to offend the Religious Right, right? Yes, because her actions are *meant* to be offensive her irresponsible talk, her rambling, self- indulgent rudeness to the welcome lady, her inability to do a stick of work, her cruelty to a man who's much too good for her. The RR is offended and so is everyone else. So maybe, in the movies, actions shouldn't always be judged desirable if they offend conservative Christians. Even the RR is sometimes offended by what's actually offensive. But I digress. The good news is that, as in all traditional morality tales, Lydia comes round in the end. She gets a job, declares independence (rather than just rebellion) from her father, and settles down with a man who loves her. Sure, she's white and he's Native American, but not even the film's illiterate Wyomians are offended by that. That leaves just one theme that seems custom made to offend conservative religious types. The film threatens to undermine parental authority and traditional family values by making the kids more sensible and moral than the adults. In fact, the grown ups are mostly first class hypocrites, as revealed especially in the confrontation at the abortion clinic. Sam, on the other hand, is an example of responsibility and kindness. But wait. I think I've read that somewhere before. Something about religious leaders being blind Pharisees and children being the kingdom of heaven. Yes, that definitely sounds like a deliberate attempt to offend the Religious Right. "},{"Title":"Very Good, Very funny, film","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this film a few times when I was renting some movies and I thought it looked very funny. Then today I saw it at the video store. I picked it up and watched it and loved it. I thought Jennifer Jason Leigh was so hilarious in this movie and she truly stood out as Lydia, Sam's mouthy, slutty mother. Another acting standout was Bug Hall, Mischa Barton and Angela Featherstone. I thought they played there part perfectly, especially the young leads and Leigh. I was also suprised to see Drew Barrymore in a very small role as Dream Girl. Although it deals with pregnancy and sex with 14 year olds...I still found it very entertaining and if you want to see some very good acting and a good comedy, i recommend this movie very highly. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A fine coming of age-story, although sometimes a bit far-fetched","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a kid, every adult has had a time in his life that he or she was fascinated by the world of the grown-ups, but didn't know much about it. As an adolescent kid you want to know more about love and sex, but the path to adulthood can be a bumpy road. That's also the reason why there have been made so many coming of age-movies. Not all of them were very successful, but some of them sure are worth a watch, like for instance this Skipped Parts.When in 1963, a young woman and her 14-year old son Sam from an unknown man, are expelled from North Carolina by her powerful father who runs for governor, they end up in a small town in Wyoming. Here she continues her irresponsible life of partying and having fun, while her son discovers that the biggest part of his new school is made up by retards who don't seem to know what a book looks like from the inside. There is especially one girl, called Maury, who he can't stand at first, but who he gradually starts to like more and more. When she asks him to help her experiment with sex, they get very close and with the help of his mother they get a pretty good idea of what sex is like. But despite the fact that his mother told them to stop as soon as Maury has had her first period, they are too late and pregnancy is the result. While facing the consequences of their experiments and with grandfather's dictatorial shadow over them, Sam and Maury get help from Hank Elkrunner, a Blackfoot Indian who has become Lydia's newest boyfriend...I guess that it needs some imagination to believe that all what is happening in this movie could actually be true. I'm not saying that it isn't possible, but sometimes it all feels a bit far-fetched. Nevertheless, this is still a very interesting movie and certainly one of the better coming of age-stories that I have ever seen. Especially thanks to the underlying story line of the double moral (sex outside marriage didn't exist, but abortion clinics were available, the totalitarian patriarch who wanted to keep his influence on his family, but didn't want them near him...) and the fine acting in this movie, this is a lot better than average. It's sure worth watching and I gave it a rating of 7/10 which is far from bad for this kind of movies. "},{"Title":"the waltons meet the age of aquarius","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a quirky, entertaining flick. set against the backdrop of small town america 1963, it's a different 'coming of age' movie. goofy, drunken , obsessive adults and saner, wiser children attempt to sort through family roles and societal situations -- bigotry, sexual awakening, family structures, morality, abortion, gender roles --- this movie has got it all. it is, alternately,  funny, sad, depressing & invigorating, but always entertaining. a great rent! "},{"Title":"read the book instead","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Skipped Parts is a watered-down version of Tim Sandlin's novel of the same name, the first in a wonderful trilogy about Sam Callahan's and Maury Pierce's unusual lives. I recommend reading the novel(s), where the two leads are 12, not 14, in the beginning and where the Wyoming landscape and Teton Mountains are just as much characters as they are a background for the movie.Not only is the story watered down and written for cheap laughs and tears, but the pacing is unbearably slow. Jennifer Jason Leigh is clearly not capable of doing justice to the methodically drunken Lydia Callahan, as her portrayal is really more of a caricature than a character; and Tim Sandlin sadly did little justice to his own novel in this screenplay by down-playing Sam Callahan's inner life as innocent, hopeful commentator on the action of the novel/movie. Much of his biting and insightful humor is lost by removing Sam's commentary.Read the book. It'll take more time, but feel hours shorter than this movie felt. "},{"Title":"Absolutley Great","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was one of the best movies I have ever seen, it just made me feel like I did when I was 14. It musn't be spoilt with more than 4 rows. It's just great!!! A must see movie for every one of you who wants to go back to his youth (if he ever had one) "}{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was watching this movie with my roommate on one of those i-have-nothing-better-to-do-evenings. I was really surprised to find out i actually liked this film. Other people have commented on this movie by saying it was to far fetched. But to be honest i don't get that. I know that this film is somewhat surreal, but reality isn't that far behind. I mean teen do get pregnant and when they lack good sex education (so to speak) they do experiment and pregnancy is the logical result. The film is sort of happy go lucky but it didn't bother me. I really liked the fact that it talked openly about pregnancy's among young people. I also thought it was rather sarcastic. Especially the last comment welcome to the modern American family. I don't think that was serious but really sarcastic. I think it's save to say this movie was really cool. I recommend it to anyone who has an open view on such matters. "},{"Title":"Better than the book","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie at the Saint Louis International Film Festival. Skipped Parts represents one of those unusual situations where a movie comes across better than the book on which it is based. And the reason is even more unusual I think the characters in the movie, especially the two young leads, are more real, more true to life than in the book. Unusual because printed narration should allow more time for character exploration. Sure, Skipped Parts is a comedy, but even humor gains when played out by people you care for. In the movie, the character of Maury, as portrayed by the fine young actor Mischa Barton, comes across a little nicer, and a little more sensitive to Sam's feelings than in the book. I like to think that Maury and Sam, while at first apparently attracted to each other by their brains - We're the only ones who can read, Sam explains - are actually more connected by their sensitivity to events in the world around them, as well as to each other. (Possible spoiler) Their moment of truth comes in the scene where Dothan roughs them up. By the way, even Brad Renfro's reading of the part of Dothan gives that character a warmth that's harder to find in the book, which in turn provides us with some reason to accept Maury's being his steady. Director Tamra Davis does an excellent job of bringing the story to life. She treated the characters and their feelings with respect. (Possible Spoiler) Particularly, I think she handled Maury and Sam's bedroom scene with delicacy and good taste, reflecting her sensitivity to and respect for the actors and the roles they played. You'd have to work very hard to be offended by it.It's a good movie with lots of good fun - interspersed with some deeply poignant moments - and it features some terrific acting turns by Jennifer Jason Leigh, Bug Hall, and Mischa Barton. "},{"Title":"Nice quirky little film","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not a great movie but it's not as horrible as the reviews make it out to be. A comedy with a serious edge to it. Worth an evening. "},{"Title":"A great movie to see, interesting and unique.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie about a week ago, although i am a girl who loves bug hall, i also enjoyed the ways that the movie portrayed life for younger adults in the 1960's. I admit that this movie had a severe consequence to their actions...but in those actions did those teenagers realize the responsibility, and dedication that they had to put forth to be happy. I'm sorry if i make no sense at all. It was a great learning experience for me, i was so awed at the way that Sam didn't want to end up like his father. From the start, he wanted for them to keep the baby. It was a GREAT movie, i give it a hundred and fifty out of ten. "},{"Title":"Unique look at a Non Typical Family","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie in my opinion had some very interesting twists, but I did not want my 7 yr old daughter to watch after I had seen it.  In the end, you get the sense that no matter how strange the family, or who makes up a family, that anything is possible and that no matter how rough the situation, with a strong family and group of friends that you can get though anything.  This movie is one that Mothers and teen age daughters could watch together and both learn something about growing up. "},{"Title":"Rated R for sexual situations, some involving young teens","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess you can be pretty disappointed if you see this movie because the DVD cover boasted in big shiny letters that Jennifer Jason Leigh, Brad Renfro and Drew Barrymore star in it. Renfro and Barrymore only appear in a few scenes, making Jennifer Jason Leigh, with a strong presence throughout the movie, the only person to deserve her name in big letters. The film actually focuses on the lives on Lydia (JJL), her son Sam (Bug Hall) and the girl next door (Mischa Barton). Lydia and son move to Wyoming after her rich and powerful father is tired of her rebellious behaviour.The main story is interesting Sam and the girl next door wake up in puberty and have no clue what's going on. They start practising sex with each other and ask Lydia for some tips. As you can expect or read in the plot summary, it's not surprising teenage pregnancy is next. No prices for guessing how the decent town will react to that.Less interesting are the other scenes, the scenes with the other boys and girls in the class or the scenes where Sam in voice-over tells us how he wanted to become a successful writer. These scenes make this film at times hard to watch. What could have been good now is just mediocre.Then again, the movie Tamra Davis directed next was the Britney Spears vehicle Crossroads, making Skipped Parts look like a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Why didn't I hear about this great little indie-hearted film before?!","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Skipped Parts is good, unusual, challenging small film about sex, relationships and growing up. I really enjoyed it and thought it was pretty brave of everyone involved. I'm having fun trying to work out who found it more controversial the zealots supposed to hate it, or the liberals itching for the zealots to hate it. All I can say is, thank goodness for the internet, without which I'd never have heard about it or seen it.*spoilers from here* Jennifer Jason Leigh has a great vampy time as peroxided young Lydia, banished to Grovont (couldn't they spell Gros Ventre?) Wyoming from her Daddy's expensive Southern home with her illegitimate son Sam (as a punishment for her bad behaviour and for showing him up Daddy's running for Governor). What starts as mere time in solitary becomes more interesting &#x96; for better and worse &#x96; for Lydia and Sam as they both meet their match. Maurey Pearce is one of the local kids who can read and is determined, with Sam's help, to know what are the skipped parts in all the books about love, marriage and sex. Hank Elkrunner is the Blackfeet cowboy whose steady persistence with the shiftless Lydia is finally rewarded. Skipped Parts may not be the most polished and definitive 'coming of age' type drama out there; but it wins my respect for many of the little details that set it apart from teenager and rom-com dross the presence of Jennifer Jason Leigh, always a flag that something interesting's going on; the nice interaction between the two young leads, Bug Hall (Sam) and Mischa Barton (actually playing her age as Maurey); the quality of the cast, including Michael Greyeyes as Hank and Peggy Lipton as a pretty devastating Laurabel Pearce; the really fantastic sound, costumes, sets and locations. If you find the idea of underage sex unpalatable, well, I'm sorry for you. It's very much a reality, as any look at any tabloid newspaper in any given month will tell you. And it always was what an outrageous lie it is, that teen and extra-marital pregnancy didn't occur in more repressed decades. For me this was as much the story of Lydia's growing up as it was of Sam's &#x96; in fact, more so. I found Lydia's story by the end of the film more believable than Sam's; she's so like a child herself - so unwilling to do more than play at the drama of life.Even I must admit that part of the ending did slightly jar on me. I live in a very liberal world I've seen households made up of very unusual (and unexpectedly successful) combinations of people, and am only too happy with new, non-nuclear family images. But I wouldn't be altogether happy about a young teenager of my acquaintance watching this ending, and, perhaps, drawing the conclusion that if you leap backwards off a flight of steps there will always be someone there to catch you; because that simply isn't true. Conservative moment over. If you liked this film and want similar things, perhaps you'll be interested in the path I took to get here, which went something like this Eric Schweig in the lovely modern fairytale Big Eden. That film's director Thomas Bezucha, who also directed The Family Stone, with its complicated modern family dynamics. Jennifer Jason Leigh, queen of unconventional roles (e.g. as Dorothy Parker and as Catherine Slocum, 'heroine' of Washington Square). Michael Greyeyes, an accomplished plains Cree First Nations dancer who I'd thought was pretty impressive in TV historical romance Stolen Women, Captured Hearts. Films about outcasts, others, the different, the lonely - try Trust by Hal Hartley; The Station Agent and Different for Girls. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Story about Puberty and the Facts of Life","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I ran across this quirky little film, and decided to take a chance on it because of the cast Drew Barrymore, Jennifer Jason Lee, and Michael Greyeyes. I wasn't familiar with the younger actors, Misha Barton, Bug Hall, and Brad Renfro, but they do a great job in the film. Although some of the subject matter is a little uncomfortable, you laugh so much that it doesn't seem to matter. Basically what happens in this movie is that they address some serious life-changing subjects with a lot of humor in order to get their message (sex requires responsibility,etc.) across. At times, the kids seem more mature than the adults. Jennifer Jason Leigh is mind-boggling as the sexy, spoiled, southern single mom. Drew Barrymore's part is small, but she is memorable as a tantalizing temptress. Michael Greyeyes exudes strength and masculinity as a handsome Blackfoot rodeo cowboy. I would advise parents to watch the film before showing it to their kids. However, I also think it would be a good film to use in broaching the subject of sex and its consequences, etc. to family members entering puberty. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but slightly disturbing movie","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's been almost a week since I saw this movie but I can't figure out whether it's view of the world is liberal or reactionary, libertarian or determinist. One of it's central themes is the importance of discussing sexuality with pubescents, one that the movie doesn't shirk from discussing openly itself but doesn't seem to advise others to do. Whether the movie is wilfully ambiguous and trying to start an honest debate on the issues it raises or just confused itself is a moot point. A previous comment indicates that the movie was slated for release in September 2000 but I think it may have been withheld until after the Presidential election in the US, as it's the sort of thing the moral majority seize upon as an example of Hollywood filth, though I found it deeply moralistic.I'm making this seem like a deeply serious movie, but actually it's main thrust is comic. It's got some excellent acting, particularly among the young members of the cast, and JJL is radiant as usual. Check it out, let me know what u think of it's moral stance if u want. "},{"Title":"Screwed up film with stilted dialogue and wierd agenda.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was so amazed at how vapid and utterly ridiculous this film was that the first thing I did was search for substantial reviews.  It appears that the general thought was that if you don't think this is brilliant you must be a conservative crackpot.  The genius of this film appears to involve -mature teenagers who are wiser than the adults around them (didn't we all know we knew everything at 16?) -Stilted and unnatural dialog -Cleche's about cliches (You are supposed to laugh at the fact that everyone in wyoming thinks everyone in the south is racist, ignoring the fact that it means that wyoming is just as prejudiced)Spoiler of sortsI'd like to open by saying that I generally consider myself to be open minded.  The fact that the film deals with 14 year olds having sex isn't cause for the film to be chucked out the window (we all know it goes on). However, the fact that it suggests this is normal and healthy is strange. The closing line of The blonde, the indian, the cheerleader, and a 14 year old father - we are the new american family as if to suggest that this is a wonderous vision of the future is outrageous.Basically the characters don't comprehend or pay for the ramifications of their actions.  The girl remains a cheerleader, the boy continues writing, etc.  They touch briefly on the kids being ostracized by the town, but the implication is that they came around.   The kids, although they are the least screwed up in the family (heck - the boy's mother taught them about sex and instructed them in what to do) doesnt mean that they have any concept of the consequences of their actions.  The film suggests that they are mature, but any sensible person knows what the passions of 14 are like versus the love of an adult.  I'm not saying that every film has to be a morality play, but this one seems to take itself way to seriously to the point of suggesting that this should be the definition of normalcy.This film really seems to have some kind of agenda on what should be acceptable. My .02, but as far as I'm concerned, this is 2 hours I'd love to have back.  "}{"Title":"Different, quirky coming-of-age story of a boy and a girl in Wyoming.","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Basic story, a politician in the Carolinas is about to campaign for office and wants his unmarried daughter and her love-child son of 14 out of the way to avoid distraction. He pays for their subsistence, so he sends them on a road trip, to live in Wyoming until the election is over. There the mom and son find a new kind of life. (Note actually filmed in Canada.) Jennifer Jason Leigh is the 30-someting mom, Lydia Callahan, and she insists that her son call her Lydia, not mom. Bug Hall is her son, Sam Callahan. Sam is a good kid, bright, reads a lot, and in fact is an aspiring author. But Sam is very naive about life, and especially about sex.One morning while having a romantic dream Sam wakes up to find some messy stuff on his abdomen. Doing what any 14-yr-old boy would do, he goes to mom and tells her he must be very sick, but she explains that he is just going through puberty and what he experienced is normal.By this time Sam had made a friend with 14-yr-old Mischa Barton as Maurey Pierce and, as any 14-yr-old boy might do, explained to Maurey what happened. Sam and Maurey have the type of friendship where they can talk of anything without thinking a topic might be off-limits.All of this brings about the major events that shape the rest of the story. Maurey decides that she wants to learn what sex is all about before she is in love and has to be good at it. She has a boyfriend, but wouldn't think of having sex with him, but asks Sam if he will help her, have sex with her so she can figure it out. Sam of course is taken aback but liking Maurey as more than a friend gladly goes along.Later they casually tell Lydia about what they are doing, with no hint in their minds that it may not be an acceptable activity for teenagers, and Lydia unexpectedly tells them to have their fun, but be sure and stop when Maurey starts her period. So that they won't have a baby, as Lydia did 14 years ago.|The rest of the story involves Lydia taking up with various men in her loose lifestyle, but actually falling for a local Blackfeet native American, Michael Greyeyes as Hank Elkrunner. Plus of course Lydia's dad, old drill Sergeant R. Lee Ermey as Caspar Callahan, shows up to give them orders for their next move.Saw it on Netflix streaming, in spite of the subject it is done very nicely and I enjoyed it.SPOILERS FOLLOW As time goes by and Sam and Maurey keep up their friendship and experiments with sex, at some point she starts to feel different. Lydia asks when her last period was, she says she never has had one. She is pregnant, first considers an abortion, but when she gets there finds her own mother there, as a result of an illicit affair with a school teacher. Maurey leaves with Sam and Lydia, moves in with them, and has the baby, a cute little girl. Sam refuses to go to military school as Caspar wanted, instead they stay in Wyoming, Lydia gets a job at the restaurant, Hank moves in with them, they end up one big, happy, very unusual family. "},{"Title":"Coming out of age - fun and serious story at the same time","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really hilarious &#150; but in such a special way &#150; honestly I find it hard to wipe the smile of my face. Coming out of age stories &#150; are something new for me &#150; but if all are cute and funny as the one in Skipped Parts I just know that I will me watching a lot more of them. I sure never talked with adults about sex that openly as Sam and his girl &#150; even with my parents &#150; actually I still don't &#150; but then I guess coming out of age is an unique thing for everyone &#133;.And then all of the sudden the atmosphere changed a bit and there are unexpected turns and all that &#150; the movie makers have managed to get a whole a lot of real life things in events in the scenes. I learned quite a bit from this movie &#150; then again I guess you have to be at least a bit open-minded in order to like it. "},{"Title":"Skipped Plot","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Skipped Parts is a coming of age drama / comedy that is filmed like it is an after school special for a G rated audience. This is part of the reason why this movie lacks an audience. The subject matter is R rated, then again, there is no nudity and very little scenes of a sexual nature. Playing around with an audience (that doesn't exist) it is hard for this movie to be taken serious or funny. The movie has its moments where you wish there was more to see. Many scenes and situations are created but nothing comes from it. In the end, the movie concludes with a hidden moral. If you don't look hard enough, you are sure to miss it. The movie does not hit the audience in the head with a sledge hammer. This is a cute movie with cute characters but nothing grand or amazing. Some characters are close to perfection while others have nothing to offer their character let alone something for the audience to watch. A nice little movie, nothing more. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended to Eccentrics, like myself.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Wonder of Sex, or Skipped Parts, as it is known here is anabsolutely brilliant movie. My friends had a hard time dealing withthe title as they suspected for it to be a porno or something, butonce the movie begun they were just as amused as I am. This iscertainly a movie to watch with members of your age group.Parents don't see it with your kids, and kids vice versa. The bestthing about this movie is definitely the script. It is so full ofwonderful lines, that are odd.. but in a good way. It certainlyaddresses the issues of sex, in general, from an awkwardperspective, and the whole movie does have an awkward feel toit... but it's good. Really good. I immediately went out and boughtthis DVD. That's how good it was to me.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood is a cesspool (sp warning)","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To best review this movie, it is improtant to review what happened in the movie.A 14-yr old boy has questions about sex, good, most do.  He has a nocturnal emissions and asks his mom what happened, ok, I'm sure he was scared, then his mom touches, then smells, then tastes, his emission.  That is about the level this movie is on.Within this movie two 14-yr olds have exploration sex.  Condoned, and instructed (by use of a taco shell), by the boy's mother and the girl's aunt.  The girl gets pregnant, the boy's mom drives her to an abortion clinic, there she sees her mom and history teacher so she leaves.At the end of the movie the girl's mother is in an insane asylum.  Which is where the makers, and writer of this movie belong.  The girl moves in with the boy and his mother and her lover, with her baby.  The two 14-yr olds are shown as a happy couple raising a baby, he doing his writing, and she cheerleading. Sure, what about the endless crying baby?The moral of this movie is how evil those conservatives are that say sex should wait and do evil things like force their kids to act right.  By doing what you want things may go bad, like being pregnant at 14, but things will always work out.  "},{"Title":"It's not so far-fetched, but awfully anachronistic.","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankly, I'm rather glad I didn't read a single review here before watching the movie. Several reviewers evidently take this movie as a convenient platform from which to bash the Religious Right&#x99; for not adhering to the Christian-hating Left's benighted sexual libertinism. To be sure, Skipped Parts is rather brutally frank about all matters of sexuality, but as at least one reviewer pointed out already, the pro-abortion and anti-family bigots of the Left will find very little of this frankness to be at all friendly to their despicable ideology. Actually, one would be hard-pressed to find any message to this movie at all, as it is more a reflection of our times than an effort to shape them.This brings me to one of the real strikes against this movie though set in the 1960s around the time of John F. Kennedy's assassination, the protagonists (Sam, Lydia, and to a lesser degree her cousin Delores) all have ridiculously anachronistic points of view for people from the 1960s, while the antagonists (Sam Callahan, Dothan Talbot, Coach Howard Stebbins, to a lesser degree Maurey's parents, and to an even lesser degree the rest of the students and townspeople) are all basically contemporary Hollywood caricatures of people from the early 1960s. Someone is clearly guilty of either executive meddling or lazy writing.Yes, there were easy girls and single mothers back in the 1960s, but none of them would have thought and behaved the way Lydia does, nor would society have dealt with them so mildly if they had; nobody would even have considered rolling out a welcome wagon for a single mother and her illegitimate child in the first place, nor allowed their children to hang around with Sam. Moreover, in those days when the unwritten law was still somewhat in effect, the threatened violence against Sam, played for laughs in this movie, would have been no joke. He would be fortunate if Maurey's aggrieved father didn't decide to invite him to a shotgun wedding ceremony that was all shotgun and no wedding.As for the much-remarked hypocrisy of several of the characters (particularly Coach Stebbins and Maurey's mother), I'll concede that stereotypes &#x97; yes, even Hollywood's &#x97; are not entirely without foundation; hypocrisy and hypocrites we have with us always. Anyone who thinks this hypocrisy is offered as any kind of justification for Lydia's evil beliefs and behaviors, however, would do well to reconsider. Sincerity by itself, as Lydia demonstrates, is no virtue at all, and hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue. In this movie, vice pays a very grim tribute indeed to virtue in several truly horrifying scenes concerning Lydia's attempt to cover up Sam and Maurey's mistake by murdering their unborn baby.Most horrifying of all is the scene in which Sam pleads that it's his baby too; doesn't he get any say in what happens to his child? No, Lydia insists, he doesn't. In fact, nothing he says can sway her, though he promises to take responsibility, get a job, marry the girl, do anything if only his mother will let them keep the baby. In the end, it's hypocrisy which proves to be both a deus ex machina and diabolus ex machina, as Maury's mother happens to be down at the very same illegal murder mill having her love child with Coach Stebbins butchered, traumatizing both mother and daughter when they meet and leading to a very awkward moment between Sam and Stebbins as well. How can I *not* see this as being a thoroughly damning portrayal of abortion and all of the cruel baby-butchering child-snatching misandrists calling themselves feminists who support it?No, unlike some reviewers here, I would definitely *not* show this movie to teenagers as a part of their sex education. If we must have entertainment while educating our kids about sex, we have plenty of other more informative and positive movies that would serve the purpose far better The Blue Lagoon (1980) and 17 Again (2009) come to mind. Honestly, did that gross-out moment with Lydia and the sock, or any of the references to oral sex (which also quite understandably grossed out Sam and Maurey) need to be in this movie at all? It would have been far more enjoyable to watch without them. Some movies really should be exclusively restricted to adults even if some of the main characters are kids, and this is one of them.If anything, Lydia's efforts to expose Sam to too much of our unrated world too soon is a precautionary tale, not an example to be followed as some of the more foolish reviewers here seem to believe. Yes, Lydia does seem to be a bit more responsible by the end, having gotten a job and a man to support her so she won't end up being another welfare leech (the way so many single mothers these days are), but it's not clear that she's really learned her lesson; neither she nor anyone else shows any remorse for having nearly murdered her granddaughter, and there's no wedding scene, so it's not clear whether she's actually married to Hank even by common law.Ultimately, however, the reason I don't like this movie very much is that the story is actually rather depressing. Skipped Parts is a comedy, yes, but a black comedy full of disgusting behavior leading to mood whiplash and coming to an only partially satisfying ending. I sympathized with Sam, laughed at the funny parts and was duly horrified at the horrifying parts. On the whole, I don't regret watching it, and I think anyone who can take a few revolting scenes and characters in stride and doesn't mind a few anachronistic attitudes could benefit from seeing this movie. All the same, I'd rather not see this movie again any time soon, if ever. It might be worth a rental, but the jury's still out on whether it will ever be worth a purchase. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Skipped Parts was a dark comedy, there is no doubt about that. I especially enjoyed the innuendo; it added to the feeling of guilty pleasure you get from watching a movie like this. I guess the typical Leave it to Beaver image of the 1950s in my mind created a sense of perverse pleasure while viewing the characters' twisted lives.  Bug Hall's last few lines at the end of this movie summed up it's purpose the movie is one big statement about the sexual and social paradoxes present in the society of the 1950s and, in all reality, in today's society also.  While being poorly developed characters, you cannot help but root for the two kids. The religious right would go ape over this movie, if they watched anything besides The Bible Network.  It raises some curious questions about the nature and structure of the family and reproductive responsibility.  Overall, I would give it a 6.5 out of 10.  A good waste of time, but little else. "},{"Title":"Such a mess!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rented this movie for two reasons  the time period covered when I was in high school (1963-64) and I've never seen Drew Barrymore in a stinker yet. Wrong!  Drew Barrymore wisely keeps her appearances in this mess to a minimum while you just have to laugh at the ridiculous Jennifer Jason Leigh's cartoon of a character.  The rest of the cast is totally unbelievable (particularly the two 14 year-old leads).  High school in 1963 was never like this!  More of a far-fetched COMEDY than a romance / drama. You just have to laugh at the ridiculous, far-fetched concepts presented in this muddle.  Don't waste you money! "},{"Title":"Interesting and Funny","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I sat down and watched Skipped Parts and I found it to be pleasently surprising.  As I watched this, I came to realize you could insert this Southern family into any other rural area in the United States.  They are just as closed-minded as certain Southerners are now and then.  Even though suffers from a lack of a few thematic elements, it is well-written and acted out nicely.  Jennifer Jason Leigh had the best part in the movie as the skanky, partying mother.  Bug Hall and Mischa Barton did really well playing a pseudo-mature couple who have a child but both end up not together (that aspect is pretty horrifying).  Overall, I think is a pretty humorous and well-rounded look at what the consequences of sex can get you if you live in a small town in the 1960's.  I give it a 9 out of 10.I think the running joke in Skipped Parts is insert your own rural area here.  Every little town in every state has those who are biased to outsiders regardless of the naivete they possess.  Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"Excellent and very funny movie. Highly recommended!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this show.  It pokes fun at the stereotypes of the time and does it very well.  The comedy in the film really makes the tone of the movie as the viewer is not sure whether to laugh, cry or smirk in disgust as the story develops.  Beautiful acting as well as an excellent plot allow this movie to be one of my top 10 of the year. "}{"Title":"Completely Bizarre, Wholly Absurd (spoilers)","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought the modern take on Romeo & Juliet in the Paul Sorvino/Lanie Kazan comedy 'Is Love All There Is' was the most ridiculous tale of young kids in love gone overboard that I had ever seen. That was, of course, until I watched Skipped Parts. Skipped Parts is the story of a 'bohemian' type of mother and son (at least by the rural Southwestern mid 60s standards) who basically turn their town's conventions upside down to a heavy degree. Lydia, a fantastic part played well by Jennifer Jason Leigh (it is a part reminiscent of her role as the punchy undercover journalist in 'The Hudsucker Proxy'), is kicked out of her North Carolina home where she lived with her overbearing, strict father in order to avoid embarrassment during his Senate campaign. Lydia is hanging by a thin string, already proved to be ill equipped to deal with responsibility. Thus, her teen son, is more of an equal, and an intelligent one to make up for the lack of parenting on Lydia's part.Together, they arrive in a small, 'proper' town in Wyoming, both hopelessly lost and terribly out of place, of course, given their nature. But this story and the two's effect on the town are more like an unfocused rebellion. That in the face of such staunch idiocy and conservatism by the town, Lydia and her son Sam (Bug Hall) are just going to to completely turn the town around, whether on purpose or by accident. With no direction, but just to rebel. The product is something even more out-of-wack than the small town was prior to their arrival, just in the opposite manner, so to speak. Sam befriends a pristine classmate, played by a very young Micha Barton. The two fourteen year olds develop more than just a 'show me yours and I'll show you mine' interest in sex. And with Lydia and her zany friend's encouragement, they do some experimenting. This is weird in the first place. Maybe not if we weren't such a sexual-conscious culture when it came to teenagers, but we are. Weird even for me. But, the two teenagers, who seem to like this experimentation, don't know when to give up, especially considering Lydia's warnings that once the girl gets her period, it's over. Well, I guess it's no surprise why this movie never hit mainstream release, or at least widespread mainstream release, considering the field day the religious right would have with this movie (and the book on which it's based?), with such young kids going for sex, and on top of everything else, a fourteen year old getting pregnant. And on top of that, keeping the baby. Meanwhile, we still see Sam as just a child. With his boyish fantasies about the movie star on screen and the like. How is it anyone thought they'd be capable of raising a child? How is it these kids thought so? The situation is taken way too lightly, and that's hard to get past.Other events in the town set off more chaos, possibly all started by the 'sex games' that Sam and his friend endure. But, that is more tolerable in mainstream American movies. The seemingly perfect wife having an affair and an abortion; the irresponsible mother being unable to commit and all of that. It's typical American fare, even in comedies. But somehow, I just can't get past how bizarre and how far things go between Sam and Maurey (Barton). It is an entirely strange, and more than not, an unbelievable situation. I think they went a little far with the intentions of showing how two 'liberated' people can have such a domino effect on such a tight-fisted town, for good or for worse. "},{"Title":"uncomfortably good","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1963. Lydia Callahan (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is a single mom to 14 year old Sam (Bug Hall). She's an embarrassment to her wealthy father. He exiles them from Greensboro, North Carolina while he runs for governor. Sam has a fantasy life with dream girl (Drew Barrymore). They drive out to Wyoming to start a new life. Sam doesn't get along in school and with opinionated Maurey Pierce (Mischa Barton). He thinks he's in love. He defends her as she grieves for JFK's assassination. They decide to explore sex taking Lydia's advice. Maurey starts dating the jock who bullied him while she sets religious Chuckette Morris (Alison Pill) on him.Jennifer Jason Leigh has become an expert in the chain smoking, oversexed, white trash characters. Her performance is enough to recommend this movie. The underage sex is probably where all the negativity for the movie is coming from. The fact that the movie has this light quirky way may be even more enraging. Alison Pill is absolutely too funny as Chuckette. This is a charming and tough coming-of-age movie if one doesn't get on one's high horse. "},{"Title":"a masterwork ruined","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A book that makes you fall completely head-over-heels for its main character because of his wit and self-deprecating charm should not result in a movie that conjures the same character as an uneven, somewhat arrogant pest. I can accept that the film won't be able to transport the viewer the way the words on the page can, but the sad part is that this movie never even comes close.In the book, Sam Callahan is heartwarming. He's a kid you want to get to know. You want to reassure him that it's okay to be this awkward when you're 13, and that everyone's adolescence (or most people's, anyway) are miserable. You laugh when he cracks a joke or lets you in on one of his precocious personal witticisms. You're moved when he talks about the Kennedy assassination from an intelligent but still hopelessly naive point of view. He eases the shock of sexual experimentation and of Maury's teenage pregnancy and takes you right into the reality of dealing with the consequences - of kids and adults thrown into circumstances that would make anyone grow up.But maybe it's too tall an order for film. Maybe the topics are too sensitive and the inner monologue is too hard to convey. Isn't it almost always the case that the movie adaptations of books fall on their faces to some extent? Sure.The problem is that this movie is still terrible. It hits so far away from what made the book enjoyable that you have to be a little bit irritated at the filmmakers for even trying.My advice if you're thinking about renting/buying this is to put your money away and read this book. (I got it from Netflix, and I seriously considered scratching the words read the book into the back of the DVD before I sent it back.) The book will give you a week of solid enjoyment, and that beats two hours of confusion and nausea pretty much any day. "},{"Title":"WTF On So Many Levels","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are just so many things wrong with this movie. It's not abstract enough to survive on story alone so the film maker did rely on the realistic points of the story. Unfortunately, there are none.This story wouldn't be considered normal by today's standards let alone 1963!! Two 14 year old ENCOURAGED to have sex by their parents. The girl gets pregnant like it's no big deal. She decides to stay with her boyfriend who doesn't seem to care about the fact that she's pregnant AND it's not his baby. Everyone is jumping for joy that she's having this baby... HELLO?!?!? She's 14!! I've NEVER seen anyone happy to have a baby at that age. Everyone that finds out about the baby acts like it's no big deal. In 1963, you would've been run out of town for being that way.Most of the story isn't fleshed out for the right reasons. Lydia's character is in almost every comedy/drama about the 50's/60's these days. The relationship between her and her son is pretty disgusting and just doesn't make sense. Whose Mom ever licked semen off her son's sock or bathed with her lover in front of her son. That'd get you locked up no matter what century you're in.I tried to get past these grotesque issues and focus on the characters and their stories but the only thing that makes this movie interesting is all the stuff I just mentioned. Unfortunately, that's the kind of comedy I'd look for in South Park, not some Sundance Classic.1/10.  "},{"Title":"Lame Treatment of an Interesting Plot","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In spite of Drew Barrymore's presence in the movie, I was hopeful that she would be the old bad actress. Sadly, the majority of the other actors put in a poor performance as well. Even Jennifer Jason Leigh, who has put in good performances in the past, had trouble with this character.The dialog is very stilted. I haven't read the book, but the conversations didn't come across as real at all. The direction is quite poor. At times it seems like the actors are waiting for their mark. Some of the fantasy scenes, most with Drew Barrymore, are campy and don't flow well with the rest of the movie.I would recommend staying away from this turkey. "},{"Title":"A Purely Mechanically Sexual Movie","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have enjoyed Bug Hall and Mischa Barton for a while now as  child and teen actors and to see them together in somewhat of an enjoyable sleeper was rather nice.As the title of the movie portrays, you have two kids at the point in their lives where they're just learning about sex --- but it's mostly mechanical. They seem to enjoy exploring each other and having sex with each other but the boy's mother  doesn't help much. She gives them advice on certain ways to enjoy it but skips certain parts -- like wearing condoms or the fact that if you don't wear condoms it can lead to a surprise pregnancy.It's a nice flick, nonetheless, though. "},{"Title":"Very, very bad","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so awful that it is hard to decide where to start when criticizing it, as it fails on so many levels.  It doesn't have any likeable characters, it fails to entertain, it fails to provide an accurate portrayal of the early 1960's, and it fails to provide any type of positive message. About the only thing it does well is misrepresent what life was like in America in 1963.  The characters are all extreme stereotypes.  The viewer is supposed to believe that the children are smarter than all of the adults, but at the same time the children  manage to find plenty of trouble by acting foolishly.  The sad thing is that the actors turned in good performances, but it was pointless as the movie seemed to be written with the life sucks so why even  try to be decent mentality.  Don't even rent it.      "},{"Title":"skip this movie.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i can safely say that Skipped Parts is without a doubt one of the worst movies i have ever seen.  why did Jennifer Jason Leigh stoop?  the only answer i can think of is that out of desperation for income she convinced herself that taking on the role of Lydia, a southern nymphomaniac motherly type with nice cleavage and a bad dye job, she would open herself up to a more diverse audience of incest supporters, pregnant adolescents, rodeo enthusiasts, and adulterers.all the characters are unlikeable and annoying save for sole tolerable performance given by Sam's bible banging steady girlfriend (...that's not how the Nazarene's kiss!).  the acting - unconvincing, the story - unamusing, and the flattering synopsis on the back of the movie cover - untrue. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie isn't awful but it's not what I thought it would be. I loved the previews, thought this movie looked great but it fell a little short. I don't really think it was that funny....and sort of stupid overall. Just a rather weird movie. Don't buy into what the previews say, its not that good. I probably just excpected too much from it, but if you haven't really heard much about it and want to give it a shot then go ahead....just dont' hope for a lot. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Skip this!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Skipped Parts takes on the difficult comedy/drama genre and flops. Telling of one boy's coming of sexual age, this film could have been a solid study of teenage sex issues and rites of passage. Instead, it plays as a convoluted, bland, and ill-focused mess of silliness, stiff acting, post card scenery, dream sequences, and out-of-nowhere nonsense lacking the finesse required to weave an engaging story from the comedy and drama components resulting in a marginally entertaining watch and a story with a difficult buy-in. Only for the most easily influenced sentimentalists. (C-) "}]