[{"Title":"The tap dance kid is footloose Down Under","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of the negative comments about this film seem to come from its birth place, Australia. Frankly, Bootmen is not a horrible movie by any stretch of the imagination. The film shows some originality in the way the director Dein Perry sets the film in the steel works factory that is about to close and having Sean and his mates practice in another abandoned place that seems to be saying a lot about how industries do away with people that have given their best to make them better.Adam Garcia, playing Sean, is one of the best things in the film. The other asset is Sam Worthington, who plays Mitch, the brother that seems to attract trouble wherever he goes. Also, Sophie Lee, as the brothers' love interest makes an effective contribution to the movie.The dancing numbers reminded us of Stomp, the musical that has been playing here for a long time now, in that unusual ways of tap dancing are practiced on the most unconventional ways, which makes Bootmen more likable.The best way to watch the film is to sit back, relax, and let it unfold, as it will win the viewer over with the inspired tap dancing. "},{"Title":"Not just a dancing flick.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a resident of Newcastle who is familiar with the Dein Perry story I was very interested in seeing this movie. The fact that it was shot in Newcastle and features a few Newcastle actors only increased my interest. As a local it was fantastic to see our often stereotyped city (we are the sixth largest Australian city) look as good as it does. They didn't just focus on the normal shots of the steel works or the beach, and they used references to places in Newie that only we could get. As a tap-dancing fan it was wonderful to see tap making its way into the cinema in a non-Fred Astaire way. As a movie fan it was great to note that something I assumed to be a chick-flick was actually a very blokey film with a bit of dancing thrown in. Perry and the crew have done a magnificent job in not only opening up the eyes of the world to tap-dancing they've also been wonderful in showing everyone a different side to Newcastle, while still maintaining what we are really about.  "},{"Title":"I`m Not Gay But I Loved This","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The image that flashes through my mind when I hear the word  Aussies  is of a bunch of butch hard drinkers who enjoy nothing better than waking in a police cell after a drinking session followed by a bar room brawl .... and that`s just the women . According to my mate Dr Sebastian who spends a lot of time down under this is a laughably cliched stereotype and Australians are the nicest friendliest people on Earth . Mind you Seb is a six foot three Scotsman so everyone`s nice to him .You can see what I`m getting at about stereotypes though ? because strangely BOOTMEN does feature the type of Aussies who take a drink and commit crimes and enjoy the sound of knuckle against cheekbone . Even stranger despite the mythical portrayal of Australians in this movie no one really gives the main protagonist Sean a hard time for wanting to become a dancer even though he works at a steel mill . A worker at an Australian steel mill wants to become a dancer and no one accuses him of being  A bloody wooftah  , now that takes some swallowing and I guess that`s why some people dislike BOOTMEN , it is slightly obvious that the story was written around the dance sequences but it could have been far worse , it could have been a plagaristic cross between THE FULL MONTY and BILLY ELLIOT  or a camp Baz Luhrmann type production but at least BOOTMEN has an identity all of its own . BOOTMEN is a simple story of people trying to pursue their dreams , it`s funny , romantic , sometimes gritty and foul mouthed , sometimes violent but always entertaining with an absolutely brilliant dance sequence at the end and is by far the greatest Australian film since ROMPER STOMPER.If you`ve ever seen the dance troupe Stomp or these idents on BBC1 featuring the dancers and thought  Hmm that lifts the spirits  then you`ll enjoy this movie . I know I certainly did       "},{"Title":"One to watch, if you love tap dancing!!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was done to promote the Tap Dogs show and dance group, so don't expect complicated or sophisticated plot, cunning twists or even amazing acting.You can pretty much guess what happens, just from watching the trailer. There is nothing, plotwise, that hasn't been done before and the characters are all tried and tested stereotypes. Cinematography is solid and production quality is safe. There is a fair degree of bad language, which seems a touch out of place given that this film will appeal to a lot of young dance students. But none of this detracts from the basic underlying premise of the film... Basically, sit back, shut up and enjoy the fabulous tap dancing - That's what it's about and in that respect, it does NOT disappoint!! "},{"Title":"2nd time is even better!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I've just seen Bootmen a second time, and let me say that its even better second time round! Seeing it twice really gives you the opportunity to focus on the stuff you missed out the first time.  For example, I was looking at the smaller details instead of all the same stuff as the first time. I've just read my first review thing and I realised I said that dancing at the beginning was not so spectacular.  I'm an idiot!  I meant to say the acting!  The acting wasnt so hot at the beginning but quickly picks up towards the middle. Again, the dancing was awesome, the actors were awesome and Adam Garcia is definitely beyond awesome!  I love the man's hair! And I just realised that it is Dein Perry himself as that Anthony guy at that dance show in Sydney that Sean gets into. Awesome! Awesome! Awesome! Awesome! Awesome! Awesome! Awesome! "},{"Title":"Pedestrian story but excellent dancing.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this movie focuses on the dancing, it is amazing and joyful. Unfortunately, far too much time is spent on the extremely pedestrian story of underdog dancers, star-crossed love lives and gang fights.While the story was trite, the acting and the dancing were superb.  Both main male leads do a terrific job, with Adam Garcia (previous film Coyote Ugly) an absolute standout as the guy with the dream that he makes come true despite the odds.I'm glad I didn't pay full price, but for a matinee price - you can ignore the story and concentrate on the dance numbers.  Those *are* worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"A film built around the final scene.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Bootmen' is a cross between 'The Full Monty' and 'Billy Elliot' but the comparisons have to stop there, as this film contains neither the depth nor the humor of the other two. It is one of the few Australian Films I have seen that, either purposefully or not, looks more like a Hollywood flick, and perhaps coincidentally it ranks lower than most Aussie films on my list. The characters are developed haphazardly, and the tone of the movie follows a similar chaotic path, with excellent dancing not quite making up for a weak script and a feeble, unoriginal plot. Although at parts moving or amusing (or occasionally both at once) the film as a whole lacks focus, and it could be seen as a way to bring the Directors talent as a choreographer into the limelight. Impressive dancing, but otherwise nothing special, and towards the end it appears to lose touch with reality. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was born in Newcastle where this film was set, and was still living there at the time when this was filmed and when released was very interested in watching it.All I can say is that Adam Garcia was fantastic and showed his amazing dancing skills - he is also a great singer as well as shown on An Audience with Kylie Minogue last year and he is definitely such a versatile performer and one to watch in years to come.Seeing areas of where I grew up in Newcastle was surreal and I even recognised some local faces as extras. The theatre they used when Adam's character was in Sydney was really the Civic Theatre which is located in Newcastle.Sophie Lee has come a long way the past few years and definitely deserves higher recognition - I'm not saying this because she is also a Newcastle girl but I thought she outshone Kate Winslet in Holy Smoke and gave Toni Collete a run for her money in Muriel's Wedding and it was a shame she didn't have a bigger role.Australian movies are really hit or miss and this is definitely a hit, along with The Dish which was released around the same time. The dancing sequence is heartpounding and this is definitely one film worth a look. "},{"Title":"great Aussie movie, very enjoyable","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i actually liked the movie a lot. i happened to see it one day on IFC, and enjoyed it so much i made my Australia native fiancé watch it after he said everyone he knew that saw it back when it came out said it was crap. i thought it was very predictable...but cute still. All those little tap dancing Aussie all cute and tapping for a cause. All the drama, dead mom, dead brother, pregnant semi-girlfriend by brother, dad against his tapping, and a cynical instructor. i enjoyed it very much and would watch it again if i were to see it on. I think the idea behind the movie was very original...very funny at times. I particularly enjoyed comments about poofters and root. "},{"Title":"Less bulldust - more tap!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The concept is good - to try to capture the style of the Tap Dogs and turn it into a feature film.Sadly, the transition to the big screen was not entirely successful. In order to reach the big tap finale, we had to wade through an hour and a half of paper thin plot - nice guy fails to make it in the big city, father-son conflict, brother-brother conflict and small scale organized crime racket.The quality of the acting left a bit to be desired (this is to be expected as the guys were selected for their tap ability, rather than their acting pedigree), and Sophie Lee was ... well, Sophie Lee (I'm yet to be convinced that she is an actor).The bleak industrial landscape and cinematography were quite good, as were the actors in the small supporting roles.So when push comes to shove - was the final tap spectacular worth sitting through the movie?  Sure was, it's just a shame there wasn't a bit more of it. "}{"Title":"The kind of Australian movie you hope nobody from any other country ever lays eyes on","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No son of mine is going to tap dance for a living!  When I tap, I feel I can do anything!  You're mad!  MAD!  People just don't TAP that way!  But don't you SEE?  Tapping isn't just about steel-tipped shoes, it's about LIFE!  This is our chance to DO something!  This is our chance to make a difference!  I love you!  I love you, too!  People just aren't ready for your kind of tap!  I don't care!  I'll show them.  I'll show them all!Okay, so I'm making these lines up.  (It's amazing how quickly they come to you, once you let them.)  But if these particular lines don't appear in Bootmen, I suspect it's due to an oversight.  They might as well.  And I remember an I love you line, which, in context - there's nothing wrong with the three words per se - may well be the most embarrassing thing Sophie Lee has ever been called upon to say.Wanna hear a rich irony?  Sean tries out his first-draft choreography on his performers, and one of them says (and I paraphrase), Look - I know why this isn't working.  It's just a collection of the same old tap routines that have been done a thousand times before.  We're doing them funny hats, that's all.  Sean sees the light and comes up with something NEW.  He uses the SOUL of the steelworks to come up with a fresh, vibrant, STEELY kind of tap...  I don't know why I'm being sarcastic; this is exactly what he should be doing.  The irony is that Bootmen is exactly the same kind of let's-put-on-a-show movie that's been done a thousand times before.  It's just a new kind of show.  Granted, working class tap dancing may be fresh - although we aren't allowed to get a sense of its freshness - but none of this freshness or vigour seems to have infected the rest of the film.About that comment (I'm not sure whether or not it's an actual line from the film) - It's been done a thousand times before... this is never a fair criticism by itself, any more than It will be done a thousand times in the future is.  The trouble with Bootmen is that it's stale, in the way that some bread is stale.  You don't have to research the history of a stale loaf of bread to tell that there's something wrong with it; nor do you have to look at other loaves of bread.  The badness of stale bread is intrinsic to the loaf.  If Bootmen had been the only let's-put-on-a-show film ever made, it would STILL be stale.  Every bit as stale.  (Or, to look at it from another angle, if The Full Monty and In the Bleak Midwinter and Singin' in the Rain and Topsy-Turvy had each had a dozen almost indistinguishable clones, they would still be every bit as fresh.  But, alas, I was talking about Bootmen...)Here's all you need to know... Every second of screen time falls into one of three categories (1) the dance routines themselves, which are there for their own sake; (2) the backstage preparation; (3) all that personal relationships stuff, and my, isn't there a lot of it.  -Actually, I need to subdivide (1) - there's (1a), the few minutes of actual performed dance at the end, and (1b), the impromptu dance routines that people break into at such naturalistic prompts as, Show us what ya got.  Now here's the rundown.  (1b) is fun.  (1a) less so.  (2) is poorly done, but not actually painful.  But as for (3) ... boy, do we have to cringe our way through (3). "},{"Title":"Great start of Sam Worthington's career","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My first ever review on IMDb, simply because of the great performance from Sam Worthington. Now in 2009 he is becoming very famous thanks to 'Terminator Salvation' & 'Avatar'. 'Bootmen' shows his great talent at the very beginning of his career. He is the biggest asset of this movie. His character, Mitch is complex, real & vulnerable. I highly recommend this movie to all those viewers that are interested how his career has started and developed. Personally I think 'Gettin' Square' shows his talents much better, but anyways what a interesting start. Movie in itself is not bad, either, though Adam Garcia is a bit wooden as main character, Mitch's brother, Sean. It is worth seeing because of excellent tapping scenes. "},{"Title":"Great dancing. Pity about the story.","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I thought the dancing was awesome. Just a pity to have to sit through such a tedious and poorly thought-out non-story to enjoy those few minutes of it.Nothing fitted. Nothing added up. Sean set off from Newcastle to Sydney like he was going to the end of the world, when it's a journey he would do on his motorbike in well under the running time of the movie. He's landed a part performing in the chorus of a big dance show there - his big break towards stardom. Does his beloved Linda drive down in that fast sports car of hers to see him on opening night? No, she sits at home by the phone waiting for him to ring. Aaaaaaaaaaah! Sophie Lee as bimbo extraordinaire! Guess all she had to do was act naturally.But it was all part of a plot that was totally pathetic. Just not credible. Right from the start of the movie the horrid nasty baddy and his gang of thugs had been in an escalating crime war with Mitch as their sole adversary. And this ends with a scene on a high overhead gantry with the baddie drawing a vicious knife and trying to gut the unarmed Mitch like a fish. Yet he is apparently horrified, remorseful even, when Mitch falls to his death in trying to escape him. Strictly Ballroom wove a plot that had lots of elements of fantasy, but beautifully depicted them thus amidst the sequins and glitter. That was why it was able to succeed so very well as a dance movie with a story to tell and a tearjerker happy ending. Bootmen couldn't or wouldn't leave for single second the grim reality of its harsh meanstreets and decaying heavy industry backdrop, and asked us to accept strictly at face value a story that was just woefully full of holes.   1 point for the plot, 5 for the dancing. Total 6/10 "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I took tap for a good portion of my life and am very excited to see a movie showing the kind of tap that is really done. Not that hokey putting on the ritz type. And these dancers---- WOW! They made me want to get up and dance again. And there was a plot, too. A plot that did not get lost under the taps. A good movie with incredible dancing. See it just for the ending at least!  "},{"Title":"Adam Garcia is on his way to the TOP in Bootmen!!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is amazing.  The dance scenes will leave you breathless, and the acting will have you reaching for your Kleenex!Adam Garcia has really come into his own, and this film really lets him showcase just how deep his acting and emotions run.  He was good in Coyote Ugly, but it didn't let him really do much besides look and sound adorable (except for when Kevin fights with Violet by the car outside the bar). This movie has the gammit of feelings - joy, sorrow, heartbreak, sarcasm, humor...Sam Worthington is very good as Mitch Okden.  Dein Perry did an excellent job directing the film, and there are some beautiful shots in the movie. The dance scenes are filmed very well, and the scenery of the Sygna and the aerial shots of Newcastle are beautiful as well.Definitely worth your time and money to see - and see again!!  "},{"Title":"A fairly lame flick","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sorry I hate to be negative about my fellow country men - but really this is a fairly bad film. Did any one notice that the dead mother was a brunette at the being of the film - but a blonde in the closing flashback/montage? The script was weak - the acting flat and the character development non existent. Odd that a town like Newcastle should be such a hot bed of tap? Well Who am I to judge - I just hope that Dein Perry never gets to direct another film. On a positive note at least Sohpie Lee and Susie Porter had the good grace to look a tad embarrassed by the whole thing. Oh and the gay content at the end seemed just plain silly I think "},{"Title":"lame story somehow sprouts legs","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had forgotten about this film and I live in Sydney. NOT the public success it should have been and I suspect a major commercial disappointment for the ambitious producer, this film suffers so badly by stridently trying to be butch to avoid the poofy dancing thingy image. So trowled onto our heads is the I'm tough - but I er, dance y'know yobbo dialogue it severely pulls the patience of the audience away from enjoying the dynamic dance routines. In fact, it is also so SERIOUS and full of retarded bumpkin behaviour, someone forgot the jokes. BILLY ELLIOTT and FULL MONTY cover the same industrial tough family territory but they have hilarious moments and are properly fleshed out characters. BOOTMEN is just crude and embarrassing...until the dancing starts. Director andChoreographer extraordinaire Dein Perry upon whom this is based and whose live shows were a massive hit in the 90s mis-serves this Barry McKenzie take on his craft. One can see the stardom on the horizon for Adam Garcia but it is Sam Worthington who is the major talent here. He is only NOW just getting the recognition he deserves from SOMERSAULT just released. Viewers should check out the excellent crime caper DIRTY DEEDS for another level of his talent. BOOTMEN got the boot on first release and on TV as it is tonight, is is still a cringing experience...until the dance numbers (and they all shutup and concentrate). The awful Ric Carter, a failed 80s comedian is the absolute worst of this bad drama (but good dance pic). "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What else can I say but wow! I thought the story was really good, not at all unbelievable.  I loved the whole brother thing with Sean and Mitch, they were so typically Australian! Go the flannelettes! I was really there for the dancing (and Adam Garcia) and it took a while to get there, but i loved it when he dropped the hammer at the steelworks and heard the sound and as they say, the rest is history!  It was awesome when they started putting the show together, there was so much energy!  And when that thing happened with Mitch, that was really sad and I thought it was cool that Sean kept going with the Bootmen thing. Ok, the dancing... Once again...wow!  I can't believe how good they were!  When they started doing the more macho dancing I was totally covered in goosebumps!  And the sound of the taps on metal!  It was brilliant!  The energy coming out of those dance scenes was overwhelming! So 10/10 on the dancing easy! Adam Garcia...  What can I say, the man's a legend!  Not only is he absolutely, totally, indescribably hot!  but he's an awesome (and I mean AWESOME!) dancer!  I'll have him over the guy from Riverdance any day! This is the first movie I have seen with Adam in it and I hope it won't be the last!  In case I haven't made my thoughts on Adam clear, here it is nice and simple... HOT! HOT! HOT! HOT! HOT! HOT! HOT! HOT!So an easy 10/10 for the totally delicious (and talented of course) Adam Garcia! The only tiny thing that brought it down was the not-so-spectacular dancing at the beginning, but that got better half way through.  But I'd rather have dancing than dialogue! In short (ha!), brilliant movie, great dancing, great actors, great body (thank you Adam!) and enough energy to blow the roof off!  I wanna see it again! (and again and again and again...) "},{"Title":"A triumph in every way!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For years now Dein Perry has toured Australia and the world with  a male tap-dancing company called Tap Dogs.  The dancing is rough, masculine and exhilarating.  Fashioning a film around this act was a risky thing to do - but screenwriter Steve Worland has done a brilliant job.  He has created a believable and moving story about a group of young men growing up in the industrial city of Newcastle - and the drive of one of them to form a tap-dancing troupe.Then Dein Perry, directing his first feature film, gives the whole film the exhilarating energy he gives his stage work, with Steve Mason's dazzling cinematography aiding him at every turn.  Perry's choreography is no less brilliant and the result is a true film triumph, that I am sure is going to be a major hit all over the world.The entire cast is excellent - and two new stars will emerge in Adam Garcia and Sam Worthington.  Garcia looks great, dances magnificently and gives a strong charismatic performance.  Worthington is a powerful young actor - vulnerable, sexy and utterly real.Whatever you do, don't miss this mind-blowing movie experience!  Aussie films rule! "},{"Title":"A dancing movie with a twist.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an absolutely amazing film. It's not like all other dancing movies. It's tap. And it's men. It's a cross between Billy Elliot, and The West Side Story. I LOVED the taps, it was so cool to watch. Adam is really hot, and Sam's not to bad either...The only bad thing I saw about this movie is that the role of the girl was not convincing enough for us to fall in-love with her, or even like her. There was nothing to like. I think they should have gotten someone with more personality for this part. But on the other hand, maybe another girl would have up-staged the wonderful Adam. I recommend it to anyone who likes dancing, a good movie, and hot guys. "}{"Title":"Bootmen","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah, OK, Adam Garcia isn't the greatest actor, the story was predictable, but you can't help but sit threw this movie and not be shuffling your feet and tapping on things here and there.The performances from the cast vary. As i just mentioned Adam is not the most brilliant actor but there were times when i found myself feeling sorry for him. His character goes threw many emotional climaxes, i'd have to say the scene where he confronts his brother about sleeping with his girl was strong but then he let himself down in the kiss-and-make-up-scene. Sophie lee also could have done better than the performance she gave in this film but with a script that lacks any character depth, she had to work with what was given to her. Sam Worthington, i say the same thing as i said about lee, you can't work to your full potential when the script is what lets you down.One thing you have to remember about this film though is that it's a dance film and in the dance department, it definitely doesn't let you down. the scenes where Sean is dancing around the steel works, works so effectively and was a creative idea for how he comes up with the idea of using the steel works in his put-on show. H aving the tap dances dancing to a band was amazing. It added way more ompphhh and sent shivers down my spine.Adam Garcia is one great dancer. it's the final live show that he could show off his tap dancing abilities ( and i've developed a major crush on him after that)) but then if you know about Adams dancing background (saturday night fever, hot shoe shuffle anyone?) then you would expect to see him burning up the floor and for you ladies, mind boggling eye candy.Overall, this film doesn't have action but it does have it's funny moments (aussie humor) definitely it's sad monument, and it really is just a coming-of-age-with-tap-shoes-on film. "},{"Title":"Austrailia's mix of Footloose and Tap","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" G'Day Mate! Welcome to the Land Down Under! That's the greeting that'll never go out of style. Seeing Bootmen for the very first time was an interesting experience for me. I thought only jolly USA enjoyed tap-dancing from all the legends. Bootmen goes to extremes where other tap-dancing movies seem to make their stops. Two brothers Sean(Adam Garcia) and Mitchell(Sam Worthington) did tap in their youth. While Sean kept it in, the other brother does some shady work that catches up with him. Sean meets Sara(Susie Porter) and goes to an opera house for a big tap-dancing show there in another part of Austrailia. Somehow, all was a wash-up when the star of the show big ego gets Sean riled up. So it's back home, make up a tapping show of his own which looks like an act from the group, Stomp. When Mitch dies, Sean gives it his all to perform in his memory, and his disapproving father, finally opens his eyes to his son's dream. Goes to show when you live up to the dream, don't quit because of one's disapproval. This movie is moving, I mean really moving, it's worth dancing to, not too obvious, and the course of the movie is riveting. I wouldn't mind watching over and over, to get a better feel of it. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Proves that tap dancing should be appreciated.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie received some bad reviews by many people. Some think that the dancing was horrible. I do respect all of their opinions for I know that the movie has plenty of weaknesses. But, I failed to notice them all because you can't help but admire the dancing done by men in Bootmen.It seems that the movie will do well if it's turned into a soap. The story seemed to be taken from those shows. But, if you can see through those flaws, you will find Bootmen a very enjoying movie. What Bootmen? Well, don't picture some men in tuxedos and carrying some sticks while tap dancing. The characters of the movie are not so lovable but I can assure you that you'll like them in the end! They wear boots instead of tap shoes. They wear your ordinary clothes instead of tuxedos.Trust me, give the movie a try and I'm sure that the performance will knock your socks off. Please.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bootmen is one of those films which will not have mass appeal but which will appeal massively to those with whom it resonates A fact which accounts for a meager 1.5 stars from Ebert with a critical majority voting awesome according to efilmcritic.com.  A sort of Footloose meets Stomp Out Loud down under, Bootmen tells of a young Australian steel worker who puts together a steel-on-steel  tap show benefit against all odds. Thumbing its nose at the typical Hollywood excesses (sensationalism and melodrama),  Bootmen sticks earnestly to it's purpose mixing love, sex, violence, death, angst, and woe with music and tap dancing in a rough sort of Aussie style while waxing to its climactic feel good conclusion. A great watch for anyone into rhythm or tap in film, Aussie flicks, or just plain creative movies.  "},{"Title":"good setting, entertaining dancing and decent drama","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm from near Newcastle so I couldn't help like it for that reason alone. Aussie films usually score points with me just for that reason but, this got bonus points for being so close to home.Setting aside the dancing was entertaining and I'm glad there was plenty of it because that's the way the film was marketed; as a tap dance film, so I'd hate to see anything less than that. Sometimes in this sort of film they can get too caught up in the reasons for showing the dancing (or songs in the case of musicals) but I think they kept it simple, without leaving the audience wondering why we're seeing this particular dance. I also liked how they tied it into the BHP steel works closing down. This shows a bit of thought has gone into the writing of the story and it's nice to know that it wasn't true, but could have been.I was charmed with the appearance of Sophie Lee, known best (by me anyway) for being in 'The Castle'. I was a little disappointed about the romance and the relationship troubles between her, and the two brothers Mitchell and Sean. Frankly, the film could have done without it. On the other hand, just to show I don't really hate drama, I did like the tension between the boys and their father.  "},{"Title":"AWESOME DANCE - Language Stinks!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After catching the last ten minutes of this on TV I got the Video in hopes I could share this AWESOME DANCING with friends and family, but the rest of the show was so bad I've had to forget that idea entirely!Sad! It could have inspired a lot of kids who will never be able to see it for the language alone! Unlike some think, not all people talk like that! It's a real shame writers/producers limit the viewers to the few who do!I think this movie should be reshot (even using the same actors/actresses) and can the vulgarity so the dance can shine through and reach an entirely different generation of kids with the verve of this wonderful dance presentation. This dancing could set their feet as well as their souls on fire!  "}]