[{"Title":"Ash proves himself to the world","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Excuse me if i sound a little choked up. But this movie symbolizes many things. It was the best poke'mon movie made, and it was the last worth wile poke'mon movie made. None is better when it comes to this film's greatness. It had everything i was looking for, including more. Being an AAML(Ash and Misty love) fan, i found it particularly enjoyable from that stand point. The biggest clues about this couple in the 9+ years of the franchise existence is right here in this movie. Of course at the time it was in it's second year of existence. It also contained dramatic twists, and memorable lines that stand out in all poke'mon fan's minds forever. No poke'mon experience comes as good as this movie. "},{"Title":"Better than the first, waiting for the third.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a Pokemon fanatic, I was thrilled to see a sequel to Pokemon The First Movie.  Then again, I was sort of skeptical, because the first movie was not as adventurous as I thought it would be.  Also, it is known that sequels tend to be worse than the original film.  However, I was proven wrong.  This film has better animation, a more detailed plot line, and greater sense of a movie rather than an extended version of the television series.  Even the short, Pikachu's Rescue Adventure made more sense than Pikachu's Vacation in the first movie.  I know what you all may be thinking, he is probably just some kid who just wants to brag about how good Pokemon is; but the fact is... I'm 20!  I can legally walk into a R-rated movie!  But, I would prefer walking into this delightful feature, because sometimes, with all the horror and boring over-dramatic films out there, it feels good to see a cute & funny animated film with a lesson to be learned at the end (which I'm not going to spoil for you).  I highly recommend this movie, because nowadays, we all need to feel like a kid to release us from the stress!  So, until a third movie comes out, I'll watch this one some more! "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" People should Stop Talking trash about this excellent movie. There is adventure and action, comic situations, good morals, adorable characters (PIKACHU & TOGEPI), beautiful animation, super script, suspenseful events, and everything you can think of that makes an all around great movie, even better. It is also a great way to inspire children that they can make a difference, no matter when times are hard. It Also influences kids That friends are the most powerful tool of all, and can help you when you are down, and out. Very, very cool, and Very, Very Exciting. To simply sum up my point, BOTH KIDS AND PARENTS WILL BOTH ENJOY THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Unashamed Pokemon fan right here","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I for one, and seeing on the internet I am pleased that there are others that are still unashamed pokemon fans out there It really has been so long since I saw the film. I saw the first and loved it and loved this one first, if this one had come out first then the fan base would've remained stronger and not cut the fans in half.Half leaving and half staying. New Pokemon were brought in this film, they came in the first one as well and then after this there were so many it got ridiculous.But as someone hoping to be a filmmaker one day, I plan to make a pokemon film for the devoted unashamed fans just to stand up for us, and put us all to rest.I love the animation in this film, I love Lugias song. I thought it was funny and moving. I better grab this and the first on DVD before the disappear in obscurity "},{"Title":"Okay 'mon","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Part of the reason for the huge financial success of this movie has to do with all the ads which address Pokemon 2000 as the greatest adventure yet (or something like that). But is it?...not exactly.Pokemon 2000 is entertaining, but it could have been more. Among the things that it lacks are the sense of a journey, the ethereal ambiance of the first pokemon feature, as well as the antagonistic sense of menace which Mewtow provided. On the other hand Pokemon 2000, is probably a better film for a mass audience, because there is more action and humor, but those alone do not make it the great adventure it promises.Unlike the first movie, this one feels a bit short given the type of premise (one hero must save the world from destruction). Naturally this hero is Ash. In the movie however, he does not do anything so incredible. It felt to me like any other character could have been the hero, because if you get the help of an almost invincible legendary pokemon like Lugia, you don't need much skill. If this had been a slightly longer story, with a little more adventure, Pokemon 2000 would be a worthy film, but it's probably good enough for young Pokemon fans. "},{"Title":"The best of the Pokemon movies; fans will love it, others should give it a try","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" For some, the Pokemon franchise is an immense joke. The movies, the show, the cards and games are just complete tripe. For others, it's a religion. While I lean towards neither one, I have indeed liked all the main films (Pokemon 1-4) and find them all very enjoyable kids films. This one surpasses the other three by a milestone, however. Not only is this movie a good Pokemon movie or a nice kids film, it's just a very great and fun film over all, in my sincerest opinion.First of all, the story is quite honestly beautiful to boot. I know that might not bide with some, but truly, the whole idea of the legendary Pokemons Articuno, Moltres, Zapdos and Lugia creating a mass destruction that of course our one and only chosen one Ash can stop and how all the characters interact with the story is amazing. There are eye-catching action scenes as well as gorgeous animation settings, the best being the scenes near the climax at the three legendary bird islands and the ocean waters that Lugia resides in. It's all very breathtaking, regardless of whether you like the movie or not.While all these films are extremely childish in terms of dialogue, what more could you expect? It does the job it's supposed to and does it well. Even the villain is sinister enough to get by and makes you feel empathy for the Pokemon he sets out to conquer. The score of Lugia's song is also a very soothing and wonderful score that overpowers even the whole film; simply beautiful. In any matter, the movie entertains. I like all of the settings mostly; The islands are all unique in their own way and stand out. The villain's blimp is elegant, and the new characters in this film besides the main Ash, Brock and Misty are all very fun; the most fun of all supporting characters in the movies.Basically, if you liked the first, the rest contain exactly all the other attributes except they all vary in terms of professional tact. Like I have stated, this one takes all the characteristics of the Pokemon series to the highest they can go, and I am not ashamed to admit how much I enjoy this film, and have watched it more than once willingly. This movie shows what faith and determination can accomplish; all the films do, and I am proud to own this on old-timey cassette, and won't stutter to say I put it in, lay back, and let myself go from time to time. "},{"Title":"Pokemon 2000 is a Great Movie","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This Pokemon Movie is an extremely great movie. It was humorous, educational, and enriching. This was an extremely well-balanced movie. I laughed out loud at some parts and I shed tears at others. Another added bonus was a free Lugia Pokemon Card with every ticket. I don't understand why people wouldn't like this movie. It has a very clear plot, superb voicing, and tons of action. Any person, Pokemon fan, anime fan, or neither will enjoy this movie to the fullest. Parents, if you're thinking this is just stupid, mind-numbing violence, think again. This movie demonstrates friendship and teamwork and how working together with anyone can save the world. This is clearly the best of the Pokemon films. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, I know that I said in my review of Pokemon The First Movie that I would wait until a week before the second one was released to order it in Japanese, but I just couldn't hold out any longer.  I had to see it, and it's incredibly well done.  So, which one do I like better?  Truthfully, I don't know.  Mewtwo Strikes Back had heart, and this one has a ton of adventure.  Of course, since this one is still about five months from being released in the US, I won't summarize it, but I will say that Misty has a little competition.  You'll see what I mean.  Those of you that didn't like Mewtwo Strikes Back might like this one better.  It has a great storyline, very likeable characters, and a beautiful music score.  Hopefully this time, Kids WB will do better in the translation and keep the original music (except, of course, for the theme song).  However, looking at their start on this movie (naming it Pokemon the Movie 2000), the future for this dub doesn't seem very promising.  Hopefully, they know what they're doing this time. "},{"Title":"My 2 cents","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Many of those who claim to hate this movie openly admit to hating Pokemon to begin with.  As I had said in my comments on Pokemon The First Movie, you have to go in to the movie with an open mind.  If you go see Pokemon 2000 because you were dragged in by your kids/nieces/nephews/others, you've already decided that you're going to hate it.  I'm not saying that you WILL hate it; just that you've DECIDED that you're going to hate it no matter what, just because it's Pokemon.  Current Pokemon fans (like me, and I'm 30!) or more open-minded moviegoers will probably like Pokemon 2000.I was glad that Kids WB decided to go with a more theatrical score for Pokemon 2000.  Although I would have preferred that more of the Japanese music would have been left in, I think that the orchestral music was more fitting than the bubblegum pop that permeated Pokemon The Movie.Like most people, I liked Pokemon 2000 more than Pokemon The First Movie, probably because of the overall brighter feel.  I personally loved the first U.S. appearance of one of my favorite new Pokemon, the flowery Bellossom.  There are points of the movie that I felt could have been expanded on, but overall, Pokemon 2000 is a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Pokemon 2000 ushers in the Millennium","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have always enjoyed pokemon from the animated series to anything else. So as you can guess, this movie was ,for me and maybe many others, really great. The movie starts out with a typical mini-movie starring Pika chu and some of the pokemon he is friends with. And in this adventure, the whole poke-gang(as I will call them for now) end up falling down some giant hole in order to rescue their friend, Togpei. Anyways, we see bunch of new pokemon that have yet to be seen and some real cute dance scene performed by the Bellossom and other accompanying pokemon. Then,finally the group finds the lost togepi with a nest of exeggcute who have become very attached to him and won't let him go. Then suddenly tragedy hits as a huge eletrical storm breaks out and the pokemon must work together to keep the exeggcute nest safe. Finally, the storm ends and it's time for our poke-gang to go home. But, before that we get to see the lost brother from the exeggscute nest be returned by a random Chansey and they evolve into Exeggutor. (Yep, get it exeggcute = execute, exeggutor= executor) Well, I will admit this part of the movie is nice and cute. But, I will have to admit not having the narrator like they do in most of these mini-movies is kind of nice. it allows the pokemon to speak for themselves through their actions.Now for the actual movie, I personally loved the majority of the movie despite how bad the jokes were. I love seeing Ash at age ten being a strong and impetuous braggart that he can be still pull off actually saving the world. And yes, I know that Misty can be very bland even for a female character. But, I love seeing a likable female character. She may not scream girl power per se. But, she is the ten year old girl in all of us. In this movie, she does the typical female protagonist thing where she hides her true feelings from the male antagonist. I like the part where she says He is a boy, and he is my friend. But, he is not my boyfriend. But, she does change towards the end and goes to help Ash when the other female co-star offers to do it. Next the members of team Rocket, I like them in this movie because they do actually help and was funny how they actually get some recognition compared to the other movies. Even though, they do supply the majority of the bad jokes. Now,my rating for this movie was a seven because I could see how hard they worked to get the sheer awesomeness in the artwork and the music was great. And I have to admit that seeing movie that was not CGI or had a bunch of adult innuendos put in it was nice. Now, my only complaint I had with it was the generic anime style action to it. It was the power of oneness to all of it. And the message was kind of confusing. It was between the environmental message and the the power of one. And it kind of seemed the movie was making a decision between whether of the two go with. And finally what was with having the collector make that statement toward as if we were going to see him again. Well that it for this week. See ya! "}{"Title":"Pokemon 2000 is proof that critics aren't always right.","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon 2000 is the second installment in the Pokemon film series, and is very probably the best. The writing, storyline, and animation are all markedly improved from The First Movie, and it really does feel like a cinematic experience. The only thing wrong with it at all is that the Pikachu short film seemed like an excuse to show off some new Pokemon, without having much of a real reason (it's still good, though). Now, if you haven't read countless summaries already, here's the plot in a nutshell...Wiiiieeeerd stuff is happening all over the world. Climates and temperatures are changing at an alarmingly rapid pace, sometimes going from summer heat to snow in under a minute! The cause of this is a Pokemon collector who is trying to capture the four elemental Pokemon Zapdos, Articuno, Motres, and ultimately Lugia. His wicked misdeeds are causing nature to go completely out of whack, and it's up to Ash, Misty, Tracey, and Pikachu to find the Elephant In The Room and set things right again.Even from a summary, it's apparent that Pokemon 2000 is more than an extended episode of the show. In fact, even without the short, it's still easily feature length, and that's more than can be said for The First Movie (which had a runtime of 74 minutes). It may not be an edge-of-your-seat, unpredictable story in the vein of Inception, but it's a satisfying and entertaining one. This is helped along by the dialogue, which is some of the sharpest I've yet seen in Pokemon. There are many memorable bits in here, not few of which involve Team Rocket.In conclusion, I recommend watching it, even if you're not a die-hard fan of the series. Unless Pokemon Heroes knocks my socks off, I think it's safe to say that 2000 is the best of the bunch. (Oh, and before I finish this review, I want to whine about something. Once again, there is either no widescreen version available on video, or it's very hard to find. Boo, Warner Bros, BOO.) "},{"Title":"My two cents","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a rehash of my comments on Gekijô-ban poketto monsutaa Maboroshi no pokemon Rugia bakutan.  I think they are more appropriate here.Many of those who claim to hate this movie openly admit to hating Pokemon to begin with. As I had said in my comments on Pokemon The First Movie, you have to go in to the movie with an open mind. If you go see Pokemon 2000 because you were dragged in by your kids/nieces/nephews/others, you've already decided that you're going to hate it. I'm not saying that you WILL hate it; just that you've DECIDED that you're going to hate it no matter what, just because it's Pokemon. Current Pokemon fans (like me, and I'm over 30!) or more open-minded moviegoers will probably like Pokemon 2000.I was glad that Kids WB decided to go with a more theatrical score for Pokemon 2000. Although I would have preferred that more of the Japanese music would have been left in, I think that the orchestral music was more fitting than the bubblegum pop that permeated Pokemon The Movie.Like most people, I liked Pokemon 2000 more than Pokemon The First Movie, probably because of the overall brighter feel. I personally loved the first U.S. appearance of one of my favorite new Pokemon, the flowery Bellossom. There are points of the movie that I felt could have been expanded on, but overall, Pokemon 2000 is a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Fans of Pokemon will enjoy this - others will be puzzled","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found both the short feature and the long feature to be enjoyable - but then, I've been a fan from the first appearance of Pokemon in the US. People without any understanding of the background will likely not enjoy this much.  However, most younger viewers seem to enjoy it.The plots could be significantly better, as could the art. But, for the Pokemon fan, this is about as good as it can get - the big screen is great for seeing one's favorite hero... "},{"Title":"Well-animated, Funny, and Action-Packed; A real delight!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Here's a truly delightful film. The animation is great, the characters are developed a bit beyond their cartoon personas, and the story fits the spirit of the show one-hundred percent.The short Pikachu's Rescue Adventure, despite a very small amount of lower-quality animation, at times showed the true potential of what an animated short can be! The musical number involving a large group of Pokémon was visually stunning, but would have left a greater impression if the original music from the Japanese version of the film had been left in place, as the tune inserted was average, if not boring. It still couldn't ruin the scene altogether, however.The movie itself was filled with animation which shouldn't let down fans of anime. Many point to Pokémon as an example of choppy, low quality animation, but I cannot see where these comments come from. The animation in this movie is smooth and colorful, and at times, there's so much happening on-screen that you could miss a funny incident happening aside from the main theme of a scene.The characters go through several experiences which could lead to them being redefined a bit in the TV series. Team Rocket has a larger role in this film than in Pokémon The First Movie, which I'm sure will delight many Team Rocket fans. The major villain in this film, by not being incredibly evil but by being so single-mindedly greedy, wanting one thing without any concern for the consequences, his character shows that good and bad isn't always so clear cut. The characters, despite their simple appearances, are quite complex when you take a closer look.The soundtrack to the movie may not seem so remarkable, but the Weird Al Yankovic song Polkamon is refreshing and the instrumental score stands out as above-average.The film stands as an entertaining addition to the Pokémon universe. It dares to be original, and though many people automatically detest it because it's popular, it stands to help popularize Japanese animation in the U.S. so that it and movies like it won't simply be pushed aside as kid stuff. "},{"Title":"If you liked the first one, you'll also like this one","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Onto movie two of the Pokemon marathon! If you need backstory, read my review of the first movie.The Good Might be a little odd to mention, since I didn't mention it in the first movie, but I liked the soundtrack pretty decently. However this should go without saying for that one.We also get to see the series' main antagonists, which in nearly all the movies are pushed aside to PURE humor, show their good side in this movie to the point where they actually help the Protagonist multiple times in a selfless way. This leads to a nice little scene at the end where the pokemon Slowking breaks the fourth wall a little bit.The Bad The antagonist wasn't explained that well and wasn't that intimidating. This is a theme that seems to happen after the first movie, which did so very well with the antagonist. I can't remember the guy's name (He was that forgettable) but as with all Human antagonists in Pokemon he relies heavily on technology to deal with his evil deeds. His plane, ship, thing was the only thing making him a threat. What happens to it? Lugia, a Water-Psycic Legendary Bird, takes the whatever it was down in one Hyper Beam.The Ugly Once again nothing bad enough to be ugly. Maybe to add detail what classifies as ugly is something that gets repetitive or a character is actually annoying.So overall this is another must watch for Pokemon fans of all ages! "},{"Title":"One can make a difference","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Before people complain about morals, have you ever seen the Lion King? Have you ever seen Lilo and Stitch? Have you ever seen Finding Nemo? All these films have morals given to their viewers. Pokemon may not seem as grand as these Disney and Pixar films, but the idea is similar.I admit, some aspects of the movie may seem strange (The Pokemon collector wanting to collect Lugia, Moltres, Articuno, and Zapdos because of a Pokemon card of Mew.) Let me ask, who doesn't do crazy things when they become a fanatic about something? When has an extreme baseball fan not collect the cards, the jerseys, the picture frames, and the autographs, and attend the home and away games?That just one Pokemon can help the world would be worth the journey for thousands of them any day. - Lugia.Still, for an English version of the same movie. The film is still great in it's own terms. It teaches children that they themselves can make a difference even if it may seem small. It is in direct contrast to believing that one person can't change anything.Of the subtle morals being taught, protecting the environment and its inhabitants is one of them. Disturb not the harmony of fire, ice, and lightning lest these three Titans wreck destruction upon the world in which they clash. It is probably harder to decipher for a child, but through the experience they see from this movie, everything is brought into chaos for disturbing the balance. They see the consequences of one's actions. They see the consequences of one's spoiled actions (the Pokemon Collector trying to take the 4 Pokemons to claim as his own even if it meant the destruction of Earth.)It may not seem great to many people's eyes, but I would let kids watch this film any day of the week over other films and T.V. shows. "},{"Title":"I really don't understand the poor ratings here...","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Honestly I just don't get it. Look I am 18 years old now and Pokemon was a major part of my childhood since I grew up during the Pokemon craze. I'd remember when I would always watch the anime everyday. Now onto my point, I understand that Pokemon the Movie 2000 is not a masterpiece by mainstream standards but I think that to give it a 4.4 out of 10 is just too harsh. Because when you think about it, Pokemon movies are more serious (and at times more dramatic) compared to the series, and I especially feel that Pokemon the Movie 2000 is one of the most epic Pokemon movies I have ever watched so far, especially the scene where Lugia fought the three legendary Birds of the Kanto region.So overall, this movie is not as bad as it was made out to be in here, and although it has its flaws, I highly recommend this movie for all Pokemon fans. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones and the Beast of the Sea","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A great animation with adventurous spirit and great stunts that keep your eyes focused on the TV. Some of the stunts were somehow Indiana Jones-ish (Warning! Spoilers!) - like the scene where Ash and his friends (and enemies) escape from the bad guy's collapsing lair, Ash and Team Rocket slaloming to the island of the Ice Sphere, but what impressed me most was the aerial battle between Ash, Lugia and the Three Giants. There are also some dramatic moments Mrs. Ketchum's resolution to go and save Ash, Ash accepting his fate to save the world as the Chosen One, the mother-and-son-reunion scene at the end of the movie and of course, the romantic elements like the moment where Misty tells Melody that no matter where he goes, Ash always has her and after that goes to save Ash from the raging sea and help him prevent Armageddon. The romantic side of the story is really emphasized in the scene where Misty is trying to wake Ash up - this shows that she really cares about him. I think that Ash and Misty really love each other, though they are always denying it. In this movie Ash once again proves himself to the world, by showing us what he truly is - a hero. He is brave, selfless, always ready to help others in need and cares very much for his friends, who are always by his side, giving him strength. This particular movie really brings out the heroic side of Ash and that's what makes it so great. I was a bit disappointed that the writers didn't put a scene where Ash and Misty kiss at the end, but overall it was a fun movie, action-packed, adventurous and very humane. I rate it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pokemon is so under rated!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To put it simply, this movie is really good! Pokemon is so under rated, and always thought of as stupid by so many people. Why? cause it's projected towards kids, but these movies and cartoons are really good, and alot more complicated than meets the eye. that's one thing i love about em. Pokemon 2000 just proves that.The animation of this movie is really cool, it's like the shows, but they're improved at the same time. A big step above the first pokemon movie I think. The plot is definately alot more in depth too.  The disappointing thing about the first movie, is that mew and mewtwo fought, but it wasnt a battle we were expecting, so the action wasnt exactly what we hoped for. However in pokemon 2000, that's one thing i love, the action and adventure is great! Team Rocket and Ash even come to team up to help save the world which is a nice idea put in there. Seeing team rocket always doing the same thing does get a little redundant. My favorite part in the movie is when ash has to get across the ice with lugia protecting him to get the last sphere. I thought that whole scene was well made, and was just awesome to watch. The score of the movie makes it really good too. Very catchy, and intense score I think. No one would ever say that a pokemon movie is oscar worthy, but when it comes to just being enjoyable, and fun, pokemon 2000 is definately up there. I would hope that pokemon never died down if they kept delivering movies, and shows like this.The whole misty hiding back her feelings about ash thing is kinda cute in the movie, it always make me wonder if they'll ever have a thing or not. heh anyway, this movie gets an 10/10, no matter what i think.  I still have to see pokemon 3, i look forward to it though. Look more forward to Pokemon 4, i only hope that it is released in theaters. "},{"Title":"Da Best... so far.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, so it may not win the best movie of any year. But its still a great film in its own right. Don't dimiss it just because it's Pokemon. Look beneath the hype and what you get is a good, solid movie. Remember, although the fad is dying out, all it does it unveil the hidden glories within. What I'm trying to say is that some thing are better off without the fad. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised upon seeing this movie.  I expected a sparse plot like the TV series has.  What I found was a good plot and fun story with character development during the course of the movie.  Everyone learned some positive values that my sons wish to emulate.  Especially the respect and caring for others and for nature was particularly refreshing.  Some of the characters showed profound growth in those areas in spite of themselves. This movie was simple enough for my 3 year old to grasp.  He finally stopped pulling the cat's tail after seeing the movie only once.  Now she comes up to him and even invites him to pet her.  She no longer runs at the first sight of him. It is also entertaining for my 13 year old.  He is really into Pokemon and enjoyed the movie just because of the characters.  There are a number of in-jokes that he really got into and that I could enjoy as well.  We were able to talk about how people relate to one another in good and bad ways and how it affects their lives after viewing the movie. It is refreshing to find new children's movies that have a moral feel to them rather than just action and violence. "},{"Title":"Better Than The 1st!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought the P2000 was a lot better. It made more sense. I mean the first was kind of far fetched. That whole thing with Ash being turned into stone. What was that about?! Someone before mentioned about how they were waiting for Misty to say something about her bike. I was waiting for that too..(LOL). I think Ash and Misty have some kind of chemistry between them. I wonder what will happen in the next one..... "},{"Title":"Decent, well-structured film.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon is a fun franchise, no matter how you look at it. The entire thing, all the games, the cards, everything, is essentially about having a good time. Sure, some of it is executives milking little kids, but at least there's a product on the other end.This movie follows the other Pokemon stuff. There's the feeling of trying to ride the Pokemon name running through it, but it's not strong enough to take away from the experience. The story is actually pretty well thought-out, more so than the first movie (Pokemon Mewtwo Strikes Back). The introduction of several new Pokemon, as well as the elaboration of some of the original 151, help to keep it interesting. The way it fits with the plot of the animated TV show lifts it up a bit for those who are familiar with the show. The animation, the voice acting, and the soundtrack are all well done, and the fact that they left the god-awful pop music out of the main feature got a sigh of relief from me.It's not without its weak points. Being familiar with the plot of the TV show *really* helps. The movie assumes at the outset that the viewer knows who the main characters are, how they are related to each other, and some of the events that they've been through in the past. It also leaves out some little bits of information that can be filled in easily if you know the show, but will probably leave you asking questions if you don't. The climax seems to drag a little bit, even though it's full of action. The ending is also a little drawn-out, but these points aren't anything that will ruin the movie.If you have a young child, or are yourself a young child, or a Pokemon enthusiast, or just curious about the whole thing, it's probably a good idea to see this movie. However, if you don't like Pokemon, this movie won't change your mind. If you like seeing little monsters zapping each other and hearing thinly-veiled, albeit good natured, moral messages, or just want a break from the romantic comedies that endlessly proliferate in the movie rental stores, this movie will be pretty entertaining. If you like romantic comedy, or just don't like the Pokemon, then stay away from it. "},{"Title":"A Pokemon Movie. What else is new?","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well to start with there is too much love involved...  I don't want to spoil it, but Misty and Ash are involved in some love stuff.  Somethings more suitable to a teenager compared to their ages (the pre-teens).Second the Animation. is quite subpar with some stuff coming out, but my biggest problem is that they inconsistantly use 3d Animations...   I say, use them or don't but to use them in 2 scenes really, and then pretend that it is not there is just a travesty.The villian is horrible, and makes no sense at all.  They just don't explore him... and I know it is a Childs movie, but the person isn't even really villanized. The music is normal except for some music that sounded a bit too much like Legend of Zelda's Ocarina music, for my taste. (At least come up with new instrements, don't steal a new idea. Also there is Weird Al's Song Polkamon   A superb Song (only if you like Weird al of course)  But to surmise the film, it is like the first, and it is different but the same...   If you hated the first forget it.  if you disliked the first, you might hate it.  If you like the first, you might like this one, but you also might hate it.  And if you loved this one.. you will at the least like this one.  But Personally I liked the first a lot (a little too much I think)  but I did not feel that happier after watching this one, to me it was disappointing (but others might still like it)I say try it if you want, but don't blame me if you hate it. "},{"Title":"For the kids","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think kids will probably like this sequel to the first Pokemon movie, but not love it.  I certaintly didn't.  And not to offend any kids reading this, but this was a pretty stupid movie.  Not funny stupid like Dumb and Dumber, but really stupid like in Ski Patrol.  True it is a well animated movie that is pretty colorful (thanks to the art of anime), but there is no payoff.  The plot is a concocted one that kids might even find confusing, which is not good.  But, it isn't in the worst film of the year category because of a few good scenes (and that the first short before the movie will make the dialogue seem like Shakespeare), not that that means this is worth a second viewing.  Kids will like it, others might beware it.  C+ "},{"Title":"pokemon boredom","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I recently watched this again and there's another version which is shorter 1999. I get the feeling they are the same movie but I would like to know the difference.One is Japanese and no pikachu short is all I can come up with. Ohtherwise why vote for the same movie twice?? Prof Ivy was rather boring. She sounded as if she was almost asleep, no expression at all with the few lines she had.This was enjoyable enough but there wasn't much to it at all. A collector (whos after Lugia, he has no plan to destroy the world) and the usual characters who try to stop him because trying to capture Lugia causes a lot of destruction.The pokemon movies that follow are slightly better, deoxys (poke 7) is great, with no. 8 almost here. "},{"Title":"Anyone who doesn't like this movie is a FOOL!","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I can not believe how many people hate Pokemon! I mean, I don't watch it much anymore, but I almost always watch when it's a new episode! I will remain true to Pokemon always, no matter how annoyed and angry I get about too many reruns and not enough new episodes! I was reallyangry and sad when Togetic (Togepi evolved!!!!!o ) left Misty forever, and even more so when Misty left the show AGAIN!!!!!!*>( Anyway, I'm raving about the show when I should be raving about the movie! This is most definitely the best Pokemon movie so far, although all of them are good. Lugia is cool! And we finally get a good look at Articuno,Moltres,and Zapdos! THAT'S SO COOL! D Oh, and to the person that said if you like Pokemon that you suck, well, he's wrong. It's not that we fans suck, it's that idiots like him SUCK! Thank you for reading my review, Ja-Ne! "},{"Title":"This is a sad time for Pokemon fans","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I figured that it's about time I let this one out.  Pokémon fans are suffering in America these days.  Why?  Because we rely on Kids WB and 4Kids Entertainment to provide us with our beloved series and movies.  As far as the series goes, they do a pretty good job in bringing the fun and magic of the Japanese versions to television.  So what is their problem when it comes to the movies?  Honestly now, I have seen all three Pokémon movies in Japanese and I will definitely be seeing the fourth one.  They are excellent movies.  They are all enjoyable and fun to watch.  And, after seeing Pokémon 2000 in theaters, I can't help but wonder how these American producers read the Japanese scripts.  The way it appears, it seems that they read and see something that says `Insert empty moral here' in big bold faced letters.  It definitely appears that way as they used the same wonderful dubbing methods they used on MSB (extreme sarcasm there) and created this crap.*possible spoilers from here on*Well, I guess I should first talk about Pikachu's Rescue Adventure.  My first gripe with this came with no narration.  I guess they got enough bad comments on the Pokédex narration that plagued Pikachu's Vacation, and, instead of going with a caring, gentle woman's voice as appeared in Pikachu no Natsu Yasumi and Pikachu Tankentai, they just cut the narration all together.  This wouldn't have been a problem, except for one thing.  Did anyone really understand why the Exeggcute didn't let Togepi go until the end?  Possibly the fans, but I'm sure not the parents.  Then, there's the theme song.  I couldn't help but roll my eyes at this one.  The Japanese theme song was `Tankentai wo Tsukurou' and was sung by Japanese children.  It was fun and enjoyable.  This one nauseating.  Now, one of my favorite parts of the short was the dancing Kireihana.  Nice music, fun to watch.  That's changed with the Bellossom.  The music sucked for one, but on top of that, they had all the Pokémon talk during the music, which turned out to be jumpy, annoying, and just unnecessary.  Oh, and then there's the Poliwhirl who thinks he's a Poliwrath.  You'd think that guys that work with these characters constantly would at least learn what they are.  Basically, not much could save this little ill fated dub, which is very unfortunate considering its potential.  But, I haven't touched on the worst of it yet.You'd think that the warning signs would've been apparent to me when I received my issue of Nintendo Power.  For some unfathomable reason, I had been placing some faith in 4Kids and the WB.  My thoughts were `well, they screwed up on the first movie, but the second is different as far as the theme goes, so they should do well.'  That in mind, I just didn't pay attention to the warning signs I encountered in the theaters when the trailers said, `You will believe that one person can make all the difference.'  With the way they said that at every turn, I was hoping that this would not turn into a moral fest like MSB did at the end of the English version.  Then comes Nintendo Power, in which I see all my fears realized in the words `the main feature 'The Power of One.'  At that point, I became a bit more uneasy.  `The Power of One?!'  Not a good sign.  However, I still kept some of my false faith.  Big mistake.Sitting in the theater, I was literally getting stomach cramps watching another movie which I loved in Japanese being turned into complete and utter junk.  I hear comments that say it was better because the moral was more subtle.  I can see a point in that since they didn't pander this thing, repeating it over and over like in MSB.  However, it did more damage than anything else in this movie.  First of all, the legend that was read throughout was changed a bit to read `the world turns to Ash.'  Ah hah.  So, Ash is the chosen one?  Whatever.  In the Japanese version, the inhabitants of Arshia needed a Pokémon trainer to carry out their traditional ceremony.  This time, he's the chosen one.  A greater way that this did damage was to Lugia.  Lugia was one of the coolest characters in a Pokémon movie.... when the movie was ABOUT Lugia.  In this one, Lugia is forced to take a back seat to Ash.  In the scene where they're flying back to the main island, Lugia and Ash are discussing the conditions of Lugia's existence, not that Ash is going to make all the difference.  Overall in this category, Ash wasn't really the `one person' that would make the difference, since he was helped by many along the way.A lot of the other stuff is kind of nit picking.  Furura's flute song wasn't nearly as sweet and enjoyable as the Japanese one.  Jirarudan's speech to them saying his collection `started with a Mew card?'  Ugh.  Even worse, Misty's outrage originally concerned the way Moltres and Zapdos were being held.  `Why didn't you put them in Pokéballs when you caught them?  This is like caging them to be displayed.'  Much different from whining about him thinking Pokémon are things to be collected like stamps.  If there were any real redeeming values in this, they came from Team Rocket.  Some pretty funny lines.  Not really to make me laugh out loud, but more to make me giggle and slightly ease the pains in my stomach.  Well, that was officially the last American Pokémon movie I'm going to see.  I've imported the third one and find it very enjoyable.  I would rather not see another Japanese movie be ruined in the same fashion as the first two.  I'll be importing the fourth one as well.  Forget you, Kids WB and 4Kids.  You have forsaken me for the last time. "},{"Title":"So Deep","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is the best Pokemon movie ever, with my favourite Pokemon Lugia... maybe for me, this movie was much more touching to my heart because it helped me get out of a sort of minor depression, the movie and Pokemon Silver the game... I since then have now lost my Pokemon Silver game cartridge and I feel really bad about it because it was rooted in my heart. I loved the movie and the prophecy, i want to get the DVD but i cannot bear to buy another Pokemon Silver Game cartridge because of the pain i feel inside. In short, this movie is motivating and it includes team rocket's comical relief. The Musical score in accordance to the movie is very good, especially the shell song that which Melody plays. It is interesting to see the generation one (red/blue/yellow) of Pokémon mixed in with the third generation (gold/silver/crystal) "},{"Title":"A Colorful and Thrilling Spectacle that Outdoes the First Film","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" NOTE I AM EVALUATING POKEMON MOVIES AS POKEMON MOVIES, NOT AS REAL MOVIES.The second Pokémon movie is an improvement over the first film in just about every department. It has better animation, better pacing, and everything was generally on a bigger scale.The story sees Ash and the gang crash on an island, finding out that Ash is the chosen one to save the world. The basic message that one person can make a difference. It's a little clichéd, but done quite well.Lawrence III is a competent villain, even though he is never mentioned by name for some reason. His flying hovercraft was pretty cool. Lugia and the three legendary birds Articuno, Moltres, and Zapdos were all awesome. Some of the best legendary Pokémon for sure.The film is epic in scope and full of exciting set pieces. The final 30 minutes are full of excitement and mayhem. The song that played when the day was saved was beautiful.A great Pokémon movie. Definitely better than the first movie, and a must-see for fans of the show.8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Ushering in the Millennium With Animated Crap.","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon 2000 (1999) Dir Michael Haigney, Kunihiko Yuyama / Voices Veronica Taylor, Rachael Lillis, Eric Stuart, Madeleine Blaustein, Ikue Otani What are children to gain from creatures that spout nonsense and gibberish. One line of dialogue is brilliant. I can sense somewhere, something is wrong. The answer is on the movie screen showcasing this geek show. The human characters are terribly animated while their Pokemon companions sound like excessive farting. To understand Pokemon gibberish one only has to observe a couple alcoholics after happy hour. Children are expose to a language that isn't even taught in any high school language class. Watching a Pokemon movie is about as exciting as having your spleen removed with a dinner knife. Children plug into this junk for hours and learn absolutely frig all nothing because it all seems to market candy coated kiddie violence. Ikue Otani has the unfortunate task of going through life knowing that he provided the noise of Pikachu, one of the most annoying of cartoon creations. Directed by Michael Haigney and Kunihiko Yuyama, each hoping that the other will take the blame. The animation is flat and unappealing. Children in kindergarten can do better using macaroni and pop-sickle sticks and a bag of confetti for good measure. This is absolute junk that should be put in a toaster so it can look as fried as the brains viewing it. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"I get what they are trying to do but I don't like it.","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" With all the endearing Pokémon in this animated feature and highly successful television anime series, it's no wonder that this animated feature is a box office success grossing over USD 133 million worldwide. But rewatching it again in 2014, I can't help to slightly feel upset.The Power of One (1999) is visually beautiful and much lighthearted when compared to its predecessor Mewtwo Strikes Back (1998). However, in terms of storyline, it is worst. The concept of the film is great but its ending and dubbing edits almost destroyed the whole thing. I must confess, I don't like the ending story. There are scenes that are fun to watch but the prophecy which initially radiates mystery; exactly becomes one of the dumbest thing I have ever heard on screen. Although it is expected that the whole Pokémon anime series and movie is Ash-centred, it is still super shocking alright, especially when the legendary Pokémon fate if not whole world seems to be dependent on him as well.So, it's sad to conclude The Power of One (1999) as a letdown! Love the fictional disaster, love Lugia's song and voice or cry, love all the adorable Pokémon, love all the majestic legendary Pokémon, love the short film which is the most memorable part of this whole animated feature for me (I may have seen it probably nearly a hundred times as a child) but my gosh, I get what they are trying to do but I don't like it. Love the Pokémon but maybe not the story. ( "},{"Title":"Pokémon The Movie 2000 (1999)","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A bit more of extra action packed Pokemonness. Unlike the latest Star Trek film, the Pokemon films are not geared towards converting new fans. The episodes slip into the television series and make little sense unless you are familiar with Pokemon. Here we find a Pokemon collector, out to capture the legendary bird Pokemon. The plot survives for at least half the run time, but is soon an extended battle between the birds. It's fun and still limits the number of second generation Pokemon. There are a few nice touches, a couple of well timed jokes, and some heavy handed preaching about the environment, which is an odd thing for a franchise about animal fights. "},{"Title":"Pokemon 2 - a good movie","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon 2 The Power of One is one of the movies that I most liked when i was young. I confess, years ago I was completely a pokefan but even now i can recognize that this movie have a lot to offer. Since the amazing soundtrack - Lugia song is really awesome, one of the best songs I have ever listen in an animated movie - the story, the characters, the pokemons and all the good vibes that the ending makes to the watcher, I can say that this is a very fun and good movie. You should watch it, at least once. If you were a fan of pokemons you will love it, if you weren t, you will love it too. And yes, this movie is a way lot better than Pokémon Mewto strikes back, the first one. "},{"Title":"Visual delight","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, now we change the subject. You can watch this movie and enjoy it even if you are not a poke-fan of those who dress as Pikachu and goes with a Game Boy saying Hey, I am a Pokémon master. You can be a regular guy of the audience, watch this movie, and have a opinion not based in the Pokémon thing. Is not a masterpiece, but compared with the first one, is the best Pokémon movie ever made. I have to admit that the plot is not bad at all, well, it has a little bit religious and magic-cheese background, but it has also a good message inside it. The bad guy of the movie is one of those who dresses as a Pikachu, or at least as an idiot-40-something old guy, and collects stupid silly things just to do nothing, only to say I got this or that. The poke-fans are like that. So this movie shows regular people (Ash a silly regular boy upgraded by the events) fighting against the zombies made by Nintendo and Warner Bros. The ecology background is another different stuff, so I am not going to say Hey, the planet is going to hell because of our fault. That's not the subject of the movie. What's the subject? Easy. Nintendo made a lot of zombies and now needs somebody to fight them. The visual part of the movie is great also, well, the CGI Pokémon are taken from Pokemon Stadium, but the vision of those skies full of birds with snow (another silly thing, ha ha)and twisters and water tentacles (does James Cameron know that they used his Abyss serpent for the end?) makes you go Interesting...very interesting. A new world presented to us into this movie. A good advice ENJOY IT. "},{"Title":"Don't confuse the dubbed with the original","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The original Japanese version is actually quite good, as is the voice acting (well beyond the dub).  Plus, like most anime, it isn't directly generated for children, as it does contain some more mature themes.All of these negative comments are generated towards the dubbed movie. The dubbed has its own page.  Notice how all of the voice actors are Japanese? This page is for the Japanese review, which happens to be 10 times better. So please, don't harshly criticize a movie you haven't seen.  "},{"Title":"Disturb this film, it's great!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought that this movie was great because of the musical soundtrack, and the power that this movie gave. I'm talking about Poketto monsutaa Maboroshi no Pokemon X Lugia bakudan the original! I thought that Flula was a great character, and this film made me like Yadoking, Freezer, Thunder, Fire, and Lugia even better than before. I think this is a must see!   "},{"Title":"First Mewtwo tried to destroy the world... Now the legendary birds are battling it out to claim it their own.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *Minor Spoilers*While sequels tend to scour the success of the first, there are 2 reasons why this one doesn't. 1 - The story is better, the graphics are improved and the beginning short is much cooler; and 2 - the first movies was really only a long episode of the TV series, but this one seems to be more cinematic.I saw the first one at the theaters, and to my surprise, it wasn't very good (I was only 12). I didn't bother seeing this at the movies, but I've seen both now, and know that this, the sequel is a lot better than the first (Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back).As I said before, the graphics are improved a lot more, making it half-animation, half-computer-animation, with a much better storyline - this time about the 4 legendary birds (Zapdos, Moltres, Articuno and Lugia).Like the first one, it's up to Ash Ketchum (a Pallet Town native) to save the world, while Misty and Tracey stand back and look. But this time, there's a crop of previously unknown Pokémon to see (ie. Bellossom, Slowking, Elekid, Lugia and Hoot-Hoot).And, also like the first one, he does succeed in saving the world from destruction by these powerful birds. It's a 'Better than the first, can't wait for the third' scenario for me! 8/10. "},{"Title":"Better than the 1st","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having taken our daughter to see the first movie, I started to really enjoy the whole Pokemon phenomenan.  So when we went to see Pokemon 2000, I was really looking forward to see the new Pokemon characters.  The film did not fail to satisfy a Poke-fanatic.  The storyline was more complex this time giving more depth.  The graphics were better than the original movie, and the one liners were slightly more adult than in the first movie.  If you aren't a Pokemon fan forget it as there has been too much happen in the series, to just fall in and understand.I have read a few comments from other reviewers and note that they are taking children as young as four to see the movies.  Pokemon has grown up a lot from it started, and I'm not surprised their children did not enjoy parts of the film as the age range for Pokemon even in the books is and always has been aimed at children over eight.Can't wait for no 3. Oh and for those who do not like Pickachu.... How could you.  No I am not some disgruntled teenager, I am 30. "},{"Title":"Still not better than the series but better than Digimon the Movie","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There's something about going to the big screen that signals to the writers, producers, etc. that there shall be no levity when it comes to Pokemon.  Granted that the tv series has its high comedy/lo comedy moments, but the film series seems to focus more on drama.  And it seems to skew more towards boys.  That said, Pokemon 2000 (which is actually Pokemon 1999 as Pokemon 2000 in Japan is a different movie--the movie slated for release in April 2001 here most likely) is a perfectly fine piece of kid's fare.  No Iron Giant but its better than any of those other Warner animation theatrical releases (Batman Beyond The Joker Returns, being a straight to video item).  Plus, this time, others (principally, Misty and Team Rocket) have things to do!  (In the first movie, those characters were just window dressing.)  Brock is missed here--he would have had something to say about Misty's protestations regarding Ash.  All in all, it is a good, not great, film.  Better than Miss Congeniality.    "}{"Title":"Somewhat better then the first","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, it was totally missing the one comic thing that the first one had, and that was Brock. We have a need for Brock to state the obvious. Second, Team Rocket gone...GOOD?! Unusual but would never really happen, but hey, that added to the comical things that where missing. Third, I couldn't wait for Misty to bring up her bike again, it's what I thrive on(I'm easily amused). And some of us may know that they(The guys that dubbed the movie) where going to put a line in the first one where she said something about her bike. Fourth, it was slightly predictable. With the whole legend thing, I got it before my little cousin(Who happens to be a Poke-fanatic) did. And that's pretty sad, but being an 18 year old watching Americanized Japanese anime is kinda sad too. But I'll live. And finally, the story line was so much better. I couldn't stop the movie to get my food cause I was too into it. But I'm sure everyone is wondering the same thing as I...When will Ash and Misty get together!? "},{"Title":"Great Fun, but only for fans. Stupid Title!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you don't like Pokémon, you won't like this movie. But for the diehard fans, this movie will almost certainly be enjoyable. The movie is rather epic and dramatic, but moves a bit too fast. The main plot is just jumped into, and could have used a bit more introduction, but it was still good. The movie seemed to have that something special about it- dramatic purpose, humour, Brock. It just seemed. majestic, in a way. In this movie, they actually try to develop the characters a little bit more- except for Tracey, who remains as two dimensional as ever, and seems to have very few lines in the movie. The New Pokémon are good to see too, and Lugia is very pleasing to the eye. If Pokémon is your thing, then you should like this movie. If you don't like Pokémon, this movie isn't going to change you "},{"Title":"The cute factor is dwindling but enjoyable nonetheless.","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    I went into this movie a few weeks after it came out, to avoid the crowds.  Pokémon seems to be starting to lose popularity, mainly due to the series being in re runs because as I write this review, there haven't been any new ones translated since Charizard Chills.  Plus, there are only so many things Pikachu can do that you can say Awww at.  I have to admit, however, that the Bellossom is quite cute in Pikachu's Rescue Adventure... and Electakid (or whatever that unevolved form of Electabuzz is) is an interesting new character.  Also, there is some character development here... you finally discover the long standing mystery of Chansey... and it makes sense.  You'll see what I mean.  On to The Power of One.  I like how the story played out.  I like the hint of jealousy (Ash being unaware of it as usual)... but there are a few scenes that seem to only have been thought up to evoke tears... in the first film, the actual tear jerking scene fit into the story line... but the ones in this film come off a bit corny.  Also, some genuine laughs... a couple of good chuckles from Meowth and more all around.  The villain... he isn't completely useless, though you would think he would be just a tad more upset... very calm and confident, but not useless.  I won't say I liked this one more, or less than the first one... I just hope this isn't the last new thing I see of Pokémon.  Hopefully they will release some newly translated episodes in the fall.  Keeping my fingers crossed.  "},{"Title":"Better than the first Pokemon","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The main film of the Pokemon 2000 duet is a significant improvement on the first -- as animation, as plot and with some knowing bows to the fighting style of the king of Japanese 'mons, Godzilla. Compared with Rocky & Bullwinkle, this is MacBeth. "},{"Title":"Saw the ENGLISH VERSION, Pokemon 2000, opening day.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to say that this was not *too* bad... I give it a 75% overall, perhaps a bit high.  However, it *did* have some problems..First of all, we tackle Pikachu's Rescue Adventures (which sounds like a GREAT title for a spinoff show. Rescue Rangers, anyone?) Anyway.. well.. I found the story to be very simple (good)  but ..well...  boring (bad). This short has a lot of questions to be answered, but never will be, in the same sense that.. say.. watching Scooby Doo will also make you go huh, well, why are they....?  Why would someone do that..? How is that possible? Oh never mind! The same with the Pokemon short.   I mean, overall, it was cute - no doubt - but I thought Pikachu's Vacation was at least amusing. The only laughs I got from this was from making snide side-comments. Sorry -)   I would give this, as a standalone grade... 40%   The animation was only of video-release quality.. with some rather crappy moving cel effects that had little-to-no animation on them at all.OK, now we have The Power Of One movie. Animation This was OK.. It's not the best anime you've ever seen - heck, the first episode of Tenchi Muyo on Cartoon Network was better animated, and that was only released on straight-to-video... never as a movie. But, there were times where it had that typical anime action that I love so much. The 3D CGI animation was very nice, and the blending of 2D cel with 3D backgrounds was pretty good - it was effective. I liked the 3D CGI versions of the 3 Legendary Birds for the scanner readout. You'd think that they could get a much higher budget for this cartoon, since it's made everyone involved sooo much money.. but.. oh well  shrugs shoulders Greed rules... and if you can get away with OAV-quality animation and still make 60 million.. hey... Nintendo's not complaining.Characters They had something going with Misty's jealousy over Ash.. but they didn't do anything about it. Ash nearly drowns..  we ALL expected her to give him mouth-to-mouth... but... alas. I suppose they thought it would have been a bad idea to show what amounts to a 10-year-old and a 14-year-old kissing. The evil dood, Lawrence III, is a nicely Neutral character.. he's sorta evil.. but not malevolenty so.. although he IS willing to let the whole world go to pot just so he can have a perfect collection of Pokemon. I liked this self-incrimination part of the story.  However, Lawrence III is completely WASTED as a plot device... and as such the movie scores low. Overall, he was a COMPLETELY USELESS character, that could have been replaced with another plot concerning itself with a natural disaster or suchlike - and would have resulted in perhaps a more Indiana Jones-type movie of exploration to try to save the world.Story Well... it was good... but it felt like I was watching two movies. One movie was about Lawrence III wanting to capture all the Legendary Birds to flush the Marine King out, and being thwarted by Ash and Friends... and the other movie was about Ash and Friends trying to save the world due to impending ecological meltdown, because the 3 Legendary Birds are fighting each other. Save for a scene where Lawrence III tries to capture Lugia, and a scene where he picks up the Ancient Mew card and vows to start all over... he is missing from the second part of the movie. Isn't he at least a bit p***ed at Ash for sinking his floating city? How about trying to stop Ash from spoiling his plans? No.. he just disappears from being an important antagonist.As I said before, the movie's main problem is that Lawrence III is a completely useless character. If you're gonna have a collector villain that's even more uncaring about pokemon's feelings, or ecological protection than Giovanni, then USE HIM. Have the battles not only for the 3 Birds, but for the 3 Gems too. Wouldn't a collector like to have the raw power of the birds themselves? Why are you going to let a boy ruin your plans?Also, the climax of the movie seemed to be an anticlimax. The sinking of the ship was nice.. as was the race to Ice Island and back...  but after that - feh.  It wasn't as surprising as in the fight with MewTwo, when Ash gets killed - At least surprise us with a kiss from Misty to Ash, maybe. I suppose the jealousy angle was a good surprise - too bad they didn't play it more.I dunno - if the story had been more unified... rather than being two storylines in one... I think I would have enjoyed it more.Still, I give it a generous 75%. I'm sure other people may wonder why it's so high... well, I *did* enjoy myself. Even at $9 a ticket, I thought it was alright. I didn't go in expecting anything but Pokemon... and so I got what I wanted.  "},{"Title":"Best Animated Movie ever!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The best part about Pokemon The Movie 2000 was the new pokemon! I also loved the Bellosom dance in Pikachu's Rescue adventure! The Power of one was a great movie, great action, new pokemon, great story, and Lugia. The power of one is the one best movie! "},{"Title":"The power of one word Terrific.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  All right, Movie critics wouldn't know a good show if it bit them on the nose, so I take it upon myself to be the first viewer of the ENGLISH version of this movie to comment on it (I consider this an honor). This movie is fantastic, IF YOU WILL LET YOURSELF SEE THAT. If you have an open mind, you will see that there is no reason you shouldn't enjoy this film. It is suspenseful, Dramatic, magical, and contains some of the best humor since the Marx brothers. However, I've come up with a little test to show whether or not you will probably like it.DID YOU LIKE THE FIRST POKEMON MOVIE?But even if you didn't, give this a try anyway. just don't fall asleep, and don't keep repeating negative stuff over and over in your head. "},{"Title":"Better than the first Pokemon movie","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't get me wrong - my kids and I enjoyed Mewtwo Strikes Back - but this film is superior to the first one.  There is more action, and in my opinion, the animation is better.  My only concern is that KidsWB will try to Americanize the movie too much - they already changed the title from Revelation Lugia to Pokemon The Movie 2000, which gives no clue as to the film's content.  (For those of you who are unfamiliar with Pokemon, ask a kid to explain who Lugia is.)  This is an entertaining family film, and kids who are into Pokemon will especially love it. "},{"Title":"This is waaaay better than Mewtsu no Gashou","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love Lugia bakudan. It is way better than the first movie. I am an avid Satoshi/Ash basher, and this movie actually makes me respect him. And for me, it takes a lot to earn my respect, especially for a shallow cartoon character like him. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  they made it. they made pokemon 2000 better than pokemon the first movie it is absolutly great and i recomend this movie. the special effects are amazing and the story is fantastic, the part that i liked the most was the one that lugia is getting out of the water for the first time, well it is great and i watch once or twice in a month watch and you will like it, i also hope that the third movie is better than the first one and the second. "}{"Title":"Best Film of 2000","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is one of the best Pokémon movies I seen.  It was better than Mewtwo Strikes Back which was also a good movie.  Pokémon is my favorite animation series of all time, my second favorite series would be The Simpsons.  The animation in Pokémon is beautiful.  I can't wait to see The Lord of The Unknown Tower, the third Pokémon movie. "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Though I liked the first movie better, Pokemon the Movie 2000 is a fun kids movie.  I thought that Lugia was a nice addition, but to me, he's no Mew.  The villain, I thought, was a little weak, I know Mewtwo could take him and his flying fortress on (Then again, there's that 'sequels are rarely better than the first movie' deal).  There was no Brock to keep us going (though he does appear), and Team Rocket going good...well, at least they're being logical.  The first movie had heart, this one has adventure.  There is more hinting that Misty likes Ash.  To me, Pikachu's Rescue Adventure gets blown into the dust by Pikachu's Vacation (If you hate Pikachu, you evil person.  I'm an adult, and he's one of my favorite Pokemon). The critics shouldn't be the ones to judge these movies, though.  They didn't like the first movie, and 2000 didn't change their minds.  It's one of those 'you've got to know about the product before you like the movie' scenarios.  Face it, if you never read the X-Men comic books and you never watched the cartoon, chances are good you wouldn't like X-Men the Movie.  That's only one example.  Box office grosses are what's important, not critical views.  In its opening weekend, this movie made $22 million.  That means it made more in a weekend than The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle made in a month ($21 million, everyone understood it, but no one liked it) and more than Titan A.E. made in six weeks (same gross!)And Pokemon is better at the box office than Digimon is.  Digimon only made $4.2 million in its opening weekend.  Plus, Pokemon has a stronger following.  Pokemon started as a Game Boy game, Digimon started as a keychain.  The Pokemon video games are better than the Digimon games, and who does the English dubs?  4Kids does Pokemon, Saban does Digimon.  (Advantage goes to 4Kids, because Saban made the Power Rangers, and we know how much we LOVE them...) Over in America, we may have seen Digimon before Pokemon got here, but Pokemon was such a monstrous hit with the Japanese, and that's why Digimon is trying to compete with it.  That's why Pokemon is much more popular than Digimon is.  That, and Pikachu and his kin have cuter qualities.Pick this one up, along with the first movie, and some episode tapes, too.  Get one of the games to round everything off.   "},{"Title":"Pokemon 2000 is fun!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon 2000 is much more fun than the first Pokemon movie. The various new Pokemon sprouting about the place was minutes of pointing and gasping fun, and the evil fellow in the flying machine was quite a bad man.Graphically, P2000 looked prettier also, though they could have spent a bit more on making the raging ocean look a bit more oceany.  Plot wise, the story seemed more entertaining ( in the second part, not Pikachu's Rescure Bit ). The inclusion of Slowking and the cameo of Mr. Mime made my day.Countless in-jokes and such were evident more also, as it seems now the movie makers are having more fun with their creation. One line, in particular, where two girls are talking and one replies  No, but I have Krabbies  gave me quite a giggle. As did Slowking pondering that he could use some pants, and even Jesse's ( of Team Rocket ) sexuality preferences as he said when discussing the opposite sex,  that's why I steer clear of that. So, overall, Pokemon 2000 is the best of the two movies, the third one sounds fun, but without the line  No, but I've got Krabbies  I doubt it will be as fun. Go see it, and take Grandma! "},{"Title":"Excruciating","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much worse than the original. It was actually *painful* to sit through, and it barely held my six year old's interest.Introduction of some new Pokemon is marginally interesting, but storyline is extra-thin, dialogue is still bad, and music is mediocre. Watch the television show instead - it's much better. "},{"Title":"one of those rare times when a sequel is better than the first, but still not a great movie overall","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  although i did find more enjoyment from this movie than in the first one, it still is not a good movie. the presentation was better in this one, but it still had laughable voice acting and screenplay (like the tv show).sPoIlErZ you dont wanna know what happens in the movie well too bad youre gonna sooner or laterash kethum (gotta ketchum all. ha ha. you crack me up) ONCE again has GOT to be involved in extremely random stuff. this time, his boat is thrown off-shore to the orange islands. while there, a psychopathic guy with intentions to capture the rarest pokemon does (gee, what else is new). when tring to stop that guy, they get sent to his lair and are held prisoners as they know too much, or something i didnt really pay attention. that one cat thing says something about opposite sex, ash and rainy get married, profesor pine gets killed, and they live happily ever after. the end.eNd oF SpOiLeRz2.75 stars (out of 10) 1.375 stars (out of 5)Pokemon the first movie (oh god) 1.333...etc. stars (out of 10) 0.666...etc. stars (out of 5)p.s. caddyshack 2 was o.k.  "},{"Title":"I hate pokemon, but I LOVE this movie!!!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even though I don't like pokemon anymore, I still love this movie!  It had an engaging plot (unlike the TV show) and lovable characters that have never been on the television series (or at least I don't think they were back then).I especially loved the mini movie before the feature presentation.  It was better than the last mini movie, that's for sure.  Another reason why I liked it is because the plot was similer to a concept they would use in digimon.  It had better music on the sound track.8/10P.S. Lugia rules!   "},{"Title":"Original better but still worth watching. Team Rocket steal it.","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film wasn't as exciting as the first, but thanks to Team Rocket, never dull for long. Compared with Mew & Mewtwo, the birds were a disappointment. It didn't take much to capture them. Lawrence III wasn't much of a villain. He didn't set out to destroy the world or dominate it. He just wanted to complete his Pokemon collection. After inadvertently setting events in motion, he has very little part to play. His ship was impressive though.Misty's supposed crush on Ash has never interested me. They should remain just friends. The real chemistry is between Jessie & James, as can be observed in certain episodes of the TV Series. They won't say it of course, but it's there. They get the funniest lines and are the best part of the movie. The Pokemon are worth seeing too of course.   7/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It was much better then the first, But the first movie in Japanese is very good, but anyway, I loved seeing Lugia, and it was funny, and the computer affects were cool, it looked better the the Japanese one too.  I saw this movie twice, was kinda bored seeing it again, but I think that was because the screen was smaller, and it wasn't very loud!  Like when I saw it the first day. ^_^  It was good, can't wait to train my own Lugia on G/S, I think why it's so much better, is because WB messed up the first one so much.  See Mewtwo Strikes Back in Japanese, it's good, see The Power of One in English.  By the way, I'm not a little kid, I'm 15, and I also love other things then Pokémon. "},{"Title":"Strictly for kids","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was unfortunately dragged to this film yesterday, being the first day out in theaters in the US. I didn't really feel like seeing it since I'm not a Pokemon fan anyways. I skipped the first movie for that reason. But this time, my cousins had to drag me. I waited for the movie to start, even though I didn't want it to. I just wanted to get it over with. The animated short Pikachu's Rescue Adventure shows before the movie, and it's utterly stupid, boring, pointless. As for the movie itself, it would be the same thing. Kids will go crazy for it, while teens and adults like me will sit back and be bored and annoyed to death. They were dragged to it after all. Is there a redeeming quality in this film? Yes a small one. The transformation sequence at the end (I won't mention what it is) is sorta nice to watch. The music goes well with it, and it's the highlight of the movie. However, the movie as a whole is completely disposable and forgettable. If you want good family entertainment that you don't mind being dragged to, Titan AE is a good example. But if it's at all possible, stay away from this one. It's 101 minutes of pure wasted time    "},{"Title":"Cool music!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought this movie was definitely better than the first one, but it could have been better.  The plot was interesting, though.  One of the main pluses to the movie was the music.  I really liked it!  It was also cool how they weaved the music into the movie, which actually made the music essential to the movie.Overall, the movie had it's pluses and minuses, though it was still pretty good. "}{"Title":"better","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  better then the first one the first was only on for an hour this one longer lugia is a good pokemon better then mewtwo pokemon 1st movie was rubbish this one is good becase it has more pokemon more speech and more rare pokemon see it if u get bored if u love pokemon see it  "},{"Title":"Stupid ahoy!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Geez, when will this nonsense stop? This is yet another pile of garbage about a little brat and his monsters. Only this time, the story is much more inept. Well, maybe that's stretching the truth a little, let's say that it's just as inept as the first go-around. Still, that's not a good omen. I couldn't even get a hold of what was actually going on. As if the stupid show and the first movie wasn't enough, they had to go and torture audiences again with this stupid piece of nonsense. What's worse, they've been playing a commercial for a live stage show for weeks now, will this stupidness ever end? Treat your kids to something better, funnier, and more intelligent than this. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a 12 year old kid. However, I must say, I don't know why i went to see Pokemon the movie 2000. I have always hated pokemon, but, my friend wanted to go so I went with him. It was a complete waste of my time. My friend agreed so also. There was no plot, just a bunch of fights. I give this movie 0/10 (horrible) As far as I'm concerned, anything with pokemon in it sucks! "},{"Title":"A BAD BAD AN CHEAP MOVIE","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went with my 2 sons (4 and 7 years) to see this movie. My 7 years old son is really a fanatic of Pokemon (he knows the names and skills of the 150+ pokemon), and both of them did not like the movie. First of all, it hast 3 short movies and then begins the real movie, the one that has a story.  I thought that maybe the colours, or the sound, or, even the story would have been better than those seen on TV. I think that this picture is not worth the money, you better see 4 episodes of Pokemon, and will be better serverd. My youngest son was all the time asking When is it going to end, and I replied Soon Augusto, only 3 or 4 minutes left. But even the final (the gran finale), lasted way too much. All in all, if you want to go with your children to see a children movie, stick with the ones of Walt Disney. Sorry  "},{"Title":"I can't believe so many people liked this better!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen both the first movie (MewTwo) and this one on the opening day. After reading many the reviews of this one, I'm shocked by the number of people who like this one and/or liked this better than the first, with NONE liking the first one better.  Although, despite much stronger marketing for this one.  The opening weekend only grossed $20 mil as opposed to $30 mil for MewTwo, so I hardly think that I am alone in this one. So I thought I would put in my two cents in on this movie.* SPOILERS BELOW!!! ** SPOILERS BELOW!!! *Let's start with the the first part, Pikachu's Rescue Adventure.  Not much to say, both this and Pikachu's Summer Camp (first part of the first movie) are really just advertising for Pokemon in general, giving as many pokemon airtime as possible within that 30 minutes.  Just that last time the concept of Pokemon cooperation was emphasized and the narrative gave some context to the action.  This time, it was virtually a silent film where they tried too hard to give every pokemon airtime. There was probably over 100 different types, as opposed to about 20 from last time, it just became dizzying after awhile and not fun at all.Now, let's go on to the Power of One.  This is almost an antithesis of what makes Pokemon fun.  Pokemon is about the trainer and his relationship with his Pokemon, which reached a height in MewTwo where Pikachu's love for his trainer returned him back to life.  This one, there was a weak villain that had a very weak motive such that you had no clue why he was in the movie!! He says that he collects Pokemon, but we are not shown, AT ALL, what he has collected in the past.  In fact, when his ship was destroyed, nothing seems to have escaped from his collection than the two that he just collected. Are we to assume that the rest of his collection died in the crash?!  HOW CRUEL!Now, Pokemon was designed for PRE-teens, why on earth was there a love triangle in this one.  I don't think this is really interesting for kids! Many said that there was much more adventure in this one.  I guess adventure is counted in the amount of animated equipment destroyed, 3 or 4 boats, airship, helicopter, raft, etc.  But in reality, it was just boring, meaningless, repetition.Finally, this adventure did not advance at ALL Ash's skill as a trainer and a person.  That is the whole POINT of pokemon!  Later on, all the Pokemon came out by air sea and land for a cameo that was a TOTAL stretch and had absolutely no impact on the film.  I cannot believe that the trainers would just let their Pokemon go like that alone!  The situation that the pokemon were in was dangerous and they did not contribute at all!Overall, I felt that this was a horrible movie. (I gave it a 1)  The premise of the one was totally unsupported.  The relationship between Pokemon and his trainer is totally de-emphasized.  It almost makes you question why that collector was bad at all.  How is he substantially different from a trainer?Whew!  That got a load off my chest.  I hope that you agree with my review or at least find that it presents some good points.  Bye! "},{"Title":"a reversal for me","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  pokemon the movie was a terrible film. unlike the first one, this is not a good film at all. the graphics were decent but the story was flat and no real drama was built up in it. in the first one the interaction between the characters were decent. the subtraction of brock and addition of tracey was bad. tracey really doesn't have much to say or do, and unlike brock offers no comic relief. the only good points is you get to see misty actually get jelous over ash, and her early brooding over being called his girlfriend was entertaining. overall this film isn't worth renting and the short movie before didn't do anything for me or my wife. and we do consider ourselves pokemon fans.oh well, maybe the next one will be better.cant ge t much worse "},{"Title":"WORST of the series. All the other ones were much better.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Mewtwo stricks back was great fun for the fans. Pokemon 3 was my fav of the pokemon movie series and had great fun also. Number 4 had good graphics and again fun and for those that acculy got to see the 5th movie they know its good also. But number 2 was just BAD. I saw this with a friend knowing Mewtwo Stricks back was fun and i felt like leaving the theater halfway thought the movie but my friend held me back.This movie has a super rushed script, crappy plot, bad acting, not even fun for pokemon fans out there. Lame to the max, trust me and see the other movies and not this one. "},{"Title":"A BAD BAD AN CHEAP MOVIE","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went with my 2 sons (4 and 7 years) to see this movie. My 7 years old son is really a fanatic of Pokemon (he knows the names and skills of the 150+ pokemon), and both of them did not like the movie. First of all, it hast 3 short movies and then begins the real movie, the one that has a story.  I thought that maybe the colours, or the sound, or, even the story would have been better than those seen on TV. I think that this picture is not worth the money, you better see 4 episodes of Pokemon, and will be better serverd. My youngest son was all the time asking When is it going to end, and I replied Soon Augusto, only 3 or 4 minutes left. But even the final (the gran finale), lasted way too much. All in all, if you want to go with your children to see a children movie, stick with the ones of Walt Disney. Sorry  "},{"Title":"Sorry, folks, Mewtwo Strikes Back was MUCH better!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this because I liked MSB and I thought the trailer for this one looked cool.  Sorry, people, but I was mostly disappointed.Pikachu's Rescue Vacation--Its one redeeming quality was that at least there were no unnecessary shots of Pokemon against those weird backgrounds.  Other than that, unmemorable.Power of One--Granted, there were some nice climactic action scenes, but the story just did not gel for me.  And while I know that Lawrence III (the 'collector') is supposed to be a one-dimensional villain (by that I mean totally consumed with greed), he just did not have enough presence on screen or plotwise for me to consider him a real threat; instead, he merely came off as a nuisance.  Mewtwo, on the other hand, had plenty of screen time and let it be known that he was truly a force to be reckoned with.  And the term villain could not be loosely applied with him.  Yes, what he did was wrong, but his motive was one I can identify with  being angry because of circumstances beyond your control (in this case, his birth).  He saw the error of his ways and decided to change.  Mewtwo is still the most well-voiced (thanks to Philip Bartlett) and well-developed character in the Pokemon world.Music--I didn't care too much for the songs I heard.  The music score was good, but not as good as MSB.  For people who complain about the bubblegum pop in MSB, hear me out  There are 16 songs on that soundtrack album.  Unless I miscounted, only 8 appear in the film (and mostly over the title/end credits).  Therefore, MOST of the bubblegum is on the soundtrack album, NOT IN THE FILM ITSELF!!  And remember, the songs and the instrumental music score are TWO SEPARATE THINGS.  The MSB score nailed the action and drama perfectly, more so than the second did.I guess it's time for me to get off my soapbox now, but here is the final word  The best part of my Pokemon 2000 moviegoing experience was seeing the entertaining trailers for Disney's The Emperor's New Groove and--some people may hate me for saying this--Fox's Digimon  The Movie. "},{"Title":"what is this mickey mouse turd (this is a spoiler)","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Now i have never ever seen a bad movie in all my years but what is with songs in the movie what physiological meaning does it have. WOW some demented Pokémon shows up and they multiply i can get a seizure from this. Animie is pointless the makers of it are pointless its a big marketing scheme look just cut down on songs and they will get a good rating i reckon that this movie would have been fine if they put out a message you must see all the Pokémon episodes to understand whats going on and it is not a film. It is just an animation it should be on video.Ps i'll give it a 1 because i just got 5 bucks i could not give it a half because there's no halves. "}{"Title":"Better than the first, but still lacks creativity. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  POKE`MON THE MOVIE 2000 / (2000) **1/2 (out of four)By Blake French	When Pokemon The First Movie-Mewtew Strikes Back prin theaters last year, children and fans of Pokemon raved, but critics and the majority of adults clearly identified with the film's lack of depth and trite preaching. Pokemon the Movie 2000 is the same kind of material, except the story is a little more interesting. The film still attempts to portray lessons for youngsters, promote its vagary merchandise, and feels like a 99 minute episode of the television program, currently airing on Kid's WB. I liked some elements of the original production, the action scenes were fun, the movie took advantage of its characters, but I still gave that film thumbs down because it was completely forgettable. Pokemon the Movie 200, suffers from that exact same conflict. 	Like to the original movie, Pokemon the Movie 2000 opens with a 25-minute short film called Pikachu's Rescue Adventure. It is here where we run into the same problem as we did in the first movie the story is exclusively focused on showing kids' favorite Pokemon on the big screen, such as Pikachu (God, I hate that annoying Pokemon), Snorlax, Bulbasaur, Charizard, and many other new ones. The problem is that the Pokemon alone inhabit most of the film, and they do not speak in a language audiences can understand. This short film is especially confusing because the Pocket Monsters' motives are particularly unclear. The story nevertheless provides a moral, so that parents will be impressed I guess, that teamwork and cooperation can solve even the largest of issues. 	The story, which is mature and commendable, once again follows the pre-teen Pokemon trainer Ash Ketchum (voiced by Veronica Taylor), and his teammates/best friends Misty (voiced by Rachael Lillis), who can have a really big temper, and Brock (voiced by Addie Blaunstien), the girl-crazy know-it-all. They are constantly struggling to defeat their scheming predators, Team Rocket, consisting of Jessie (also voiced by Rachael Lillis), and James (voiced by Eric Stuart). In this film, the nemeses must join forces to stop an evil Pokemon collector from capturing three mystical bird Pokemon. The excitement and suspense are not exactly overbearing, although the hints of discovery are intriguing and the several Pokemon battles are a lot of fun to watch. The conflict may be uneasy, but it still works under the circumstances. 	The movie never bothers to develop its characters or their intentions; it assumes audiences are already familiar with the background of Pokemon, which, may I add, is a fair assumption. I still did not think the story took advantage of Team Rocket, and it would have been much better if it stuck to original elements instead of trying to grasp a new trend of fans. The ending definitely feels trite and traditional, with all the same messages and themes as seen in the last full-length Pokemon movie, the TV show, and Pikachu's Rescue Adventure. Overall, Pokemon the Movie 2000 is better than the original film and does good things with what it contains, but it could have been so much better if the filmmakers had more ideas for us to feast our imagination upon. I question if the Pokemon fad will stand the test of time, like Beanie Babies have? Do not gamble your house on it.  "},{"Title":"(weeping)","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Nintendo!!! YOU #%$@ERS!!! How could you do this to me? I can't believe it...this movie is actually worse than the first one. I went to see this at the theatre with my brother because my mother forced me to tag along....oh God...where do I even begin? The plot SUCKED. The voice acting SUCKED. The animation SUCKED. The ending REALLY SUCKED. If you liked this movie, YOU SUCK TOO. And to Futuramafan1987, who said this was the greatest movie ever, you are a TOOL, PLAIN AND SIMPLE. This isn't a movie for anyone but crack-addled ten-year olds with Game Boys who think Pikachu is God. I'm still cry to this day thinking about that horrible turd of a movie....and then there was Pikachu's Adventure...don't even get me started on that horrible mess of a film. It is, in all truth, one of the most boring experiences of my entire life. Don't go watch this at any costs.Bottom Line Go out, find every copy of this movie that you can, and burn it. Burn them all, and then proceed to rent a GOOD movie, like Aliens...or Bowling For Columbine...or even Back to the Future! "}]