[{"Title":"A fascinating, evocative study of one of the greatest artists of all time.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  As an art historian I found this film fascinating. It seemed to be true to its subject - a complex, gifted and liberal artist - and also an authentic study of the contrasts of late C18th Spain. It also provided interesting and accurate source material for anyone studying the art of the period and I use my off-air video of it to bring the life of this wonderful and under-rated artist to my students. It was a warm tribute to a man who was full of vigour even in old age, but did not over-romanticise him, showing us the flaws in his character as well as his innate humanity. The film worked well as drama, using good cinematic technique to underpin the story of an exciting and unusual life in a pivotal period of Western history.  It also used the fantastic aspects of Goya's imagination to underline the paradoxes of his life. This is a typical European art house movie, of a type rarely made in the US or Britain, but non-specialist film watchers should not feel alienated by that. It is intelligent, witty, elegant, superbly acted (Paco Rabal in one of his last films is terrific - he was Goya to the inch), beautifully crafted, intense and dramatic. What more could we want from a movie?  "},{"Title":"A brilliantly rich expression of the medium of painting through that of the cinema.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  A brilliantly rich expression of the medium of painting through that of the cinema, a rare if not a unique achievement. Another reviewer refers to the moving painting of Peter Greenaway, and this film does indeed call to mind The Draughtsman's Contract. The dying painter relives in pictorial terms episodes of his life, artistic, political and personal, in between asking himself the questions Where am I? (¿Donde estoy?), lost in the streets of Bordeaux at the beginning of the film, and Who am I now? (¿Quién soy ahora?), as he lies on his death-bed, the two Spanish verbs distinguishing between the physical being and the existential one. The film is articulated to a large degree by Goya's three sources of inspiration, Velázquez (space), Rembrandt (light) and the imagination, but more by Goya's apocalyptic portrayals of the suffering of the Spanish in the Napoleonic Wars after the disillusionment of the French Enlightenment. Goya en Burdeos is to painting what Babettes Gæstebud and The Dead are to the celebratory feast. "},{"Title":"Great music in a film about a painter.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The patterning motif of 'Goya in Bordeaux' is the spiral, which Goya claims is like life.  So this is not the linear historical biography of the artist we have come to expect from Hollywood, moving inexorably from birth, through success and failure, to death.  In its circular motion, its conflating time, history, imagination, art, fantasy and dream, the film 'Goya' most resembles is Ruiz's astonishing Proust adaptation, 'Time Regained'. Here the story progresses through the labyrinth of an artist's mind, where the narrative proceeds from a chance memory or incident rather than chronological order.  History is monumental, written in stone, immovable - 'Goya', on the other hand, emphasises, fluidity, instability and fragility - the status of any particular scene is always in doubt, such is the complex nature of Saura's narration.  The film appears to begins with a dream - an old man wakes up in a foreign land; he does not know where he is, he walks down strange streets, bewildered by the foreign language and customs, having wandered down the obligatary white corridor, before catching a vision of an old, dead love.  The next scene, where a lover and friend bemoan his tendency in his illness to peregrinate, suggests that it wasn't a dream. This ambiguity continues throughout.  After all, the narrative concerns a dying man, whose life flashes before him, memories flooding back of critical biographical moments in the artist's life - his work at Court; his affair with the Duchess of Alba; his exile in France for liberal sympathies - but these are never merely historical, but revealing of Goya's aesthetic as it developed, theoretically and in practice.  The biographical emphasis seems justified in that this development is linked to increasing misanthropy, terror, fear of madness and senility.  One of his fears is of being in unrestrained imagination, and some of his later, horrifyingly dark works are a far cry from the dutiful Court pictures, even if these burst with a barely contained passion.  Goya's development - from patronage to exiled self-expression - marks a crucial development in Western art towards the Romantic, the solipsistic.  Goya lived in times of tyranny, barbarity, slaughter, revolution but history is always filtered through his lurid sensibility, as if with Goya came the pessimistic idea that there is no such thing as objective reality. Saura borrows many devices from Ruiz - the shifting mise-en-scene that flows through time and space, including the aging artist in a dark room watching a gloriously sunny aristocratic garden party decades earlier; or the device of the artists' various selves existing in the same frame.  This sense of a personal history as opposed to a chronological one is emphasised in the flimsiness of the mise-en-scene, a literal creation of light and screens. Comparing Saura to Ruiz, however, is like comparing Arnold Bennett to Virginia Woolf.  Saura is simply too heavy-handed to achieve the temporal fleet-footedness necessary.  His ideas are frequently literal or banal, his need to transpose everything as dance climaxes in a  massacre ballet of obscene bathos.  Whereas Ruiz sublimely caught the Proustian rush, Saura cannot hope to reach the visual disturbance and energy of Goya, and contents himself with defacing his work (blood spilling from paintings, etc.)  Where Proust's end was a beginning (the decision to write the book he was actually finishing), Saura weighs himself down with portentousness; where Proust's ideas were grounded in a compelling plot of war and social comedy, Saura gets lost in ever-decreasing circles.  I'm sure there's a resonant comparison being made between Goya and Saura himself, especially in the speech of regret preceding the massacre - both men liberals serving totalitarian regimes.  Again, as with 'Tango', the film's main interest is its exquisite score. "},{"Title":"A piece of art","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  This movie portrays very well the Spanish history and like his last movies, Carlos Saura makes art out of the illumination and the colours. As usual, Paco Rabal is magnificent and Maribel Verdu is perfect for the role of la Duquesa de Alba, very sensual and a little evil. "},{"Title":"A Stirring Journey into Goya's Psyche","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" A psychological portrait of Goya in his last days, the film illuminates his art and complexities. An invocation of Goya's paintings and drawings in their hallucinatory themes and colors, we are presented with a stream of consciousness narrative in which the great and influential Spanish master reminisces about his past glories and failures, his joys and sorrows, his loves and loses, and the darkness and light that forged his work.This Carlos Saura's film is as visionary and evocative as Goya's art and should not be be missed by anyone who is interested in art, the creative process, and the conflicting forces in artists' lives. "},{"Title":"Goya relives key  moments  in his life as the relationship with his wife , daughter and particularly  Duchess of Alba","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" This is a highly theatricalized vision of the notorious exiled painter. Picture was originally directed by Carlos Saura and filmed with a pervasive melancholy that does for slow drama . It is is an emotive biography (1746-1828), involving 18-19th century famed Spanish painter named Francisco De Goya Lucientes (Francisco Rabal and as young played by Jose Coronado) and famous model (Maribel Verdu) for the famed painting . It's a slow vision of Saragossan painter Francisco Goya Lucientes' last days in Burdeos , ill and deaf , as he wanders through the streets and remembers the citizens uprising against Napoleon troops . It portrays his relationship with historic personages as Duchess of Alba (Verdu) , Moratin (Joaquin Climent) , Bayeu and the scheming favorite Godoy (Jose Maria Pou). As Goya observes and reminds events, dances , parties , inquisition , French invasion that inspired his work ; as his reveries become tableaux of his paintings . As the highlights of the movie result to be when are brought to life scenes of known paintings as ¨Disasters of war¨, ¨Saturn devouring his sons¨, ¨portrayal of Carlos IV family¨,¨, ¨Los Caprichos¨ , ¨Black paintings¨ , and lithographs , among others . Two of Goya 's best known paintings are The Nude Maja and The Clothed Maja . They depict the same woman in the same pose, naked and clothed, respectively. Without a pretense to allegorical or mythological meaning, the painting was the first totally profane life-size female nude in Western art . The identity of the Majas are uncertain. The most popularly cited models are the Duchess of Alba , with whom Goya was sometimes thought to have had an affair, and Pepita Tudó, mistress of Manuel Godoy; Godoy subsequently owned them .This is a costumer based on facts but predominates the slow-moving drama full of flashbacks with surrealist images , nightmarish scenes and colorful set-pieces . The picture relies heavily on relationship between Goya , his wife Leocadia played by Eulalia Ramon (real life spouse to Saura) , his daughter performed by Dafne Fernandez and Duchess of Alba acted by Maribel Verdu . Glamorously and sumptuously photographed by Vittorio Storaro , Bernardo Bertolucci's usual . Lavishly produced by Andres Vicente Gomez , the gowns are extravagantly magnificent ,luxury rooms and paintings pass by in front of your eyes and spectacular though theatrical production design . The sets are superb, at least as good as any other period piece films directed by Saura , furthermore great intervention by the group Furia Del Baus who carries out rousing choreography . Emotive and evocative musical score by Roque Baños. The motion picture is well directed by Carlos Saura , a good Spanish movies director. He began working in cinema in 1959 when he filmed ¨Los Golfos ¨(1962) also dealing with juvenile delinquency . Saura is a well recognized filmmaker both nationally and internationally, and in proof of it he won many prizes among which there are the following ones Silver Bear in the Berlin Festival for ¨ La Caza or The Chase¨ (1966) his most successful film , and for Peppermint Frappé (1967), in 1967. Special Jury Awards in Cannes for La Prima Angélica (1974), in 1973, and for Cría Cuervos (1976), in 1975. Also, the film Mamá Cumple Cien Años (1979) got an Oscar nomination in 1979 as the best foreign film, and it also won the Special Jury Award at the San Sebastian Festival. In 1990, he won two Goya , The Spanish Oscar , as best adapted screenplay writer and best director. Saura became an expert on Iberian musical adaptations as ¨Carmen , Amor Brujo , Bodas De Sangre , Sevillanas ,Iberia , Salome, Fado, Flamenco ¨ and even recently Opera as ¨Io , Don GiovanniOther films dealing with Goya's life are  ¨The Naked Maja¨ (1958) by Henry Koster with Anthony Franciosa and Ava Gardner ; ¨Goya¨ by Nino Quevedo also with Francisco Rabal ; ¨Los Desastres De Guerra¨ TV series by Jose Ramon Larraz with Enric Majo as Goya , ¨Volaverunt¨ (1999) by Bigas Lina with Penelope Cruz , Jordi Molla and Jorge Perugorria as Goya . "},{"Title":"Yes, it's slow at times, but it's also an amazing visual and conceptual feat!","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Goya in Bordeaux (1999)A beautifully filmed and imaginative look at Spanish painter Goya's final years in France. There are fantastical flashbacks (really nicely created with translucent sets and changing lighting) and there are imagined versions of scenes that led to his paintings, highly colorful and gruesome. And effective.If this movie isn't a raging masterpiece, it is mostly because there is no real plot. It's slow going, even though it is meant to be deliberate and patient. It meanders along as he lives out his final isolated years and we are shown (in spurts) his work and his past. The old Goya himself is played with believable gusto by Francisco Rabal, and the younger (with surprising continuity) by Jose Coronado. Neither are names familiar to American viewers, but both are convincing, which isn't always easy portraying a famous artist. If there is a deeper point here, it is the journey we all make toward death. And from what I read, Goya was afraid of death, and would be afraid of old age just as much as this movie implies.If you like your artists heroic and inspired, you might find this version of Francisco Goya a little earthy and self-absorbed. But for me this was about right. He was an old man with little future, too much pain to make significant new work, and lots of memories. Of course, this being a movie (and being about life, too), there is an emphasis on his love affairs, or at least his interest in one particular rich woman, the Duchess of Alba. In truth, there isn't a clear history of Goya being involved with this woman, though there are several portraits of her (not including, most likely, the famous pair of reclining figures, one nude and one clothed, though this is implied if not stated in the movie).All of this is neither here nor there for loving what is wonderful about the movie. Director Carlos Saura has created a magical world for this final great painter, one filled with the grotesqueness we associate with his work but also with terrific inventiveness, making the paintings come to life without simply re-staging them. The best last sections of the film are a tour-de-force, and indeed the whole movie is vivid and surprising. If we are sometimes slightly unenthused about the events going on (which are often nothing much), we are completely sucked in by the ever changing scenes and sets and hallucinatory worlds, part real and part Goya's dying mind.In other words, the best of this movie is simply amazing. And any movie with such amazing portions is worth watching, at least in those parts. "},{"Title":"Storaro's camera plays well Saura's cuasi-surrealism","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  Life is but a series of fortuitous events called destiny. Francisco Goya lived a life fraught with fateful occurences which drove him to despair, and ended his days in Bordeaux. His three-times interpreter, Francisco Rabal, little knew as he made this film that he too would end his days in the same city. Such is the coincidence of life and death.Goya (1999), made as `Goya en Burdeos', hints at these and other casualities in a refined genteel way, notwithstanding the sometimes temperamental mood of the Aragonés painter. The genius of this film is how Storaro's magnificent photography and Saura's gifted and inspired directing, actually brought to life so many of the painter's creations paintings only seen in Madrid art museums or in books. It was a delight to suddenly recognize in scenes in the film some of these beautiful works, as if magically brought to life by technological tricks, but with so much care. Rabal's interpretation is superb it could not have been otherwise, this being the third and last time the old Murcian actor had to take on the task of being Goya. It is also worth mentioning Dafné Fernández, who gave an intelligently picturesque performance; as was to be hoped for after seeing her wonderful part as Fuensanta in `Pajarico' (qv) made one year earlier.It cannot be denied that Storaro's photography frequently becomes one of the main protagonists in the film's telling. No doubt this is in response to the peculiarities of Saura's directing, and thus, for me, makes a near-perfect coupling. It must also be added that the music employed in the film has been exquisitely selected, first with Roque Baños' own composing beautifully intertwining with pieces by Boccherini, Couperin, Tchaickovsky and Beethoven, as well as by an anonymous 17th Century Spanish composer sounding very much like Luys de Narváez.A serious film for those who appreciate excursions into historical cultural backgrounds balanced by a stately unhurried production.  "},{"Title":" faithful to the world of Goya","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  Peter Greenaway was the first to show us that film could be moving painting (as opposed to moving photography). The life of Goya is reflected to the screen through his paintings and it is very beautifully done.Saura is very careful to stress the artistic side of Goya's personality and all his love affairs, political views are secondary to it. You can get a clear picture of what kind of a painter this spanish was. A little too formalistic maybe...Good job anyway. Pleasure for the eyes.. "},{"Title":"A Spetacular Homage","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Visually stunning, the film starts in the final moments of the artist's life, where usually people tend to revise their entire existence. Seems like a cliché, and it is; however, it doesn't affect its result and it should please Goya's and Saura's fans.The film dedicates itself completely to art fans, not just movie fans, and since it's Goya' life it must be that way. Great accomplishment by Saura, who mixes music, dance and visually transports us into Goya's psyche. Francisco Rabal delivers a trademark performance keeping testosterone and heartfelt in good level with old age.Milos Forman disappointing Goya's Ghosts is far from comparison with this one.Another gem that should not be missed by any art fans in general. "}{"Title":"A boring stage play pretending to be a movie","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" Using obvious soundstages, totally unconvincing actors, and dialogue straight out of the follow your dreams playbook of tired clichés, the director manages to reduce the fascinating life of one of Spain's greatest painters to absolute tedium. Perhaps its fitting that it is titled Goya in Bordeaux as it certainly captures the flavor of the artist's dull last years spent there, essentially dying. For myself, I'm waiting for someone to make Goya in Madrid which will, hopefully, depict the dizzying rise of a provincial Aragonese teenager to the coveted title of Court Painter.Maybe the guy who did that Mozart film will have a go at it.RstJ "},{"Title":"Confused and confusing.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I do not know the price tag for this film, but my guess is that they could have used more dough. The Napoleonic Wars are hard to do on a budget. Tableau representations of Goya's works were charming. They went on too long and the acting added in was pure ham. The whole thing seemed a disjointed mess to me. I was reminded of Ken Russell's The Music Lovers in which Richard Chamberlain has a poetic delirium from typhus. Goya was obviously an accomplished political artist, yet the film portrays him as a narcissistic bumbler. As an American, I was impressed with all the overtly sentimental sexism and ageism at the heart of the movie. Old men obviously all dote and drool. Young granddaughters obviously grin and bear it. Wink. Wink. It was all too wholesome to be surreal and too surreal to be taken seriously as history. I had great hopes for it, but I was disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Like Watching a Dream","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":" The film opens with a dream sequence, Goya walking in pajamas at night in the streets of a French city, with couples people going about their business, it looks and feels like a Saturday night in the Spring.The rest of the movie is about the same, floating here and there with some great music and dance numbers to break up the dream like sequences.His conversations with his daughter are touching and a good way to brush up on one's Spanish.Most of the scenes take place at night. He favors the night because of the effect it has on his perception of the hues of the paint.If you are interested in art, or like to paint this is a great movie to watch especially in you are in bed and ready to fall asleep.Definitely a movie to watch at night.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Slow beginning to an artistic whole.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The story is presented to us very much like a mosaic....many colourful pieces which have to be put together in order to discover the real Goya, official court painter of Spain.  Unfortunately many of the pieces are missing.Sorting through his host of memories, the aging Goya tells his daughter who happens to be interested in art herself about the importance of freedom of expression...to be original and to follow her own path.  To have an old sick man narrating the story tends to slow things up and the film at times becomes rather dreary and boring.However, some of the incidents expressed in his works of art are very interesting and very familiar e.g. the painting of the Duchess of Alba posing as the naked Maja and the execution of the Spanish by the hostile French army under Napoleon.In the early part of the film (which happens to be rather slow) the theatrical device of using transparent wall with back lighting is effective.No one can quibble about the overall artistry of the film....the dancing, music, wonderful costumes of the courtiers in their finery and powdered wigs...all very correct for the period.There were a couple of errors worth noting.  When the lightning storm strikes and the windows blow in and Goya goes over to shut them, the curtains cease moving before he actually shuts the windows.  And again, if you watch carefully, Goya as a young man paints with his left hand and as an older man paints with his right.  Strange, don't you think? "},{"Title":"Artistic Process","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I have never heard of this film, never heard of this director, but a friend shoved a VHS copy in my hand and said, WATCH THIS!  After watching it, I am still spellbound enough to comment on it.While I can't say I will bow down in awe to Saura, I was certainly captivated by his work with this film. GOYA is a glimpse into the artist's influences, his fears, and his feelings; it is a glimpse into the artistic process.  I found Goya's journey fascinating, and I especially appreciated the non-linear storytelling approach.  Rather than barreling through a series of events that define WHY Goya is the way he is and why he painted the way he did, the audience is, in effect, putting together the pieces of a big emotional puzzle.  And how the puzzle fit together or didn't fit together was really what kept me enthralled for two and half hours.Anyone interested in art should pick up this film.  "},{"Title":"Don't forget the actors","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The review completely ignores some very good performances in this film.  Francisco Rabal was terrific and also notable were the Duchess of Alba and the young girl.  I enjoyed some of the musical pieces as well.  All in all there's a lot more than cinematography to this and it's definitely worth a look.   "},{"Title":"visually impressive, worth watching","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The episode of life of the Spanish painter Goya portrayed in this film is told through dreamlike anti-realistic settings and colours. One falls under the impression that the film belongs more to cinematographer Vittorio Storaro than to the actual director of the film, but that happens very often with this colour-crazy Italian (remember the Bernardo Bertolucci films). The last films of Fassbinder also spring into mind at times, especially when colour is achieved through projection of coloured light (instead of the objects themselves containing colour), which is understandable in the case of the German director, since he started off in theatre, but less so in Saura's case. And at certain moments the theatrical techniques used are stretched too far into the world of theatre, seeming to forget that what we are supposed to be watching is cinema and not a videotaped play, as in the use of a wall that at times is opaque and at other times becomes transparent. But all in all the film is a pleasure to watch, especially if you appreciate good photography.  "},{"Title":"Artistically wonderfull, but a bit too much cliche","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The visual appeal of the film is exceptionally strong, from costuming to the sparse Jarmanesque sets, to the period settings.  The part of Goya is superbly played.  Yet too often the character's, mostly that of Goya himself, stoop to uttering banal platitudes about art, about freedom, about life.There is also a bit too much docu-nonsense in the film.  Surely with the advent of the Biography channel one need not waste precious feature film time rehearsing an Art-101 bio of the man.  One can find that elsewhere. What a waste.Still for the look and mood of the film and the quality of acting, I'd recommend it pretty strongly.I also recommend watching this film close on the heels of Jarman's Carravagio in order to understand why films about art really must avoid talking too much.  Jarman's film is difficult, but it doesn't annoy one with the hubris of always trying to explain genius the way Saura's film does. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  The photography is admittedly fascinating as is the dance and music, but the movie is very talkey and with no sustaining plot it soon seems clautrophobic and dull.  Occasionally their are scenes outside which comes as truly a breath of fresh air.  True this is supposed to be about Goya dying, but there is little drama in that since it is a foregone conclusion. "},{"Title":"few good pictures, but very boring","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  Having Goya's exciting paintings on my mind I expected something different. Goya's life must have been interesting, but the film left out most of it. Every piece of story which could have been shown in a slightly more entertaining way (e.g. the plot against the Marquesa or how he worked himself to success) have been dropped before they really started. Instead, the movie got stuck in endless monologues and lulling dialogues. Some scenes seemed to be made for a theatric play, and I thought they didn't belong into a motion picture. I also missed a clear explanation of the historical and political setting. I did not fully understand Goya's relation to the French nor his political role in Spain. Nonetheless, I liked most of the transitions of his paintings into film sequences. But overall, I can only give 5/10. "}{"Title":"Where is the soundtrack...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, War","Review":"  I loved this movie, although it started out slow, and there was much symbolism. I found some scenes very touching, and found myself thinking about other scenes after the movie. The movie was very picturesque, but I found the music even more impressive. There was one score that was repeated all through the movie and during the end credits and I cannot get it out of my head. I hope to find the soundtrack somewhere. I should mention that there is not much of a storyline. This is the story of Goya's life, which as I understand is not very eventful. However, the story telling is just beautiful, and I couldn't keep my eyes of the screen, while my husband slept all through the movie.  "}]