[{"Title":"Dark, Sharp, Shrewd Magnificent.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first thing I notice is the cover-jacket. It is littered with the critic's gushing praise ; ` Diamond-edged performances' spews one filmic muso.Hmmm...I'm immediately suspicious. Films The Truman Show and Existenz also garnered such critical acclaim yet, suspiciously and unfortunately, seemed to do absolutely nothing for me.So how does Gangster No.1 fare?Well, ladies and gents, believe the hype. If Gangster No 1 was a man, it would be diamond geezer.Gangster No1 is a gem, albeit a very dark one. A brutal black comedy and an ultra-hip crime-flick in one -  it's a cockney masterpiece, a genuine Pearly King of a movie.The year is 1968 and our eponymous hero (we only ever know him as `Gangster') is taken under the wing of Freddie Mays, the quintessential East End gangleader. Though Freddie is young he has already earned himself a chilling moniker, the 'Butcher of Mayfair', and a great wad of cash. Gangster begins working for Freddie, collects debts here, breaks a few legs there, but soon has his eyes on the bigger prize  - to be Gangster No.1. To be like Freddie. Soon Gangster is plotting his ascent, murdering fellow gang members and precipitating an internecine gang war on his way up the ladder.So far, so unoriginal, I hear you say. But what distinguishes Gangster No.1 from its rather lame contemporaries (think Circus and 24 Hours in London) is its razor-sharp dialogue and superb performances. The scene where our gangster confronts a gang member suspected of being in cohoots with a rival is simply electrifying.Paul Bettany manages to be menacing, piteous and ultra-cool all at once with a frighteningly realistic turn in the title role. David Thewlis too, as Freddie Mays, is faultless. Malcolm McDowell provides a suitably cockney-fied voice over, but later reappearing in person as an older version of our Gangster to provide the motivation behind the insightful denounement.One slight criticism.  The old `end of act-two problem' rears its ugly head at around an hour and fifteen minutes. Yes, the film becomes bogged down rather as Malcolm McDowell goes on a panicky cockney walkabout waiting for Freddie Mays to be released from prison. And when the two finally meet, in what was once Freddie May's luxury 60's pad, the scene isn't quite as explosive as you'd hoped it might be.Nevertheless, Gangster No1 is an excellent film. A credible gangster flick, a stylish revisiting of the 60's East End, a cracking script, and spot-on dialogue.Oh and the critics were right, the performances are ` diamond -edged'. Funny that.  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story might be rather ordinary and it may become less interesting after the first hour or so, but this is generally intriguing stuff. The film is effectively narrated and performed by Malcolm McDowell, but Paul Bettany is the one who really shines here, replicating McDowell's charisma as an uncaring and violent youth, whilst also injecting some of his own spirit into his character. The film is rather clever in fact with how it uses McDowell and what he has come to stand for, with a number of interesting echoes of A Clockwork Orange throughout the film. The biggest problem that I found in the whole production was that the flashbacks to the 1960s looked just like the present with no feel for the era. But really, other than that and a story that is not out of the ordinary, this is a well made film with an interesting visual and audio style, and quality acting to top it all off. "},{"Title":"Social avarice with a sublime black humour","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Its easy to see why people think this film is over violent and trying to shock, but then thats because they just don't get the finer nuances.This film is Excellent. The direction is amazing and Bettany, Thewlis and McDowell are all superb. The film runs from the point of view of the main character, Gangster, He shows how he got to the top of his game to be Gangster No1. All of the violence in the film makes a valid point some of it is horrific, none of it is unnecessary. The film also comments on the social avarice that penetrates our society, wealth, power and fame, I think the points it makes are truly justified.Why do some people dislike this film? They are uncomfortable with people being portrayed as being comfortable with violence, and thats because the director wants you to be, and because the Actors are so good at it. The film freaked me out in two scenes and there was no violence just excellent direction and Acting.Well worth watching, well worth buying on DVD. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie of Gangsters","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story begins in 1999, with an old gangster performed by Malcolm McDowell being advised that Freddie Mays (David Thewlis) would leave jail after thirty years in prison. His mood changes and he recalls 1968, when he was a young punk (performed by Paul Bettany), and he joined Freddie Mays' gang, his envy of his mob boss and his betrayal. The whole story of these two characters is presented slowly, alternating violent and luxury places and action. I liked this movie a lot. I would dare to say that it mixes 'Goodfellas', 'Casino', 'Pulp Fiction' and 'Reservoir Dogs'. Paul Bettany has a great performance as a psycho-killer differently of those sadists in Hollywood movies that make grimaces, the simple look and expression of Paul Bettany is enough to terrify the viewer. The direction is great, and there is one specific scene that I appreciated very much. When Freddie Mays invites Paul Bettany's character to have a drink in a nightclub Freddie is giving his overcoat to the attendant and the image of Paul Bettany is reflected in the glass of the door exactly over Freddie. The selection of Paul Bettany for this role is perfect, but why not ages him through make-up? Malcolm McDowell looks totally different from Paul Bettany! My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Os Gangsters (The Gangsters) "},{"Title":"McDowell redivivus","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a mug! The evil-harlequin mask of Malcolm McDowell, so familiar from those bugeyed closeups of him mounching lumpchiks of toast in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, has aged into a fabulous ruin. And one of the pleasures of the glib, slick, cocky, brutal, shallow, and terrifically entertaining GANGSTER NO. 1 is in the realization that McDowell is the same McDowell--his voiceover has the same energetic sneer it had 31 years ago in CLOCKWORK. He's the same guy under a withered and weathered facade. As Gangster No. 1--a sociopath with a schoolgirl crush on his boss, spit-shined David Thewlis--McDowell brings you into the succulent pleasures of aged corruption and long-swallowed brutality. No. 1's nuttiness--a kind of belch of guilt, generally released in Francis Bacon-derivative silent screams--seems, for a while, like fun. Paul Bettany, playing Young No. 1, has a great, lizardlike, histrionic deadpan--he keeps telling his victims Look into my eyes! as if something scary and deep were hidden there. (Instead, there is zero--an effect Young No. 1 may be unaware of.) The movie takes such a jaunty and directorially piquant view of its own shin-kicking nihilism that you can't help but play along; until the moralizing but utterly earned finale sets you on your ear.Not deep stuff--not even as deep as the superbly unself-reflective head-smackers who made up GOODFELLAS' crew. But Saffron Burrows, as a Cockney chanteuse who's mad in love with Thewlis' Mr. Big, brings you back to the days of much-posher-and-prettier-than-their-parts British character actresses. (Could Burrows in fact be the Susannah York of the millennium?) And the director, Paul McGuigan, and Bettany keep the joint jumpin'. Why did this get such a crummy release? There's been almost nothing this year as sheerly, undilutedly fun. "},{"Title":"Paul Bettany shows his acting chops","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gangster No.1 shows the rise and fall of a prominent English gangster. Malcolm McDowell is Gangster 55, telling the story in voice overs, and Paul Bettany shines as the Young Gangster giving a great performance, which carries the film from cookie cutter gangster film, to one of the best.This film is filled with inspirations from many others, such as Goodfellas, Reservoir Dogs, Get Shorty, etc. While some do work, such as Look into my eyes, others don't, McGuigan, near the end of the film, fast forwards through decades in just a couple of minutes, we don't feel like we are with these people throughout their reign of terror in England. The film does have bits of originality, such as the torture while we see the FPV of the victim, fades in and out in his dying minutes, as the killer stands over his body, continuing the slaughter.Paul Bettany shows how good he is in this film as he carries it to another level. His eyes in his Look into my eyes scenes are so hollow and terrifying that you know if he was interrogating you, that he could and probably would kill you at anytime. He has the look in his sharp suits and the style. It's a shame no awards went his way. McDowell, to me in this film is a little bit of, I don't know how to say it, but he didn't do all that much for me. The rest of the cast holds up well, blending well with the story line and environments they are put in.The script is sharp and has a Goodfellas/Reservoir Dogs feel to it, the Goodfellas aspect shows the rise and fall, where as Reservoir Dogs, comes from it's dialouge. I've never heard the word c*nt used so many times. The film took it's time to showcase the rise of this young gangster from a common thug, to a crime lord. The one thing that did out me off though was the fact the he was just picked up out of a bar and given a spot. When Freddie goes to prison, that's when the young gangster takes his spot in being no. 1. Years go by and Freddie finally is released, while McDowell eagerly awaits his return, he expect some conflict, but what he get is a let down, I won't ruin what happens, but you'd expect something explosive.So Gangster No. 1 showcases great performances from the actors involved and shows a great story that takes it time, instead of bang bang, you're dead. The film just lacks that one special thing to take it to greatness, above and beyond those other movies, but for now, it can just be the one to stand out. "},{"Title":"One of the best secret no one knows about movies of all time!!!!","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie soooo much! I was first introduced two thirds into it and I was immediately ready to sit down and watch it at three in the morning staying up till five am. The way it is shot is like pure genius! There is a scene in it that is shot from the perspective of the person being murdered and I mean it is aw inspiring! Seriously if it weren't for the way this movie ended it it would have been a 10 on my voting. Point in fact though the ending isn't horrible it just leaves a little to be desired. NON-SPOILER ALERT about the ending, they use a different person for the main character as the older version, but everyone else plays themselves just with makeup....(Don't get me wrong the guy they got 'Malcolm McDowell' to play as the older gangster is the best narrator and therefore carries the movie, but it's just weird and very hard to over look) Not to mention Paul Bettany who is a genius in this movie as well! My god the man can play psycho! All and all a must watch and a pass on to any friend who is in the mood to see a great flick!!!!! "},{"Title":"Superman, King Kong, and Gangster No. 1","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie to see Paul Bettany once again.  I enjoyed his performances in <A Beautiful Mind> and <A Knight's Tale>, and wanted to see him in something heavier.  Gangster No 1 seemed like the ideal role to see how he'd fare.He looks great decked out in Saville Row's finery, and has an unnerving composure which suits the role.  The crude language seems more natural coming from him than from McDowell's older Gangster, or Thewlin's Mays.  But the scenes in which he is supposed to be shooting daggers with his gaze at Karen, his rival for Mays' affection, seem comical and remind me of all the menace my five-year-old can muster in his stares.There is much lifted from other films, but McGuigan chooses his source material well.  The <Reservoir Dogs> inspired the bubbly soundtrack to Lenny Taylor's goring, while <American Psycho> inspired the methodical disrobing and laying out of goring implements in that scene.  <Get Shorty>'s Travolta gets the Look into my eyes thing right  it's cool apathy we're supposed to see, not Bettany's hammed-up intensity.  <Good Fellas> inspires the Business was never better sequence, though McGuigan's lacks any significant depth, catching up on three decades in three minutes.  Some original stuff too  While a gangster falls for the 'Bird' in this film, as in <Bugsy> or <Billy Bathgate>, it is not Mays' undoing, it is what saves him.  The first person perspective on Taylor's goring works well, especially with fades in and out of consciousness.  The jarring flash-forwards to Gangster's fierce attacks also work well.  And I have never seen the c***-word used more liberally.What McGuigan, Bettany and McDowell do especially well is to reveal the emptiness of Gangster's relentlessly evil lifestyle.  His disloyalty, jealousy, cruelty, vanity, and his hunger for power leave him paranoid, unloved, and suicidal.  His touchstones of power and invulnerability---Superman and King Kong---are not human, perhaps showing how dehumanizing such physical invulnerability can be.  But he remains vulnerable emotionally, and relies on bullying an old mate in Mays' crew, Mays' girlfriend, and Mays himself to stoke his fragile ego.A movie with some substance and style, but no virtuosos in this one.6 of 10 "},{"Title":"COCKNEY CAGNEYS","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  GANGSTER NO.1 (2002) *** Malcolm McDowell, Paul Bettany, David Thewlis, Saffron Burrows.   Bloody good Brit flick about English thugs recalled in flashback by McDowell and portrayed by  Bettany (both equally excellent in a teeth-gnashing kind of way) recollecting their bumpy ride to the top and rocky relationship with head kingpin Thewlis getting in the way. Graphically violent yet smartly directed by Paul McGuigan eschewing stylistic violence for violence sake and encapsulating the Mod 60s effectively.   "},{"Title":"Very good, under-rated and LIMEY-like.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"25 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangsters are vicious, murderous thugs, whose power is based on uniform, military might, a preying on the weak and a contempt for democracy.  Nazis were vicious, murderous thugs whose power was based on uniform, military might, a preying on the weak and a contempt for democracy.  Ergo, gangsters are fascists, and, double ergo, films which portray gangsters without a wagging finger are also fascist.  This is the level of critical debate in the UK at the moment, that has greeted the recent slew of British gangster films in the wake of LOCK STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS.  One misinformed hack in a major broadsheet even insinuated a link between this movement and recent, violent London crime.The problem with these films is an aesthetic, not an ethical one, and the type of ignorant criticism they have drawn reveals a lingering bourgeois contempt for a genre that has proved over the decades to be infinitely varied, subtle, adaptable, but, most importantly, through an awesomely powerful iconography, capable of exploring ideas about society and the individual, modernisation, capitalism, dissent, cinema, masculinity, violence, the body, role-play, psychology, sociology, metaphysics.  Can a genre embraced and remodelled by directors as diverse as Feuillade, Von Sternberg, Hawks, Lang, Lewis, Melville, Godard, Suzuki, Coppola, Scorcese, Kitano, among many others be considered negligible?  The problem with these new films, as I say, is not that they are overly violent or glamorise crime, but that they are ineptly made, hackneyed, opportunistic, with their makers revealing little knowledge of, or love for, the genre in which they're working.It's a pity for GANGSTER NO. 1 that it got caught up in this cycle, because it is a very good film, that maybe fails only in overambition, and that's not something we get to complain about very often.  Ironically, the film's nearest model is not its sorry peers, or even archetypal classics like GET CARTER, but an American film, Soderbergh's THE LIMEY.  Maybe these directors' non-Englishness (MacGuigan is Irish) allows them to cut through the phoney nostalgia more easily than native filmmakers, but their dismantling of gangster mythology is almost Melvillean (eg LE DOULOS).There is the same fluidity here as in LIMEY, the same sense of the past's stranglehold on the present, the same impatience with genre's limits, with the impossibility of family, with the stifling of humanity by barbaric codes and ideals.  MacGuigan goes one further than Soderbergh - both directors emphasis role-playing, casting iconic 60s stars who seem to be making  it up as they go along, having a laugh, trying on accents and clothes, but while Terence Stamp achieves some kind of grace, Malcolm MacDowall goes very uncoolly mad.There are three pointers in the first ten minutes that tell us where the film is going in its refusal to glamorise, to mythologise.  First is the soundtrack, which is not the pumping macho nostalgic music beloved of the LOCK STOCK wannabes, but Sacha Distel - sung with heartbreaking sincerity by Neil Hannon, but Sacha Distel none the less.  Secondly, the film opens at a business-like dinner of old gangsters blustering about the old times, MacDowell louder than most.  If the flippant editing didn't tell us, the bathetic mocking of MacDowell when he leaves  to relieve himself suggests that we shouldn't take everything he says too faithfully (or, in his straight-to-camera gesture, that he knows a lot more, eg about these 'friends', than he's letting on - is he a godlike creator?).  In the third scene, champagne glass beside his feet, we notice his aim isn't quite what it was, and the title takes on rather a different, less iconic meaning.It is this man who tells the story, and it quickly becomes clear that he is a raving lunatic, and thus as reliable as Humbert or M.  This has two effects - every scene becomes infected by his madness, is heightened, in terms of colour and composition, by the way he sees the world, which is hightly unstable and schizophrenic, alternately jokey and horribly violent, with certain markers recurring in a kind of dream loop.Secondly, we must look beyond his words to find the truth of each scene, forcing the viewer to play detective.  This takes the power away from MacDowell, which is appropriate in a film about doubles, about hoow one man steals another man's identity (hence the foregrounding of mirrors, reflections, as well as the commodities that define people), only to lose his own.MacDowell is never known by a name (his character is played by two actors, the others by one), and becomes a mere cipher, though with very real, frightening power, while Frankie remains essentially himself, his image a mere show of strength, never his whole self.  The style reinforces this, and perhaps reflects MacGuigan's background in advertising, but neither Scott nor Parker ever rooted their style in character to such effect, and the fragmentation, heightening and distortion of imagery could have two meanings - they reveal a chaotic world which MacDowell, with all his will, and figured in his voiceover, has managed to unify through the power of his identity and voice; or they are a sign of breakdown.  The extraordinary coda reveals which.There have been complaints about the excessive violence of this film, but these scenes have a hallucinatory, ritualistic quality appropriate to a highly disciplined madman.  GANGSTER's abstraction - that it's subject is gangster mythology rather than one particular protagonist per se, does not mean that it avoids social grounding - the vivid recreation of 60s London, only makes the unaccountable, inexplicable appearance of this phenomenon all the more alarming. "}{"Title":"Living and Loathing in the London of the Swinging Sixties","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thirty years after entering the cultural conscience with the his groundbreaking performance as Alex deLarge in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, Malcolm McDowell returns to the screen in this unabashedly violent and emotionally detached film about envy amongst gangsters and the need to be the gangster no. 1. On learning that his old mentor, Freddie Mays (David Thewlis), has been released from jail, The Gangster (McDowell), now a kingpin among fellow gangsters, moves back to the late sixties when he was a young nameless man (Paul Bettany) just hanging around in the swinging sixties. He infiltrates himself into Mays' circle of gangsters, wins his trust, becomes a ferocious gangster... but there is something wrong with him from the get-go, something Mays is unable to see. The younger gangster has a serious personality imbalance that renders him covetous of everything surrounding Mays. Like Iago, he wants not only to be like Mays, but appropriate himself with Mays' life and this includes his then-girlfriend Karen (Saffron Burrows). Things reach a head when he hits on Karen who rejects him. The young gangster goes on a rampage, pitting Mays with a rival gang member, then brutally murdering Mays' rival and framing him for the murder which sends Mays to jail. He then emerges as the main gangster and lets loose on his up to then pent-up violence... that is, until the story reaches full circle and all three main characters are reunited. The Gangster realizes that Karen and Mays still love each other and his incomprehensible envy towards them has not caused a dent in their affections, and when Mays emerges as the more human person, McDowell sinks in his own self-hatred. An interesting film that takes its time to reach its audience, GANGSTER NO. 1 is a study not in violence but in self-loathing and what happens when the main character is a black hole. Both Bettany and McDowell, in remaining nameless, magnify this man's emptiness -- he, despite his position, is a nobody and has no future. Mays and Karen, on the other hand, having been swallowed alive by London's underbelly, become survivors who are above and beyond The Gangster's murderous rage. The director, Paul McGuigan, has a sharp eye for a stylized telling of such a violent story with flashy editing and some brutal points of view in depicting a murder sequence that resembles a rape and describes just how insane this gangster is. Not for the squeamish at times but a great film to view and enjoy. "},{"Title":" A 'Fast Take' on another gangster film...","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ever since the release of Quentin Tarantino's crime drama 'Pulp Fiction'; it seems as if every other crime drama must reinvent itself. 'Gangster No. 1' falls into that category and while having many flaws, it still manages to capture the audience's attention with its' engaging tale.This dark, stylish and graphic crime flick is the creation of UK director Paul McGuigan whose past efforts include 'The Acid House' and 'Morality Play'. And while it is crude, vulgar, violent and anti-climactic, it has all the characteristics one seeks for a crime film. The film opens with a stunning sequence in which a terribly miscast Malcolm McDowell retells his rise from a lonely soldier in a Crime Family to the head of the organization.Paul Bettany plays McDowell's younger self mysteriously called Gangster 55; who does a superb job at capturing the rapturous rage of this young criminal. While working under Freddie Mays; played with an incredible sense of apathy by David Thewlis, we see Bettany/McDowell's character eye his position in this family on a much wider scale.The film spans itself over 30 years and we see some superb performances from Paul Bettany, David Thewlis and Saffron Burrows. Yet, while the cinematography is stunning, the film's scale inventive and the performances outstanding - Malcolm McDowell is completely miscast. While his body of work displays his range and his acting skills a tremendous attribute, simply put - he was put in this film to sell to markets. Thewlis who also plays Mays  thirty years into the future wears make up for his role and does a fine job, while Bettany's older self is played by McDowell and the scenes in which McDowell and Thewlis interact are quite uncomfortable because it simply does not feel right. McDowells' age difference empowers the scene and reminds us we are watching an actor with make-up, and another without - pretending to be the same age.Furthermore, this film will not please everyone. This is the kind of film that unravels before your very eyes. Yet, the plot reveals itself not by actions but by the characters. In a slow-paced, methodical manner, the film's story unrolls in a manner that some might see as slow and unexciting. Yet, in order to enjoy the film one must immerse himself or herself within the simple plot that is brought to the screen with a touch of elegance with Director McGuigan's stylistic nature and wit.While the film will not be hailed as one of the definitive gangster classics, it still is a good gangster film. And what could have brought it past the level of simply being a good watch is the disappointing last half-hour where our main character's older self (McDowell)  is the focus of the film.The first hour is told in flashback narrative sequences where McDowell tells of his rise. While the first hour harbors many similarities to other films such as  'American Psycho' (the slow, bloody, torturous deaths) and 'Goodfellas' the soundtrack accompanying the build up to a scene); it is entertaining and a pleasure to watch. Yet, the last half-hour culminates in Malcolm McDowell's present day stance as the notorious leader and his attempt to stay number one. Unfortunately, McDowells' performance pales incomparison to Bettany's and the unfortunate over the top performance by McDowell in a weak third act results in  a good film not becoming a great film.Rating **  "},{"Title":"Oh the Good Life... McGuigan","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gangster No. 1 follows the rise and fall of a particularly brutal and disturbed Cockney English gangster. It would be improper to compare this gem to the likes of Goodfellas (1990), big budget American gangster films and Guy Ritchie Brit slick criminal films. No.1 is in the vein of The Krays (1990) and has a for the most part a traditional narrative. That said, Director Paul McGuigan has a grand visual flare and Johnny Ferguson's screenplay takes the time to actually delve into the psyche of gangster who is arguably more psychopath that sociopath, (either way he is a killer). Ferguson's script gives the dialogue weight and realism which can be very thought provoking at times.McGuigan superbly crafts the period pieces of 60's London right through to the 90's, with fantastic set design, locations, music soundtrack and score. The viewer gets to witness England in all its swingin' 60's glory. The direction and Andrew Hulme's editing isn't mediocre and great effort has been made to make you feel the emotion that happens on screen, especially when there is a killer and victim scene. The use of P.O.V, manipulated shots and stylised lighting are used to achieve this. There are some gruesome and violent scenes, which is to be expected given the genre. This includes a torture scene that will stay with you for a while after the credits roll. Since its production 11 years ago only the ageing make-up has dated and yet this still doesn't impair on the magic of the film.The talented cast is any array of familiar UK faces including Saffron Burrows, Eddie Marsan, Doug Allen and Walking Dead's Andrew Lincoln to name a few. David Thewlis is on top form as the quintessential gentleman gangster head Freddie Mays and show stealer Jamie Foreman is outstanding as rival gang leader Lennie Taylor in a smaller but pivotal role.Paul Bettany's performance is simply mesmerising, edgy, scary and he perfectly plays the jealous and ambitious Young Gangster. Incidentally, Bettany is reminiscent of Malcolm McDowell in Clockwork Orange (1971). Similarly, McDowell gives a fitting first-rate performance as the Gangster aged 55, who is just as intimidating and menacing. It's a great piece of casting thats credit goes to Jina Jay.Overall, it's a satisfying British gangster film that approaches the subject matter from a different angle, and that is from the inside out. The subject matter aside it's a self-effacing cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"A marvelously tough and stylish British mobster gem","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1968 A ruthless young mobster (a sublimely chilling and mesmerizing performance by Paul Bettany) desperately wants to emulate his mentor Freddie Mays (the excellent David Thewlis), a suave crime kingpin who lords over London. The gangster literally murders his way to the top, betraying Freddie in the process and losing his soul in his fierce quest for power. 30 years later, the older and successful, yet lonely Gangster 55 (an excellent portrayal by Malcom McDowell) awaits the release of Freddie from prison. Director Paul McGuigan, working from a bold and sharp script by Johnny Ferguson, handles the dark and gritty material with tremendous bravura style, relates the arresting story at a snappy pace, laces the whole thing with plenty of wickedly funny black humor, and punctuates the gritty narrative with several jolting outbursts of raw, savage violence. Kudos are also in order for the uniformly fine acting from a first-rate cast Bettany is genuinely riveting and terrifying as the severely driven and psychotic main character, Thewlis likewise impresses as one smooth operator, McDowell makes the most out of one of his best more recent roles, the ravishing Saffron Burrows exudes pure class as Freddie's brassy singer moll Karen, plus there are nice supporting contributions by Kenneth Cranham as the wise Tommy, Jamie Foreman as hot-headed rival hoodlum Lennie Taylor, Eddie Marsan as sniveling toad Eddie Miller, Andrew Lincoln as vicious hit-man Maxie King, and Doug Allen as the brutish Mad John. This film boasts several memorable set pieces as well our young gangster questioning a whimpering Eddie about Lennie Taylor, the ferocious murder of Lennie Taylor, and the older gangster's searing big climactic confrontation with Freddie. Peter Sova's dazzling cinematography, the flavorsome evocation of the groovy swinging 60's, the often amazing profane dialogue, John Dankworth's supremely jazzy'n'moody score, the stark, harsh tone, the fantastic golden oldies soundtrack, and a potent central message about the bitter spiritual coast of blind ambition all further add to the sterling quality of this bang-up corker of a crime thriller. "},{"Title":"Paul McGuigan is the new superstar !!!","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have now watched all of Paul McGuigan's films and love every single one of them. he's really gone up in my ratings as one of the best directors around at the moment. other classics he's made are Lucky Number Slevin, Wicker Park and Push. its the style he puts into his films that really win me over. the sets look really rich and marvellous. i hope he keeps up his amazing directing techniques. in this film he centres on the gangster world in the 1960's england, and pulls it off brilliantly. the film is slightly surreal with the odd camera shots and dark atmospheric acting. Paul Bettany gives an exceptional performance as a ruthless psycho of a gangster that will do anything to reign supreme on the gangster family. another cool thing about this film is that you never find out what his characters name is. Malcolm McDowell also gives a magnetic performance as the older version of Paul Bettany's character many years later. David Thewlis and Saffron Burrows give good support in this classic gangster masterpiece. the film is very original for its intense and very violent scenes that will shock any audience that watch it. the tracking shots and music really go well with this film. there really isn't a problem i can say with this, maybe the film should be on for a little longer because of the shortness of it due to so many other gangster classics surpassing the 2 hour mark.all in all this film is brilliant. Paul McGuigan is a hero director that has really won me over. he's a genius. if you love this then check out his other films.......... 10/10.........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"violent, compelling and amoral movie making - very good","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is rare to watch a movie where the makers do not attempt to soften the ending, especially if the main character is as utterly repellant as is the eponymous individual of this film played by Paul Bettany and Malcolm McDowell. Bettany plays Gangster 55 as a young man and Malcolm McDowell fills the role thirty years later. He is as ugly a screen creation as I have seen. Even in a film like Scarface, there is a period where Al Pacino's character is likable as he begins his climb up before the inevitable fall. In this film the director, Paul McGuigan, has made no attempt to make Gangster 55 even slightly less than loathsome. But despite this he is human, and while some reviewers have been critical of the ending, I found it to be credible and almost Shakesperean in its intent. Whether that makes the film guilty of ambition outstripping the limitations of the script, it does not lessen the impact.This film is riveting viewing, but be warned, the violence is extreme and there is an awful lot of use of the c word. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Complete Brilliance","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My favourite film of all time!This was a film that I saw by complete accident, browsing Foxtel one day & caught it 10 minutes in. Even though I'd missed a few things crucial to the plot, there were plenty of other elements to this film that kept me watching.For starters, the acting performance by Paul Bettany is complete brilliance. His portrayal of a psychopathic gangster is unbelievable, if not sometimes a little scary.Malcolm McDowell plays Gangster 55 with coolness that young others just don't have. A suave that only actors with his many accomplishments can carry.David Thewlis is awesome as Freddie Mays, the coolest gangster in film history! Flawless performance.In fact, the acting in this film is flawless all round, there are no weak performances.As somebody that has never experienced the 60's, I found all of the scenes that took place in that era completely believable, a very romantic idea for what the London underworld would have been like.An unreal film. "},{"Title":"Savagely brilliant British crime gem","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Paul Mcguigan's Gangster No. 1 is a vicious, savage London crime jaunt that's not for the faint of heart. It rests somewhere between the sassy, hyperactive world of Guy Ritchie, and the moody, paced films of Mike Hodges. It's combines a stylistically nasty, violent aesthetic with snappy, deliberately off kilter dialogue and deadly, serious performances that makes for a film that leaves a stark imprint in both our minds, and the British crime genre. Paul Bettany plays an icy, wickedly ambitious sociopath known only as 55, a fledgling hood who draws the attention of top tier London gangster Freddie Mays (David Thewlis), in the pool halls of east London. Mays takes him under his wing, and before you know it, 55 is his top lieutenant, utilizing his terrifyingly violent, morally blank skill set to advance Mays's criminal empire. He sets his cold gaze higher than that though, and eventually becomes a manipulating devil, moving the chess pieces on both sides to feed his sickening greed and hunger for power. When Mays becomes love struck by stunning lounge singer Karen (radiant Saffron Burrows), 55 sees this as weakness, and the perfect opportunity to strike. Bettany is a clammy, cloying, coiled viper in the role. He uses his silky voice and piercingly unsettling gaze to great effect as the ultimate psycho, and the guy you just don't want as either your friend or your enemy. Malcolm McDowell plays the older version of 55, and is sensational. He shows us a fermented, bitter side of the same coin we see with Bettany, all snarling unpleasantness and pure evil. The two performances alongside each other are just wonderful, and some of my favourite of the crime genre. Thewlis is dapper and slightly more likable, playing a guy who's weary of the game and is looking for any excuse to exit stage right. Burrows provides that intoxicating opportunity. Jamie Forman is loopy fun as an eccentric rival gangster to Mays and 55, and Eddie Marsan is great support as well. This is a British crime thriller with bite, brilliance, and a steadfast desire not to look away from the nastiness that happens behind closed doors and down dark alleys. It's this committed urge to show the violence, "},{"Title":"Fundamentally great film just avoids being fatally sabotaged by casting anomalies","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I suspect there's a very interesting backstory to the making of Gangster No. 1. Consider the casting. The main body of the film is raised to almost mythical status by the pairing of David Thewlis and Paul Bettany. Neither has given a better performance and the chemistry is to die for. Think Single White Female relocated to 1960s London gangsters. The movie begins in the more or less present, then goes back to the 60s before ending back where we started. Everything in that 60s segment is perfect. It's not only the leads. Every character is on the money. It's rarely that everything comes together in this way but here it does. Ageing actors by thirty years within one movie offers a real challenge to the filmmaker but here the ageing is spot on, utterly credible. Which makes the substitution of Paul Bettany with Malcom McDowell for the present-day scenes incomprehensible. It simply doesn't work. But it gets worse. McDowell's a terrific actor but here it's as though nobody showed him Bettany's footage. He's playing a completely different character. Voice, accent, mannerisms, movement, walk. They're all different to Bettany's and it almost destroys the film. That it doesn't, that Gangster No. 1 is still one of the finest gangster films you'll see, is the tragedy here. Forget one of the.... It could have been Oscar winningly, eat your heart out Francis great. And then there's the script. I have a copy of a play, by the same name and clearly from the same source but the writers' names appear nowhere in the movie credits. As I said at the beginning of this review, an interesting backstory. It's a shame that the film and we the audience paid the price. "},{"Title":"almost all good","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" the main flaw is a part reviewers seem to love McDowell as the aging gangster; he simply does not register as the future of Paul Bethany as the young gangster- in height, looks, voice, demeanor; everyone else is right there, good fit, which means that the movie works very well until you get to the aging part; then the crazy, electric, calculating, vicious gangster turns into pretty much an old fud who walks around smoking cigars and rambling on about his past, i.e. not very interesting; it's as if Capone became a financier; electric deniro as the young godfather became an aged fredo instead of Brando who is quite civil and well kept- and will have the horse decapitated no problem; but until you get there, the movie is a first-rate but graphically brutal crime drama with brilliant small performances by lizard-tongued Lenny and others; camera is good, sets are good, script is good, editing is tight, impending terror and doom abound; but better and tighter and no end of movie letdown due to shift of time and place- and way too much shift in character- is the krays; blistering; stunning Billie whitelaw as the twins mum; it's graphically brutal, too, if that's a stopper, but an 8 or a 9 in this ilk "}{"Title":"You can't take it with you","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Power is nice for a while. You can get all the women, all the cars, all the trappings of material success and respect that you might want in this world, but where does it leave you? That is the point of this well-scripted, fantastically acted, and excellently directed film.The occasional psycho might see this as a roadmap to gaining power, but most will see the emptiness which consumes Gangster 55 (played by Malcolm McDowell) as an older man. I saw the emptiness most especially in the opening and closing scenes of the film. In the opening scene, 55 is in his sunset years is with his friends at a high-end club, re-living their younger days. They should be happy and relaxed but instead they seem manic and 55 seems downright bored. The closing scene features McDowell again, mocking Freddie Mays (David Thewlis) who is humbled from serving 25 years in jail. Freddie is at peace. 55 has been the most powerful man around for quite some time and should take some pleasure in that. However he is miserable and so he baits this now humble man. It's clear 55 is that saddest of creatures - only happy when making someone else sad.This film to me was about the emptiness of power gained at the barrel of a gun. Some fantastic acting in this one. Paul Bettany was very good in A Beautiful Mind and he is cold, distant, and terrifying as 55 as a young man. His ambition seems limitless and Bettany makes us believe that there's almost no limit to his capacity for violence. Bettany's coldness and amorality are terrifying. Malcolm McDowell's old gangster is cruel, malevolent, and mean - McDowell seems to relish playing such a despicable character and he does it fantastically. David Thewlis as Freddie Mays really gets to show off his acting chops. What makes Paul Bettany's character admire him is how cool he is. He is cool even after he is released from prison, but along with that, Thewlis gives decency. Thewlis never does more when less will do and he gives a masterclass in understated acting. Saffron Burrows as Karen has a great role in which she plays a no-nonsense waitress with whom Freddie falls irreparably in love. That they remain in love throughout his time in prison is a powerful testament to the power of love and is the counterpoint to the bottomless hatred which emanates from 55. This truly is a paean to the futility of power. Very bleak but also with a note of redemption in the story of the love of Karen and Freddie. I thought this film was interesting in that it offers a more bracing, detached perspective on the life of the gangster than films such as Goodfellas where the activities are so abhorrent. We see what violence and a hunger for power ultimately gets you - boredom and frustration. "},{"Title":"Simply Shakespearian","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is magnificent dripping with the type of evil that Shakespeare excelled at with the film's central antagonist (played by both Malcolm MacDowell and Paul Bettany) reminding me of Iago. Gangster No1 suffers from the deadly sin of Greed, evinced throughout by his lust for power and its material trappings. The title literally refers to the number one gangster of London. It is also the name of the character played by both Paul Bettany (as the young man) and Malcolm MacDowell (as the older man).Plot-wise a young man (Paul Bettany) brought into a gangster's fold (Freddy Mays, played by David Thewlis) connives to usurp the gangster and replace him become the number one gangster of London. Most of the dialogue of the character Gangster No1 is a narrative spoken by Malcolm MacDowell over scenes in which he is represented by Paul Bettany. MacDowell and Bettany play the same character at different ages because there was concern that Bettany's name alone could not carry the film as lead actor. Whilst this is understandable and MacDowell is good as the aged gangster it is also a mistake both in terms of continuity and because Bettany is better than MacDowell. Bettany is creative in how he portrays the evil psychopathy of Gangster No1. His stares, smiles and screams are frightening and disturbing. MacDowell is more obviously bad and does not quite gel with the more complex Gangster that Bettany plays.The film cleverly suggests much violence whilst showing very little. Much of the menace of the film is conveyed by what is not said in the conversations Gangster No1 has with others. The best example of this occurs when Gangster No1 interrogates Eddie about a meeting he has just had with Freddy May's rival Lenny Taylor. Gangster (Bettany) lays down an axe to which Eddie asks 'what's that?' Gangster tells him it's his 'favourite axe'. No more do we see or hear about the axe but it lies, unseen and unspoken of, for the rest of their conversation during which Gangster No1 interrogates poor Eddie. The film conveys well the corruption that eats away at gangsters like the main antagonist they lust for power, will do anything to achieve it, eschew love and are internally ugly. This particular gangster is also vain and arrogant with a lust for material wealth to emphasis his power and importance. Like a Shakespearian antagonist these cravings undo him.Hopefully this film will continue to attract new viewers not least because of Paul Bettany's performance, which is superlative and not for nothing drew the attention of other film makers/directors. Bettany is also gorgeous in this too, which plays with the viewer as his character is so ugly. "},{"Title":"Good gangster film","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for strong brutal violence, pervasive language, and brief drug use and nudity. Quebec Rating16+(should be 13+) Canadian Home Video Rating18AI saw Gangster No 1 about a week ago on IFC.I must say, it exceeded my expectations.I knew it wasn't going to be any Godfather.I expected to be an average gangster movie such as Knockaround guys or something.But Gangster No 1 exceeded my expectations and it is a fairly good gangster film with strong performances and a good storyline.The story is basically thirty years of the life of a gangster ranging from the year 1970 to the year 2000.It shows how he worked for another powerful mafia boss, how he betrayed the mafia boss,and his rise to being a rich gangster and later finding out that he is not happy with it.Gangster No 1 is a good gangster movie that is recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the best gangster films of all time","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is simply a brilliant film, it contains everything that a good gangster movie should. There is plenty of violence, although none of it gratuitous, there is plenty of slick and stylish direction and there are some great characters on offer. What makes this film one of the greatest gangster movies of all time is the atmospheric tension that runs through the movie and the sublime character study, which is essentially what this movie is. The way that the movie follows the no name character through his moral dissent is reminiscent of Scorcese's Taxi Driver and deserves to be mentioned in the same breath and the moral dimension of the movie is as entrenched and controversial as in the Godfather. A brilliant movie that once watched will never be forgotten. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This one will floor you!","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I caught a few minutes of this film on television about a week ago. I was ironically making a batch of fake blood at the time so I couldn't sit down and watch the whole thing. But from the moment I started watching it, it had it's hooks in me. Paul Bettany whom plays the main character (Gangster) as a young man is shockingly good. His performance is incredible, and is the ultimate personification of brute, sadistic, evil I have ever witnessed in a film. He is also the scariest character I have ever witnessed in a film, and I've seen lots of scary characters. This flick contains both the most frightening interrogation I have seen on film, and the most brutal and harrowing murder I have ever seen on film (I wont spoil it in case you do decide to check it out.) This is one of those movies that is hard to watch, but impossible to turn away from. It will get stuck in your head for a couple days and you'll feel a little whacked out yourself. That's great film-making. Honestly, this is probably the most effective crime-drama-mobster flick I have ever seen. You might not agree, but check it out anyway- warning- this film contains some of the most intense and realistic violence I've ever witnessed on screen, it is brutal and not for the squeamish, hell, even hardcore violence vets'd be a little shocked by this. Great movie, can't praise it enough.  "},{"Title":"Yes, it's familiar but still fun","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster No. 1 picks up where countless other British Gangster flicks (and American ones, too) leave off.  The rise and fall of the working class criminal anti-hero is one we've all seen before, but Gangster No. 1 tops the most recent efforts of the shallow Guy Ritchie and the one-note Quentin Tarantino.  Malcolm McDowell, channeling James Cagney in White Heat, chews the scenery but keeps us rivited as the successor to the illicit throne of London's Public Enemy No. 1 (circa 1968), Freddie Mays (David Thewlis -- very good).  Lots of cool camera angles and an ironic soundtrack mark this movie as a hip, hot, hellacious addition to the genre. Well worth viewing if you're in the mood and don't mind a little skull bashing with your cockney accents.  Get Carter (the original) is still my favorite in the genre, but this is an extremely well-acted, stylized piece of fluff.  Pour yourself a double Johnny Walker Black neat, put on your electric blue sharkskin suit, pump up the volume, and watch it on DVD.  You'll love it...  "},{"Title":"Just terrific!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was not expecting this film to be anywhere near as gripping and well made as it was, an absolute surprise.  Just breath-taking, the music, tone and overall feel of this film are outstanding, I was blown away. To compare this to Lock, Stock is meaningless, this is a far better made film. This is a neo-classic film, with a story and performances that stay with you and linger -- like the shadow of the gaunt figure that Paul Bettany projects -- long after you've left the theater. This echoes of Caine in Get Carter or the original sleek Connery, an awesome very scary English gangster.  There's a realism here, that transcends simply hiring real gangsters, it's called great acting. I highly recommend this film...  But don't expect an easy ride. Kudos to Mcdowell for a triumphant return. Jesse Johnson(I) (On the IMdb)  "},{"Title":"Just terrific!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was not expecting this film to be anywhere near as gripping and well made as it was, an absolute surprise.  Just breath-taking, the music, tone and overall feel of this film are outstanding, I was blown away. To compare this to Lock, Stock is meaningless, this is a far better made film. This is a neo-classic film, with a story and performances that stay with you and linger -- like the shadow of the gaunt figure that Paul Bettany projects -- long after you've left the theater. This echoes of Caine in Get Carter or the original sleek Connery, an awesome very scary English gangster.  There's a realism here, that transcends simply hiring real gangsters, it's called great acting. I highly recommend this film...  But don't expect an easy ride. Kudos to Mcdowell for a triumphant return. Jesse Johnson(I) (On the IMdb)  "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man, this movie has some brutality in it.  I like the acting peformances of Malcolm McDowell, David Thewlis and Saffron Burrows in the film. When it comes to gang rivals especially in England in the sixties, it gets meaner and ugly and with brutal and catastrophic results. All I have to say is, watch this movie because You'll get blown away!  "},{"Title":"pure evil is such fun to watch from afar","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Where do I start this film hit me like a suckerpunch, a mate of mine threw it on and all I knew and needed to know was that Malcom McDowell was in it. Well whoever plays his younger counterpart is the most evil I have seen on the screen in any movie for a long time. Scarface and Snatch are comedies compared to this. Style, substance and slit throat violence that I haven't seen done this good and chilling since the Untouchables, damn fine viewing. "}{"Title":"This isn't your granddad's gangster film!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was far and away the most overlooked film of 2000. Here in the US it screened at the LA International Film Fest, and just this summer was shown as the last film in an American Cinemateque Film Retrospective on Malcolm McDowell. I have recently heard that it will be given a limited release in the states this year, and I sincerely hope that it does. This film could do for Malcolm McDowell's career what Pulp Fiction did for John Travolta. It is the most well drawn character he's been given to interpret since Clockwork Orange and as a result is the finest performance he's given in twenty-five years. This includes his wonderful turns in the Lindsay Anderson trilogy as well as Time After Time, and Royal Flash top calibre work from a performer who has been type cast and overlooked for far too long. The nameless gangster that the title implies narrates the story of his own life from 1968 to present as he rises through the ranks of street tough to crime boss. Paul Bettany (recently of Knight's Tale) portrays the younger McDowell, and must have subsisted on a steady diet of Mal's early work because he has his mannerisms down cold. His more than a passing likeness works very well for the transition between the two periods covered in the film. David Thewliss is wonderful as a dandy but deadly crew boss in swinging London and Saffron Burrows looks very at home in 60's regalia and like everyone in the film, gives a very strong Performance.This is a side of British film making that hasn't been seen in years; it seems more of a contemporary of Performance, Get Carter, and Poor Cow, than of Lock, Stock.., or Snatch (both very good films in their own right). The sale of Stephen Soderberg's Limey and the Stallone Get Carter remake (and their awful box office take) must have hurt McGuigan's chances for immediate distribution and more the loss because of this. The score is immersed in 60's cool right along with the soundtrack, and the cinematography has a heavy retro feel. The violence is also reminiscent of  the late 60's (Bonnie & Clyde) and early 70's (Last House on the Left) and while definitely not for the squeamish, is not used to glorify itself.Rarely has violence been used in a realistic manner and yet responsibly at the same time, without becoming preachy.  If the Miles Davis album Bitches Brew were an English Gangster film, this would be it.  "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  IT's stylish, it's clever, it moves.  I am always amazed at how great English actors are in comparison to American or German ones.  Of course this film is violent, but the violence is neither superfluous nor superficial. It has something to say.  About the language - well, you can't really expect Gangsters to speak like schoolmarms, can ya?  This is a real movie. "},{"Title":"Dead 'Ard - As It Should Be","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, so there's a lot of violence - so what? I'm personally sick and tired of the gangster-lite presentations of the likes of the Sopranos.Gangsters kill people - and the more psychotic the gangster, and the more willing they are to slaughter people who get in the way then the more successful they'll become. That's the whole point of this movie.Some people think that gangsters should be portrayed as having redeeming features - they don't, that's why the Krays never got out of prison alive.The evocation of 60's London gangsters is particularly good - and cleverly utilises the stylised look of the likes of Performance and Blow Up. Excellent. "},{"Title":"This is an instant Classic","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an instant classic. With an exceptional cast it is not only faithful to British crime films of the 60's and 70's but it captures the spirit of London at that time. The film is stylish, well acted and provides an almost unbearable level of tension.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining Film","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a story about a young ambitious man who likes being a gangster and when he is young the role is played by Young Gangster, (Paul Bettany). Freddie Mays, (David Thewlis) is the head king pin and decides to hire this young gangster who wants to fill his shoes someday. There are many flashbacks concerning the life of the young gangster and the older gangster played by Malcolm McDowell who managed to send Freddie Mays to prison and he also took over his entire business. There is plenty of blood and gore and rough and tough British crude language which is very hard to understand. This is a very unusual film and it will hold your interest right to the very end. "},{"Title":"3 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As the film opens we see a table of men in later middle age, very well dressed, around a table having dinner. In the same room, nearby, there is a boxing match going on, mostly ignored or perhaps taken for granted. The men remember shared events, but with fading memories. Their heavy accents tell us that we are in England. And we begin to see that these are people are criminals. Our main focus is on a character (Gangster 55) played by Malcolm McDowell. When someone says that Freddie Mays is getting out of prison, Gangster 55 reacts and leaves the table.We flash back to 1968. Now the Gangster 55 character is played by Paul Bettany (who played the roommate in A Beautiful Mind). We see him get recruited by Freddie Mays (David Thewlis), a.k.a., the Butcher of Mayfair. Freddie is dressed impeccably, as we hear Gangster 55 describe in the voiceover. Soon, after he joins Mays' gang, Gangster 55 is also.I was reminded of a couple of films. It reminded me of Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, in that it involved gangsters with heavy English accents. This film also has some flashy camera work, but on the whole is more straightforward than the earlier film. This is appropriate, because while I would call Lock primarily a comedy, this was most definitely not. While there were a small number of humorous times, on the whole this is a serious and far more violent film.The other obvious connection is to A Clockwork Orange. The films are related because of Malcolm McDowell, who figures prominently in both films, by the way that the young Gangster 55 is photographed glaring into the camera in a very similar manner to McDowell's Alex in the earlier film, and by the general level of violence.This isn't really my kind of film. I went because I read some very strong reviews. I admired it, but I felt drained when I left, and I couldn't really say that I enjoyed the experience. Even though that doesn't sound like a recommendation, it is, for the right people.Seen on 8/2/2002.  "},{"Title":"Somewhat Uneven Thriller","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What I remember most about GANGSTER NO 1 on its initial release was the critics mentioning the amount of violence shown ( Channel 4 also pointed out the disturbing content before the broadcast last night ) but I don`t really see what the problem is . I agree it`s a violent picture but at least the subject matter is treated very seriously with the deadly violence seen from the victim`s point of view for a change . The people who have a problem with this movie are the same people who have a problem with porn movies , honestly you`d think they`d never seen nine people in love before!!!!! SPOILERS !!!! If I have a problem with GANGSTER NO 1 it`s to do with the script , frankly it`s very dumb in places like Freddy Mays being convicted of the murder of Lenny Taylor . If Mays is lying in hospital in a critical condition why would he be a suspect ? The forensics would prove what time he died making it impossible for Mays to be a suspect . And the bare bones of the story seems to steal a massive amount from ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA though the screenplay does remain somewhat underdeveloped As director Paul McGuigan can also be accussed of being heavily influenced by Scorsese but that can be forgiven as the direction is the best thing about the movie with nice little flourishes like the reflection of a man falling from a high rise block of flats in a car windscreen , and there`s the aforementioned scene of a torture victim . If I have a problem with any of the technical aspects it`s the sound mix with background noise drowning out the dialogue in some scenes , but there`s a good cast on show here with Paul Bettany especially good  But GANGSTER NO 1 is a fairly good - Though uneven - British thriller that owes very little if anything to Guy Ritchie . It`s such a pity the story wasn`t a little bit stronger and that the lily livered critics didn`t state the movie`s strong points     "},{"Title":"Look into my eyes.","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gangster No. 1 is directed by Paul McGuigan and written by Johnny Ferguson, Louis Mellis and David Scinto. It stars David Thewlis, Paul Bettany, Malcolm McDowell, Saffron Burrows, Kenneth Cranham, Jamie Foreman and Eddie Marsan. Music is by John Dankworth and cinematography by Peter Sova. Gangster 55 (McDowell/Bettany as the younger version) looks back on his brutal life, on how he became a gangster... The British gangster genre of film was gathering apace in 2000. Guy Ritchie's Snatch would wow critics later in the year, while Ben Kingsley's ferocious turn in Sexy Beast (David Scinto and Louis Mellis co-write on that as well) would even get an Oscar nomination, yet Gangster No. 1 is the equal of both films but still doesn't have the acclaim afforded the others - undeservedly so. Predominantly set in the late 60s, with period flavours strong, pic doesn't pull its punches, and yet it is never over gratuitous with the violence and mania (but you do feel it big time) that surrounds Gangster 55 (Bettany brilliantly feral and frightening). It's with the characterisations where McGuigan's film gets its strength, we witness greed, blood lust and the yearning of power via chilling portrayals, set to the back drop of a scuzzy London underworld where even the vermin don't dare to dwell. This is a film not wanting to be loved thematically, but the top performances across the board and pic's ability to grab you by the throat - to not let go - makes it a rip- snorting slice of evil. Essential for those interested in the British gangster film revival of the noughties. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Though a character study of inadequacy, 'Gangster no. 1' is anything but.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm told, although I haven't had the chance to see it yet, that the performance of Paul Bettany in 'Gangster no. 1' owes a debt to the performance of Brit flick gangster icon James Fox in 'Performance.' Whether that is true or not I don't know -- I'll have to find out. What I do know is that Paul Bettany delivered a dynamic performance in 'Gangster no. 1.' With his work here as 'Young Gangster,' Bettany announced that he is a high level talent of great depth. If for no other reason, watch this movie to see an actor who plays a flamboyant Chaucer in 'A Knight's Tale,' a likable and taciturn doctor in 'Master and Commander,' and now a violent, seething and inadequate gangster in this film.There are, however, more reasons to watch than just great acting. 'Gangster no. 1' is about the rise and fall of an extremely violent and unbalanced gangster. Malcolm McDowell plays the present day gangster who has risen to the top of London's criminal world. Has has spent 30 years ruthlessly and bloodily building a criminal empire on a foundation of his enemies bodies. Life is euphoric and gravy. Then he learns that the man he once worked for is getting out of prison. Life isn't so euphoric anymore. The film is largely a flashback as McDowell remembers his one-time friend and tries to decide how best to deal with his imminent return.Paul Bettany plays McDowell's character in the flashbacks and it was a great bit of casting in both roles. I couldn't help but think of a young Alex turning into Bettany and then turning into McDowell. 'Young Gangster' is terribly complex. He can barely suppress his own psychosis and the sadistic rage that inevitably erupts because of it. He likes nice things and is envious of his boss (David Thewlis). Bettany and McDowell are haunted by the legacy of Thewlis for the entire film. Thewlis is liked, feared and respected by everyone. Bettany and McDowell are mostly just feared. Even that seems to be slipping away. At the beginning of the film McDowell gets up to go to the bathroom. The gangsters sharing the table at the restaurant with him make jokes at his expense almost as soon as he's out of earshot.Is 'Young Gangster' homosexual? Based upon the almost level of jealousy and hatred he seems to have for the Saffron Burrows character whom Thewlis loves, I had to wonder. We see him alone the entire film however so another way to look at the jealousy is to regarding Burrows as an obstacle. She represents a sense of completion and fulfillment for Thewlis. In contrast, 'Young Gangster' is filled with inadequacy. He desperately covets the wealth, the position and -- most importantly -- the respect of Freddy Mays. Freddy Mays is anti-thetical to 'Young Gangster.' Freddy Mays is more than just his style and his money. He's been able to put his life into an enriching and rewarding order that 'Young Gangster' covets and resents -- his own is so deeply inadequate that he desperately mimics but can not replicate. Consider the final confrontation. McDowell is seeking both penance and approval from his former boss. Thewlis will only look on him with a mixture of pity and contempt. McDowell has the money, the clothing, the fancy apartment; his life is material but empty. Yes, he's Gangster Number One, but as the title of the film cleverly puts it, he's also Gangster No One. I think the tie pin is a great example. Bettany covets the tie pin and what it represents all of the things about Thewlis that he wants for himself. Thewlis gives it to him as a gesture. Bettany wears it proudly but it turns into a symbolic gesture of his own pathetic inadequacies. Thewlis later twists the knife when he tells McDowell that he doesn't need 'your money, your flat or your f**king tie pin.' Ouch.This is a wonderful character study of inadequacy, almost a spiritual film of sorts. Bettany is awe-inspiring, McDowell reminds you of the greatness he's capable of and David Thewlis, who is always so good, gives a very restrained and counter-balancing performance. Tremendous work from the three main leads and all of the supporting characters as well. Having just watched the film last night, I'm still too close to it. I get the feeling though that my rating and my regard for it will grow in time. Better, in my opinion, than 'Sexy Beast' and a more serious companion to the Guy Ritchie contributions. Shudder with recollections of 'Hostel' when Bettany introduces Foreman to a grisly end. And if he tells you to look into his eyes? Keep an eye out for hatchets. "},{"Title":"One of the best Gangster Film's ever","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I very strongly recommend this film to anyone who is Addicted to Gangster Films,This film is full of sinister act's, And Comedy gag's and load's load's more.The women make you soft, Speech Is a Classic.I, love this film to bit's... And no one could ever write such a brilliant script like this again, Hope You Enjoy This Film.But it's not For soft hearted people,Very Violent scenes and all that.But the storyline also presents a kind of underworld justice.Trust Me Folk's... You Will Never Forget This Film.Because... There will NEVER be another like it. Regard's Bacon h/h "}{"Title":"Untouchable","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite types of movies are crime dramas.  However, Italian Mafioso films have left me rather ragged (Casino was better than Goodfellas in my book, and the Godfather was a big disappointment -- second one was better).  However, I've been constantly surprised and overjoyed with English crime dramas, and Gangster No. 1 is no exception, having completely blown me away.  Slightly similar but mostly unlike the fellow films made by popular director Guy Ritchie, Gangster is the story of an absolutely madman of a gangster known as Gangster 55 who steals the reins of power away from his previous boss.  But when this man is released from prison, 55 recalls his rise to power before he's forced to deal with the present. Gangster No. 1 is my first foray into the world of underground filmmaking.  For a while now, I've only paid attention to well-rated movies out of mainstream (Scorsese, Kubrick, and the like), but with Gangster No. 1 starts a new path in life.  This flick is well-acted, well-paced, and is pumped full of lots of enjoyable violence.  Have a ball as you watch.  "},{"Title":"too late the hero","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this film is about as good as it gets. No I am not a violent film junkie, no I am not a groupie of post Lock, Stock etc,yes I admire the economy of films such as Point Blank, Get Carter and see the core inspiration for this film but Gangster No 1 wears its heart on its sleeve whilst being TOTALLY its own.Anyone who has watched it and dismissed it as being the arse end of the new wave of British 'gangster stylee' or merely been psyched by its violence should watch it again. It is far more than that. If you haven't seen it, do yourself a favour. As someone who knows and loves films, gangster, arthouse, intellectual or otherwise I can honestly say this is one of the best films ever made.No s**t, better than Long Good Friday, than Lock Stock, even Get Carter for Christ sake! Every single element is as good as it gets - acting, writing, directing, cast, plot.... and so on. A Shakespearean tragedy with Bettany as a riveting tour de force. Which is saying something when the cast includes McDowell and Thewliss.No slack, jaw dropping performances and a deep, deep, deep conclusion. If you like films that demand your attention and dont insult your intelligence, give it a go. Maybe that's another reason why it slipped under the wire? If you really care about great cinema watch it, closely. And ps, I dont know ANYONE associated, these are my genuine views. Please, Please, Please try it. Its a 10/10 "},{"Title":"terrific gangster tale with some splendid artwork","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  if you are going to see one movie this year, let it be Gay gangstas with trousers full of s***. If you want to see another movie, see this one. It's funny and interesting, and teaches you a lot about how you are supposed to behave. "},{"Title":"Blood-chilling.","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now this movie is on top of my list. Apart from the brilliant performance, we have crisp, clean, careful sets- I always like a movie that makes a good screen-cap gallery.)The script was top notch and full of details that were seemingly unimportant, but stuck in the back of your mind and made later events recogniseable and gave them a deeper sense. The play on lighting, split screens and lenses never once seemed tacky. The movie chills your blood. I daresay a good part of that success comes from Malcolm McDowell's fantastic voiceover.And giving Bettany the 'look into my eyes' line was a stroke of genius.10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"worth a look","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  in 2000 i was in europe and bought a magazine (hotdog) with a whole layout about this movie, i really wanted to see it!  well, i was a little disappointed but the movie is not without merit.  i think Bettany really pulls off a good performance despite the one dimensionality of his character.  i seriously don't understand all this praise for Malcolm Mcdowell.  i loved him in A Clockwork Orange, but I just didn't buy his performance here, especially since the other actors used makeup to age their characters, yet the older Gangster is played by McDowell who looks nothing like Bettany.  He sounded like an american trying to do cockney, seriously. If this was meant to be Shakespearian, they should have developed it more and maybe sighted a specific play or something.  for me the movie was entertaining but in the end rather flat.  like i said, worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Loved it, but where's the soundtrack???!!!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't quite understand why this film hasn't gotten more recognition and has received such mixed reviews. I really loved it and will watch it again and again. My only gripe is not with the film itself, but with the lack of an available soundtrack. The music is varied and quite interesting in its own right, and is also well-suited to the movie. In this day and age when nearly every movie is accompanied by a soundtrack (even In The Bedroom which contained almost no music as I recall!), I fully expected to locate and order the accompanying music.  "},{"Title":"Well done for the most part..","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In disagreement that this film had to reinvent itself from Pulp Fiction, I find that this film didn't TRY to be different, it was just its own film/own story.  I could almost see similarities to GoodFellas, Once Upon a Time in America and The Sopranos and even a little like Shiner - just one story- where an old gangster reflects upon his past and invites the audience to understand his life.The cinematography was supberb- the shots were full of color, mystery, treachery, fear and really captured the young gangster 55's character w/ his strong quiet expressions - you could almost glimpse into his dark soul. The film did get predictable when gangster 55 approached Eddie about the hit planned on Freddie Mays- at that point- gangster 55 went off.. his true colors were about to be revealed & we all had a good idea of events would come about & then some, which still left the audience surprised.He was obsessed with status, obsessed with ring leader Freddie Mays' throne, riches.  When Freddie Mays' didn't give him attention then he felt nobody should, thus the pain began.  To me, Mays was a true gangster who kept his enemies close to him, kept a wall of mystery and unpredictability, was man of class, charm, could forgive, but not forget, was calculative, knews how to run his men in a charismatic but firm way- something gangster 55 could never capture.. he had the gangster life all wrong thinking it was all about gaining material & status as no. 1, that he should never feel emotion or have a conscience for anyone or anything.. that was his downfall.  His obsession got to him.People may see Bettany's performance as several times better than Malcom McDowell's performance.. but if you look at it this way- in old age, people begin to lose their touch- they change, they're cornier, they're trying to hold onto the way they were, but can't- times change & situations change..the old gangster 55 was slowing down and to make up for it, he becomes louder, flashier, more cocky and boastful rather than sharp, self-contained and mysterious.. the secret was out and people have left him, gone crazy  or have gotten tired of him.. thus, you can't judge who was a better actor- they both did their parts well based on their given situations, surroundings & people they interacted with.  A high point of the story for me was when old gangster 55 asks the old Eddie an important question which Eddie answers w/o any fear.All in all, this is one of the top best films I've rented in a while. "},{"Title":"Can't Decide","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked everything about this move, with one exception, and I can't decide if it's nitpicking or not.  Malcolm McDowell is wonderful and I was impressed with Paul Bettany, but they just don't look alike, especially since everyone knows exactly how McDowell looked in 1968.  It just bothered me that the other actors, especially Thewlis, had an excellent makeup job done, while Bettany was simply replaced.  I mean, it might've looked ok if it was set in, say, 2030, but by 1999, Gangster 55 looks much older than everybody, but then, he was a tortured soul.... "},{"Title":"If only for one scene","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I happened to be in England when this movie came out in 2000, and saw it without knowing anything about it. Told in a flashback style, a gangster who has been through it all recounts his rise to fame. This, of course, leads to some great period settings recounting swinging 60's London. For fans of nouveau crime flicks including Hong Kong epics, this movie should be seen if only for one scene, the most brutal and surreal murder sequence that I have seen in many a year. Describing this scene would only spoil it, but needless to say, the faint-hearted would do well to look away. "},{"Title":"Overall a great gangster flick","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie reminded me of Taxi Driver, great build up to the characters downfall.  Great camera angles and lighting.  First 3/4 of the film was incredible, only to lead to a weaker ending.  Still it was very good and entertaining.  Oh, and excessively bloody. "}{"Title":"If you can stomach the rough content, it's worth checking out for the performances alone.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The unnamed title character in this ultra-violent British Tarantino/Ritchie-esque flick is played brilliantly by Paul Bettany (A Knight's Tale) in flashbacks and by Malcolm McDowell in present day. They portray a venomous, unlikable thug in truly chilling performances that deserves to be seen by the not-so-faint-of-heart.  Stylistically masterful, director Paul McGuigan handles this bloody tale by telling the story of the Gangster by using a mostly-wordless Bettany with creepy voiceovers by McDowell. David Thewlis and Saffron Burrows also give solid performances with Thewlis as the man Bettany wants to be and Burrows as the woman that comes between them. Both of them aren't easy to like, but come out like saints compared to the nameless one. The swinging London gangsters may not come off as interesting as Tarantino's seemingly loveable thugs, but that's part of the point. They're not as charming or witty, but that's what makes them scarily realistic. Although not the most original of stories, it is the performances that make the film stand out from the already-flooded British gangster genre. The stylized screen violence has become more art than shock value and as we further desensitize ourselves to images like this, the less effective these films become. Some may actually only see this as a raunchy, violent, misogynist crime flick and, in a sense, they are right. Deeper than that, though, is a character study in greed and obsession with nods to Shakespeare, Freud, and the great Greek Tragedies. Those expecting a Hollywood-style gangster flick will be taken aback to say the least. While it has been out for 2 years in the UK and over a year in Canada, it has finally made it to US shores. Most genre enthusiasts already own it on DVD, but it's worth a look on the big screen. If you can stomach the rough content, it's worth checking out for the performances alone. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    This movie has some of the poetic beauty a lot of cautionary hamicidal maniac stories lack.  It also reminds me of favorite moments like when John Dillinger (Warren Oats) invites Baby Face Nelson (Richard Dreyfuss) to join him down by the water for a lesson in heirarchy.  Or that cute business in American Psycho where the anti-hero pampers himself with all sorts of expensive junk.   Malcolm McDowell is great here as a guy who has succeeded in growing up to be No. 1 (up from 55, I guess).  Problem is, who the heck would want to be that?  Crime does not pay.  Young gangster #55 is a little too fancy looking when he gets cleaned up, but Paul Bettany will stop at nothing to bare the soul of a character who probably coulden't get into Hade's kennel.  Be warned.  The ordinary business of murder and intimidation can be a bore, so this up-and-comer likes to use his imagination and wit to spice things up.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Not your average gangster film","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is slightly reminiscent of Get Carter, i.e. gritty English gangster film set in the sixties but, in keeping with the changing times, it's even more violent and repellent.That's not to say it's a bad film. It's rivetting, with standout performances from young Paul Betany (convincingly mad as the young gangster) and David Thewlis (stealing every scene he appears in as his older mentor). Less convincing was Betany's metamorphosis into Malcolm McDowell, who plays the Betany character 30 years on, but is infinitely less scary and seems merely irrascible rather than mad.Now there's a good deal of very unpleasant violence in this film which will make even hardened viewers rather uncomfortable. But the violence is never glamourised and is rather hinted at than shown directly. Although I found the ending a bit disappointing there is plenty here to recommend the film, not least a very sixties atmosphere (which I'm barely old enough to remember) and if you like gangster films you shouldn't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Return to Britain and form from Malcolm Mcdowell","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster no. 1 is  a good British gangster movie. With a fantastic, solid and absolutely menacing performance from Malcolm McDowell as Gangster 55. Paul Bettany as his younger self is also a top performance! I enjoyed the film  8/10 "},{"Title":"Black, sick & very good!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the same vein as 'Lock, stock..' and 'Snatch' the film captures the mood of the 60s perfectly, giving a step-by-step sequence of how our wide-boy gangster anti-hero rises to the top, over a mound of bodies. Paul Bettany captures the essence of a bitter, twisted, misogynistic homicidal maniac - he even looks like a young Malcolm McDowell (see If). David Thewlis has improved tremendously from his earlier performances (see DragonHeart) and carries off the gentleman hard-man almost to perfection, the only stumble is at the end of the film, which may be down to direction rather than lack of acting ability. Non-Brits may struggle with the language (what IS a fa'in' can' ?), but the gist comes through very strongly and the dialogue is brilliant.Scenes that stand out in particular are; the 'interrogation' scene - totally suspenseful and believable; and the 'undressed for action' scene, although that is just a tad (!) gorier. Thoroughly recommended, but not for weak stomachs...   "},{"Title":"The director should do Long Good Friday sequel!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My first impression at seeing Malcolm McDowall looking at the camera with the line what do you think I am? A c**n? was oh no, here's another mockney drama with fake Cockney accents I almost gave up watching. So glad I didn't. What a powerhouse of a movie. The central performances are electrifying and there's a great message. Gangster is the best tragic anti-hero since Harold Shand. In fact this movie is the most intense, moody and dark gangster film since The Long Good Friday - the director should definitely apply to make the sequel! "},{"Title":"''I'm number one...''(PLOT SPOILERS)","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rarely has a speech like this ignited so much emotion inside me.When I first heard of this, I had heard that some of the violence was disgusting,so I thought ''Not another Lock,Stock...rip off''.Then I sat down and watched it and I was amazed. The violence is disgusting, but it is all justified at the end.I was amazed that it is actually anti-violence and anti-gangster, so it's a throwback to Get Carter.Paul Bettany is superb as Gangster's young self, but Malcolm McDowell's narration steals the show.It echoes A CLOCKWORK ORANGE in places (narration,eyes,facial close ups),but it's a stand out in the British gangster flick.Go and watch it, YOU CAHHHNT. "},{"Title":"Fabulous, when seen through the right eyes","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster Number 1 has been praised and panned in Toronto,so I went with an open mind.Almost from the first minute, I realized that those who had panned the film were missing one crucial point. Unwittingly or not, the film is an incredible spoof of Monty Python's Pirranha Brothers sketch. If the viewer is not familiar with Python, the film lacks a certain depth.But if you know Doug and Dinsdale Pirranha, the flic is a scream! The scene in which the loathesome club manager comes leeringly into the dressing room of the chorus girls to assign them to the head gangster's table was a direct lift! The line from Python was We was running 'an 'igh class eating establishment for the gentry, featurin' 'igh class cuisine, and cookin'.We was not a cheap clip joint for picking up tarts.I howled through the entire film. The apartment! The colours! Incredible 60s verisimilitude. All they were missing was Chief Inspector Harry Snapper-Organs. If you don't know who he is, then you missed the comedy as well. "},{"Title":"Malcolm McDowell back on top form!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster Number 1, surprisingly is a gangster film. Set in London it charts the rise and fall through the years of the main character simply known as 'Gangster'- played by Malcolm McDowell and Paul Bettany. It's a very good and stylish British thriller, which see's a welcome return to the British screen for Malcolm McDowell. Who is exellent and thrives as the said Gangster. Its very violent but very entertaining and well made.  "},{"Title":"Incredible Gangster Flick","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was phenomenal as it really returns us to harsh reality of how gangsters really behave . Films like Lock Stock .. and Pulp Fiction while excellent movies have reduced gansters to cartoonish figures but this movie really shows them in thier ruthless glory. At the heart of this movie is the performance by Paul Bettany who is absolutely brilliant as the psychotic Gangster 55 . Malcolm McDowell is also good as the older but not wiser Gangster but fails to match Bettany's icy brilliance . All in all a must see if u like Gangster flicks .  "}{"Title":"Simply Superb","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent, well paced and dark take on the gangland theme. The acting is almost immaculate (I found Malcolm Macdowel slightly disappointing though), the set designs, especially of late 60s London, fantastic, and the soundtrack eery. The plot is strong, and especially in the pivotal scene where old Gangster no.1 meets the Butcher of Mayfair, reminded me of classic tragihero Shakesperean themes.Well worth taking out on video and don't believe anyone who says it reminds them of Lock, Stock... (a lightweight, entertaining and totally forgettable popcorn film). "},{"Title":"It'll hit you hard","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film having avoided it for some time, recommendations failing to cut beyond the pithy glamourisation and all-round weak comtemporaries of Circus and 24 Hours in London and the mockery of Guy Ritchie's mockney comedies. But on entering the video shop searching for the middle ground, something acceptable to my two companions who wanted a chick-flick we came to talk- type and exploitative snuff-type we want to see handicapped people get more handicapped, we saw the cover and these views of an ultra-hard but surprisingly enjoyable evening resurfaced so we took our choice and paid our money.It was no waste.This film is notable for being a cut above the present ream of British gangster flicks being produced currently for a number of reasons. Firstly it hold no comparision with Snatch and it's ilk; it is not entertaining, and this is a good thing. Secondly it does address a serious subject in a serious way, so seriously in fact (according to all accounts here and elsewhere) that it has divided viewers in deciding it's value.Comparisons with recent movies abound, but it struck me as holding it's ground somewhere between GoodFellas and Fight Club. It is violent, very violent, and it treats these scenes in a way that has Scorsese looking like a squirrel scratching at a pussy-willow and at half the length is more ruthless. The no-named gangster protagonist, however, performed by Bettany, and Thewlis' Freddie Mays demonstrate the dualist animalistic violent/civilised sophisticate with much more sincerity to life and subtlety than the Pitt/Norton partnership, resulting in a much more convincing and effective, non-glamourised story. Visually there are echoes of A Clockwork Orange in Bettany's eyes (we are constantly told to look into them, as if they reveal the devil himself) - he has obviously been chosen for the comparative similarity to those ofMacdowell's eyes in that film. The Kubrickian influence, however, runs deeper; stark, atomic visual compositions, with an emotive soundtrack and themes of dehumanisation colour the film in a variety of filters down to the script itself.At the end, after striving to become the 'Butcher of Mayfair' for 30 years, Macdowell convinces us of his success, yet is somehow left unfulfilled. The man he wanted to be found peace in the love of a woman, education and the renunciation of violence (he couldn't exact a revenge killing on the gangster, even after a confession of betrayal).  We are left asking, as does the gangster what makes you the better man, Professor? but Mays admits himself that he is only a sad man in a crap suit. My companions had also rented Shaft, a Hollywood (ie expensive, glamourous, well-made and well-sold, with big name star actors) discussion of a serious topic (the ill of racism), but it was this film which left them still talking several hours later, both ends of the spectrum intelligently and much more enjoyably catered for. This is a film that punches above it's weight. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, non-derivative.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paul McGuigan's film is intelligent and well-made. Because it's very violent and because it's gangster genre, it is likely to be bracketed with the work of Tarantino and Guy Ritchie (`Lock, Stock' & `Snatch'). It owes little to either film-maker.`Gangster No. 1' eschews the cartoonish and U.S.-market-oriented style of Guy Ritchie; there's none of the bogus London patois Ritchie uses, the entire cast doesn't use `oh-those-quaint-Brits' pseudonyms, and there's no contrived caper serving as plot.Comparisons with Tarantino are equally moot the heart of Tarantino's work is his dialogue, which snaps with sparkle and vim. Johnny Ferguson's script, by contrast, is basic, dirty; his characters' words are brutal, to the point, saying no more than needs to be said to establish place in the pack.Spoilers ahead.The film concerns the rise of Gangster Malcolm McDowell from a henchman of gangster Freddie Mays David Thewlis to pole position in his crime pond. This rise is depicted retrospectively, recounted by McDowell, who has been prompted to reflect on his past by the news that Mays is at the end of the 30 year jail sentence, which Gangster engineered so as to clear his path to the top. The young gangster of this reflection is played by Paul Bettany.The three key actors each give sound performances. Bettany's job is to play the young ``amoral'' psychopath -- a role that has been done before, and often done by the actor portraying nothing; facial features that never move with `chilling' eyes in the middle. And Bettany does a portion of this. But we also hear an interior monologue -- his thoughts -- and those show a more complex individual. This, combined with shots where his mouth opens in a wide rictus and he emits a silent yell of mad rage, is relevant to the denouement of the film which -- to read other reviews on imdb -- has eluded some.McDowell's again emulates the set facial features of the ``psychopath.'' But his emulation is different from Bettany's -- behind the older gangster's face is man who feels he has been cheated. He has got what the younger self wanted -- power, fear, wealth -- but it has not brought him the satisfaction he was sure of. He feels conned -- like Faust, but without the agency of Mephistophilis, he has the riches and none of the happiness.Thewlis' role is that of the dangerous dandy; the slick young thug who dresses in sharp suits, who is coldly violent but mostly orchestrates rather than commits violence. He has the power Gangster wants -- and the contentment, too. We see this several times -- it is not just Mays' power Gangster wants -- it is his style -- the  way he dresses, the way he behaves. And this eludes Gangster; he sees the style he wants -- but doesn't know how to emulate it indeed being reduced at one point to wearing Mays' cast-off tie-pin -- and he sees the unstylish life of his henchmen peers -- but doesn't know how to rise out of it. Knowing where he wants to flee and where he wants to arrive, he's stuck in limbo.But the deeper source of his malcontent is Karen, a singer / club hostess ably played by Saffron Burrows. He is instantly captivated by her -- and instantly alienates her. Being a creature of violence he treats her though only verbally violently. He sees what he wants; and has no idea how to get it. But Freddie Mays knows how to get it -- and it's Freddie who ends up with Karen.This is the key of the film. In due course Gangster engineers Mays' downfall -- he learns that another crime boss has set an ambush for Freddie, and keeps the matter quiet. Thus Freddie gets ambushed and nearly dies. Karen apparently dies too. Gangster watches this from a hidden vantage point; and watches Karen's her death with mingled pleasure and unconcern -- partly because he can't articulate his love, partly because if he can't have her he's glad to see her dead.After the ambush he visits its orchestrator, villain Lennie Taylor Jamie Forman, and slowly tortures him to death. He takes some pleasure in this -- out of a sense of revenging Karen's death, perhaps, for the only way his love can express itself is in violence -- yet it's not wholly clear how much pleasure he takes in it. Certainly, it's a very different scene from the torture spot in `Reservoir Dogs.' It is as if there is a finer part inside Gangster, which is glimpsed in his love for Karen and in the yells of silent rage, of something-trying-to-get-out. That side is here, too -- an inner disgust at himself.Mays is jailed for this murderbigger spoilers belowGangster finds out that the released Mays is about to get married -- to Karen; Karen, who he thought was long dead.He orders Mays to come and see him. Mays is now nothing like the dandy of his youth though he's played by the same actor -- he's weary, and the cockiness has long gone. He looks back on that past with contempt; but he's still got Karen.This is a double blow for Gangster -- not only has he failed to emulate Mays, but striving for that emulation was pointless. Mays is unimpressed by Gangster. This first throws Gangster off balance and then into rage. Worse still is that Mays has bested him by ending up with Karen. And this is too much -- `Don't I deserve love?' Gangster asks. As Mays leaves, Gangster, out on the roof of his apartment, despairs; and throws himself off the edge.So beneath all the crude language which some imdb reviewers have grumbled about, perhaps thinking their villains to be polite and violence lies a well-worked out tale -- and a love story at its heart.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"destined to be overlooked","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ok so i have to admit to being a bit of a fan of gangster flicks. especially if they are british. just because i find myself being part of the film for days afterwards. but still most of them are terrible. especially british ones. i havent seen lock stock... and im not going to. ive seen clips of it and some of the tv series and its just trash. just seems to be cliche after cliche edited together. i saw gangster no 1 in my local video shop and decided to rent it, knowing it would probably be rubbish but watchable. and i was pleasantly surprised. yes it did have quite a bit of pointless soulless gansterclicheness, but it also had some things that really made it stand out. much of the photography is absolutely stunning and one of the murder scenes in particular was close to genius. its a pity that it seems to run out of patience about 3/4 of the way through and skips 25 years in ten seconds and you lose too much. what this film needs is a killer storyline. it has some really nice touches. i personally loved the agonising sexual tension between young gangster and freddie mays. just imagine the gorj camera wrok, the beautiful people, the individual ideas put on top of a real story. it would be a damn good film indeed. it is worth a viewing, if only for the beautiful paul bettany. "},{"Title":"Good film - overlooked","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ultra-violent gangster film starring the king of ultra-violence - Malcolm McDowell.  Now in old age, McDowell recalls his violent rise to prominence while working for crime boss David Thewlis.  The story is standard stuff, but the actors (particularly Paul Bettany as the young McDowell) make the whole thing sizzle and McGuigan directs with a certain flair.  Even Saffron Burrows gives a good performance.  Probably the best of the Lock, Stock children, though the strong violence and language will put some off.  "},{"Title":"Flawed","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Bettany is terrifying as the young gangster.  A perfect piece of  casting as the young Malcolm McDowell.  As a film about the young gangster this is brilliant.  It is spoilt by the ending which is incongruous and just plain bad. Worrying attitude to women as well. However, overall a great film.  Violent and unpleasant in places but extremely moving. "},{"Title":"A different slant on the Gangster genre","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having recently seen Snatch and already being a fan of Lock Stock, I was pleasantly surprised that this film takes the genre to a more cerebral level. The violence and language are excessive but the obvious madness of the Malcolm McDowell character and his inability to cope with the reformed and forgiving David Thewlis mean that the viewer has more to think about at the end than just a good laugh and high body count.A surprisingly good film although it is so dark in places that it is difficult to say that it was an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Great Mob Film With Reservoir Dogs Flavor","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a surprise to me as I saw it while vacationing in London. The fact that it really doesn't contain a sum it up, finish the film type ending is one of the wonderful components of the film.  Malcolm McDowell and the rest of the cast are superb in their portrayal of the underworld of crime. This film is ripe with Tarantino inspired ultra-violence and is full of brilliant performances, especially McDowell, David Thewlis, and Saffron Burrows.  Ms. Burrows shows increasingly sexy and brainy acting abilities. She is definitely one of the industry's up and comers.  Overall, the violence and gore may be a little too strong for the mainstream public, but for those of us who saw inspiration in the Tarantino and Woo styles, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Performance 2","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Remember the first half of Nick Roeg's Performance? James Fox plays a sadistic,stylishly dressed, cool bit of  muscle for a cockney Gangster. He revels in the violence, in fact over indulges in it. The film (Performance) hints at a homo-erotic link to the violence. The editing is crisp and the direction is in your face.Well Gangster No 1 is that film writ large. And that's no bad thing.Loads of (realistic) violence, great suits, quotable dialogue, a perfectly reasonable soundtrack, nifty direction  Thewlis at his best and McDowell's best work in 20 years.  Wot more you want?You've not seen it yet?  wot are you? some sort of a cant? "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this with a friend as a second choice compromise and we were both pleasingly surprised. This is a very violent film with gratuitous obscene language in abundance and if that puts you off, don't see it. It doesn't betray its stage origins much either save in two longish scenes at the beginning and end between Thewlis and McDonald.It is a story about gang warfare in London in the late Sixties and the rise to power of the main character who is never named (indeed in the credits he is noted as gangster 55). I'm not one to look for such subtexts usually but this had a strong homoerotic theme below it - the gangster is never seen to be intimate with a woman and is intensely jealous of the Thewlis character, whereby hangs the whole film.One particular gory scene is seen by the audience from the victim's point of view and really is very frightening - the young actor playing the gangster, and like another reviewer his name escapes me, was very good in this particular scene (and indeed throughout) and should go far.Malcolm McDowell redeems his years in (presumably lucrative) American tat with a role he could got well over the top in and get away with it. And Jamie Foreman does a good impression of someone who could be the now dead Ronnie Kray, who he apparently knew as a young boy.The best though is Thewlis - I'll go to see anything with him in, even the Big Lebowski, and I'm never disappointed.An 8 out of 10 from me. "}{"Title":"Strangely Origonal.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster number 1 has an unusually anti-violent streak. All other gangster movies of quality show gangster's in someway at least as cool, and well rewarded people. Gangster number one is paints the underworld in a fantastically unattractive manner, the violence is brutal, the main character is psychotically ambitious but also paranoid and doesn't seem to enjoy his spoils of his victory. The script is clever, acting superb, it stands out more because it is part of such a discredited genre, the English Gangster Movie. "},{"Title":"real horror-show, as one might say","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gangster No. 1, to be fair, actually doesn't owe a lot to Tarantino crime movies. It's not exactly one of those, even if it might appear to be from the DVD cover or from the trailer. If it has anything to owe to its both real old-school gangster movies from the 30's (think Cagney as a cockney on angry-pills) and, in fact, from surrealistic horror movies. One might wonder if Paul McGuinn, the director, watched Jodorowsky's Santa Sange to get a feel for how to really make something insane at certain points, how the character of the Gangster wigs out and has a scream face, teeth bared and eyes insane. It's certainly a surprise, as a movie that at first appears to be a usual rise-of-a-gangster story but, no, this is not Scarface exactly. It's like Scarface's schizophrenic brother who loves having people look in his eyes and, actually, doesn't have much to do if he's not being a psycho-gangster.Another surprise is seeing how the story unfolds. I thought that it would be mostly about Malcolm McDowell as this gangster, perhaps coming to grips with his former boss, Terry, played by David Thewlis, being released from prison after thirty years away. But it's mostly McDowell narrating, looking back on his early years under Thewlis (and played by a very scary and subtle Paul Bettany) in 1968, when he was just an impressionable underling who could kick a good arse and take some names, but mostly seemed, as they say, 'quiet'. That is unless he has to interrogate someone, and then the request for the look me in the (bleep) eyes comes out. Or if he sees that his boss is about to get distracted by a 'bird' like the singer played by Saffron Burrows who he really shouldn't have any gripe with except that, I suppose, she's taking his boss away from him in some way.It's this perspective of it being a first-person character study of a disturbed human being first and a crime saga second that makes it interesting to see unfold. When we see Bettany's Gangster act on his move of revenge against another criminal who shoots his boss, it's one of the most terrifying sequences in recent memory, as McGuinn shoots it from the point of view of the poor bugger being killed, slowly, by an axe and a machete and by a slam of the head into a case of liquor bottles, and all from a camera lens that is distorted only so much as to make the perspective fade in and out from actual shock of the guy dying. It's a staggering scene, and not the only one that McGuinn does to break into the subjective point of view of a character who lusts for power on a manic scale. We seem to get so many movies with killers that are cold on one hand or maybe a bit too witty for their own good, but this is one who has a conscience and a hunger for power that drives him bananas. I'm Superman, I'm King (bleep) Kong! is one such scene showing him as a typical gangster, but watch Bettany (and McDowell's narration) as this unfolds.It's also a joy to see actors like McDowell, Thewlis and Bettany given such juicy dialog and scenes to play out. The final confrontation between the two old criminals in the one's former pad and now the other's long-time palace of a home, with McDowell going over the top and Thewlis sitting and stewing away on a couch, staring and barely saying a word, is masterful. While some scenes have just basic acting (some perhaps lifted off as extras from Guy Ritchie movies), its the unique approach the director takes with the story, and the performances, that lift it up a notch past the usual genre filler. Indeed you could put it on a double bill with a gonzo Yakuza flick from Takashi Miike (maybe Gozu) and it would be a fantastic pairing. "},{"Title":"A Tribute to A Clockwork Orange","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a delightful movie. Well, no. Let me rephrase that. What a delightful movie for a Stanley Kubrick/Anthony Burgess/A Clockwork Orange movie fan. This movie seeps through with Stanley Kubrick. A Clockwork Orange oozes from the breaks in the glass. It cannot be unintentional. From the ultraviolence, to the casting of Malcolm McDowell, this is all A Clockwork Orange. The young gangster even looks, stares like young Alex. I'm pretty sure the movie is even washed the same.Gangster No. 1 is a bloody mess of a movie, a crime movie, a gangster movie, an understated monstrous epic. Understated until it comes to the violence, that is. Over an hour is a long, long back story, and nothing more. Really. It's a back story that takes over an hour. A very long flashback, occasionally interrupted by the old gangster's (Malcolm McDowell) narration. It tells the story of a young gangster's (Paul Bettany) yearning for power under a gang lord's (David Thewlis) regime.The violence is less/more than A Clockwork Orange. It's actually incredibly bizarre to describe. You don't really see people get killed, not up close, and not really. More often, you are being killed. The camera is your sight, as Bettany is doing something unsightly to you. And it won't end. Not nearly soon enough.I think the direction is brilliant. The shots tell exactly what they need to. Nothing is spared. It's a lot of movie packed into a bit, which keeps it from getting slow, except when it comes to the violence. The director, (who is Paul McGuigan, by the way), knows what he wants you to see, and directs you through the movie. He learned well from Kubrick.It's a disturbing movie. And I think it grabs, or repels. Fascinates or disgusts. And if you're very lucky, it does both. If you're very, very lucky, you'll see and appreciate A Clockwork Orange in it. "},{"Title":"Technique vs content","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excellent performances, innovative direction, and clever writing did not, for me, overcome the general loathsomeness of the content.I have to acknowledge the performances - McDowell does the psycho thug we've seen before, but Bettany is positively pyrotechnic. Thewlis is always good in parts which are never sympathetic, and Kenneth Cranham puts in a believable turn as a gangster whose better days are behind him.And I have to acknowledge the direction, which is flamboyant without ever being flashy or vulgar.But the content...I know the staggeringly foul language is probably true to the people portrayed. I know the violence is representative of what these people do. But I never felt that any of the unpleasantness - and the unpleasantness never stops, these are all deeply unattractive people engaged in repellent activities - I never felt that any of it took any of the characters anywhere worth arriving at.This was not a film for me. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Brit-pic thriller - although maybe a touch too in-your-face violent for most palettes.","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the London underworld a underling dreams of rising to become the big boss and doesn't mind playing rough to become Gangster No.1.The UK gangster cycle takes another welcome turn with this hard - but basically fair - look at the 1960's (and onwards) London underworld. While made on a low budget and somewhat derivative of other gangster-go-rounds it has plenty to recommend it - if you, like me, can't get enough of the genre.Here we have a director (Paul McGuigan) that is going for art house rather than blockbuster, and while the story is not interrupted too much, it uses flashback for no clear and obvious reason. Equally it seems to use the only established Hollywood name - Malcolm McDowell - as a bit of box office window dressing. While gangsters films are not always moral they usually have something happening in them. While this has plenty of crash-bangs - there is also time for character development, regret and irony.(There also seems to be casual references here to Clockwork Orange or maybe it is just the casting that is throwing me!?)Paul Brettany came out of this film with a brighter star on this chest, while David Thewlis (who has been better in other things) and the veteran Malcolm McDowell only tread water. Indeed McDowell has painted himself in to a corner with his choice (a dubious word in acting circles!) of bad guy film roles, and here he keeps on painting!Female roles are very weak in this boy's film and Saffron Burrows' (the stock night club singer) high cheekbones have probably been put to better use elsewhere. While sharing the lead role (on a younger/older basis) of Gangster 55 - Brettany(younger G.55) doesn't really look like he is going to become McDowell (older G.55), indeed they have markedly different noses.(Maybe MM was brought in for the money-men as a name - Brettany should really have greyed up and played the older version himself as Thewlis does.)I have a soft spot for the 1960's. Interesting time for life, culture and music. The soundtrack is well chosen and the tune The Good Life (an easy listening classic) is used in a cunning and memorable way, rather like Give Me Shelter was in Goodfellers. There is good support acting all the way down the cast and although a lot of it was predictable (rise and fall, etc.), it was also very moral. If you chase your dreams the prize - when won - might not be what you imagined them to be. In the real world money always has its compensations though, don't knock it too much!While I don't want to go overboard about an independent film with limited ambition and the need for a firm stomach (there is one bloody point-of-view scene that is hell to watch!), I think it is well worth your time.I am a hard critic and most movies I watch I only watch the once, and that is often once too many! This I went back to a week later and that speak volumes by itself. If you care about these things I give it a star better rating that the general IMDb poll, indeed it would probably get it if the poll was only made up only of male voters.  "},{"Title":"Best Independent Film I've EVER Seen!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       I just watched this, so it's still very fresh in my mind.  I'm literally stunned.  I'm always wary of independent films when I venture to see one.  Many times, my fear has been warranted, but this was NOT the case when I saw Gangster No. 1.  First of all, as an already rabid fan of Malcom MacDowell's performance in A Clockwork Orange, I have to say that I respect him as an actor even more now, and I'd say he's only gotten better with age.  This movie is simply spellbinding.  Excellent cinematography, a chilling background score, and an intriguing plot regarding estranged British gangsters coming of age and settling old scores.  Most of the film is told in flashback, which is excellent because we are revealed most of the story by the lead character's younger 1969 counterpart who is also a very impressive young actor, but we get a VERY exciting narration by Malcom, even more riveting than his voice-over in Clockwork and this film really makes the flashback thing work to great effect.  The one warning I'd have for those of you who would like to check out this film.  Get the DVD, because the actors' British accents are VERY thick and hard to decipher at times, and you'll be glad you have the subtitles.  But it's hysterically funny to hear British guys curse at eachother and yes, these guys curse like SAILORS!!!  It doesn't bother me at all, in fact I laughed 'til I cried, but some people are rather sensitive about it.  Malcom, please stay around long enough to give us just one more of these great British crime films.  You were made for them!  You're the U.K.'s answer to James Cagney! "},{"Title":"One of the best Gangster Films in a while","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You can't really compare this to Lock, Stock as they are two completely different movies.  This movie is a lot more similar to Once Upon A Time in America. But I have to say that I enjoyed this more. Especially with repeat viewing.Paul Bettany is brilliant as Gangster 55, and the rest of the cast are great too (that includes Macdowell). The story revolves around a young Gangster working his way up in the underworld.*spoiler*  The point of the movie I guess is that Gangster realises that the whole of his life he was competing with Freddie Mays to be number one, when Freddie Mays was actually too busy living his own life to care. It takes Freddie to come out of Prison for it to hit home with Gangster. Gangster realises his own life, and very existance as a person is pretty meaningless. *end spoiler*The only thing I would have liked would have been a bit more of Gangster before he met Freddie Mays. (His previous jobs). But aside from that, its a movie that gets better the more you watch it.Once Upon a Time in America is still a great movie as well though.8/ 10  "},{"Title":"Brit gangsters lose their cool","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Spoilers)One thing the English are fond of is menace.  One can see that from the plays of Harold Pinter and from their gangster movies.  American movie gangsters are as violent, indeed more so, but spend more time on gathering and challenging power and efficiently rubbing out their enemies than on just scaring other people.  English crime pictures more typically lead up to some moment when we wince as the baddest guy moves forward to do something particularly unmentionable to his latest victim, and `Gangster No. 1' has many of these, as well as an actor who excels at filling these moments with all the juice they can hold  Paul Bettany.  Bettany at 31 has nineteen film roles under his belt; he's best remembered as Chaucer in `A Knight's Tale' and John Nash's Brit roommate in `Beautiful Mind.'  With hard blond features and a scary smile, Bettany rules as the evil psychopath, Gangster 55, who usurps the power of his boss, Freddie May (David Thewlis), through a grueling murder double-cross that gets Mays sent to prison for thirty years.  One isn't likely to forget this brutal scene, one of several in which Bettany's character hacks up a victim, stripped to his underwear so as not to muss up his Italian suit and handmade shoes.  This time we see most of it from the victim's viewpoint as he repeatedly loses consciousness and wakes up to see Gangster 55 coming at him with renewed relish, and finally exhaustion.  Again, menace is all, but here it has descended into gore.  But make no mistake about it  Bettany is good.  He has a way of glowering at the camera that makes him look like a very mean panther. Thewlis is also good.  As usual, he plays his character a bit soft and low keyed, but that makes his shouting putdowns of underlings all the more effective. He's very well fed and elegant. It's hard to see the weasel-like, scrawny Thewlis of `Naked' and `Total Eclipse' in this posh ruling London punk. Thewlis and Bettany balance each other nicely. Malcolm McDowell, as the older Gangster 55 whose scenes bookend the movie, is less good.  It's impossible to imagine this prancing, gnarly little meanie as the princely young mobster Bettany represents, and while Bettany is cold and scary, McDowell is mainly just shrill. The casting seems completely out of tune when McDowell is having his final (but unsatisfying) showdown with the mature Freddie, played still by Thewlis and looking very little different from the young Freddie except for silver hair and a bit of a paunch.  That this final scene occurs in the sunken living room of Freddie's original pad, kept unchanged by No. 55, makes it seem like the filmmakers ran short of sets as well as older actors.The atmosphere is nicely handled, when it's allowed to show.  Street scenes, interiors, and shots of Freddie's nightclub convey a sense of &#145;Sixties London without overemphasizing the clichs.As the title itself hints, this movie represents a crude, generic conception of what gangsters are like and despite good acting the writing provides no subtlety of plot or character.  Bettany does the most anyone could with a role that never goes beyond that of an opaque, violent, sadistic psychopath.  There's no development, no payoff, no intricacy of plot.  Because of Bettany's excellent turn and Thewlis' suave backup, not to mention all the blood, which rivals any straightforward horror movie, `Gangster No. 1' isn't completely forgettable. It's much more horrific than Guy Ritchie's cloyingly playful `Lock, Stock, and Two Loaded Barrels' and `Snatch,' but at least they were fun.  This isn't.  It's disappointing to see the English gangster genre steadily drifting downhill since `The Long Good Friday' and `Mona Lisa.'  Michael Caine, incidentally, has more scary cruelty in his little finger in `Mona Lisa' than Bettany hacking bloody with an ax.  Is this the bad influence of Quentin Tarentino?  It's said they love `Reservoir Dogs' in Britain.  They got the ear-chopping scene fine, but they seem to have missed the interesting dialogue and the plot reversals.  There's a nice turn by Saffron Burrows, as Freddie's girlfriend, Karen (though she, like Thewlis, has aged too little in the final scenes).  Minor characters are very little developed.  The story's weak and over-simple, character development is flaccid, and the flash-cuts are a poor substitute for good action editing. Dialogue, when one can understand it, is not exactly profound. Actually, as in Ritchie's gangster flicks, you all too often can't understand a word that's being said.  I wish I'd gone to a French movie.  That at least would have had subtitles, and the French haven't succumbed to Quentin's influence.  I wish Paul Bettany had had a chance to wear those nice suits and prance around in a better movie.  "},{"Title":"The return of Clockwork Orange's Alex in grand detail","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Got the chance to see this on recently during a special screening on a university campus and I can say is this that is a grand British thuggish film in which is told is flashbacks of recently gangster films with a element of politeness in them but in brutal and grand detail beside the overall objectivity of a hint of the ultraviolence. Malcolm McDowell is brilliant as the elegant monster in the smugness of middle age since the film is set in the late 60's and part of the early 70's. The other character is played by Paul Bethany(from the Oscar winning A Beautiful Mind)which gets you a bit of old ultragraphics(or ultraviolence)that gets his heart racing,but its not the reward he seeks,but its consummation. Exceptional portrayal of British gangsterism at its finest hour. Kudos to Malcolm McDowell! "},{"Title":"Not perfect but a better than average Britcrime movie.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I nearly passed this one by as I'm not a fan of cheeky chappy Brit gangster movies ala Guy Ritchie and the many lesser efforts that have emerged in his wake. As an admirer of tough-as-nails vintage UK crime movies ('Performance', 'Get Carter', 'The Long Good Friday'), I find most of the contemporary examples of this genre to be smug, shallow and not even all that amusing. 'Gangster No.1' is not without its flaws (especially a superfluous and increasingly irritating 'Goodfellas'-esque voice over), but is closer in spirit and style to those earlier gems. David Thewlis ('Naked') and Malcolm McDowell ('Clockwork Orange') both put in strong and memorable performances, and are backed up by relative newcomer Paul Bettany, the beautiful Saffron Burrows ('Deep Blue Sea') and a solid supporting cast. I can't claim that this is any kind of minor classic but I enjoyed more than the overrated 'Sexy Beast', and say it's definitely worth a look if you like gritty and violent crime films. "}{"Title":"Gangster No 1","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gangster No 1 is more related to the classic Brit gangster movies, like Brighton Rock and Get Carter, than Guy Ritchie's pop video fluff and nonsense.It's gritty and dramatic with a deep homo-erotic subtext that many seem to miss, and contains one of the most brutal execution scenes ever filmed, disturbingly seen through the eyes of the victim.Paul Bettany shines and hints of the career yet to come, and is utterly convincing as the brash, violent and manipulative Gangster no 1.No great shakes at the box-office, but a future classic, this sits easily alongside Scorsese's early works. "},{"Title":"They couldn't have slapped old-age make up on Bettany?","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a sleek and tasty morsel of English gangsterism that only slightly spoils itself with unearned aspirations at being a morality tale. When it takes us inside the black, clawing mind of a beautiful young thug, it's almost captivating. When it takes that thug well into middle age and tries to use him as an example of being careful what you wish for, it's heavy handed and bull headed.The basic story is pretty simple. In 1968, a tow-headed tough (Paul Bettany) gets taken under the wing of a notorious English criminal named Freddie Mays (David Thewlis). The young gangster becomes part of Freddie's gang and enjoys the perks the English underworld of the late 60s had to offer. But while Freddie may be smart and tough and violent, his new recruit is something else all together. He's less a man and more a walking shark with a soul as dark and hard as a doll's eyes. The young gangster doesn't just want to be rich or powerful. He doesn't want to just take over Freddie's gang. He wants to become Freddie, to subsume him, to fill himself up with Freddie's worldly identity.The young gangster gets his chance and lives the life of his dreams for 30 years. But then the no-longer-young gangster (Malcolm McDowell) is confronted by his past and by what he's made of himself and his life. He is Gangster No. 1, trapped in an existence where that's important and tormented by a view of a larger, better world where it isn't.The stuff in this film with Paul Bettany is harsh and more than a little chilling. This is one of the better portraits of the blunt, selfish and somewhat stupid evil that makes up the gangster's character. These guys are not masterminds or super-villains. They are intense appetites, poor self-control and comprehensive self-absorption with no introspection. There's a sick fun to watching Bettany play a fledgling such creature, a little cancer that metastasizes through himself and those around him.Gangster No. 1 also looks really good with a quick pace and a strong focus to its story. Director Paul McGuigan confronts the audience with the abnormal nature of Bettany's character. He doesn't allow the viewer to look at him through a lens of escapism. McGuigan never lets you get comfortable with imaging yourself as the young gangster, no matter how sharply dressed or coolly powerful he may be.But whenever Bettany is replaced on screen by Malcolm McDowell, the whole production sputters. Firstly, you can get away with different actors playing a character at different ages, but not when you have other characters at different ages being played by the same actors. For example, when David Thewlis plays opposite Bettany's gangster and then has old-age makeup slapped on him to play opposite the same character now portrayed by McDowell, it looks inescapably silly. 60something Freddie Mays looks like 30something Freddie Mays with gray hair and wrinkles. Malcolm McDowell does not look like Paul Bettany in any but the most generalized sense. You could have had Morgan Freeman play the gangster in middle age and it would have only been slightly more distracting.The other problem with Gangster No. 1 is that when the gangster gets old, the story become all about how his life of greed and violence and decadence and material obsession has turned hollow and worthless and left him angry and empty and frustrated. But virtually nothing that happens in the gangster's young life establishes or foreshadows or sets up that little morality play. This movie is like watching a softcore porno that arbitrarily turns into a Christian diatribe on abstinence. It's all forced and fake and kind of puzzling.If you fancy violent tales about violent men, and don't mind if a capricious lecture on the downside of being a horrible person is injected into it, you'll relish watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Something lurks inside Bettany's soul....","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is based in the 1970's a fictional gangster joins a gang and slowly begins to rise above all his fellow criminals; which is narrated by the older self. Bettany is the best thing about this film he has a creepy vibe to him, his psychopathic, almost sexually depraved Gangster.No 1.The characters are traditional cockney gangsters, in everything they do and say; the violence is brutal and violent...As the film goes on you realise Gangster No.1 is almost obsessed with Freddie and as Karen emerges Gangster almost becomes jealous....a good film with great character development..but no real story behind the film... "},{"Title":"Bettany must have been trained by McDowell","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this film is a masterpiece even by modern standards. it uses music that accompanies the key characters in the film, especially the use of the 'good life', it gives a whole new edge to that genre of music. Paul Bettany enjoys this part as well as Malcolm McDowell enjoyed playing little Alex in A Clockwork Orange. Bettany does not have the same creepy eyes as McDowell but uses them in just as effective way. Bettany also has that smile that curls up in at the edges that gives the viewer that belief the character understands a situation that no one else can comprehend but at the same time playing it smooth and calculated. on the directing front the script Witters have failed slightly during the catch up years, it is more than British film cheesy and the directer finished it off with the terrible looking flames that Bettany is pictured strolling through. the production team could have used far better effects or designs. on the other hand the directors are successful on the close up shots in the elevator and Bettany whistles like a kettle it gives the impression of anticipation that makes the movie so good "},{"Title":"Good cinematography and an impressive character's decent into madness is not enough to save this from a terrible plot and clichs left, right and centre.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Following 'Pulp Fiction' and the so called British equivalent 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels', a rather sudden influx of gangster films has befallen our cinema screens in the past decade. Whilst I am not against this, as crime is a particularly favourite genre of mine; 'Gangster No. 1' is one of those rare occurrences where the typical criminal gangster film doesn't really hold up.One thing straight away is the title of the film. It's not particularly subtle, is it? In fact, the plot its self could be summed up by just saying the title of the film. A guy wants to go from 'Z' all the way up to 'A'. So the hierarchy element is very much present. Ever wonder why 'Scarface' didn't use the same title? Because it could've done.This film is very deliberate. It's not afraid of going over the top for the sake of it and it's not afraid of clichs. Given the fact that this was only the directors second ever feature film, it seems he's used these clichs as a kind of insurance so as to not get anything wrong too early on in his career. Some evidence here is made very blatant during the opening sequence of suited gangsters, puffing away on cigars to roughly voiced voice-overs as everyone swears like it's as necessary as breathing is. Another thing is our hero during the 1960's. Paul Bettany does a good job as the ruthless, psychotic gangster that he is but he steals the show a little too much from everyone else. The leader of the gang, normally a real hard-arse, mastermind, ruthless S.O.B is nothing more than another guy in a suit. He looks like he's just some business man out to attend another board meeting for his company that makes office equipment. This isn't good and it's rather laughable at times. So he swears a few times and dishes out a few threats. So what? Everyone does this in the NON-criminal world.Most of the other characters seemed a little eccentric and just out to start an absolute riot whenever they could; shouting as loud as they can just to get a simple message across. There are no cool, calm, collected criminals/gangsters that have been so effective on screen in past years. Think of Mr. Blonde in 'Reservoir Dogs' or Peter Stormare's character in 'Fargo'.There also doesn't seem to be much structure to the actual plot. This may be down to the director but the screen writer, it seems, had this film as HIS first proper outing. No wonder pathetic excuses to advance the plot crop up. The way Bettany got into the mob in the first place, the way that '6 months later'(!?) two characters randomly see one of their own leaving a rival club and then go on to discover a planned hit on their boss. What was a random drive in the middle of the day has suddenly turned into a major plot point/discovery and it was '6 months later' than the events we've just seen! It's pretty poor story telling. No wonder he hasn't had much work listed since 2000.What I also didn't like is the fact that whilst one character gets jailed for the murder of another when he didn't do it, a few scenes later we see the REAL murderer kill again &#150; in the exact same way he did before. Aren't authorities going to be suspicious that this guy's already in jail yet another murder has happened in the exact same way? It couldn't have been him, obviously, since he's in jail. Again, sloppy writing and a plot hole opens up.Then, the years, literally, fly by. This was very bad. I can't work out if the montage that followed was supposed to be funny, dramatic, powerful or whatever! Maybe they did it in such haste that they wanted to avoid opening up another plot hole. Pretty weak, if you ask me.Although 'Gangster No. 1' has some good bits now and again, it has no real 'core'. The violence is entertaining and disturbing enough and the dialogue is rather snappy. During some scenes, Bettany's decent into madness and envy is rather good and the colour and camera work is rather impressive, especially as he's making his way through lifts and down corridors; narrating everything he's doing. This was truly gripping. The torture scene that followed was brutal as it was slick.However, with things like this few and far between and a really weak sense of the scriptwriter knowing what's going on; this was nothing better than just average. "},{"Title":"there WERE some obvious errors in casting...","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised and disappointed when I realized that Malcolm McDowell was supposed to be the older version of Paul Bettany. Who negotiated that screwup? First of all, McDowell is 5 feet 8, Bettany is 6 foot 3. What, did someone chop seven inches off both his shin bones? Even in their old age, Vincent Price, Fred Gwynne, Jimmy Stewart remained very tall men. How come they didn't substitute David Thewliss with Woody Allen? Also, I realize it's probably just acting but the only movie I ever really liked McDowell in was Clockwork Orange. He has the charisma and warmth of a black hole. Bettany, on the other hand, has far more screen presence than McDowell could ever hope to achieve. Which he never will, by the way. It's too late. He's old and dried up. Someone should just sweep his silly ass under the rug. You know how you feel when your summer vacation has only one more day to go after today? That's how I felt when the movie caught up to the present, when we had to now deal with McDowell exclusively. Gone are all the good scenes. Except David Thewliss' presence did manage to elevate the end of the movie. McDowell lends himself to being despised, not for the things his character did, since Bettany's character was allegedly the same, but for his mere existence.The most glaring error was the fact that the early events supposedly took place in 1968 in London, yet these morons are listening to Perry Goddamn Como music, for Creisake! Where's the influence of the British Invasion? Where is the influence of the Beatles, the Stones, Led Zep? What planet do these dickwads live on anyway? No planet I ever heard of, that's for sure. And the other error. Possible SPOILER Step away from the computer...What, people didn't have LIVERS in 1968??? Forensics was unable to approximate the time of death to within 30 minutes? What the hell is wrong with England and their bull$hit court system? That guy was in ICU!!! How could he POSSIBLY have been capable of murdering someone? What was his motive? Payback for MURDERING HIM 30 MINUTES EARLIER? Jeezus H KRIST! Maybe it's those stupid pretentious fagggoty wigs those barristers wear on their heads like dirty underwear that overcooks their brains like the way the English cook all their vegetables to mush. That's why they have such rotten teeth. Tell me I'm wrong!McDowells presence ruined an otherwise great film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It was a brilliant movie. I only didn't like a few things about the flick though. 1)Why you gotta kill Roland, the black man. He didn't do anything. 2)The rooftop ending wasn't the best Other than these facts, movie was really good. Confusing but good. In these times of bad movies, when American cinema fails us 99% of the time, its nice to see a good movie. I think that the movie was well played out, and I would like to see more from this director and writer. One movie does not do him justice. Keep them coming. The movie also had a different plot than the usual gangster goes to top, then goes to rat on his friends to the FBI. This scenario is played to much and we got to explore more of the gangster world because of this film. "},{"Title":"gritty and violent","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fable of London criminals switching time-frames between the present and the 60s. Both the casting of Malcolm McDowell and the film's look indicate the influence of Kubrick on debut director Paul McGuigan There have been far too many British gangster films in recent times. But there is always room for one that bucks the generally mediocre trend, and this is it. McDowell is an unnamed ageing gangland boss who has just heard that his former mentor Freddie Mays (Thewlis) is being released from prison. That leads him to recall his rise as Mays' henchman in the 60s.Rather than the normal Scorsese or Coppola borrowings, McGuigan seems to have chosen Kubrick as his model, and not just in the casting of Clockwork Orange star McDowell the whole feel of the film is visually ambitious.Bettany is very good as McDowell's ruthless younger self, learning the ropes from how to dress to impress to how to kill a man. And Thewlis, rather more elegant than usual, matches him as the boss who underestimates the psychopathic nature of his protege. Make no mistake, this is an extraordinarily violent film in places, but this is preferable to 'they looked after their mum' Kray twin mythology that usually softens the image of London's crimelords. If the film has a flaw, it is that the 60s middle segment is a lot stronger than the present day scenes that book end the film. But that's a quibble stylistically daring and often terrifying, Gangster No 1 is the rare British crime thriller that is worth your time.   "},{"Title":"Paul Bettany is Brilliant. *Mild Spoilers*","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Bettany was brilliant in this film. Let me repeat that. Paul Bettany was brilliant in this film. The first time I saw this film was on cable and I was stopped in my tracks while channel surfing in the scene where bettany is..***mild spoiler***...about to allow a woman he loves to be killed. The look on his face..then proceeding to the rest of the film..as he watches his friends get killed and then..the BEST and MOST DISTURBING Scene in the film..where he exacts revenge on the Lenny Taylor character..kept me riveted. I, of course, had to watch this film again..from the start..and then buy it. Malcolm Mcdowell also dominated the screen- although in a different way. As the older gangster..he has PRESENCE and INTENSITY. I wish they would have done even more with act two- with mcdowell's character. this movie could have been 45 minutes longer and I would have been just as riveted. perhaps make it two movies- the young gangster in one and  the older in the other.but anyway, back to paul bettany..the movie is his. he was equal parts smoldering and brilliant and definitely gives you a bang for your buck during his screen time.  "},{"Title":"1 is a lonely number","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In a way you can relate this film to Payback.  Both films are about one man determination to achieve his goals and desires.  The big difference being that Paybhack did this to a comically shallow effect while Gangster No.1 did it to horryfyingly (and almost erotic) deep effect.  Where Mel Gibson's character would basically go from thuhg to criminal to thug to try and get his 70 grand, Paul Bettany's character devoloped an obssession over a crime boss, so much so, that he wanted to be a better version of him. Nevertheless, both characters go about their business without much care for anything else, the consequences, or what he will ultimatley accomplish. Again, Payback had the more comical angle while Gangster No.1 had the more depressingly pathetic approach. On to the story now.  We first see the older and successful of Paul Bettany's character who hears about a former collegue getting out of prison. Then a good portion of the film is given to him reminscing about his formoer colleugue as well his rise to power.  One thing that is blatantly clear is that he has an intense obssession over Freddie Mays who is the leading crime boss in london.  As he said he love Freddies, suit, shoes, tie, demeanor, and even his cuff links.  We also see that Paul Bettany's character, who has no name and is credited as young gangster, clearly has no sense of conscience or morality.  When he find out that Freddie Mays was going to be jumped, e killed the only other guy who knew and then watched as Freddie got beaten and his wife's throat get slit. POSSIBLE SPOILER Ironically enough, even though he did backstab Freddie Mays, when all is said and done, it appears that the only way he can justify hi9mself and what he has done is threw Freddie Mays who now hates the young (or old) Gangster. in the final act of the film, we see the gangster desperatly trying to impress Freddie Mays who really wants nothing to do with him.  The gangster gets so desperate to be acknowledged that he actually tries to get Freddie to kill him kinda like all attention is good attention.  HOwever, Freddie Mays hates the gangster so much that he isnt even worth killing.  The ending speech is very similer to Denzel Washington's in Training Day, heck, they both refer to King Kong, however, the huge difference is, in Training Day, Denzel Washington lost everything but is still trying to show that he should be feared whereas, in Gangster No.1, the gangster actually has everything, money, the crime syundicate, yet he is still unhappy and tries to justify his existence by contantly reminding himself that he is number 1.  It might not be an all too original ending but it fit so well and its hard to imagine how else it could have ended.sidenote there is one particuilar scene that is both an unfliching look at murder and quite possibly a technical achievment.  We actually see from the point of view of the victum a murder including his loss ond return to conscienceness.   "}{"Title":"What the hell?!?","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Is exactly my reaction to seeing this.  This is another movie I rented based on at least one of my favorite actors (McDowell), and an interesting synopsis on the back cover of the boss...my one question is this...what direction was this film supposed to take?  What type of movie was it supposed to be?You have pretty good performances, Bettany, standing above the rest as a truly chilling and ruthless thug, rising up to the top.  But that's about it.  This movie, like others have pointed out, has no likeable characters, a plot that really went nowhere, and a lot of bad acting.  Were we supposed to feel sorry for the mob boss and his lady friend?  I sure didn't.  And the pathetic attempt at an 'epiphany' at the end was a cheap attempt to be somewhat like Once upon a time in America, where McDowell, playing the older version of Bettany, sees that his mentor and counterpart, though serving 30 years in jail, is happier when he comes out than he is, the underworld kingpin.  However, unlike Sergio Leone's masterpiece, we don't see any transition in the characters...nothing deep or personal...nothing to suggest the realization of a wasted life...Bettany's character is simply ruthless and without remorse, and at the end, he all of a sudden hates life.  Big deal, cry me a river.  How is he different now than he was at the beginning? It would have been better to have seen a deeper emotional buildup in this character, but we are given none, except that he killed his mentor's rival, and somehow, felt good and bad about it, and now, wants to die.  Where, I must ask, is the transition?  We have an unlikeable character who is evil all the way through, and even at the end can't make up his mind whether he is remorseful or happy at what he did?  Again, see the subject line of this review for further description.  Anyway, not the worst movie ever, but a huge disapointment.  I had to stop this one half way through out of bordom, and only finished it the next night since there was nothing else on TV.  I'll give this one 4/10 for McDowell and Bettany's good, but not great performances.  Rent Goodfellas instead.  That's my story, and I'm sticking to it. "},{"Title":"This is utter w**kery.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found most of the director's tricks and conventions to be self-indulgent and inappropriate... a lot of the handheld bull, distortive lenses, stutter-cuts, etc.  McDowell at his most caricatured, as the lead Gangster, a character too simplistic to garner sympathy or hate.The writing was very broad, and the dialogue truly terrible... for the awkward pauses between exchanges if not for the cliches, streams of banal obscenity, and a plot that does not even live up to the Shakespeare it hopes to reference. "},{"Title":"Explosive!!!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Gangster No1 about two years ago and I thought it was slightly marred,but worth watching that one time.The story is set in London in which Gangster (no other related name) starts working for crime boss Freddie.They soon become friends,but Gangster turns on him and takes over when Freddie goes to jail.Years later Freddie is released and they both have to face up to life when he is out. Gangster No1 is a very detailed film which is a sketch of how it was back in those days.At the same time,uses alot of bad language,and alot of brutal violence in which audiences will find pleasing (especially the torture bit when we're seeing it from the victims view).Overall I wouldn't say it was well acted (only for Malcolm Macdowells and David Thewlis's performance).Other that that I would rate 3/5. "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of those 'if we get enough swear words in people will think it's good' type films, but the problem is that the film is not much good at all. And It's not very gory or violent as had been made out. Malcolm McDowell is mis-cast.Makes me think it's a rich kids idea of trying to make an earthy, gritty, realistic film. Good costume design and sets though. "},{"Title":"Sick....","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have just watched this movie on DVD, l thought both Malcolm McDowell & David Thewlis were good, but l think that Mr Ferguson the writer must be a bit sick in the head, he must have thought of all the most weird and hurtful things that man can do to man and put them on film.The first 45 minutes of the film were ok as British gangster films go, but all we seem to be able to do as film makers is use 4 letter words, and many of them.....it then came to the part where the main character as a young man goes to the home of the opposing gang leader and proceeds to 1. shoot him in the leg, and 2. slowly strip off prior to chopping him up in the most vicious way that can be depicted on film....Now l had over 20 years as a cinema manager, and own some 1800 videos but l have never seen anything so sick making in my life, l am not advocating censorship, but l think there is a limit, and Gangster No 1 stepped over that limit.....It is a great shame the Britain cannot put it`s small film budget to better use, why not try making something like the good old family films of the Ealing days....does it have to be gratious violence to sell nowdays...l don`t think so....101 Dalmations Big Momas House Dr Dolittle to name but three no violence there, don`t get me wrong l love Indiana Jones, Axel Fowly, Terminator, Alien...but cutting someone up is more akin to a horror movie that a gangster film...for the violence I give Gangster No 1     2 out of 10      Acting                          7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Very average","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I love gangster movies.  The Untouchables, from DePalma, Casino and Goodfellas, from Scorsese, The Godfather (the whole series) from Coppola...even Hoodlum, from Bill Duke...Gangster No.1 goes in that range of films, but it's not as good.  I'm ashamed to say that, except for Clockwork Orange, I haden't seen a lot of movies featuring Malcolm MacDowell...but maybe it's normal considering the quality of his films today (Island of The Dead, for example).  But the Mr.MacDowell I knew in one of my all-time favorites, Clockwork Orange, was splendid, full of talent.  The MacDowell in Gangster No.1 was pretty good, but that's not enough...David Thewlis wasn't always good either, except at the end.  This film mostly happens in 1968, but it passes through 31 years, up to 1999...what is sad about that is that we see what happens in detail during 1968, but we show brief sequences for the other years, and many are simply skipped.  The problem here is that we follow a young gangster, full of ambition, with absolutely no heart feelings, that finally gets to his goal, but the film stops showing his evolution right after he starts it, and skips to his final situation.  This could have been three hours long, but it's only 103 minutes.  That's not enough for a gangster movie that has so much to say.  The film contains some brutal violence, like any good gangster movie, but they put it in needless contexts, and it's mostly pretty gratuitous.  The message is pretty clear in this film, and the character of Freddie Mays has an interesting mind twist that brings it to an ending that is intense, true, but that could have been even better.  The film had more potential.  The film tells a story, but rushes some parts too evidently, and that ruins it.  It's not a bad movie, but it's not great either.  I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"great acting talent wasted on pretty pointless script","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this film just DOESNT gel together - 'cult' actors and flashy camera-work can in no way compensate for a totally pointless narrative and a totally flawed ending. OK so the fictional gangster no.1 was a violent and sick b**tard in his youth - what other possible 'insight' does this film provide? The guy playing the young gangster, however, does gives an undeniably good performance. 30 years is spanned with a brief and predictable montage, and for me, highlights the pointlessness of the whole exercise, in having McDowell reminising high points of his life 30 years ago then bumping into old aquantancies who are now just as burned out as he is. I dont know what this film was trying to be/say...maybe that was the point - nothing but 'authenticity'?  The characters just weren't that interesing so i didnt really care. Having said that the film has some memorable parts. Mainly whenever 'gangster' uses the 5 words ' look into my f**king eyes...' these parts are genuinely pretty intense viewing and worth seeing. On the whole this could have been done FAR BETTER.... "},{"Title":"Cockney gangster caper a cut above the rest","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With so many East End gangster movies being churned out recently you might be forgiven for dismissing this as a band wagon movie. Having seen it I would urge you to look beyond that and go and see this second offering from British director Paul McGuigan.While I felt that the film didn't quite hang together well enough to put it amongst the greets of The Long Good Friday and Get Carter, the leading newcomer (who's name escapes me) played such an outstanding part as the ambitious and ruthless understudy to the gang leader played by David Thewlis that the film merits much praise. The film has the most violent and disturbing (without being graphic) scene that I can recall in a film which must be largely credited to the director who's individual style was both fresh and effective.I was disappointed by the performance of Malcolm McDowell but on reflection it may be due to the script which seemed to loose direction at the end when Malcolm dominates the screen, and also due to my personal over expectation of Malcolm's return to the big screen.A film well worth seeing and one which SHOULD propel it's young star into the limelight. This time next year I hope his name would not be escaping me still.... "},{"Title":"The most Sexually Subversive film I've seen in years *SPOILERS*","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER* for this films entire subtext/overriding theme belowKaren (Saffron Burrows playing it a bit too shrill for my taste, but far from shaming herself) is not the object of Gangster no 55's affections; she was not the person that 55 would rather see dead than be without...It's Freddy Mays.This fact is so barely concealed that its subtext very nearly *IS* the text.To everyone who's reviewed this (by my judgment) excellent film and found that Gangster no. 55 character was run of the mill of any other you'd see in this genre, I challenge you --respectfully-- to give it a second chance, only this time, read between the lines and watch the film take on real life.I promise, the text in between is written in red ink and marked with yellow highlighter. Gangster no.1 is a story of hideous violence, ambition fueled backstabbing... and unrequited love not at all where at surface glance it appears to be.Rate 4/5  "},{"Title":"Nice to see it avoid the `comedy cockney violence' clich - a solid gangster film despite it's flaws","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Our narrator is a gangster in the British underworld.  He is now a solid geezer and is an old man now.  This comfortable retirement like lifestyle is threatened by the news that Freddie Mays is getting out of prison after thirty years inside.  As he prepares to meet Freddie, our narrator remembers back to 1968 when he was first brought into crime under the guidance of Mays, the boss of one of the East End gangs of the time.  However, our narrator's ambition and sheer ruthless nature means that he doesn't intend to stay at the foot of the ladder for very long.The British film industry is no different from any other country in some regards - once something becomes popular, other studios etc will start to try and emulate the success.  So for the UK that meant a return to gangster films after Lock Stock proved a big hit.  The vast majority of the copies inspired by this were pretty much rubbish that no one paid attention to. This film came about as a result of the genre making money and it is actually quite good.  The film goes f or a more brutal and dramatic presentation than the hordes of cockney comedies that copied Lock Stock - tiresome hyper kinetic things that they are.  Here the plot is hardly original but it is enjoyable as a `proper' gangster film - shows violence without feeling that the audience will want to laugh at killings, it trusts that we will be affected by the violence of these lives, not amused by it. That said, the plot isn't that good - the rise of our narrator is simple enough and can be bought because the film shows us gangs of only a small number of people, making minor double-crosses very profitable.  However the scheming nature of our narrator is simplified into bloody action and it would have benefited from the brutality being reduced to a few scenes and the Machiavellian nature of his character brought to the fore.It is still effective though as a serious gangster film but it doesn't really stand out from the pack of it's peers (not the cheap comedy rip offs but `proper' British gangster films down the years).  The direction is actually very good, bringing enough style to the film to meet modern requirements but still including some effective shots that aren't all slick - and not pushing the style to the constant detriment of the substance. The use of music is also good but again is not totally unique or original. The cast really helps the film - in particular the ever-rising Paul Bettany. Bettany gives a good scheming performance but also handles the sudden violence very well.  McDowell has less to do and is not as good but the man has such cockney swagger and screen presence that it is difficult to fault him.  Thewlis is a bit too camp and too little of a threat to really take seriously - and his return at the end is not well handled considering the whole film was supposedly building to it - this confrontation is no `Once Upon A Time In America'.  The support cast is all tough, sneering cockneys and they do well enough for the film even if they are a bit clichd and grizzled.Overall this was an enjoyable film to me mainly because it is much better than the spate of comedy cockney geezers that I have had to endure in recent British gangster movies.  This is far from perfect but it is nice to have a serious story for a change that doesn't encourage us to roar with laughter at violence.  The ending is a let down and doesn't make sense in the context of what has gone before but it is head and shoulders above the recent crop of the UK gangster film even if it wouldn't stand out in the genre as a whole. "}{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The even limited accolades this movie has received amazes me. What is almost a straight conversion from theatre to screen Gangster no.1 represents all that is bad about British movies. Lazy script, non existant characterisation, unnatural perfomances, horrific pacing. The small budget is not an excuse either for some woefully inadequate set pieces. Not only is the dialogue too theatrical, the locations appear altogether flimsey and contrived, the studio backdrops having about as much integrity as paper mache. Of course this is perfectly symbolic for the entire production. The plot for what it's worth is similar to that of Once upon a time in America but without any of the above. The laughable montage of Gangster's transition through the decades made me fume. Saffron Burrows what can I say, her acting abilities are non existant. I made the mistake of buying this dvd together with Narc and Get Carter (1971) last week. Next to those masterpieces this is a dismal effort. Poor. "},{"Title":"Shameful waste","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately the execution of this movie didn't do the script or the story justice.  McDowell is badly cast as the older man. He is way too old, and his 'mockney' accent was dreadful.  It's a shame they didn't just 'age' the younger actor Paul Bettaney, like they did with all the others - he was obviously more talented and menacing.The lack of understanding of the story and the characters by the director, Paul McGuigan, was obvious in the way that the main character and his confused sexuality was not exploited or alluded to in any way.  He also could not drive any decent performances out the actors, some of which had obvious talent.The cartoonish performances that appeared in 'Lock, Stock' were also apparent here - anyone who knows any East Enders would be embarrassed by some of the acting.  Dropping your aitches and saying 'cahnnt' all the time doesn't make you an East Londoner.Directed by someone with more nous, this film could have been an absolute classic.  Paul McGuigan was naive and not up to the job, MacDowell was just inept, but the rest of the cast should have been inspired to fine performances.Gangster No 1 is sadly a waste of talent, and time. "},{"Title":"Awful Gangsta Brit Flick","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Shocking, borrows from Get Shorty with the staring eyes and tried so hard to be an English Goodfella's. I cringed my way through it, very very poor and how it averages 6 or 7 on here I do not know. "},{"Title":"Nothing to get excited about ...","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Brits have always had the knack of making superb gangster films the along comes Gangster No 1 and destroys the fact. Whilst the majority of gangland stories have their fair share of colourful language and violence, this film went far beyond the boundaries of exceptable good taste. The entire film is splattered with both obscenities and blood but the script has to have been written by an illiterate with a limited vocabulary. Maybe that's what the film-makers wanted, who knows. There's nothing special within this film and as for hidden meanings, only those who think too hard might find 'a little something' that isn't there. "},{"Title":"Certainly not No. 1","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The gangster genre is a very prominent genre in the British film industry. Many do not have much to offer but we get some gems like Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Layer Cake and The Long Good Friday. Gangster No. 1 is certainly not troubling the calibre of those films.In 1999 a leading nameless gangster (Malcolm McDowell) finds out the man he over thrown, Freddie Mays (David Thewlis) is about to be released from prison after servicing a 30 year sentence. The Gangster reflects on his rise back in 1968 as a young man (Paul Bettany) in a world of violence, double crossing and betrayal.Gangster No. 1 is slog of a film; it tells a gangster's rise which is not breaking any new ground and it is one of the general generic gangster films that plague the British film industry. Gangster No. 1 attempts at being a little artistic but it comes off as obnoxious, particularly with McDowell's voice-over. The story is basically a misogynistic psychopath becomes power mad and sees human life as expendable. The Gangster is a man who enjoys violence and pain and yet we are meant to believe he was a character who wanted love, a character who felt guilty over a murder.Bettany is an excellent actor and it was clear he must have watched A Clockwork Orange because he was channelling McDowell's Alex character. He has a certain menace and charisma when he spoke and he nailed the physical performance of McDowell. But McDowell was phoning in his performance and his voice-over throughout the film was grating. David Thewlis and Saffron Burrows were fine in the supporting roles and most of the cast were solid, but Jamie Foreman is horrible actor. Foreman is the son of a real life gangster but he is one of the least threatening hardmen put to screen and he did these weird ticks to the character which was distracting.Paul McGuigan directed Gangster No. 1 and his body of work is a mixed bag. With Gangster No. 1 he over stylises throughout, including in the beginning where we get an out of place moment when the older version of the Gangster suddenly speaks to the camera. The only two stylized moments are a split screen where we see the older and younger version of the Gangster are in the same shot and when the Gangster tortures someone and we see it from the point-of-view of the victim.Gangster No. 1 is violence and bloody film which is expected, but even though I expected the swearing it did go on overload, particularly with use of the C word. It actually was unpleasant to hear.Gangster No. 1 does have a good soundtrack of period pop song and a mostly solid cast but it is a nihilistic work that focuses on nothing but a horrid character that has no redeeming features or anything to say. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal,unbelievable and stilted","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have just watched this film for the second time.l didn't like it on the first viewing but due to the hype.I decided to give it another look.Maybe it was an acquired taste like Once Upon a Time in America which l dismissed first time round,only for it to become one of my favourite films.Alas this film did not improve on a second viewing. It was like a very pale imitation of the American Gangster movies.Echoes of Goodfellas, and the Swansong ending was straight out of Scarface.I felt the overall theme,mood of the film was depressing. There were no winners.l suppose love won out,but that was after 25 years in Prison,apart.A grim love story.I found the Dialogue was laboured and disjointed,the characters one dimensional,stereotypes to a man.The actors didn't seem to be able to carry the roles they were playing.Reminds me of Killing Zoe,which l thought was empty too. Someone trying to climb on the back of Pulp Fiction and Resoviour Dogs. "},{"Title":"Words+violence","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Too much dialog and violence,are on the negative side, but the pace is good and the performances superb. Not enough to make it an excellent movie. Besides that, the script pretending to be deep,becomes dark and bloody, what confuses the viewer.Some people say that is to blur the water to look like profound.In a way I think this is the case of GANGSTER #1.The DVD copy I have rent,here in So Paulo,Brazil,has no nudity,as noted by MPAA.Perhaps this explains the difference in the running time of the film,registered in the countries Certification Argentina,103 minutes and at the UK,105 minutes.By the way,the picture we are talking about,was not shown in any Brazilian theater,but is available in DVD,in few places only. "},{"Title":"Dumb and dumber 0/10","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Replete in obligatory profanity and excessive violence, here's a gangster movie which chronicles the transformation of a homicidal psychotic into a homicidal psychotic in the company of lots of other homicidal psychotics who are (and this is also obligatory) all Cockneys. Cor, luvva duck.Though intended to communicate some great historic sweep, the dramatic arc manages to cover all of two millimetres, whilst the acting ranges from screaming to yelling to screaming and back to yelling again.Devoid of empathy or engagement, and with less grasp of reality than an average episode of 'Doctor Who', this unedifying mess not only culminates in one of the most stupefyingly silly climaxes ever committed to film, it provides further confirmation -- were such needed -- as to why so much of contemporary British film-making hasn't merely gone into the gutter, but vanished down the drain.VERDICT repellent rubbish. 0/10.  "},{"Title":"an entertaining renter","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a boring a movie.  The film's pace was quick, and I was not checking the time every five minutes.  When the film used two actors for one character, Gangster 55, it tells me that director is hiding something.  That bothers me since my imagination will start coming up with different scenarios.  Paul Bettany could not pull off the role as old Gangster 55?  No?  The director owed Malcom McDowell a favor so he casted McDowell as old Gangster 55?  This is a distraction to the rest of the film.The director used a lot trick camera shots for no apparent reason.  I don't know what the proper term for the techniques so I won't even try to list what the director did.  Regardless, they presented a distraction to the rest of the film which does present the question, what is the direct hiding, or is the director trying to impress us, the viewer, with his magic?   possible SPOILERSThe story is simple, and to the point.  The film tells the story of Gangster 55's rise to power in the London mafia.  Along the way, Gangster screws over Freddie Mays whom he admires and respects.  In the end, despite all of Gangster 55's power and success,  Gangster 55 still did not best Mays.  Apparently, he is  jealous of Mays success at finding love.The characters are not complicated to figure out as well.  None of the characters have any mysterious background or personality that we the audience are not aware.  There are no surprises.In short, if you are looking for a thinking man's film, this is not the one.  Rent Swimming Pool or Mulholland Dr. ( I still have not figured out that one.)  Mind you, there is nothing wrong with a film like this.  After all, sometimes, one needs to go to the theater simply to be entertained.Despite my misgivings with the film, it was enjoyable to watch.  I am not inspired to own the DVD, but it is worth a good rent from the video store or to borrow from the library.   "},{"Title":"intense","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stylish tale of thug's love/hate relationship with famous gangster benefits from a terrific performance by Paul Bettany as a really scary guy.  The ending feels rather weak, as we don't see the transition from Paul to Malcolm McDowell and thus the final scenes haven't been properly set up.  Still fascinating though. "}{"Title":"Mired in copycat syndrome - far from original","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A silly effort that failed on all attempts. Bad casting, very poor writing. Stop watching and wishing you were born Quentin Tarantino already. Make your own movie!Every editing trick, misplaced use of freeze frames, score...everything reeked of having been done a thousand times. This is a collage of ideas put together into a colossal mess. "},{"Title":"Baffling","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster No. 1 is such a demented mixture of the good and the awful that its near impossible to decide whether the film itself is actually any good.For every good thing (The director is surely destined for great, great things) there is a bad one (Malcolm MacDowell is so OTT that he drags the tone of the film down to completely the wrong level). The hugely derivative storyline doesn't really help either. However, Paul Bettany is terrific as the young gangster, and the Sixties is brilliantly evoked by music and meticulous set design.See it, and watch the director shine.  "},{"Title":"Makes Reservoir Dogs look like Seseme Street...Brilliant.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to put into words a description of this film because there are so many great things i can say about. The acting is out of the Top Drawer. Malcolm McDowell, David Thewlis and Paul Bettany bring out performances that are dazzling and make you sit back and just admire the art that they are producing. The Director gives us a sleek and highly enjoyable (although not a bundle of laughs) peice of film work that looks brilliant on the screen and the script is of the highest order. The only film i can compare this to are Lock ,Stock and Two smoking Barrels ,but this lacks the humour of that film ,or Get Carter because of Paul Bettany's Brilliant Michael Caine like performance.  Just a word of warning to anybody who is offended by bad language or violence,this is NOT for you! Outstanding gangster movie. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"pathetic attempt at a gangster film","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film starts off fine, a simple, believable story of one man's jealousy and his desire to move up in the ranks of the London underworld. Somewhere along the line the film changes and I was left wondering whether it is actually trying to be serious or purposely making fun of itself. The corny, trying to be more clever than it actually is, dialogue gets annoying and the constant swearing really spoils many of the scenes. I understand that this is how the gangsters spoke in every day lives, as a South Londoner myself I know this, but the actors couldn't deliver the lines convincingly enough and just came off looking laughable. The plot doesn't quite fit together either and I was left thinking that some events in the film weren't really explained well enough and that some character's actions didn't make sense.Some of the shots & camera work in the film are great, many parts are beautiful to watch and show some great visual ideas, it's a shame that the content lets it down.This has to be one of the worst films I have seen in a while, very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Voilent and pointless","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Since Lock, Stock there have been more British gangster every month (Fast Food, Circus, Love Honour And Obey).In this complitely awful genre there is another Gangster No 1. A violent crime flick from Paul McGuigan Starring Malcom McDowell. It tells the story of Freddie a mobster who kills his way to become No 1. There is constant pointless swearing and voilence. There is every gangster cliche in the book here.   "},{"Title":"Ouch ouch ouch","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As I am generally quite easily pleased even by the most average of films, it takes a disaster of epic proportions to motivate me to comment on their faults at length. Here is an example.Being a fan of British cinema in general, I have found myself entertained by the glut of British gangster movies released in the late Nineties/ early noughties so I have to admit I was looking forward to a fun 90 minute distraction when I came across Gangster No. 1What we have here appears on the surface to be The Talented Mr Ripley meets The Krays, where by a cocky young crook stalks (for want of a better word) his classy mobster boss, destroys his relationship and generally tries to take over his life by using shall we say, less than ethical tactics. We flashback to London in the swinging sixties where we meet the unnamed Gangster 55, played in his youth by Bettany who displays rare but outstanding moments of cold detachment that stand above and beyond anything else in this film. Forward to 1999 and we meet the contemporary 55, who is now for some reason played by Malcolm McDowell giving a performance so poor and boring that his co stars seem visibly embarrassed. McGuigan over-directs to the point that he appears to be confusing himself, one scene portrays a brutal assault played out to lighthearted background music a la Resovoir Dogs displaying none of the panache and power of Tarantino's masterpiece. Even the novelty factor of seeing the scene from the victims POV appears tacked on when compared to the subsequent Cafe battering dished out in L4yer Cake which emulated it. A criminally underused Saffron Burrows joins what appears to be an excellent supporting cast, but even the core blimey guvnor genius of Kenneth Cranham and Jamie Forman cannot inject any life into what has to be one of the most lacklustre scripts of recent yearsYou alright? Yeah. Yeah? Yeah. Yeah?Utter rubbish "},{"Title":"Makes Gran Torino look good.","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought Gran Torino was the worst film I'd ever seen based on awful acting, hilarious dialog and as a vehicle for a has been, but this film makes Gran Torino look like Ghandi. You know you are watching a bomb when you are laughing at a film that's not meant to be a comedy, as was the case with Gran Torino, but when you stop laughing and have the urge to cry, then you are watching Gangster No. 1. Malcolm McDowell has to be the worst actor that ever walked the earth. I would advise anyone who values a good script, a good screenplay, and most of all decent acting, to avoid this film like they would avoid a particularly noxious disease. I never thought I would see a film that makes Gran Torino look good, I've found it! "},{"Title":"A number two of a movie","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Films about ultraviolence can be harrowing and realistic, or stylish and humourous - Malcolm MacDowell starred in 'A Clockwork Orange', an early example of the latter genre.  But 'Gangster No. 1', in which he also stars, is a peculiar hybrid of the two genres that is consistently unpleasant without offering any compensation in the way of insight or laughs.  Paul Bettaney looks quite like the younger MacDowell (whose younger self he plays), and the film also has the talented David Thewlis on its cast list, but the net result is tiresome and thin, while the potentially interesting plot ends without subtlety or satisfaction. A film that doesn't know what it wants to be, and ends up not being anything but horrid. "},{"Title":"Goodfellas Meets The Pop Video","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As British Films go this is a bit of a gem. Very nicely photographed with hip editing and lovely use of colour. However the acting is mediocre, McDowell does not do cockney gangster very well, and as somebody else mentioned it does seem rather like he got the part for some ulterior motive (pulling in the punters and the finance maybe!). Thewlis, Bettany, and Foreman really ham it up all the way through the movie, making it at times come across as an episode of Eastenders. The Script is appalling. I know 60's Eastend gangsters are not mean to be Gielgud but the script rarely moves away from you f*****g c**t ad finitum. What you see on the screen is not always just what a movie needs, decent dialogue often helps. All that aside, it is an entertaing piece of cinema, albeit rather gratutitous in its use of violence, it has a good narrative and although I didn't empathise with the characters the idea of the move from the sixties 'e loved 'is mum kind of gangster to the kind that would sell his grandmother (or even kill her) works well. See it if you get the chance but also check out The Krays for a movie that doesn't rely so much on chic filming techniques and a lack of decent script. "},{"Title":"Junk.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a bunch of crap...Malcolm McDowell seemingly attempting to recapture some of the facets of his role from A Clockwork Orange and failing miserably, combined with some of the most offensively brutal violence and vulgarity I've seen in a film recently.  Don't get me wrong, I'm not asking for Gangster No. 1, the edited version... I was fine with movies like Goodfellas, Clerks (and the rest of the View Askew films), the aforementioned Kubrick classic, and others.  But really, was there anything in this movie worth watching?  Unlikeable characters, thin plot, and weak attempts at humor drag this dreck to the bottom.  The violence seemed like vicious filler, and the profanity seemed like a substitute for intelligent dialogue. I give it 1/2* out of ****.  Stay away from this movie...all its attempts at artsiness and likeability are hopeless.  Overrated by those who are impressed at its artistic qualities.  Go watch a real film, something by Scorcese, Takeshi, Kurosawa, or Kubrick. "}{"Title":"a sinful film","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Those involved in this film will suffer great tortures, for they have commited great sins against the Holy God of Cinema.  They shall be placed in chambers beneath the earth, where they shall watch Truly Madly Deeply in slow motion for eternity, and that shall be their suffering. Thusly will they languish, and their pain is merited.  Greatest of all shall be the suffering of those who, having seen the film, decided to inflict it upon a public, instead of burying it in the deepest vault imaginable - yea, deeper still than the stainless steel vaults that contain the writings of the great L.Ron Hubbard, author of the masterful Battlefield Earth.  Anathema!  Yea, they shall be undone. "},{"Title":"Do me a favour!","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is good for two things,1, a drinking game made up by a couple of us. what you do is get yourself a bottle of spirits and watch the film. Every time you cringe at a particularly awful line of dialogue, you take a shot. (you'll be hammered in no time) 2. Like the goats man, its good for inflicting on your unsuspecting friends.you have all been warned. There is only one let up in this atrocious mess. which i will not spoil for you here, but for the most part its just one terrible scene after another that it really becomes difficult to watch. Everyone involved should be embarrassed. "},{"Title":"Warmed-over gangster film","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Malcolm McDowell narrates his own rise as a gangster in this lukewarm crime drama. Gangster films are a dime a dozen, so you need something unique to say or at least great acting. This film fails on the first part, and passes barely only thanks to Paul Bennany and David Thewlis on the second. It also goes on for too long and could've used a better editor at the helm. It's not that Gangster No. 1 is a particularly bad film, as it's not. The acting by the two aforementioned actors and the cinematography make it watchable, but it's just not one that you can't miss if you're a fan of the genre.My Grade C DVD Extras Commentary with director Paul McGuinan; one Deleted scene; Featurette; TV Spot; and Theatrical Trailer ANTI-eye Candy Some bloke's wang "},{"Title":"A shallow time wasting wannabe","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gangster No. 1, a B-movie quality Brit crime flick, spends its first boring hour telling of the rise of a street punk to top mob boss (Bettnay/McDowell) before anything interesting happens. Then is suddenly goes into a frenetic mess of infantile nonsense in the guise of drama with dumb effects and overacting to balance its lack of substance before finally burning itself out. The story in shallow and full of holes, the characters aren't even remotely interesting, and the auteur gives us no reason to care.  Passable junk with the usual Britflick washed out color and low budget feel not worth the time for other than crime flick junkies. (C) "},{"Title":"TRUE BRIT","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very much in the Get Carter mode, and ten times better than Ritchie and his 2000 wannabees.This film perfectly captures 1960s London. It also captures the true ugly, psychotic, non-glamorous side of being a gangster. Very violent, but most of that is in your mind. The ending is perhaps a little anti-climatic, but otherwise a good effort. "},{"Title":"massively overrated","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've watched this movie four times, as it came with polarised 'recommendations'. 'Curate's egg' is the best that can be said about Gangster No. 1, and given the budget, actors and so on that's damning with feint praise. Around about the time this film was made, films about cockney geezer gangsters were all the rage. Some were really quite good (Lock Stock, Sexy Beast, Layer Cake) but many became parodies of the genre and were that all too common thing - the bad Brit flick. Gangster Number 1 was more of the latter. On paper this cast must have looked great. On celluloid, however it all comes apart. For a start, Malcolm McDowell, wonderfully sinister as Alex in A Clockwork Orange, cannot do a cockney accent and his performance is as frightening as a flower show. The voice over used to set up the piece becomes vaguely comic and quickly irritating. With a script this weak and an accent this bad, why on earth parade the fact? All this accentuates the film's central weakness. A truly creaky script. A world of Lennies, Eddies, Tommys and Freddies is just the start of a roster of every gangland clich paraded with tiresome inevitability.When actors the calibre of David Thewlis and Paul Bettany look this corny, you know the problem's behind the camera. Director Paul McGuigan is developing a knack of producing 2nd-rate TV-style movies. Hopefully he'll get it right one day but after this, the Reckoning and now Lucky Number Slevin, I wouldn't hold my breath. Paul Bettany makes a fair fist of being scary but it requires scenes of sheer gore to get the point across. But the gore is just unpleasant and dissolves into Patrick Bateman without the laughs. In Scorsese's hands it might become terrifying, but McGuigan is no Scorsese, or Jonathan Glazer for that matter. In this gangsters' world, nobody possess genuine menace in the same way Ben Kingsley and Ian McShane were scary in Sexy Beast, or even Vinnie Jones in Lock Stock. Also, the supposedly stylish, rich Freddie Mays wears the same suit all the way through.The gay undertones just add to the corniness of the whole thing. There are some good perfromances here. Bettany is great in parts, but the 'look at my eyes' thing becomes tedious. Eddie Marsen as Eddie Miller is terrific as is Jamie Foreman as Lennie. "},{"Title":"Competent but gratuitous","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Competently made British gangster movie that failed to charm me. A cut above such atrocities as Circus or Rancid Aluminium, Gangster No.1 is realistic and harrowing. Many audiences will be impressed, but at the end of the movie I had found the violence merely gratuitous "},{"Title":"British gangsters wear Armani suits too!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the English 'Casino' and 'Goodfellas' in one laughable film. It is very well known how much the English want to be Americans and this movie proves it.Like in 'Lock Stock...' and 'Snatch', they try to create a New York environment in London, which is not realistic. They want it so much to make these gangsters be like their Italian-American counterparts and the end result is completely ridiculous. 'Buy yourself a nice suit...', yeah, right.Apart from that, Paul Bettany can hardly act and the director is the perfect Scorcese wanna-be.Malcolm McDowell is (as always) great though...2/10 "}]