[{"Title":"recognizably Mamet","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I came upon this movie while channel surfing. I missed the opening but I was drawn in immediately. I loved the dialogue. A scene happens, there is no action but the characters are changed by each other. And the characters are so strange and hectic. But you fall into them and their foibles. I also loved the 'jewishness' of Dale. Mamet's dialogue is my best. I always have a sense that he is writing and then I have to come and check. It's heightened dialogue. Almost super-real. Peter Faulk and Denis Leary are also an absolute treat in this movie. I knew that Joe Mantegna was a favorite actor of Mamet's but I didn't know that he directed as well. Very well I thought. I don't remember ever hearing about this movie before so I'm glad I caught it. "},{"Title":"This ain't no Pirates of the Caribbean...","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie that should be mandatory viewing at all nautical colleges and academies. It's a (mostly) accurate look into the lives of the men who drive ships for a living. Most people who have ever sailed aboard a ship will probably find this movie hilarious. Such people, however, constitute a small percentage of the general population. This movie is probably hit-or-miss for everybody else, in terms of whether or not they 'get it' and appreciate it for what it is. Lakeboat doesn't easily fit into any particular genre, seeing as there is hardly any plot. The movie instead focuses on characterization, and is aided to this by some relatively unknown but nonetheless well-cast actors. Some of the technical details are wrong, as mentioned in a few of the other comments, but when has any movie ever gotten all the technicalities right? Lakeboat is not an action film; It cruises along at the same slow, uneventful pace as the ship and crew it portrays. If you want a gunfight or an explosion every five minutes, don't even bother. If, however, you like a movie that is insightful, give this one a try. If you've ever been part of a ship's crew, you'll probably laugh to no end; this movie is funny because it's honest. Everybody else, be ready to have your romantic (or literary, according to the summary on this site) visions of the Sailor's life swept away like those of the movie's young protagonist. The stereotypes in the form of the foul-mouthed sailors are exaggerated, but in general the movie his film reflects a truism we jokingly use in this industry the difference between a fairy tale and a sea story is that a fairy tale begins with once upon a time, and a sea story begins with this ain't no (insert four-letter 's' word here). Lakeboat (generally) tells it like it is. "},{"Title":"No action at all!! But, a great film","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is definitely not for everyone. If you want special effects, violence, or  sexual content. You will not like this film. But, if your willing to give a film a  chance for the first 20 min. or so, you'll be rewarded with several rich characters. I get the feeling this story cam from Mamet's past, from men he ran into while  growing up. There is a recurring story about a member of the crew who missedthe boat. But the real story revolves around the men who work on this machine  (the boat) that pretty much sails itself, and leaves these guys not much to do but  talk to each other, and reflect on their own lives. Another great film for my Mamet collection!!!!! "},{"Title":"A rich, rewarding film!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found the movie Lakeboat to be a wonderful character driven film!  The actors are superb, especially Robert Forster as the world-weary Joe Pitko! An Oscar performance if there ever was one.  Some might find the language a bit salty, but It wasn't gratuitous.  Rather it reflects the way regular blue collar guys sometimes relate to each other, guys among guys.  Having grown up and spent most of my life in the great-lakes area, I found that it rung true, and I thought it was explained very well to the new guy by his cabin mate before the voyage. If you don't mind thinking a bit, and you don't need an explosion every few minutes or huge special effects to keep your attention, I think you'll enjoy this film.  It's a nice change of pace from the rat race.   "},{"Title":"Mamet parodies Mamet","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How to you even rate a film like this. The actors are incredible, and I love Mamet (as a general rule), but this film is flat and lifeless. One scene toward the end with Robert Forster confessing to a suicidal moment earlier in his life is the only (and I mean only) scene with any emotional impact. The rest is like a series of Mametian scenes were picked off a cutting room floor and spliced together. Sad, sad.Look--what am I saying. What? Bad? Is that what you think? Is that what you THINK? All right, then. Bad it is. But you said it. Don't you forget that. You're the guy.Watch Spartan instead. Much better. "},{"Title":"Another great Mamet adaptation.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Reminded me a lot of another Mamet play adaption to a non-Mamet directed film -- Glengary Glen Ross.  Completely dialog driven, extremely funny in a non-punchline kind of way, very subtle.  But much lighter theme.I thought Tony Mamet wasn't completely up to the par of the other actors which held things back but still a great film. "},{"Title":"Mamet magic","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was brimming with brisk, witty dialogue, and nuanced performances. Robert Forster and Charles Durning, in particular, stood out. Forster has an incredible humanity about him. What is so appealing about Mamet's films and plays is that the dialogue is so rapidfire, the actors don't have time to well, um, act. As a result (and, most likely, also due to masterful direction) they live in the moment. It is ironic that the result of such a word-intensive piece is profound simplicity.Don't understand why this isn't getting wider distribution. "},{"Title":"Great character study","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was mesmerized by the portrayal of the crew of the boat.  I live in the Chicago area and the use of so many actors from the area gave true realism to the characters.  I know people who have worked the boats on Lake Michigan and this movie reminded me of the experiences they have recounted.  Once again, Mamet has told a story in a clean neat fashion. "},{"Title":"Mamet got it dead on!","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Haven't seen the movie, but saw the play at the Goodman in Chicago years ago. Mamet was uncannily on target; I felt he knew my old crew mates inside and out. Other comments seem to evaluate the movie as entertainment or what they expect of Mamet, or some other side issue. How about evaluating it as TRUTH?! The lakeboats are all gone now. The Mesabi iron ore range in Minnesota is played out and South American steel has virtually killed the US steel industry. The ore boats no longer ply the lakes, and the last one, the Mather, is now a floating museum docked at Cleveland.So the play catches a piece of American history recorded nowhere else. All that foul language; yep, it's right on! Don't like it? Then you don't like telling it like it is! (Pardon -- like it WAS!). Perhaps the movie has it's faults; I hear they forgot the delay between an engine room signal and the reply/confirmation. But reviewers who focus on the entertainment quality of the movie miss the point it should be viewed as LIVING HISTORY!! (Alas, of an era now totally dead and gone).In the Summer of 1950, fresh out of high school, I shipped out as a deckhand on the Samuel F. B. Morse one of the last wooden hatch boats, but got fired the next week because I was to weak to handle the huge wooden hatches. Later I shipped out September 6, 1950, on the Presque Isle, on a run from Cleveland to Escanaba, and stayed for the Fall months. The next Summer is was deckwatch on the James A Farrell.It's all gone now, and David Mamet's play is the only record I've ever seen of what crew life was really like. Found the movie/play boring? crude? tedious? Right; now you know what life on the lakeboats was really like!!! "},{"Title":"A fine adaptation of an early David met play, driven by character, rather than plot","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  LAKEBOAT for some will move as slowly as one of those ore-carrying vessels you see on the horizon from the shores of the Great Lakes. But for those wanting a relief from the frenzy of the many mindless action movies clogging our cineplexes, this Joe Montegna-directed adaptation 0of a 30-year old David Mamet play offers plenty of rewards. Rather than a coming of age film, as I've seen it described, it's really a tale in which a young grad student named Dale (played by David Mamet's brother), working on an ore boat for the summer, serves as a witness to a number of middle-aged and older crew members intent on educating their young companion. Much of their advice about handling women and sex is pretty awful, but amusing in the cocksure way in which it is dispensed to Dale--and to their good intentions in helping the naive boy. Most poignant of the crew is the book-reading Joe, who reveals to Dale a fact about his early life that he's told no one else--that as a boy he had dreamt of being a ballet dancer. Thinking about the direction which he chose for his own life, he tells Dale not only that he has his whole life ahead of him, but, a wonderful comment coming from a rough-hewn crew member, that he is a good man and a hard worker. Charles Durning and George Wendt are delightful as the ponderous First Mate (Captain) and second in command, as is Peter Falk as a pier worker.It seems such a crime that this film came to the Cincinnati area for just a week with no fanfare and left as quietly as it came. It desrves to find an audience, so I hope it soon will be released as an affordable video. "}{"Title":"100% Undistilled Mamet","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lakeboat is not necessarily a cinematic tour-de-force, but that doesn't prevent it from being a terrific movie in it's own right.  As a showcase for David Mamet's particular knack for rough-hewn, tartly staccato dialogue the film succeeds admirably.  If you're a fan of Mamet's trademark writing style, you'll be happy to see him get back to the blue-collar Chicago roots of his characters.  Though he's transplanted them to various settings, including the wilderness ( the underrated The Edge) and Victorian England (by way of Terence Rattigan in The Winslow Boy), the people inhabiting Lakeboat just seem more at home with Mamet's words than the characters in some of his other works.Though devoid of any real narrative drive, the film nonetheless shines, brought to life by a fine collection of character actors.  Robert Forster is especially good, affecting a subtle sadness that by the end proves to be quite moving.Incredibly funny and profane as all of Mamet's best works have been, Lakeboat is vastly enjoyable and at times very touching.  Director Joe Mantegna easily navigates through Mamet's tricky verbiage and expands upon the play in what feels like a completely natural growth.Lakeboat is by far one of the best films of this year.  "},{"Title":"Poorly Done","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One would think that having worked with David Mamet for so many years, Joe Mantegna would have a superb understanding of Mamet-speak.  Mamet's dialog requires a certain rhythm, or cadence to make it work, and despite the high caliber actors involved in this project, I didn't feel that many of them pulled it off very well.  Denis Leary and Robert Forster seemed to get it, but everyone else around them seemed very stilted, and the dialog seemed truly forced.  Mamet is fascinated by the dance of dialog, and if the cast won't dance, it doesn't work. "},{"Title":"we all live in a big ship","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lakeboat is one of the nicest movie that i have ever seen, i laughed and thought at the same time, after the movie ended i just felt that  our life is going on not only in an isolated or small world but also full of variety in all terms.     "},{"Title":"Not very realistic","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Several things about this movie turned me off. I am Great Lakes Merchant Marine and was excited to hear a movie about a Great Lakes crew was being produced. They picked a Great Vessel (the Canadian flagged Seaway Queen). But although you can't blame the actors (they were working with poor material) Lakeboat gives an unrealistic stereotypical view of merchant seaman. Not only that but there are several inaccuracies in the props. For example one character makes a ship to shore call on the inter ship phone system. While the ship was being unloaded they show crew members using hand trucks to unload boxed cargo, the majority of the ships on the lakes carry bulk cargo. This ignorance to realistic detail bothered me but so did the fact that they painted every sailor as foul mouthed know nothings. I honestly have heard worse language from Jr. High School students then my shipmates. It is just so painfully inaccurate.  "},{"Title":"Not washed up","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think you probably have to be a huge David Mamet fan to really love this film.  I'm not a huge fan, although I also don't hate his works.  As for this film, I liked it but didn't love it.  The entire film was a character study, and I thought was well done -- mostly.  With this cast, I don't think it could go wrong.  Robert Forster was fantastic.  Some of the humor fell flat for me.  Still, I thought it was worth seeing.  My grandfather used to work in large ships on the Great Lakes.  That's mostly why I rented this film.  Although I suspect that his own experiences were not much like this film, it was interesting to me to think that some of them may have been a little bit similar. "},{"Title":"Forgettable & Boring","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been exposed to a wide variety of movie genres, from drive-in 'B' movie fare on up to the mainstream, big studio blockbusters.  In the middle of all of this is the independent, art-house movies which can be entertaining and refreshingly different.  This is where Lakeboat fits in, and unfortunately it was neither entertaining nor different.  It is about a grad student that takes a summer job on a freightliner, and all of the co-workers he works with on board.  This movie has a flimsy plot at best, and the dialogue is really something to be desired.  Excessive swearing for the sake of swearing does not make great comedy or enrich the dialogue.  The characters seemed to be variations of one main character, and this just made me not really care about what each character had to say.  The interaction between the actors/characters came across more like a stand-up comedy at the Improv than realistic labourers working on a boat.  It's the type of movie that kept me watching just because I hoped it would get better.  Instead, at the end of the 1hr&45minutes, I was left feeling ripped off in a way; that I wasted my time even giving this movie a chance!  On the positive side, this movie boasts an all-star cast-too bad there talent is wasted on this celluloid disaster.  If you value your time, don't even waste it on this excuse of a movie.  "},{"Title":"Another Winner For Mamet & Mantegna","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Anything Mamet, That's right Anything Mamet. I see everything that this guy writes or directs. This guy almost never disapoints. I rented Lakeboat a couple of months ago wasn't expecting much. But I got more than I thought and Lakeboat delivered. While not the greatest movie ever made it sure was entertaining with great dialogue. Joe Mantegna directs. David Mamet wrote the screenplay. I think it was based on an earlier play by Mamet. The characters and the story were top notch. A good slice of life movie. I like slice of life movies when they are interesting and entertaining this one was both. A top notch cast with some of the usual suspects found in all of Mamet's films. Check it out, not the greatest production values but well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review chaotic and unfunny","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lakeboat doesn't have a plot, so I guess it's more of a character sketch. Like a series of disconnected skits, various characters walk in, fire off some non-sequiturs, and leave. Unfortunately, it's not funny -- at all -- and the pace is slow and boring. Frankly, I couldn't get through it. The lines are somewhat funny but the pacing and the portrayal and the music is all serious.Speaking of music, it's awful -- I assume it's more nepotism by writer David Mamet since the composer is Bob Mamet. The film isn't awful, it's more of a bad... the only reason I'm upset is that I expect so much more from David Mamet. Maybe I should stop that.Who should see this film-- Nobody, even if you think you might want to. See Bottle Rocket instead, or better yet, The Royal Tenenbaums.I'll give Lakeboat a disappointing 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"And the ship rolls back and forth and back and forth and...","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay. Up front I dislike David Mamet's work. It is pretentious, unrealistic, inane and larded with too much profanity. It's always easier to use the F word than be creative or clever. A creative crutch? I watched this movie because I have lived most of my life on the Great Lakes and love the lore of the lakers. But what is the point of this movie? Even the dullest, dumbest, densest seafarers must have far better conversations than these. And thats all the movie is, a series of unlikely, unrealistic, uninspiring conversations. (Oh, what's that? It was supposed to be a comedy, you say? Thanks. I never would have known if you hadn't told me. Well, the hooker actually was pretty funny but I thought that was just lousy casting.) Great Lakes Shipping could be a very rich source of drama or even comedy. There are some great stories out there. This is not one of them. "}]