[{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Come on, I know it's not cool to admit to liking what is essentially a cheesy teen flick. But go ahead, say it aloud - this is a fun movie! Sappy, badly acted, full of exaggerated clichés and one-liner groaners, Center Stage nevertheless has a kind of charm to it. No, it's not an Oscar contender or a change-your-life kind of movie. This is pure escapism, plain and simple. But - say it together with me now - there's nothing wrong with that.Amanda Schull plays Jody, a wannabe ballet dancer who gets accepted to the prestigious American Ballet Academy. The movie follows her life and that of her friends and fellow students, who fall into the predictable stereotypes. There's Eva (Zoe Saldana), the city kid with attitude. There's Maureen (Susan May Pratt), the teacher's pet. There's Erik (Shakiem Evans), the gay guy. There's Cooper (Ethan Stiefel), the bad-boy celebrity who's still in love with the director's wife ballerina. There's Charlie (Sascha Radetsky), the perfect good guy. One has the obnoxious stage mom. Another has the talent but not the drive. A third has the drive but not the talent. Etcetera. And the lives of the students take the typical high school romantic twists and turns, as the students compete for one of three spots in the company by the end of the year, and also in the various love triangles between the cast. There are few surprises here.None of the cast is much of an actor - Schull is particularly uneven - and the plot has a sort of predictability to it that make eyes roll.So why the 8/10? Well, because despite all this, Center Stage is a great amount of fun - mostly due to the dancing.By casting real dancers in a lot of the roles, Center Stage lends an air of credibility to the lavishly filmed dance sequences, clearly done with love by such talents as world-leading dancers Julie Kent and Ethan Stiefel (widely considered to be one of the best ballet dancers in the world) as well as relatively new talents such as Amanda Schull. Some of the actors have body doubles dancing for them, such as Zoe Saldana - who had some dance training but not at the level required by the film. But overall, the dance scenes are the best part of the movie, especially Cooper's ballet at the end.Some movies are great because they change your life or make you think. Center Stage is great because it's like candy - full of saccharine sugar and empty calories, but eminently watchable over and over again. Sometimes movies don't have to be socially relevant or intellectually stimulating to be good. Sometimes, escapism is OK too. "},{"Title":"Shut Up and Dance","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Every now and then there's a new movie about dancers, or dancing, or one with a lot of dancing in it. From Astaire to Kelly to Hines, it's the poetry of motion. If you have any appreciation for the art form whatsoever, the one to see right now is Center Stage. It's about a school year in the life of three teenage girls who are roommates at a ballet academy in New York. They pass the auditions to get into the school, but then have to work as hard as possible to move on from there. At the end of the year is a workshop performance where they can be seen by most of the people in the industry who could hire them, including the resident company. They work toward and hope for a career in the most demanding pursuit imaginable, facing gifted competition, and placed on a limited schedule. A dancer has ten years, maybe fifteen if they're not injured in order to peak in their career and be the best they can ever be. A singer can sing most of their life. An actor can act all his life. A dancer's clock is ticking. It's only a matter of time before they can only teach and choreograph, so there's a unique sense of urgency to start young, study hard, and survive. All that might make a good movie. Might not.Along with the good, you have to take the less than good. The characters are nothing new. There's the naive female ing&#142;nue (Amanda Schull), the bad girl (Zoe Saldana), the favorite girl (Susan May Pratt), the cocky lead boy (Ethan Stiefel, hailed as the most advanced male dancer in the world), the nice guy dancer (Sascha Radetsky), the nice guy non-dancer (Eion Bailey), the gay friend (Shakiem Evans), the pushy mother (Debra Monk), the demanding teacher (Donna Murphy), and the dictatorial company director (Peter Gallagher). How'd he get in there? There's even a Russian figure skater (Ilia Kulik) in the cast as a dancer. By the way, everybody is amazingly good-looking. Kind of like, Friends as done by George Ballanchine. Only in the movies, right? The story is nothing new either. Will everything work out? Will their dreams come true? Will they survive the heartbreaks of love, and the bodyaches of dance? Well, it's the movies, isn't it? Since the cast features some of the youngest and best dancers in the world, the acting comes second. Often a distant second. Or third. Don't expect any awards to be handed out in that area. Some parts are surprisingly weak, but then they move on and get back to letting their feet do the talking.Did I mention that the only reason to see this is for the dancing? The way it's filmed here is excellent, without actually having to go to a ballet. The beauty of movement, the grace of the girls, and the strength and skill of the boys is captured as well as any other movie in the subject you're likely to see. The big dance numbers at the end are worth seeing by themselves, including more modern styles. Beforehand, there are a couple of dance scenes without ballet. The kids go to a club one night and salsa, and later we see a bunch of Broadway hoofers in a jazz class lead by Priscilla Lopez (original cast of A Chorus Line) that reminded me of scenes in All That Jazz. Those were the most fun. Other scenes will remind you of The Turning Point, White Nights, and even Dirty Dancing. The comparison to Fame is inevitable. That was then, this is a new century. The natural talent, dedication, motivation, support, and ass-busting hard work needed to succeed at this kind of life is touched on here, but also touched on is the sheer love of the game. For dance itself. That's the main thing. E-mail and comments are welcome. "},{"Title":"Very fresh and great entertainment!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  What can you say about a movie that not only makes you want to get up and dance yourself, but one that keeps you hanging on every dance step and word? Perhaps fabulous. While everyone was running off to see the spring Block Buster Gladiator, I was watching the sneak preview of Center Stage, along with 300 to 400 others. The chemistry between these first time movie actors was just amazing. That dancing was breathtaking and the plot was wonderful. It was full of surprises and excitement. Had to be my favorite movie in the last couple of years. There was barely any language and a bit of sex, but it was appropriate for the story line. This is a movie for everyone young and old. It is a must see in the theater, and I promise you it will get your heart pumping! "},{"Title":"A wonderful and innovative behind-the-scenes film about the competitive world of dance","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage, a film about the lives of young modern dancers who want nothing more than to make a name for themselves, dazzles with some of the best on-screen dance performances since Patrick Swayze shook his hips in Dirty Dancing thirteen years ago. Starring some of the most talented modern dancers ever to hit the silver screen, Stage focuses its attention on the lives surrounding the young dancers and their struggles for stardom. The film is a revealing exploitation of the complexity associated with modern dance, diving into the realities of dance phenoms that sacrifice their social life for a role that will find them performing in front of a live audience.Rating 6 "},{"Title":"Cliché city, but I LOVED it!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Let's see--you've got a bunch of young hopefuls in a tough ballet school in NYC--you have the tough, but lovable, black girl; the token gay man; the sweet virginal heroine; the arrogant Russian guy; the sweet lovable guy who's perfect for the sweet heroine, but she doesn't know it; the b**** who's starving herself to death; the guy who loves her and wants to help her; the tyrannical (but lovable) ballet teachers--yep, they're all here! The script is utterly predictable, you know how it's going to end 10 minutes into the movie, but I loved it! The acting is surprisingly good, it's beautifully filmed, the whole cast is attractive and the dancing is simply superb. I wasn't bored once during the entire 2 hours. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"great dancing, cliched plot","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I loved this for the dancing - the balcony scene from Romeo and Juliet, the dance of the little swans from Swan Lake, a bit of the Stars and Stripes, and some great modern stuff, especially the show sequence which works through Michael Jackson and Jamiroquai.  The story is just a bundle of cliches in looks and personalities and you just know how it is all going to end.  So, worth seeing for the dance sequences, but its turn off your brain time for the rest.  With a stronger storyline this could have been a really good film.  As it is, its a high 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Girl gets guy, girl loses guy, girl finds another guy, girl dances.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Being of the male persuasion, this isn't a movie I would typically go to the theater to see.  However, not being the stereotypical male, I decided to rent it on video and watch it together with my girlfriend.This movie is your typical teenage gal film.  All the elements are there... good girl, bad girl, holier-than-thou girl, homosexual friend, domineering mother, bad guy, good guy... the list goes on and on.Jody Sawyer (played quite well by newcomer Amanda Schull) wants to be a ballet dancer.  She is already good, but she wants to be the best.  She joins on with a famous ballet school, and commences auditions for the all-out ballet blast at the end of the school year, where the dancers will be watched very closely, and some of them will be signed with major ballet companies.Along the way, she runs into some problems with the other members of the school, as well as the company director.  She finds that ballet schools aren't all they are cracked up to be.  (Who knew?!)  They are more about politics than they are about dancing.She gets burned by one guy, encouraged by another, and tries to be the best she can.  Eventually, she finds the way to her dreams, but not in the typical way, the one the viewer may expect.Acting here is a tad hollow.  However, for a cast of unknowns, it's prettyfair.  After all, this movie is about dancing, not about acting.  As might be expected, everybody here is gorgeous.  (Are they trying to tell us there are no visually unpleasant ballet dancers... anywhere?!)  Aside from that, the storyline is rather unbelievable, and contrived.  This leads to a loss of major points.The best thing about this movie is the dancing.  If you are a fan of ballet, be sure and rent this video.  It has some of the best ballet dancing that can be seen in any other movie.  In particular, the dance exhibition at the end is magnificent!If you are male, watch this one with your female significant other.  (It's good for points.)  If you are a gay male, watch it with your male significant other.  If you are female, just watch it, you'll love it, especially if you are into cotton candy type films.  Overall, it it's no Oscar winner, but it isn't too bad, either.  Did I mention the dancing was pretty good?My Rating  6/10 "},{"Title":"Discovering  From the other side","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" What makes this something unique? What the difference with other movies about dancers?.I just can tell I'm not a fan of the dance things, I mean I really hate those many pop singers who abuse of the dance to hide their bad work, so for year I was avoiding these movies.But when I saw the music video of this film, something was different, there was not the same old story with the cast of pop stars trying to show they are more than a cute face. There was a cast of amazing dancers showing the best of them in just a few minutes.So, finally I found myself watching this movie with the strange desire about an endless story. Weird, but for one who doesn't like the dance, this was a discover of whole new world were the dancers and the cast make an incredible work in a story who deserve to be with the classic of these themes.This movie it's not shallow love story of a group of teenagers trying to become in big stars, it's about the crash of the passion and the reality, the time when the real love for something has to be tested to found the perfect place in the universe of the society, something that it's hard to find in a good film. "},{"Title":"More focus on the feelings of people than the actual dancing","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I understand that a movie must be about emotional expression, otherwise people would not like it, but a film about dancing should be, in my view, more about expression through dance. This film was not like that and, even if it had some nice dance scenes in it, the rest was sadly disappointing.I may be biased, since I am watching the second movie in as many days about a self-obsessed blonde dancer who believes her feelings are more important than anything else, but I found the main character hard to sympathize with and the rest of them really cliché. The black girl with talent but lack of self control, the black gay guy, the blonde dance god and the nice muscular perfect boyfriend, the bitchy perfectionist and the overcontrolling mother, they are all in here, playing their cardboard parts in hard to believe scenes on the music of Michael Jackson and the like.Bottom line if you are passionate about dance and/or ballet, you might want to check it out, but bare in mind that the dancing here could have been replaced by sports or literature or automechanics and the script would have remained mostly untouched and the film very similar to something you've seen before on TV. "},{"Title":"The Dance is the Thing","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The title comes from the dancer's center of gravity, which I'm told is used to explain the difference between Russian and American dance to us non-dancers. The Russian tradition is one of capturing and controlling it; the American (since Balanchine, whose work is employed here) is to understand it and let the center `go.' And insofar as it can, that is the point of the drama employed to tie together the dance segments of this film. It is a non-trivial point, underlined by employing not actors in the key roles, but dancers who `act.' These kids are surely endearing.Two points seem worth mentioning.The first is the matter of dance in film. Dance is intrinsically cinematic in terms of emotion as motion. But it is too personal, too directly a matter between humans, to convey well to the funnel of film everything squashed into an image, then given indiscriminately and undifferentiatingly to all viewers. So the cinematographer has a tough choice what to do with the camera to increase bodily intimacy.One, unacceptable, extreme is to stay stationary at a few points, another is to choreograph the camera so the viewer is one of the dancers. In this case, at the end at least, we have a happy medium so far as camera involvement. The camera is stationary, but often within the field of dance, and it pans. The staging of the dance was partly to the audience pictured, and partly to us, which is very clever. But it would have been nice to be more adventurous in this regard, especially since there are several choreographers in NYC who are up to the challenge, and cheap!The second point is a matter of self-reference, which I appreciate almost without qualification when I see it.  The filmmaker gives us a bunch of young actors (actually dancers) who surprise us by effectively showing us their souls in a little love triangle drama. And the matter of their story? A bunch of young dancers who surprise the audience in the film by effectively showing their souls in a little love triangle drama. The film as summarized in the dance is a very intelligent device which I appreciated. And you will too. "}{"Title":"Incredible Dancing....the rest un-incredible","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Ballet movies are incredibly rare. Some are good movies even without the dancing and some are bad with great dancing. This movie happens to be an ok movie with incredible dancing. The characters are really caricatures with exaggerated behaviors that come off feeling very afternoon teen special-ish. The plot is incredibly predictable. You can tell what's going to happen to Jody after the first 15 minutes. However, this movie is lucky enough to have no less than three ABT members in its cast. Ethan Steifel is of course arguably the greatest male dancer in the world right now and while I was watching him I was struck with how similar he is to Baryshnikov. His every move looks effortless and gravity-defying. Sascha Radetsky shows that if he was with any other company that he'd be a principal dancer. Julie Kent should prove to be a mixture of Leslie Browne and Gelsey Kirkland and be an inspiration to another generation of girls. Amanda Schull shows a great deal of promise which really shows in the last number. Zoe Saldana is very good and is perhaps the most complex character. She carries off this acting job adequately. Susan May Pratt is of course the only non-dancer who is also lacking in any dance experience. It's actually kind of ironic that her character has to be the most technically accomplished of the students. However, she looks as natural in the environment as do her fellow dancer co-stars. The final dance sequences are amazing. One includes Rachmaninov's 2nd Piano Concerto and is a beautiful piece. The other ballet is one that illustrates where ballet is heading. Full of flashy colors, flashy costumes, and effects, the sequence also includes some fabulous dancing. As long as you watch it for the dancing, this movie will please you. If you watch it as a movie than you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing if you like dancing","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was a surprisingly good film. The plot and characters were believable, though somewhat formulaic. The rest was so well executed I didn't care about that. I was impressed that the director got such good performances out of dancers who don't have acting experience. The more seasoned actors/actresses gave a boost in quality that improved the overall effort quite a bit, especially Debra Monk who played Maureen's mother.All the flaws aside - which really are comparatively minor - the film was a superb portrayal of the world of dance and those who aspire to a professional career. The hard work, the sacrifices, the competitiveness and sometimes isolation are all part of the process so wonderfully done here. The dancing is quite excellent in many parts and is worth the price alone. "},{"Title":"Teens in tights.  Great dancing, unoriginal story.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Wouldn't it be nice if someone produced a film about ballet with an interesting story?  Unfortunately, `Center Stage' is not it.  While charming at times with a very upbeat ending, the story is ultimately just another jejune and unoriginal teen flick.  Instead of teens in jeans, we have teens in tights.  Otherwise, the storylines are indistinguishable, lacking anything that approaches novelty, depth or substance.That having been said, this likeable film was easy to watch and the dancing was exquisite.  If only there had been more of it.  The fact that the cast was filled with real dancers instead of actors pretending to be dancers improved its realism and delivered fantastic dancing scenes without the need for stunt dancers.  Unfortunately, the flip side of this decision was the fact that the acting was generally mediocre.Two standouts were Amanda Schull (Jody Sawyer) and Zoe Saldana (Eva Rodriguez).  Schull was affable yet determined and was most credible in her portrayal of a struggling dancer.  Saldana played the irreverent bad girl who was brilliantly talented but had trouble with authority.  She emerged as the most complete of any of the cast members, being both a good dancer and an excellent actor.On the terrible side, we have Susan May Pratt (Maureen), who has done a string of teen flicks (`Drive Me Crazy', `Ten Things I Hate About You').  As always, she was consistently puerile and abrasive.  Peter Gallagher is not known for lighting up the screen, but he was flat even for him (if that is possible).I rated this film a 7/10 because I love ballet and all kinds of dance.  Subtract at least two points if you don't share that passion, unless you love teen flicks. "},{"Title":"A weak film lacking the passion of it's subject.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage, a film about young students of the ballet trying to succeed, is diluted by too many characters (most of them sophomoric stereotypes) and soapy subplots and plagued by bad acting, melodrama, juvenile music, and even mediocre choreography. The film lacks the verve and passion of the art it attempts to represent though it does showcase plenty of dancing. This flick will be appreciated most by young females and dance enthusiasts.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful. Stunning. If You Liked 'Fame', You Will Love This Movie.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" A group of young dancers 'fight' against each other to be selected in a workshop promoted by ABA (American Ballet Academy). Only a few of them will have a chance to be professional dancers, but all of them love to dance. The movie focuses the plot in Jody Sawyer (the delicious, gorgeous, graceful Amanda Schull &#150; what a beautiful woman she is!), the rebel Eva Rodriguez (Zoe Saldana) and the anorexic Maureen Cummings (Susan May Pratt), in the female side, and Cooper Nielson (Ethan Stiefel) and Charlie Sims (Sascha Radetsky) in the male side. There are many other secondary characters that participate in the plot, like the mother of Maureen, the director of the company Jonathan Reeves (Peter Gallagher) and many others. The first point that impressed me was the number of characters, all of them well defined in the plot having a major or a minor participation in the story. Second, the natural and powerful acting of these young and unknown actors and dancers. It seems that they are indeed fighting for a chance to be recognized by Hollywood as great actors and actresses, trying to show their skills to the studios. It shows a splendid direction of the excellent Nycholas Hytner. The choreography and soundtrack are also great. Certainly it is a lovely and wonderful film, highly indicated for fans of 'Fame', dance, ballet and good movies. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Sob a Luz da Fama (Under the Spotlight of the Fame) "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Great movie. This movie is about a group of training ballet dancers from top ballet a school in NYC. The dancers become friends facing challenging situations together. A story about artists finding themselves in situations that help them overcome certain personality traits. Great talented cast, a staple in the dance community, a realistic storyline that captivates emotions and real life events. Thus a much too similar plot, the story was of great deliverance. A story many dancers can relate to. Not just about dancing. More so, about the obstacles you have endure to gain respect as a dancer. A must watch. Great film "},{"Title":"Clashing egos, dashed dreams, and boy-girl romances...only for movie-beginners","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Cartoony variation on Fame concerns a group of teenagers enrolled at the American Ballet Company who rebel against their instructors, struggle with their weight, battle with their parents and--most especially--check each other out during morning ballet exercises! While cobbling together scenes from Flashdance, All That Jazz, A Chorus Line along with Fame (its prime inspiration), director Nicholas Hytner and screenwriter Carol Heikkinen appear to assume that a few jazzy dance montages set to an artificial backbeat will substitute for the lack of honest characters--or any kind of characters, for that matter. Despite stray vulgarities and a bit of underage sex, Center Stage is squeaky-clean and square, the kind of matinée underachiever which attempts to combine Michael Jackson moves with tutus. As timid over its sexuality as it is about dramatic backstage business, the movie is nothing more than a smelly soaper scored for gullible 'tweens. * from **** "},{"Title":"Places Everyone!","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Center Stage (2000) Dir Nicholas Hytner / Cast Peter Gallagher, Zoe Saldana, Amanda Shull, Susan Mary Pratt, Ethan Stiefel Insightful look at the arts and the struggles and ambition that young people who embark upon this as a career move. Title indicates that those who participate are gearing towards the top of their form. It is not the masterpiece that Fame is but it is structured in similar fashion with students assembled at the school of the performing arts in hopes of acceptance. Those who succeed will be part of a dance program where their skills will be applied to theatre arts. Plot is thin and structure is predictable but the climaxing play is a steal. Directed by Nicholas Hytner who made mediocre The Object of My Affection. The dance numbers are done with great passion but Hytner also casts the film well. Peter Gallagher is the instructor and this is a vast improvement over his last couple of failures. Zoe Saldana, Amanda Shull, and Susan May Pratt are among the ensemble for whom travel the clichés but ultimately present real character. While Fame will appeal to both students and adults alike, Center Stage is clearly aimed at teenagers who have ambitions similar to those expressed here. Although not the masterpiece that Fame is it still presents an interesting character study in an energizing film about reaching goals in high places. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"It's watchable, not much more than that","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Center Stage was a 2000 comedy-drama that followed the lives of various teenagers as they audition for a spot in the American Ballet Company. The film opens as students audition for the company but we learn that they have only been chosen to study at the company and are not actually members of the company yet. There is a showcase at the end of the year at which time, only a handful of students are chosen as actual members of the company.The primary characters focused on are Jody Sawyer (Amanda Schull), a young girl who has the passion for dance but doesn't really have the technique. Eva (Zoe Saldana) has the technique but doesn't have the attitude. Maureen (Susan May Pratt) was pretty much pushed into ballet by her mother (Debra Monk) who works for the company and though she has what it takes in terms of technique, learns that her heart isn't really in it. We are also are introduced to Jonathan (Peter Gallagher) the egomaniacal director of the company who constantly butts head with Cooper Nielsen (Ethan Stiefel), the principal male dancer of the company who longs to have his own company and finds himself attracted to Jody. Tony winner Donna Murphy is also featured as a teacher in the company whose battle of wills with Eva keep their working relationship very tense.Yeah, it's pretty much a soap opera on pointe shoes, but the characters presented are pretty realistic for the most part, as dancers, for the most part, are not the nicest people in the world and that film makes this very clear. Jonathan and Cooper pretty much grate on the nerves throughout, only made worse because Ethan Stiefel, though a brilliant dancer, can't act his way out of paper bag.On the other hand, Schull is charming as Jody and Saldana steals every scene she is in. There is also a cute cameo by original A CHORUS LINE cast member Priscilla Lopez as a dance instructor who is an old friend of Cooper's. There is some first-rate dancing though and Cooper's final ballet, featuring Schull and Stiefel, is spectacular. "},{"Title":"following the formula","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Pretty Jodie Sawyer (Amanda Schull), rebellious Eva Rodriguez (Zoe Saldana) and Maureen Cummings (Susan May Pratt) are new roommates in the American Ballet Academy in NYC. Both Jodie and Eva are new to the program. Maureen has been there since 9 and has the best techniques. Jonathan (Peter Gallagher) runs the company and is choosing dancers for the final gala. Maureen is supposedly the top girl. Eva has the ability but her attitude clash with the teacher Juliette (Donna Murphy). Jodie seems to be the weakest but she has IT.It's a lot of pretty people dancing. The story has been told many times before. I'm sure some are even about ballet schools. This one brings the big archetypes. I don't think Amanda Schull has a big enough presence to justify being the lead with the IT factor. There is a lot of dancing that doesn't actually add to the story drama. Unless this is only for ballet lovers, those scenes should be trimmed. This doesn't have the edginess or surprises. However it follows the formula quite well. "}{"Title":"Amazing movie for people into dance.","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I watched parts of this movie on the TV once and enjoyed it very much. Since then, I was looking for a copy of the movie so I can watch it end to end without missing a single scene.There isn't much of a story but all the dancing is a sheer pleasure to behold. I couldn't help smiling happily whenever perfection was up there on the screen to regard. The plot is more or less predictable. If you are even sightly into any dance form, you will enjoy this movie immensely. The cut-throat competition in the world of ballet is well depicted. The movie also highlights the fact that one should follow one's heart, even if it not what you are best at or even if you have spent most of your life until now doing something that you are only doing because things happened that way or someone wanted you to. Some characters in the movie stop pursuing ballet in the movie since it is no longer a source of fun for them, but only a source of stress.A light watch that ends on a happy note. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie isn't perfect. The acting and script are sometimes a little clunky, but considering dance movies are notoriously difficult to get right, I love this film and I think it gels together well. The casting of Ethan Stiefel as the lead male is a master stroke -- he plays the egotistical yet gifted star extremely well. Amanda Schull as the naive female lead is, to me, more of a natural dancer than actor, but overall, she really does well in quite a meaty role. I love the soundtrack, especially Jamiroquai's 'Canned Heat', and the dancing is fantastic. The locations are very impressive. The sub-plot of the pushy mom living her dreams through her anorexic daughter who doesn't want to be a dance star, is impressive. One flaw is how everything is neatly tied up at the end, and the love scene is terribly awkward, complete with over-wrought music. Also Schull's character stating to her ex-lover that as a boyfriend, you kind of suck doesn't ring true. I mean, he's her future employer, and she just wouldn't say that. "},{"Title":"An All in One Dance Movie","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I loved this charming and comprehensive look at the blood, sweat and tears of the dance world. It was very nostalgic for me, though I never got to that high a level in ballet. The characters and incidents rang very true. The film was obviously made by someone who knew and loved the dance life. Even more memorable than the actual dancing time on stage, I loved the whole drama that goes on backstage, rehearsing, mentoring, partying, preparing, befriending/betraying, romances, cliques, infights, jokes, and politicking leading up to the actual performance that the audience sees. Though understandably compressed for time and what's most interesting to the general public, I thought Centerstage did a great job of covering a lot of ground, and believably at that. The cast was excellent, both for acting and dancing. It had some great camera work for a dance film too, with nice medium shots for the chorus and at other times, great on-stage or in-the-wings perspectives. I loved the music too, a great selection of classic, modern and pop. I often watch just the dance sequences on my DVD. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, for what it is...","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Center Stage is a movie that focuses on a group of friends at the American Ballet Academy, and the drama of their lives, all with a fantastic dance sequence at the end.Most of the characters are played by professional dancers, and you can tell, as the acting leaves something to be desired. Clearly not the same as Fame, Center Stage takes its strong suit, dancing, and runs with it.Yes, the actors are lame and the lines are cheesy, but yipes, can they dance!This movie is a fun, brainless way to spend two hours. But don't expect too much, other than the dance sequences. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  For six months all I heard from the annoying girl who sat with us at lunch was center stage.  How great it was, how amazing the dancing is.  How the story beats all limits.  I can't agree with that.  One day, I got so fed up I rented that movie, Ooh what a surprise it was awful! the story was extremely predictable, the characters were cliches and I've seen better dancing.  After all, I go to an arts highschool. I have dancer friends, the annoying girl however, is not a dancer, she acts like a know-it-all about foreign subjects to her.  If you happen to be a know-it-all about dance and are eager to  see a movie that one of your kind recommends (STRONGLY I should add) see it enjoy it, maybe you'll find her.  She's in the book under M.   "},{"Title":"Spectacular dancing","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I agree with the general consensus the dancing and choreography in this film are spectacular but the dramatic aspect despite some very competent acting wasn't as riveting as I think it could've been. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Dance Movie, but...","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is definitely one of the best dance movies I've ever seen, but the story could have been much better. But I've never really been into ballet, so I almost didn't rent this. I'm glad I did, though, because it was very entertaining. Although the story could have been much better, I still recommend it.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Dance Movie, but...","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is definitely one of the best dance movies I've ever seen, but the story could have been much better. But I've never really been into ballet, so I almost didn't rent this. I'm glad I did, though, because it was very entertaining. Although the story could have been much better, I still recommend it.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Ballet","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Amanda has won my heart and I think that the Ballet was presented as a modern type and made it a lot more interesting to most viewers. I am a moderate ballet viewer and this ballet would make me watching ballets 100% of the time.  I think Amanda's personality and dancing in this movie made the entire show.  Now I wonder what her real personality is like.Murrill Maglio "},{"Title":"A great movie with talented dancers which leaves you feeling great","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I am not a dancer and never have danced. However my best friend is an avid dancer so i do take a slight interest in the subject. However i was completely  blown away by this film. Not just for the dancing ( which is clearly done by the actors much to there credit,) but for the acting and the plot and how the film never once seemed boring or over the top. The director managed to keep the length of the dance sequences just right just enough to keep the audience enraptured but not too much so the viewer was hoping it would finish. It was an excellent film and i would give it 10/10!  "}{"Title":"Good good good","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film a few weeks ago on sky premier for the plain fact that I was INCREDIBLY bored.  Although I thought it was a bit lame at first, once the ballet sequences kicked in I began to thoroughly enjoy it. I had just started to do ballet at the time, and although people say that it was just like the pressure of being a ballerina , I have to disagree.  I'm not the thinnest nor most talented of my ballet class by a long shot, but I never feel pressured or worried about it.  So it may have been unrealistic, but still entertaining.  The acting, has to be said, was not fabulous, but the people were such brilliant dancers that I can't fault the film.  I personally just enjoyed seeing something a bit soppy, but with excellent ballet in it.  If it hadn't been for the dancing I would've stopped watching in the first 10 minutes.  I watch it every time it's on nowadays! I've seen nearly every film that involves dancing - and this one is quite high in the dancing film charts. 8 out of 10. x "},{"Title":"LOVE IT!","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Centre Stage has to be one of my all time favourite movies. As a dancer myself i love how it portrays the not so glamorous side of dance (the hard work, the pressure to be perfect, the harsh choreographers and ofcourse the SORE FEET!)Too many dance movies neglect to show this side of it.I also love to watch the fantastic dance sequences in this film. The dances are a great mix of traditional and modern as well as some non ballet style dances.ALSO, unlike many dance movies, there IS a story line. Okay, admitedly it isnt the BEST story in the world and if it wasnt for the dance it would be quite lacking HOWEVER the story fits in well and i think it is a wonderful film that i never get tired of watching.   "},{"Title":" They decide the rest of my life tommorow","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Amanda Schull is delightful as Jodi in this priceless teen angst film. The remaining cast is fabulous. The costumes are preppy. One of the good flicks in the genre, Center Stage will encourage the viewer to follow their dreams. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"cute story with a good dose of reality","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  Yeah, the story is cute, and it all works out happily ever after in the end, but it's the details that really make this work.  The movie really shows a lot of the truth of dancing -- ripping apart your brand new shoes, practicing the same move over and over and over, the bloody messed up feet, the pressure on the dancers to keep the weight off or get kicked out, anorexia.  Most dance movies gloss over these aspects, which are a big part of a dancer's reality.  But the story is cute, the acting is good enough for its purpose, and the dance sequences are the best I've ever seen in a movie!!!!  From classical ballet, to modern dance interpretations, the dance scenes are incredibly choreographed and executed. I love this movie, it's definitely a rainy-day feel good to watch over and over. "},{"Title":"fabulous","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the best movies I've seen in a long time - yep totally predictable, but oh so cool !!! Its like a Fame for the noughties...... very cool, with great characters and a great storyline..... "},{"Title":"Fame for the ballet set","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie --- I have never been a fan of ballet but I did enjoy it after watching this film and think I could actually sit through a performance ---- this film gave me an appreciation for it. These kids are NOT actors, don't get me wrong --- but phenomenol dancers, for sure. The story is hokey at times, but it made me understand what they have to go through to live their dreams (or their parent's!). The finale is amazing and it makes on appreciate how modern the ballet could be if there was innovation out there in choreography (and that is what it would take to get me to a performance --- modern music and themes .... no more swan lake, please and thank you --- no wonder why I hate figure skating!) "},{"Title":"The acting is decent, but, the ballet sequences are phenomenal..","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  If dancing is your thing then you will enjoy this movie. The acting is pretty good, but, the dance sequences are incredible, due to the fact that a few of the starring characters are playing roles parallel to their real lives.  Ethan Steifel, Sascha Radetsky, and Julie Kent, to name a few, are performing currently in the American Ballet Theater..Even if you don't like ballet, this movie just might give you a new appreciation for it, especially the ending upbeat ballet sequence involving three of the movie's characters. This was one of Hollywood's more underrated films, and deserves more respect than it's been given. "},{"Title":"Another boring ballet film","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Films in which ballet dancing is the main focus have always bored me and this 2000 Columbia Pictures release just may rank as the biggest snoozefest in the entire genre. A cast of unknowns lend some rather lame dancing sequences to an otherwise lame film. I often try to see as many films as possible but I gotta learn to stay away from the ballet films especially ballet films like this one.   "},{"Title":"No idea what I am supposed to do here...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have to say, this movie has some AMAZING dancing, but the acting is not the best. Plus, there were certain parts that were just SO unrealistic, like when Jody is doing her ballet, and her outfit changes at least 3 times, but there's never a break for a change. Sometimes, this movie can get quite boring. I would say it's more of a movie for teen girls or something, but I don't think many older people will find it interesting. "},{"Title":"Great dancing, so-so acting.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Great dancing, so-so acting.  Center Stage was a great movie, except for a few minor flaws.  The characters were well developed, and they were all likeable. The acting was outstanding until the scene where Maureen's boyfriend confronted her about her bulimia.  Maureen then had a few lines in which she sounded like a middle schooler trying to act in a school play. This was very surprising, considering the fact that she has had a lot of really good chick flick type movies in which she acted great.  I don't know, maybe she was just having an off day.  Whatever the reason, it should have been edited out.  Other than that, the movie was great.  After all, it is probably very hard to find  people who are outstanding dancers AND actors. All in all, great movie.  It is one I will definitely watch over and over again. "}{"Title":"This movie is great.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. It is my favorite. It's the perfect movie. It has comedy, romance, drama, and music. It makes you want to just get up and dance. It has sexy seens, and I highly recommend this movie to whoever likes to dance or likes dancing movies. Or if you just feel like watching a good movie, this is at the top of my list. "},{"Title":"I love Center Stage!!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is a must see!! I saw it the first day it came to theaters! I was so excited to see it...I thought it would be a good movie, but I was proved wrong...it is a GREAT movie! I love every minute of it!! The dancing is excellent, great story line, everything just fits together! At the time, common teen girl movies were coming out and everyone thought that Center Stage would just be another on of them, but they were wrong! My mom can't stand most teen Girl Movies but she absolutely loves Center Stage! Center Stage is an excellent movie!! Rent it!! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I didn't see this movie when it first came out, but I watched it on T.V. It was on all the time and I watched it every time it came on. The acting isn't great, but the story and the dancing makes up for it. The story brings out typical problems that dancers face. The choreography was amazing. This is a great movie and if you get the chance, see it.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm a ballet dancer and I usually watch this kind of movie, but Center Stage is special. The dancers are very good. The story, the actors, the direction too. Everytime I see I want to go out and dance. Center Stage entered in my list of best movies for sure. "},{"Title":"a movie for all dance lovers","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie gives us a psychedelic combination of songs; from Jamiroquai to Michael Jackson, it surprises you and enraptures you, too.  For the dancers in all of us, this is a very nice movie to watch, and maybe even dance to! Who could blame you when the upbeat melody of We Are Dancing makes you want to just jump and dance, later realizing that the movie's actually over?Good acting, Good enough direction.  Great music.  A definite must-see! "},{"Title":"It hurts, mommy it hurts.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Reading the other comments made me realize but one thing, I was arguably the only male over 16 to see this film( Well, my friend too (we snuck in as we had an hour plus to wait for some better movie.).  This was far, far, far, far, far from a great film in any normal sense.  However, the level of camp it has almost rivals the 1966 Batman movie and surpasses it because no one actually was trying to make it camp here.What a film, horrible horrible great film!  The dialogue has to be in the worst 1/2 percent contained in any movie made in the last 20 years.  And I've seen most of the Olsen twins detective movie (damn ABC family,) and just about every Up All Night movie USA showed from 1994-1996.The entire movie has a great angle, the script seems to have been taken from the conversations of 12-year-olds.  And the awkward way it's exchanged makes the writing have this weird perspective of somewhere between a YM magazine and the 2 am Skinemax Feature Presentation.The plot One girl strives to be like the bestest ballet dancer, though like most of the cast, lacks any serious ballet skills.  They recycle about six moves, think of watching Stars on Ice where the skaters did nothing but the same double-toe loop over and over.  She goes to this art school where the competition is tough, the teachers are strict and the men are obviously gay.  Except of course, for the most effeminate looking guy, who we learn is not gay in a fabulous exchange of awful dialogueMain girl) He is so hot! Other Girls) We know!! Main girl) Is he straight or gay? Other Girls) He's straight....ahhhhhhh!!!!It's a good example of the great cinematic term So-Awful-It's-Funny.  This goes on for the entire movie.  The girl learns two moves by the end that make her obviously the greatest dancer there is (though any experienced ballet student could do with little effort.)  Everyone thinks the 'moves' are just amazing.  She's either the Chris Jericho or Rob Van Dam of ballet.And she gets the guy, I think (don't remember.)  Too busy drinking smuggled-in liquor to remember.Finally, the level of awful dialogue that this movie achieves is tantamount to all 7 Police Academy movies combined!  If you can find it on tape, you really should watch.On a normal scale, this movie is a D-.  On the level of watching it as unintended comedy, it's a solid B.  Mix some booze, and or MST3k action to it and it's a grade A piece of funny crap. "},{"Title":"I loved it, and hated it...","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, this movie was pretty good.  I thought the first-time actors like Amanda Schull and...well others..were pretty good, despite what I heard from critics.  I am a ballet dancer, and watching this movie inspires me to be the best dancer I can be.  But a few things bugged the crap out of me.  First off, Cooper Neilsen is soooo ugly!  I  mean he's a great dancer but the casting directors could've found someone a little better looking.  No offense to the ladies who do like Cooper...it's only my opinion.  Second of all, I hated Cooper's ballet at the end.  I guess I am more into the whole slow and authentic style. Johnathan's ballet was absolutely gorgeous and I wish that could be a real production.  Cooper didn't use his corp very well, he just kind of shoved the people in the back.  And Jodie did things that even I could do, and I've only been dancing for three-four years.  Also, it really got me p****d when the audience was clapping at NOTHING!  Anyways, overall a great movie.  It's a real inspiration to future ballet dancers everywhere.   "},{"Title":"very confused.....","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I rented Center Stage some time again and truly enjoyed it.  I rented it again this past weekend and was surprised to find that some of the scenes had been cut from the version that I had.  I seem to remember Cooper's ex, Peter Gallager's wife, collapsing....Jodie being upset, her parent's trying to talk her out of staying at the ballet school, much more emphasis being put on the weight story, weigh-ins where some of the girls put quarter rolls in there tights to add weight, and a much more intensive try-out with the competition really heating up between Maureen and Jodie for the lead in the end of the movie ballets....NONE of these scenes were in the copy of the movie I had rented this past weekend--much to my dismay!!  I was very disappointed in what I watched and what it lacked!  If anyone else has had this experience please let me know!!  At first I really thought I was losing my mind!!  Please e-mail me and tell me if there are actually two versions of this movie. Thanks! "},{"Title":"A nice message, and a great movie","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  What is it about teen movies which capture the attention of teens and adults alike? Perhaps they're better than sitcoms, but not as cheesy as most Lifetime movies. If you're a sucker for anything starring Drew Barrymore, Melissa Joan Hart, or Julia Styles, you'll love Center Stage. It is a great quality movie, especially considering its genre. And the sneak peek inside the dance world was so interesting. Yeah, there were stereotyped characters portrayed, but sometimes stereotypes are appropriate - as they seem here. I've two criticisms... 1)Unless Amanda Schull's character is intended to be immature and a little dense, her acting ability isn't quite up to par. 2) The hair, makeup and costume changes (lose the red shoes!!!) in the final dance number are too distracting and don't match the sincerity of the rest of the flick. You can't beat her rehearsal of the same dance in the studio 30 minutes earlier. But the overall message is the best part; following your heart is the surest way to success. This (very) late 20- something rates this movie an absolute worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what I was expecting when I hired out Center Stage. I have a habit of selecting teen movies with dance sequences, with fluffy story lines and predictable endings. I was expecting a teen comedy with Center Stage, and perhaps that's why I found the first half slightly disappointing. Plot mechanics and overtly stereotypical characters (what you would expect from a dance-related movie). But at some point Center Stage won me over. It could have been the amazing dancing by newcomers such as lead Amanda Schull, and the equally stunning choreography of the final dances. But there was something besides dancing...perhaps the frequent teen movie conceit of a girl reaching for her dreams, or the setbacks along the way, or perhaps the way in which it was completely predictable, creating a movie that is almost comforting. On some levels it is similar to movies such as Bring It On, 10 Things I Hate About You (incidently, the actress Susan May Pratt plays who plays Maureen (superbly) in Center Stage also plays Mandella in 10 Things I Hate About You). Of course, with the majority of the parts given to ballet dancers rather than actors, the acting in itself is not outstanding. But I feel that it pays in a movie primarily based around the world of dance, to have trained dancers acting that actors dancing. So, in my opinion, Center Stage is a movie not just for those interested in the world of dance (although of course these people would complete a large chunk of the audience) but a film for those who enjoy easy going, predictable, warm, teen movies.   "}{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite ballet movie of all time. The story line is good although I don't like how they made it look like every dancer is beautiful and perfect. The best parts were the great dancing, especially the workshop at the end. The scenes were shot well so that you felt like you were on the stage. "},{"Title":"Great Movie with Great Dancing","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I watched Center Stage because I heard the ballet was good but the story was pretty good too. The filming and directing were good because you really felt like you were on the stage. I prefer the classical ballet (like Romeo and Juliet or Jonathan's ballet) over the modern jazz type ballet. But thats just my opinion. I give it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Same ol' story - but why do I keep watching it?","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  We've seen the story a million times.  the movie plot is not original.  But I suppose I'm mesmerized by all the dancing.One thing I HAVE to say is that I am quite impressed that they have so many talented ballet dancers who are semi-decent actors & good looking. I'd say each of the dancers was fantastic (though I know nothing about ballet), and they all gave convincing performances.  usually, something lacks.Anyway, it's one of the happy films that's great for teens...and adults like me (30 something).  (if only Jody didn't spend the night with Cooper...argh! Where is your DISCIPLINE, girlfriend?!  ;) "},{"Title":"Best escape fiction ever...","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm usually not into shallow, predictable, and contrived movies like this one, but for some reason, I am absolutely in love with this movie. It's one of those films that just makes you happy. The only two people that I recognize in the film are Peter Gallagher and the girl who plays Marleen (she was in Drive me Crazy, another one of my guilty pleasure flix). However, everyone does a very respectable job. I was very impressed to learn that the guy who plays Cooper Nielson (a character who is supposed to be one of the best ballet dancers in the ballet world) is in fact considered to be one of the best ballet dancers. I think real dancers are a great ingredient for a movie about dance. I recommend this one to any young chick. I've watched it at least once a week for the past 2 months, and I still can't get tired of it. "},{"Title":"A Movie For Ballet Lovers Everywhere.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is definitely a must-see movie for ballet (Dance.) lovers everywhere. The story in the movie is quite simple. 12 young dancers, all quite different from each-other, make it in to the prestigious American Ballet Academy. They will have to stay there for a few months and prepare a recital which will determine who will be asked to join the prestigious American Ballet Company. Only three girls and three guys will make it out of all of them, and expected people are asked to join and unexpected people turn the down the offer to join. The movie doesn't actually have any Oscar winning actors/actress's but they do a pretty good job with what they have and the dances that feature in the movie are wonderful. There is a nice musical score too. I give Center Stage an 8/10.The dvd of Center Stage is really great too. It features Deleted scenes, Full dance sequences, 'Making of....', Behind the scenes, Theatrical Trailer, Cast information and much more.  "},{"Title":"Everything Was Beautiful at the Ballet, Hey","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  In the words of the song from A chorus Line, Everything was beautiful at the ballet, hey.  This film is filled with beautiful dancing, which has been beautifully captured on film.  Before I go on with the good stuff let me get the bad stuff out of the way.  As is the case with all Gee, kids, let's put on a show! movies, the writing in Center Stage is not its strongest point.  It is predictable, shallow, and saccharine.  Further, many of the leads are dancers, not actors.  They looked the part, anyway.  That said, Center Stage is thoroughly satisfying to anyone who loves dancing.  I went in expecting not much, in fact I nearly did not watch it.  I am glad I did.  Highly recommended. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not just for ballet fans","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  As a guy who's never really understood the appeal of ballet - yes, they're obviously disciplined dancers and they're obviously in shape - but ballet - take it or leave it.That's why CENTER STAGE is such a pleasant surprise - the dancing scenes are very well staged and except for one sequence in the beginning, they move briskly and never feel classical or stagy.You know what you're getting with a movie where people are auditioning for a performing arts school and the story is of their first year there - so while it's not filled with great surprises and some of the characters first appear to be stock (the taskmaster teacher, the overbearing parent, etc ...) they actually become full-fledged characters. All the cliches are there but not unexpected - but it's handled expertly with a good script, fine performances and well-rounded characters you care about. As long as you like dance, you'll appreciate the work dancers put in and you even learn a little about a ballet company. If you hate dance of any kind, this movie is obviously not for you but you'd be missing out on great acting performances by most of the cast - never mind they're all great dancers - a solid script and story that moves crisply and precisely. The ballets and dance scenes are expertly shot and except for a few moments, you never feel that it's stagy and you're too far from the action. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Girl gets guy,girl loses guy,girl dances,girl gets another guy,girl accomplishes her dream.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I thought Center Stage was a great movie.I saw it once and I couldn't wait to go out and buy it.After I saw Center Stage i realized that it was by far my favorite movie.The dancing in the end which Cooper choreographed was amazing.It showed spunk and it also showed that the charaters were having fun with it.They weren't serious like you would expect them to be about it and that was great!It's a movie about love and accomplishing your dreams.The charcters went through hardships and and good times.They made true friends and they had fun even when they got in trouble for disrupting their class.They were carefree yet serious.That was a great quality in the movie.The charcters brought you into the movie with them.They were real people.For barely known actors they were amazing.The dancing in the end was something you wouldnt expect from actual ballet and it was totally cool.For the people who havent seen the movie...you REALLY should.Even if your not really into that kind of stuff i think you would like it. Did I mention the dancing was amazing and so were the friendships? Go out and rent this movie or buy it.Its a wonderful movie.Check it. "},{"Title":"Trying to identify familiar face in cast but not credited","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie a great deal. I found it light, entertaining, and the cast of new faces, very refreshing. In the last scene ( gala presentation of the dance company), sitting in the gallery, directly behind the company director Jonathan Reeves, played by Peter Gallagher, there was a distinguished looking, older black man, wearing glasses, who leaned over to Peter Gallagher and said something to the effect, That was a great performance. I have seen this person before, either in a movie or on T.V. but can't place him. Could any readers out there identify him for me and send me an e-mail... Thank you "},{"Title":"Great movie for all who love dancing and sappy endings!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Being a ballerina, I enjoyed this movie sooo much.  The dancing is wonderful and inspired.  Although the story may be a cliche, who doesn't love a warm fuzzy story to make their day.  The dancers show amazing talent, considering that this is a first movie.  I think that this movie shows the hard work that all dancers go through, especially those who dance professionally, or are working to.  It also shows the pain of rejection from being kicked out of the school.  I must say, however, the ending is the best.  You don't even really have to see the whole thing to understand what happened.  Cooper's ballet, Happens to be the summary of the major plot of the movie.  This has to be some of the most amazing choreography in a ballet that I have ever seen.  I especially love the guys fighting over the girl.  I have to say that it gets me every time when cooper gives 'the look', showing that he knows she is not his anymore.  Call me corny, but this movie is one of my personal favorites.  I have watched the ending over and over again, and have even memorized the ending dance.  I just have to say that Charlie (Radetsky) is so cute; his facial expressions when Jody (Schull) asks him out make me giggle.  I recommend this movie to everyone, especially dancers.  It also makes a perfect date movie because of the cuddly ending.  "}{"Title":"I think you have to be a dancer for this one...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I personally loved Center Stage. I have taken ballet for 12 years. I think in order to truly appreciate this movie, you have to be a dancer. Dancers understand what hard work dancing really is. Therefore, they can empathize with the trials Jody and her friends underwent in order to get into the company. To devote yourself to dance is a difficult thing, something that takes patience and a high tolerance for pain. Seeing the characters played by famous dancers really made me happy as well. And of course, being the hopeless romantic I am, I loved the happy ending with Jody and Charlie. I recommend this to anyone who has ever dreamed of dancing or actually does.  "},{"Title":"MIGHT BE A SPOILER I'M NOT SURE","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  All in all a delightful movie. The plot is cute, and not altogether unrealistic. I was a bit disheartened by critical.. well critique, but having found the viewpoint of a hand-full of critics to be less than infallible, decided to give it a try. The relationships between the students are so true to life. I just love it!. "},{"Title":"Old story, but wonderfully told through young dancers, I rate it 8 of 10 for those who enjoy great dancing.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  My first exposure to formal dance was in 1968, at Purdue University, in a stage movement class while I was a graduate student. A trained dancer is a true athlete, and watching expert male and female dancers never gets old for me. That is why I rate this film, Center Stage, 8 of 10. The story, well-told many times before, would get it only a 5 or 6, but the dancing for me elevates it to an 8.The three young dancers, around which much of the story revolves, are Jody (Amanda Schull), Charlie (Sascha Radetsky), and Cooper (Ethan Stiefel). All three are ballet dancers with dance companies, so are dancers first, but also credible actors. In fact, Stiefel is generally considered to be the best male ballet dancer in the world at this time. All the extras are also dancers, mainly students in the NYC area, where this was filmed. The director, Hytner, is a very experienced stage director, and it shows in the finished product.CAUTION -- MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER --Jody is 18, her parents want her to go to college and dance there, but she is accepted at the fictitious ABA (American Ballet Academy) in NYC, and is determined to follow her dream of a career as a ballet dancer. There, she finds her positions are not ideal, her feet are not the best, but she is determined. She is attracted to the star dancer, Cooper, who seduces her then snubs her. However, he recognizes her talent, and features her in a special number he is allowed to choreograph for the year-ending show where talent scouts offer jobs to the best.Along the way Charlie becomes her friend. He encourages her when she becomes despondent. At the end, she realizes she doesn't want the traditional ballet career, does not give them the opportunity to accept or reject her, instead accepts an offer to dance with Cooper's newly-formed dance company, formed after he befriended a rich widow who ends up sponsoring his venture. There Jody will dance a much wider variety that suits her talents. Cooper tries to kiss her, but she resists and demonstrates her newly-found maturity saying, Cooper, you're a great choreographer but a lousy boyfriend, and goes over to ask Charlie out for a date. Charlie, the best male student, is offered a position with the American Ballet Company (ABC).There are several supporting stories. The dark Hispanic girl who is a fabulous dancer, but with a chip on her shoulder and a loud mouth, and eventually gets a position with ABC.  The beautiful, slender dancer who is the best, but is being pushed by her mother, is bullimic, meets a med student, and at the very end drops out because she never wanted to be a ballet dancer and was only pleasing her pushy mother. The dancer who had no self-control with food and eventually is dropped because she gets too heavy. The ABA director (Peter Gallagher) who had won the hand of the female star of the company, winning her from Cooper.All through the movie there is lots of dancing, mostly representing rehearsals, which in themselves are very interesting and realistic. Near the end, there are several stage performances in full costume and are very nicely done.  I bought the DVD so will be viewing this one again every few months.The DVD is DD 5.1 sound, but during most of the film there is very little in the rear or the subwoofer channels. However, during the live performances in the theater, the rear and sub channels are used well for the music and the crowd effects. The extras are interesting but limited. The actor profiles don't even include Schull and Radetsky. There are two brief deleted scenes, plus the theatrical trailer. I replayed some key scenes with the director commentary turned on, and that was very helpful in understanding how the story was put together and filmed. "},{"Title":"I LOVE BALLET  & LOVED THIS FILM","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"       The simple story in this film is  the typical one of students in a ballet school.  The one  here is the AMERICAN BALLET ACADEMY The plot is unimportant here as for most of the movies we are treated to a magnificent array of  various ballets including a modern dance version using rock music.    The dancing is superb & thrilling.  A must see for all ballet afficianados of ballet.    The actors are  for the most part newcomers & do a first rate job. We have seen this story many times before, but who cares,This is a dance movie, You will be  dancing all night long with pure joy after seeing it as always  jay harris "},{"Title":"(Compliment)","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  It made me wanna get up and dance! I did too. I thought it was a very good movie, funny, well put together. Good enough for me to go out and buy it. The plot made sense also. Though some parts were slightly exaggerated, for laughs and drama I recommend Center Stage. "},{"Title":"IT RULES!!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. The acting of Jody Sawyer played by Amanda Schull, Charlie Sims played by Sascha Radetsky, and Maureen Cummings played by Susan May Pratt is to extravagant. The story depicts the life of a group of want to be ballet dancers. It shows the hardships they must face on their rise to fame. While the acting of Cooper Neilson played by Ethan Stiefel could have been a little more believable by placing a little more meat to his character, the entire cast was well thought up. The dancing is even more incredible. My 10 is toward the combination of dancing and the realness of the characters lives and their pain. Written by Ashley 15 years old "},{"Title":"A decent yet disappointing effort","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  From the writer of such charming young romantic dramedies as EMPIRE RECORDS and THE THING CALLED LOVE comes this ensemble ballet thesis that is a passable time-filler at best and mediocre formula at worst.Carol Heikkinen's earlier movies also explored unique social subcultures (teenage music-store employees, Nashville country-western singers) and had great attractive talented casts (Renee Zellwegger, Liv Tyler, Ethan Embry, River Phoenix, Sandra Bullock, Dermot Mulroney, Samantha Mathis, Johnny Whitworth, Rory Cochrane, Robin Tunney) but this time Carol's screenplay seems to be tired and half-hearted, going through the motions for a Hollywood paycheck rather than genuinely passionately trying for soulful greatness.None of the characters in CENTER STAGE ever develops past surface stereotypes (all the expected ballet cliches), and there is little to none of the oddball eccentric goofiness that marked her earlier stories.The director does an okay job, but the movie's insistence on casting real-life ballet dancers is a plus and minus... the dancing is impressively professional and the stars have lithe bodies, but they're not so attractive from the neck up.  Sure lead Amanda (Jody) is cute, but her hearthrob Charlie looks like a genetic freak, half-human half-lizard. (Somehow other posters have described him as hot ???)  Maybe when he's viewed from a distance on stage he seems that way, but he's not male-model infatuation material by any stretch.A soundtrack featuring Mandy Moore, Jamiroquai and the Red Hot Chili Peppers is just not enough to save the day.  As usual, Peter Gallagher's phenomenally talented eyebrows steal the show.  The dialogue in the closing scenes is really amateur, like romantic conversations as imagined by 6th-grade girls.CENTER STAGE was released at the beginning of the Summer 2000 movie season, which finished with another female-oriented subculture comedy, BRING IT ON (an exploration of the world of cheerleaders).  Although imperfect in its own ways, Bring It On was FAR more charming, energetic, fresh, and fun.  Its lead characters were MUCH more attractive - especially the adorable coupling of Jesse Bradford and Kirsten Dunst... the characters much more distinctive.  Bring It On became a huge success, while Center Stage fizzled and went quickly to video.Hopefully next time Carol will feel more inspired by her research subject and the audience will be treated to better characterizations and a more imaginative story.     "},{"Title":"Set your goals","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie with somebody struggling to set their goals.  I learned that you need to set goals and follow them.  Don't let others set goals for you but make your own.  Learn from your mistakes and if you want something bad enough you will earn it.  This was one of the best movies I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"The BEST movie I have ever seen","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  By far, my favorite movie. Sascha Rodetsky(plays Charlie in the movie) is sooooo HOT!!!  This movie tells you to never give up on your dreams and to try your hardest.  If you haven't seen this movie yet, i strongly recommend seeing it! "},{"Title":"Me as a dancer i luved this movie i can really relate to it!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Im a dancer and i no what its like to be trying out and being on stage! Its not all fun and not all hard work! Its a little of both.This movie shows what it really is all about being a dancer! This one of my fave movies of all time! I think ppl should start making more dance movies like this where u are behind the scenes and u get to see what its like! "}{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie has amazing dancing, yet does not rely solely on the talent of the dancers.  Instead of taking actors that can't dance, or dancers that can't act, they have managed to find people that have a combination of both talents (with the exception of Ms. Kathleen Donahue..) and whipped up a great movie with love stories, dance stories and competition stories.  They show the dancing world as it is with the eating issues, weight issues, smoking issue, homosexual issues, etc.  I would recommend this movie to anyone, and give it 2 thumbs way up! "},{"Title":"Made me want to dance","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is one of the best dance movies I have seen. Not only are the dances great but the actors make it look easy even though it is not.This movie is something I recommend to young people because it teaches you that people are not always nice and that some people use other people to get what they want. However even though the main character Jody experiences this she doesn't let it get her down for long. It shows that you need to pick yourself up and move on, and do the best you can at whatever it is that you want to do. Aside from that I found myself laughing at ice skater Ilia Kulik's character, he definitly provides the comic relief in this movie!Center Stage has wonderful music like Mandy Moore's I Want to be With You, and the dance choreography was amazing! I think everyone should go get this movie and watch it immediately. (Even my fiancee who likes action and slap stick comedy type movies, liked this one) "},{"Title":"They danced as if there was no tomorrow...","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The story about a young girl who goes to New York to learn dancing in a ballet academy... okay, I admit that the plot is a little thin. Fame or A chorus line had similar storylines. But forget about  that! The dancing sequences were breathtaking! It  just carries you along! I have heard that Nicholas Hytner (The madness of King George) had also directed some operas in Paris, Amsterdam, etc. - I guess that says anything! Center stage has no stars - except  Peter Gallagher - and that´s good! Young people on  their hard way to success  - the young and fresh  faces make it movie more believable. One word great!  "},{"Title":"We're Dancing'......because this movie is awesome!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was kick-ass!!!!!!! The characters were played good and the actors earned their money.  Sascha Radetsky was totally HOT!!!!!!!  He was the sweet guy who was always there for Jody.  He is a fine little boy. This movie had a good story line. The plot was good and it had a lot of talented people on the cast.  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen "},{"Title":"A perfect show of perfection put to the test...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Now I have to admit, I'm not big on watching musicals and all the Dancing events, but this movie was DEFINITELY an exception! From the moment I saw the trailer for the film I knew I wanted to see the movie, and when I saw it my local video store, on DVD none the less, I couldn't resist...After watching it 3 times, in 2 days, I have to admit that it's fantastic, the actors, played their parts well, the dancing was nothing short of stunning and it was coupled perfectly with a truly fantastic soundtrack...It might not be for everyone, but if you're in the mood for a good movie with good acting and music, i highly reccommend this one... "},{"Title":"Just plain entertaining!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is actually way more realistic than I thought it would be.  A  well thought out coming-of-age story.  The end isn't mushy or anything, but takes a more unexpected turn.  Join Jodi Sawyer as she learns about life, loses her innocence, and gains self respect.  Because let us face it, all the drama queen stuff in the movie probably happens in real life.  It is a cat fight to get in to a famous ballet school, and it is fun   "},{"Title":"Ballet is fun and challenging at the same time!!!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was awesome, I've seen it multiple times. The look into the lives of students in a ballet academy trying to get into the company is very real and well acted. The aspects of competition, sacrifices, the fun times and the hardships are all very well presented throughout the movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves ballet!!! I think ballet is fun and challenging all at the same time, and Center Stage shows this beautifully. Since I have taken ballet for quite some time, I watch this movie in awe and speak straight from the heart when I say It'll take your breath away.  "},{"Title":"Great for dance fans!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  There's plenty to hold your attention here and even those who don't like dance movies may find this one enjoyable. I found Peter Gallaagher believable as the egotistical dance company's artistic director and the young dancers are very engaging as well. Some of the SEXIEST and most creative dance numbers in recent movies! If not for the explicit sexuality in much of the dance numbers and some intense love affairs (not explicity nudity, however), this could be watchable by the whole family. "},{"Title":"Dance!!","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie ever!! In the theaters I wanted to dance in the isles. I had to stop my friend from clapping after the big performance. Now that I own it, I know all of the dances.  Like i said, The BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"How can yo NOT feel warm and fuzzy afterward?","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm a football fan and have spent countless hours guzzling beer and rooting for all the wrong teams with a bunch men that probably wouldn't go to the ballet if you paid them to, and I've spent countless hours arguing the definition of sports versus the definition of the arts. If you don't understand the amount of hard work and physical ability it takes to succeed in dance, see this film!Ok, so they're dancers not actors, but I would rather see good dancers trying to act than good actors trying to dance. It is the fact that the actors of this film are brilliant dancers that make this movie worth seeing. They understand what they are trying to portray...a love of dance, and all the blood, sweat, and tears that go along with it, and above and beyond that, they create some beautiful dance scenes. The plot may be cliche, and the characters predictable. Granted, halfway through the movie, you already know who is going to make the company, but it doesn't make you feel any less warm and fuzzy when they do succeed. The right guy gets the girl. The right dancers get the spots in the company, and the right people are forced to admit they've been wrong. You gotta love a happy ending.Don't get me wrong. There aren't any awards to be won here, but there may be a new appreciation to be gained, and aside from that, if you go into this film knowing that you aren't going to be wowed by acting, directing, or writing (we won't talk about cheesy dialogue), there is plenty of entertainment to be had. My advice, if you hate the ballet, see this film, and if you don't find yourself at least a little bit warm and fuzzy when it's over, well, then you just don't have a heart! "}{"Title":"The Best MOvie","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is the BEST movie in the world would give anything to own it!!!!(Pretty much)!!! You have to see it It rules!!!!! I liked it so much, I went on to every web site to find Info. on it!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Let's Dance","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Here's the thing, I went to this movie not caring about the plot, script, or any of the other things that goes into a good movie.  In all honesty I didn't care if the actors spoke or not, I just wanted to see them dance, the plot and such was just extra and ended up being rather good.  And the dancing was wonderful.  I can watch this movie over and over just for the dancing, the end especially.  I could watch Charlie dance forever.  He is so god damned sexy.  I mean, come on, how great is Jody spinning away from Cooper, shedding her Swan Lake tutu to reveal a sexy metalic one.  Oh, and the next part, where they make love on the bed, is so well done.  And the sexy red number in the end is so great.       "},{"Title":"very excellent movie","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a very excellent movie.  It shows the dedication that a ballet dancer must have to further their dancing career.  The ending is superb. Not at all the classical stuff that ballet is known for, but an exciting drama.  It incorporates different areas of dance besides the typical ballet. I would recommend this movie to anybody who loves ice skating(Ilia Kulik stars) or dancing.   "},{"Title":"Shut up and dance pt. 2","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This review is about as tired as the movie itself. I don't even know why I'm writing this review, I'm telling you the same thing you've heard from everyone else. When the dancing's not going on, the movie sucks. At one point, a dancer says to another something to effect of, hey, we can't work all the time. Let's go have some fun! At this point, I sighed and said to myself, why don't you keep working to keep things fun for the rest of us here in the audience? The cliched characters and the sheer predictability are also demerits, but you already knew that. The dancing is really good, though that final number is unbelievable as hell. That's it, I think. "},{"Title":"Complete entertainment package","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  My friends go on long hikes every few weeks, and totally related to the ingenue's blistered feet.  Basically a dance movie, this story is about kids, ART, competition, kids, effort, middle age, ART, competition, friendship, kids and in the background, without which nothing, New York.  The choreography is splendid and gripping.  My friends rooted for the character Eva the whole way.  Script does a good job delineating hopes, fears, obstacles for the individual primary characters.  The bulemia aspect is treated well.  We watched this a couple of times, riveted to the dancing.  And, being out in the sticks, enjoyed the trip to the Statue of Liberty.  Fine cinematography.  Very much fun seeing Ilia Kulik in a Hollywood context.  When I pointed out to the guys that this was an Olympic gold medalist, they didn't really relate.  Maybe we need a figure skating movie.        "},{"Title":"Less predictable than Adam Sandler films","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  So you might wonder if a film about dancers attempting to succeed might make a statement about losing the joy of the dance in the flurry of competition.You might also wonder if to get an attractive group of dancers to play the parts, this movie may not have used acting strength as the final casting arbiter.You might further go on to ponder whether it will have pushy stage mothers, back-stage crushes, brushes with failure, catty exchanges, tragic injuries, demanding teachers and happy endings with valuable lessons learned.Regarding this film  Yes it does.A film clearly dreamt up to showcase the natural lessons of life that talented young people must learn, the script unfolds with the narrative pacing of a Sweet Valley Twins book.Characters are established in their first minute of screen time and never show any real breathtaking leaps in development.  The only character who appears believable, the star pupil who is destined for greatness falls apart just towards the end though at least makes what is probably a healthy if somewhat unrealistic choice at the story's end.  The other characters are one-note and simplistic; each advancing a thematic element on their own while supporting and fleshing out the other characters not at all.On the positive side there is some good dancing in this film but the high-energy scenes lack the spontaneous punch and fire of better dance films, and that is a sort of critical element in this reviewer's opinion. The huge breakthrough number at the end was just a bit anti-climactic.Reserved for the high school age dancers set only.  For most others the film will provide no real insight or surprise and not even amazing enough dancing to pull the ratio up. "},{"Title":"A Must See!!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw the move and it is great! The dancing is awesome! The dancers in the movie (which are really dancers too) are very talented in acting and dancing ballet. Nicole "},{"Title":"A Rave On Centre Stage","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  As I sat and watched this film I had an idea of what to expect yet that was only a dance movie with hot fellas as I had been told by a friend. But what came from that screen once the lights went down, was such a refreshing and easy to follow piece of work I have been moved to pay to see it again.When a director tries a new approach to the teenage genre it either turns out very typical and not at all different or fresh or, it is so obscure and different that it alienates it's teenage audience and in turn is not even a recognizable attempt. This film is a fresh teen film with a new view but still realistic characters and a plot real to life. The story of the people who are in a dance school NOT the story of a dance school with people in it; it follows students of a dance academy through one year of training and their respective lives. Well worth checking out even if you've never danced or seen the inside of a dance school. Go - it's great.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I just loved this movie. I saw it 3 times and would have gone back to see it many more times(but I guess I was more impressed  than other people because it did not stay around that long). I will admit it was pretty cliche but that was what I liked about this movie. I do love Musical very much and had hoped to see more being made.  I will purchase this movie for my collection when I get the chance.  I have the CD from the sound track but was disapointed that it did not contain any of the ballet music.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Very Good.","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The Plot Center Stage is a funny, sexy story about a bunch of dancers whose lives change when they each discover a new power within themselves while they are at a dance academy. 67%The Acting All the performances in Center Stage were very full of effort. The stand-out in particular had to of been Susan May Pratt, who shows she actually can go beyond teenybopper c**p like Drive Me Crazy. Newcomers Amanda Schull, Zoe Saldana. Ethan Stiefel were also gave watchable and powerful performances. 79%The Screenplay/Directing Nicholas Hytner, director of 1996 hit, The Crubicle gives us another winner. His directing effort is awesome, he has chosen all the right actors to perform the roles and it is obvious that he will be extremely popular in the future. The screenplay has its ups and downs, but it is overall pretty well-written. 81%Other Center Stage is bound to be an Oscar contender this year for its stunning sets and awesomely effective make-up. 70%Overall I was in an amazingly good mood when I saw Center Stage, and the film almost made me happier. That says it all. 73% "}{"Title":"great movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  centre stage was a great movie. it was great seeing amanda schull in a good movie. i thought she did a really good job. i really enjoyed it.the dancing was really great to see the triangle between charlie,jody and cooper was a good story line as they were able to dance it out. "},{"Title":"A comedy without even trying","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  My summary is not necessarily canning this film.  I enjoyed it very much. I was on an aircraft to London when I saw it and my travelling comapnion and I had a good laugh.  Particularly when Jody (our protagonist) moans to another dancer that she can no longer dance the lead role as it would mean dancing with the best dancer in the world.  That line would have to be up there with Jennifer Grey's I carried a watermelon from Dirty Dancing as one of my favorites!This movie is great and I would put it in the league of Cutting Edge, Grease 2 and Showgirls (all movies that did not tax the brain, but were enjoyable just the same). "},{"Title":"Loved the Dances and Dancers","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have long admired anybody with the talent to dance ballet, figure skate, or do gymnastics, so Center Stage ranks high on my list of movies to add to my video collection.  Sure, the plot and the acting (in some cases) wasn't Oscar-worthy, but who cares? The dance....the dance....fantastic, from start to finish.  I fell in love with Ethan Stiefel, Sascha Radetsky, and even Amanda Schull as dancers, but the surprise of the show for me was seeing my favorite skater, Ilia Kulik, hold his own as a performer/dancer.  This young man has already proven himself, by winning the Olympic Gold medal at Nagano, so his comic relief performance was fun to watch. My thanks to all of the actors/dancers for giving me 2 hours of pleasure!! "},{"Title":"Good movie, good dancing, enjoyable, some good lessons learned","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I enjoyed the young people, the dancing, etc. The ending dance numbers were terrific. Some good lessons were brought out in the movie like going after what you really care about, not devoting your life to something your parents want, about starting out with a teacher with a good attitude, questioning if one should sacrifice health and happiness for a short term career, etc.Overall, the movie left me with a good feeling! "},{"Title":"interesting and sweet","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was wonderful, the storyline may point towards the typical teenage damsel in distress thing but I thought it was really creative. The character of Jodie wasn't perfect and that's what made it more realistic, and Charlie was a sweetie and gorgeous. They all were amazing dancers and it was nice to see a movie about ballet and the problems and triumphs that dancers can face "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  There is only one word I can use to express this movie, EXCELLENT, As a ballet dancer, I could identify, with all the characters, as, I have failed, at getting into the Royal Australian Ballet Company, but I will one day try again. Everyone should go see this movie, even if they don't enjoy ballet!  "},{"Title":"Very Very Good","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie. I normally don't watch dance movies and in general find them less entertaining but Center Stage is one of the best dance movies I've seen.  The dancing is very good and the story seemed make the move flow well.  It almost make you want to go out and take dance lessons.  This was a very well done movie. I'd give it around an 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I'm no fan of dance, I've never seen Fame or Strictly Ballrooom, or even Dirty Dancing.  I'm a 26-year old male, and although it will probably be astounding to most, I am writing to defend this film.  And I can be pretty critical.  In fact, I'm trained to be critical.Granted, it was my fiance's idea to see it, and although all I expected was a cheesey teenager flick, I was pleasantly surprised.  Sure, maybe the acting wasn't top-notch, but it was tolerable.And sure the dance sequences were nicely done.  As an artist I can appreciate that.What surprised me, however, was what most people here are qualifiying as a predictable plotline.  Perhaps the characters are stereotypes.  Perhaps this is even an accurate depiction of teenagers caught in this world - I don't know.  I just thought it would have been really cheesey if our lead character, who was struggling to be successful, worked really hard and overcame it all to come out on top.  In fact, she found that her talent wasn't necessarily in traditional ballet, but in more modern forms, and that's where she found her success. To me, this is more than a cliche, it's a realistic look at life.Perhaps this is because I too, have strayed from my original path, and am now pursuing goals outside the conventional, traditional role for my profession.I believe it's a good lesson for the kids.  Keep your options open.  Don't become obsessed with following the path that seems to be preordained for you by parents, school, and the expectations of your peers. "},{"Title":"Why aren't I threatened?","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Maybe one reason that we go to the movies or to the theater is to see what we can't do. There's a valuable awe in that and with dance, the awe is an excitement.For audiences that are dancers, we're inspired by CENTER STAGE, we're inspired when we see what we can't do. As audience members with no dance experience, we admire what we don't quite understand, yet we admire what makes us think Gosh, if I could only do that...For once in our lives, we can't do something and instead of feeling threatened by that, we are inspired. Where else does this occur in film? Where else does this occur in life?Dance is like nothing else, it's ability to appeal to us non-verbally forces all the shit that comes along with verbal communication to take a back seat to simple emotion.This is valuable and is conveyed to me, the audience member, the dancer, the wanna-be dancer, and the awed, in watching CENTER STAGE.As a film major, a critical eye begs to be heard when examining the screenplay in terms of structure, character/relationship development, lack of a strong antagonist, plot lines that stop for a musical number and so on, but the part of me that misses movies like A CHORUS LINE quiets the annoying eye and watches what he wishes he could do.Within the genre of musicals/dance films, CENTER STAGE is monumental in a few areas. How often are women allowed to be sexy yet pure and intelligent? This is seen in the Michael Jackson number in the finale when we see our lead character in her underwear, yet this doesn't degrade how we feel about her intelligence.How often are men portrayed as beautiful? Throughout the film we see men doing more than just lift the girls, who knew that they knew how to do anything else?When was the last time we've seen a dance movie that spoke to our generation? Our stars are young, the story is contemporary and no one's bursting into song. How refreshing is this?CENTER STAGE delivers some strong stuff although the delivery is somewhat flawed sometimes, and maybe cheesy to someone who hasn't had a first hand view of melodrama growing from a theatrical environment.It's true that CENTER STAGE has some cheesy, over the top moments, but actors and dancers are often over the top in real life. Is this a fair excuse, maybe not but if we posed the issue in a real life situation, could we expect actors and dancers to entertain us with high emotion and melodrama and then act as plain as poop in their personal lives? I'm thinking no when I consider all the actors I know who rant as if they're reciting dialogue. In this way, CENTER STAGE is very true to form. True to form, yet recycled and cheesy??? Maybe I don't know what I'm talking about.We all bring our careers home with us and in the theater, personal lives often reflect the theatrics of our jobs.The women in this film could turn any of us on and it's not because their boobs are in our face while they happen to be filing papers (I'm not thinking of any recent Julia Roberts movies on that one), it's because they are attracting us with their dance. It's like an animalistic exchange of attraction. A lure of femininity.As I said before, I wouldn't have thought to use the word beautiful to describe another guy, but I hafta admit that the guys in this film have grace and beauty that is all masculine.I appreciate this movie and I find that the film major in me might have taken a vacation in that statement but he hasn't gone far. I am inspired, not threatened by being faced with what I would love to be able to do but can't. If nothing else, this is an honorable trait for a film to have. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage has to be one of my favorite movies of the year! It combines all the things I like in movies, cool music, hot guys, romance, dancing, interesting costumes...this one's got 'em all. Amanda Schull is wonderful as Jodie Foster, the girl who just got into the ABA, and I just loved Sascha Radetsky as her friend Charlie. The dancing is beautiful, and the ballet that Jodie dances in is just amazingly cool. The only downside to this movie we're not likely to see these actors and actresses in many other movies; many of them are ballerinas, dancers, or even ice skaters in real life. *sigh* ohwell. It was a great movie anyhow. "}{"Title":"Great dancing, great acting, great soundtrack, what more?","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Little might people know that a lot of these actors had little training before they started to shoot.  Take Amanda Schull for example, a ballet dancer from Hawaii.  This is her big screen debut, and if you don't think she did a damn good job acting for the first time, then what is wrong with you?  This movie was superb, if you are into the sappy, happy ending type of movies.  The plot was well-written.  A girl that doesn't seem to fit in at first becomes a  principle dancer in the end.  Shows the dedication and preserverance that some aren't willing to show just because they think they are the best.  It's like no worries, beef curries.  Even this soundtrack is good.  I would recommend number 12 on the track.  It's called If I Was The One.  It's a beautiful song.  Also the smash hit by Mandy Moore is good. Overall, this is a movie worth seeing, more than once.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Although the dialogue in this movie consisted of a soap-opera like, unbelievable plot, it was well worth it to sit through the cheesy lines to watch the dancing. As well as the biggest dance scene at the end (which lasted for a considerable amount of time), there was different kinds of dancing the whole way through. I strongly recommend this movie if you liked Dirty dancing, Flashdance, etc. "},{"Title":"Don't Miss This","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great from a dancing point of view--you could tell these actors were really dancers, and the dancing was better than the acting, but then, the dancing was spectacular.  Definitely worth seeing...again... "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was truly excellent.  It portrayed the world of professional dance very accurately while still not being a strictly dance movie. Ethan Stiefel (Cooper) had not acted before, but was sterling in his debut. Amanda Schull (Jodie) was wonderful, an actress of the first degree. Also, Susan May Pratt exceeded the usual standard of teenage actresses, making her, in my opinion, one of the best actresses today.  All in all, this movie is one of the best I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Ballet ! ! !","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This flick is more than worth the price of the ticket for the last ballet in it.  And, seeing Ethan Steifel's performance and dancing are also worth more than the price of the ticket.My ten-year-old grand-daughter was going to see this movie with her friend who was seeing it for the third time.  After my grand-daughter saw it, she called to tell me that it was the 'best movie that she had ever seen' and that she couldn't wait to see it again.  That is two ten-year-old's verdicts.It is a good look at some behind-the-scenes situations in ballet, and, more specifically, in the American Ballet Company.  Ethan Steifel is WONDERFUL ! - far better than Rudolf Nureyev (sp?) or Barryishnov (sp?).  I should very much like to see him live in a ballet.  This movie is truly worthwhile for the ballet alone. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Dancing, Acting Okay","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is a very good movie. The movie does justice to the ballet community,and I think that was time for another movie about ballet. Turning Point, Red Shoes, and White Knights are all great movies but they are all about 15-20 years old. The great thing about Center Stage is the fact that it uses real dancers like Ethan Stiefel (Cooper), principal with the American Ballet Theatre, Amanda Schull(Jody),who is the corps of the San Fran Ballet and Sascha Radetsky, who is in the corps for the ABT. This adds authenticity to the dancing, which is great, and you get to see these three really dance throughout the movie, especially in Cooper's ballet at the end. However, I think that this does cause some problems with the acting, which is poor in some cases. However, this might be due to the script, which is banal and sappy when it's not dealing with the dancing. Overall, this film is highly enjoyable because of the dancing and the behind the scenes look at tough profession that doesn't get enough credit. "},{"Title":"Is the dancing really all that good?","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Actually, given the credentials of the performers, I suppose it was pretty good. This was my first dance movie (unless you count Strictly Ballroom) and it was pretty underwhelming. No real surprises, several cliched characters, and a few preachy scenes. I tried to go with an open mind, and I expected the film to build to a highly-charged and emotional performance. Instead, the finale seemed ridiculous.Leading up to that point, however, the filmgoer is treated to a duel of spectacular leaps, a fairly compelling Romeo and Juliet, and standard classroom scenes. Ultimately, your appreciation for this film probably will coincide with your interest in dance.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  As an 18 year old guy, one wouldn't expect that this would be the movie for me.  I didn't either.  I was at the movie theater with three girls, with every intention of seeing Gladiator.  Unfortunately, the general consensus turned against me, and I was left with the distasteful choice of making everyone go to Gladiator, even though I was the only one left who still wanted to see it, or seeing Center Stage, a *ballet* movie.  Needless to say, we saw Center Stage, and I wasn't too happy about it. That soon changed.  Although the acting wasn't the greatest, that was only to be expected, considering most of the actors are actually dancers pretending to be actors.  This isn't to say the acting was bad, for it certainly wasn't.  The story is charming, with mostly believable characters. And the dancing...wow.  Even for ballet...wow.  It's simply amazing to watch.  If you're into the arts at all, this is a movie you want to see.  "},{"Title":"pretty, but that's about it","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The aesthetics of this movie are fantastic, but the rest is sorely lacking. The dancing is fabulous and the actors are all gorgeous. But beautiful pictures don't make for a decent movie. The plot and acting are very contrived. The dialogue is almost laughable. The most dramatic scenes in the movie are more apt to make you giggle than sympathize with the characters. The viewer is able to call every line before it's spoken and already knows how every scene will end. My biggest complaint is that Center Stage will most appeal to young girls, but there is strong sexual content very inappropriate for them. The movie tries to target an older audience by adding that dimension, but really it makes the plot even less believable. Not to mention that the characters are all about 18-20 and shown drinking and smoking in a way that will offend the parents taking their 8-year-old to the movie. There are such gems as, But I don't want to go to college. I want to dance! and this is pretty irresponsible of the producers if they stop to think who will be watching in the theater. For the older set, it just makes the movie cheesy. This film is a perfect example of why entertainers should stick to what they know. There's no denying the cast is composed of excellent dancers, but just because someone can dance doesn't mean they can act. You would do better to rent the movie and fast-forward to the dancing scenes. The rest will just make you laugh.  "},{"Title":"Don't Get Lost in the Crowd","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This theme song perfectly embodies Center Stage, a film about love--love for yourself, for others, for parents, for your work.The movie features bright young talents who hammer home that if we don't feel passionately about ourselves and what we do, then we must do something else! Along the way, we get to enjoy some of the best, most inventive dancing put on film, from new choreography by Broadway great Susan Stroman to classic works by Balanchine and Mc Millan.  What a treat!  Revel in the dancing; revel in the music; revel in the fresh, new performers like Amanda Schull, Ethan Stiefel, and Zoe Saldana, and favorites like Peter Gallagher, Donna Murphy, Priscilla Lopez, and Mary Ann Plunkett.  But most of all, revel in your own uniqueness, for this is what this movie is about "}{"Title":"Shut up and dance","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Every now and then there's a new movie about dancers, or dancing, or one with a lot of dancing in it. From Astaire to Kelly to Hines, it's the poetry of motion. If you have any appreciation for the art form whatsoever, the one to see right now is Center Stage. It's about a school year in the life of three teenage girls who are roommates at a ballet academy in New York. They pass the auditions to get into the school, but then have to work as hard as possible to move on from there. At the end of the year is a workshop performance where they can be seen by most of the people in the industry who could hire them, including the resident company. They work toward and hope for a career in the most demanding pursuit imaginable, facing gifted competition, and placed on a limited schedule. A dancer has ten years, maybe fifteen if they're not injured in order to peak in their career and be the best they can ever be. A singer can sing most of their life. An actor can act all his life. A dancer's clock is ticking. It's only a matter of time before they can only teach and choreograph, so there's a unique sense of urgency to start young, study hard, and survive. All that might make a good movie. Might not.Along with the good, you have to take the less than good. The characters are nothing new. There's the naive female ingénue (Amanda Schull), the bad girl (Zoe Saldana), the favorite girl (Susan May Pratt), the cocky lead boy (Ethan Stiefel, hailed as the most advanced male dancer in the world), the nice guy dancer (Sascha Radetsky), the nice guy non-dancer (Eion Bailey), the gay friend (Shakiem Evans), the pushy mother (Debra Monk), the demanding teacher (Donna Murphy), and the dictatorial company director (Peter Gallagher). How'd he get in there? There's even a Russian figure skater (Ilia Kulik) in the cast as a dancer. By the way, everybody is amazingly good-looking. Kind of like, Friends as done by George Ballanchine. Only in the movies, right? The story is nothing new either. Will everything work out? Will their dreams come true? Will they survive the heartbreaks of love, and the bodyaches of dance? Well, it's the movies, isn't it? Since the cast features some of the youngest and best dancers in the world, the acting comes second. Often a distant second. Or third. Don't expect any awards to be handed out in that area. Some parts are surprisingly weak, but then they move on and get back to letting their feet do the talking.Did I mention that the only reason to see this is for the dancing? The way it's filmed here is excellent, without actually having to go to a ballet. The beauty of movement, the grace of the girls, and the strength and skill of the boys is captured as well as any other movie in the subject you're likely to see. The big dance numbers at the end are worth seeing by themselves, including more modern styles. Beforehand, there are a couple of dance scenes without ballet. The kids go to a club one night and salsa, and later we see a bunch of Broadway hoofers in a jazz class lead by Priscilla Lopez (original cast of A Chorus Line) that reminded me of scenes in All That Jazz. Those were the most fun. Other scenes will remind you of The Turning Point, White Nights, and even Dirty Dancing. The comparison to Fame is inevitable. That was then, this is a new century. The natural talent, dedication, motivation, support, and ass-busting hard work needed to succeed at this kind of life is touched on here, but also touched on is the sheer love of the game. For dance itself. That's the main thing. E-mail and comments are welcome. "},{"Title":"This movie was excellent.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  If I can say go and see any movie this month it would be Center Stage. This movie will have you moving in your seat.  After it went off no one moved. They all wanted to hear the dancing song.  This was a great movie I would go and see it again.  I missed the first ten minutes and still enjoyed it. Please go and see this movie if you like music and dance.  This movie was very interesting.  This movie shows that just because people don't think you're good enough, doesn't mean you aren't.  Thanks for this chance to comment. "},{"Title":"Too slow, but it's still good to see at LEAST once!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to see this really badly and on the day it came out I went......it wasn't as good as I expected but some scenes were really interesting and exciting, others were just plain slow and boring. The ending was unrealistic and I don't like that...The actors were I must admit, outstanding. This movie is good to see once, then move on....wait for it to come out on video. "},{"Title":"The joys and heartaches in pursuit of a ballet career","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Thinking it's another teenage-fare, I was pleasantly surprised by CENTER STAGE. There is substance. It's not a mere  drama catering to the taste of teenagers the young people portrayed in this movie are no average teenagers -- they are hard working and passion driven, and there are lessons to be learned. Parents, too, can learn from this story especially the single-minded parent type whose illusion of dedicated parenthood is to drive his/her daughter/son according to an assumed belief of what's good for the child's future. It's full of energetic rhythm, almost non-stop teen life, teen talk, teen romantic notions and strife.The youthful cast delivered from Amanda Schull the self-conscious Jody, Zoe Saldana the self-defensive Eva, Susan May Pratt the self-denying Maureen, and Sascha Radetsky the self-confident Charlie, Shakiem Evans the easy-going Erik, Ilia Kulik the personable Sergei, to Ethan Stiefel the self-centered Cooper Nielsen, the star. We are given two terrific show-stopping performances, complete from beginning to end, by the young ballet dancers, back-to-back classical ballet and a modern dance treatment, thoroughly professional and enjoyable. It's a juicy plot with humorous, touching moments. Nicholas Hytner (The Madness of King George 1994, The Crucible 1996, The Object of My Affection 1998) has directed a film for both teenagers and adults, showed us the other side of a career pursuit in ballet -- the strife and heartaches trying to gain recognition/inclusion by a renown ballet company. Blood, sweat, tears and guts certainly required. Entertaining, definitely!  "},{"Title":"It is unrealistic","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had thought that ballet was a higly professional world. Dancers have hard trainings every day in order keep their muscles perfect, even top dancers. I wonder why this film does not portray those serious profiles of Cooper, the womanizing star dancer at American Ballet Company. There must be something inspiring from which American Ballet Academy students, as well as audiences, can learn if this moview aimed at showing the protagonists' growth as professional dancers. I wouldn't care that if this is one of the competence with a rival in love movies. "},{"Title":"Exhilarating","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not only funny, but inspirational. It made you realize how many things you do daily for others and it makes you question what you really want. The actors were just wonderful, and for it to be their first time acting, it just makes it even more amazing. The music and the dancing in the movie just made you want to get up and dance. What a wonderful movie, and that Sascha Radetsky. Can we say TALENTED? And HOT!!! Great movie!!! "},{"Title":"Dancers' Toes, Dancers' Woes and some fine pliés","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A surprisingly refreshing movie for the genre. Could have dipped into FAME melodrama, but kept its head admirably. The dancing is wonderful, and the adult supporting cast to this stable of beautiful and handsome newcomers lends great strength to the film.Who can resist the film closeup of perfect young faces and dance-tuned bodies? No one with an appreciation for form and kinetic beauty, I think.The plot dutifully ties together the disparate characters, stereotypical, yes, but not completely vapid by any means. I recommend this film for what it accomplishes with a cast of young and unfamiliar faces and names and the challenge of presenting the New York Ballet scene with drama and flair, not just the hackneyed storyline, either.Support adventurous independent filmmaking and see Center Stage! "},{"Title":"DON'T LISTEN TO THE BAD REVIEWS IF YOU LIKE DANCING!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie has NOT gotten spectacular views--who cares? It is almost definate that it's critics did not appreciate dance, perhaps they were even bald, 56 year old men who had never been to a ballet.  GRANTED, this movie IS NOT for everyone.  If you have ever taken dance or been to a ballet, however--go see it.  Its alot of danicng--and little plot...but you'll enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"A weak effort with a thin story, thin characters and very thin actors","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This weak Fame rip-off is one of Hollywood's worst efforts of the past few years.  The characters are underdeveloped, the feeble story wanders off on irrelevant tangents without warning, and the acting ranges from barely adequate (Peter Gallagher's talents are very much wasted in his role as a stone-hearted dance instructor) to downright awful (far too many actual ballerinas in the cast).  Center Stage has very little cinematic quality and many of the dance sequences are filmed in long shot, effectively rendering what could have been the only exciting scenes plastic and two-dimensional. "},{"Title":"exciting dancing fresh look","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  a fabulous movie for those who enjoying dancing  fabulous choreography and delightful music  it can be slow at times but still beautifully done makes ballet seem great for a change "}{"Title":"Fantastic, thrilling and beautiful!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  An absolutely beautiful depiction of modern day American Ballet. It really shows all sides of this beautiful art form. The plot helps pull the audience through the numerous exhilarating dance numbers. A must see, if not for the plot then for the beautiful dancing! "},{"Title":"Choreography stands out in &#145;Center Stage'","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Imagine Fame.  Then add the choreography of The Turning Point, and replace Baryshnikov with American Ballet Theater (ABT) principal Ethan Stiefel.  Now add a dash of A Chorus Line, and just a pinch of originality.  Cook it for about two hours and then you'll have Center Stage.This new addition to the dance movie franchise has everything you could want in a dance movie - amazing choreography, grueling footage of bleeding feet, tough teachers, bad actors, and most importantly,  it actually does make you want to dance.  Writer Carol Heikkinen even adds some eating disorders, sexual escapades, typical teenage problems, and of course, the obligatory pushy stage mother.At the center of all this is Jody Sawyer, a cute Jennie Garth look alike (actually played by the San Francisco Ballet's Amanda Schull) who wants nothing else but to be a principal dancer in the fictional American Ballet Company (which seems to be based loosely on the New York City Ballet).  As she unloads her luggage, Cooper Nielsen (Stiefel) rides up in his oh so cool motorcycle, immediately setting up the love triangle which dominates most of the plot.  Jody is immediately infatuated with Cooper, who is a dead ringer for Baryshnikov, not only in his dancing style, but in his reputation with women.  Unfortunately, Cooper has better things to worry about, like Kathleen (ABT's Julie Kent).  Also competing for Jody's affection is Charlie, who genuinely cares for her, but can't compete with Cooper's bad boy image.The rest of the film chronicles Jody and her new friends as they each compete for one of the three spots offered within the company.  Among her diverse gang are Eva (Zoe Saldana), an amazing dancer with a bad attitude; Maureen (10 Things I Hate About You's Susan May Pratt) whose pushy stage mother a la Mama Rose doesn't realize that her heart is just not in it; and Sergei, (figure skater Ilia Kulik) the token Russian.  However, the plot seemed secondary in this movie, being overshadowed by the inspiring choreography.  Director Nicholas Hytner (The Object of my Affection) intersperses the weak dialogue with fresh dance sequences, making the movie that much more exciting for dance fans.The movie opens with the chaotic audition into ABA, where the audience is introduced to the characters, not by their personalities but through their dancing.  Jody has bad turnout, Eva has a bad attitude, and Maureen is a snob.  The initial dance sequence illustrates these qualities, mostly through movement, which is the goal of a good choreographer.  Ironically, the best dance scenes in the movie were those in which the students were not performing, but rather auditioning, taking class or rehearsing.  These sequences featured not only interesting choreography, but because these actors can dance better than they can act, the audience gets to know the characters better than through the unconvincing dialogue.The opening sequence also introduces the audience to Juliette (Donna Murphy), the retired ballerina who is now a teacher, and Jonathan (Peter Gallagher) the Balanchine-like head of the company and choreographer. These two eventually become the most interesting characters in the movie, providing the audience with another perspective and the characters with advice, whether its what they want to hear or not.At one point, Jody gets sick of the strict world of ballet, and opts for an up tempo jazz class at a popular studio on Broadway. Representing the complete opposite of the stifled feeling she gets from ballet, the class features an enthusiastic teacher, colorful clothing, and choreography by Broadway veteran Susan Stroman.  Although it was hard to believe that these students would be able to perform the choreography perfectly after only one class, the audience was willing to suspend disbelief in order to revel in the excitement of Jody's liberation from ballet, and harbor their own dreams of becoming dancers.The film culminates in a recital reminiscent of Fame, where each student gets to show off his or her talent to scouts from ballet companies.  The highlight of the show is Cooper's ballet, starring Jody, also choreographed by Stroman.  Cooper reaffirms his bad boy image by choreographing a rock ballet which inevitably reflects the events of the film.  Alternating between a Broadway dance number and an MTV video, the dancers change costumes every thirty seconds, which is also about every time the music changes.  However, the powerful choreography made this one of the best moments in the film, allowing the dancers to really shine.  The dancing is so believable that for a  moment you forget you're watching a movie and want to applaud for these talented dancers.  Returning to ballet pays off for Jody, as she enjoys her standing ovation and puts her faith back into the dream of becoming a ballerina. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage was the best movie I've ever seen! Being the impressionable teenage girl I am, I liked this a thousand times more than Titanic and Dawson's Creek... COMBINED! The plot made me want to take up ballet for the cool people and what they did for fun. The acting seemed extremely real, like they were actual people. Maybe because they really are ballet dancers, not actors. Whatever it was that made this movie so good, I plan to look for the next HUNDRED times I see it!!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a really great movie for every age.  It depicts lives of performing artists of all aspects from dealing w/ directors, teachers, auditions, anorexia, etc.  If you are a dancer, take dance classes or loves dancing, I high recommended this movie. It also has great dance combinations and Ethan Steifel (Cooper) in it. Indeed he is the world's greatest dancer. Go and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Exceeding all expectations!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was an incredible movie.  As a competitive gymnast with a love of dance I was very excited when I first saw the previews, however I expected little more than a typical teeny-bopper movie with an emphasis on dancing.  This movie was much more than that.  The exceptional dancing alone is reason enough to go see it, but the storyline and the acting also hold up extremely well.  The actors do a great job portraying their emotions as they struggle to succeed in the competitive world of dance.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone with a love of dance or to those who appreciate seeing great talent of any form. "},{"Title":"reaction to the film","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The film was beautifully done.  The dance moves were perfect and it showed what ballet dancers actually have to go through and that there are a lot of expectations in order to become one.  It impresses me to see a guy dancing as well as they did in the film. "},{"Title":"Flash dance in tutus.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage Despite the fact that Jody lacks proper technique,  a talent scout senses some innate quality and offers her a spot at the prestigious American Ballet Company.  Jody soon learns however that if she wants to be a dancer she'll need to work long and hard, especially when she discovers that she has the wrong body type and bad feet.   The question is, does she have enough heart?.Let me preface my comments by saying that I know virtually nothing about dance and have never been to a ballet (I've watched Baryshnikov on TV a few times).  I have however seen many movies and those that involve dancing - at least in the past decade or two - have been few and far between.  Good ones are even scarcer.  So, does this one make the cut?Center Stage is a formulaic teen-angst-romance-flick with a dance spin thrown into the mix.  It is not particularly fresh  it has the one dancer who has the heart but lacks the talent, the requisite prima donna with fatal character flaws (she's bulimic and everybody hates her), the overzealous stage mother determined to have fame at the cost of her daughter's happiness, failed romances and the token hyper gay character.  But damn can they dance.All the main characters in the ensemble cast are actually dancers with major companies in real life and it shows.  It is obvious why they chose Amanda Schull for the role of Jody- she is the classic all-American beauty with perfectly coiffed hair and nice teeth and she can dance.  The problem is that everybody else is a better dancer than she is and it shows.  Ethan Stiefel who plays Cooper, is the current darling of the Ballet world and it is obvious why - whether he's doing classical ballet or improvising, he is astonishing, floating around the stage like a trained gazelle.  You really get an opportunity to see their skills in the final dance numbers - they are well choreographed and a joy to watch even if you're not a ballet fan (Jody and Cooper perform a very nontraditional piece that dramatizes their trials and tribulations at the Academy).If you can get past the saccharin elements, you will discover an enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"Summary","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the best movie I have seen in along time! I am a dancer in high school, and when i saw a preview for this movie I was like, its a must see. So I went hoping it would at least be tolerable, because I've heard good and bad reviews. (good from dancers, bad from others)But when I came out I was like, that was WAY better then good. That was excellent. The cast was great and there was charisma between the two people playing Jody and Charlie. They look like they were meant to do movies together. This is a movie I could watch over and over. Classic!!! "},{"Title":"Very energetic and Uplifting","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage was a great movie to watch.  It made me want to join in on the fun and dance the night away.  Sure enough, the next night, I was getting my groove on at a karaoke place.  It was a great movie for more of the teens to the adults, because the sexuality was fierce, meaning off the stage in the movie and on stage.  It made me realize that ballet is a great form of performing art.  The movie was funny and also it was an inspiration to work your butt off when the times are rough for you.  So, I recommend this movie because it will show you the true meaning of never giving up. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I walked out of the theatre feeling a little more graceful. I was glad that everyone who walked out of the theatre was  smiling. I kept being surprised to find out that the people at the beginning who were doing dialogue in many cases were actually professional dancers.  "}{"Title":"Really Good","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw Center the day it came out in theatres and I think that it's a really good movie. That's the only movie that's been pretty clean in the last few years. And to have the characters played by real ballet dancers and not well known movie stars it makes it more interesting. I think that Amanda Schull who played Jody Sawyer could be a really good actress, she played her part really well. A five out of a five star movie. Everyone should see it. It'll be worth it. "},{"Title":"um.... hello people ya gotta see this!!!!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is like THE very best movie, it's cute and entertaining, I'm a dancer myself and watching this movie was inspiring, I'm sure that it would be for many other people!! It was good and it had a good ending and it's very very realistic. Even if you aren't a dancer it still makes you want to get up and dance. The moral of the story  life doesn't hold try-outs, is very truthful and well, good. I also think that the cast was extremely good too. I mean, they were real dancers and great actors!!!! these guys were good, they made it look like they'd been acting all their life. I'm cutting this short because if I said anything else that was good about the movie I would tell the whole story because it was nothing but wonderful and I would spoil the wonderful end for those of you who haven't seen it.  So to sum it up SEE IT!!!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Fresh Entertainment!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie as a preview for the Houston Chronicle.  Along with friends who are currently dancers at a performing arts school, I loved it.  The choreography is beautiful, and casting dancers as actors surprisingly works to the movie's advantage.  After all, dancers know the challenges and frustrations of ballet and portray it well.  I enjoyed the many different themes throughout the film.  I also liked the jazz ballet's contrast to the classical ballet, though I felt both performances are beautiful.  I will buy this movie when it comes out so I can see free beautiful ballet. "},{"Title":"Dirty Dancing meets Fame","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage gives a powerful look at professional dance that is rarely seen by the public.  The plot circles around young dance students, their relationships, trials, and their futures as dancers.  A taste of Dirty Dancing will bring back envious feelings and energy is brought to the picture with a splash of Fame.  Personally, this movie made me wish I could be a fantastic ballet dancer....and in my opinion it was fantastic. "},{"Title":"Should I See This Movie Again, Yes !!!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie to the extent that I will definitely see it again and I will buy the video tape later on.Probably because I am a fan of ballet and I learned a little ballet myself when I was young, I certainly understand how competitive this field can be, meaning you have to have a great body, great feet and a great proportion to survive.  However, you also have to love it so much that you can make any sarcrifice for it.This movie beautifully showed us the details about ballet training and the dancers' daily lives.  Most of the dance numbers are finely performed. Especially when you have to pay 60 dollars to see Ethan Steifel's performance with ABT, it is really a bargain to spend only 9 dollars to get to see this brilliant brilliant dancer so closely in Center Stage.However, since most of the actors in this movie are really dancers, it is not easy for them to act well.  Even though sometimes you feel they are kind of in-mature in acting, the beautiful dances they offer can make you forget about their lack of acting skill.In my opinion, Center Stage cannot be compared with Turning Point, another great movie about dancers.  The later was much better directed and produced. In Center Stage, the director should have paid more attention to dancers' inner frustrations and struggles.  In this movie, you get to see beautiful dances, injuries, tears, physical pain, still you will feel something is missing thus you don't really relate yourself to all those experiences.  The director kind of ignored that this movie should be really made for ordinary people instead of dance fans only.Overall, I will recommend this movie to my friends and I hope they would understand that these young ballet dancers are really people who deserve our admiration and respect.   "},{"Title":"More than just a dance movie","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a story of several young people who must decide if the price of pursuing their dream is one they are willing to pay. In this case, the dream is being professional dancers, but it could be anything.The movie is well executed.  The dance background is thoroughly enjoyable. And the writing and acting are surprisingly good.  I was a bit surprised to see good acting and good dancing. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see Center Stage at a free preview on my college campus, but I fully intend to see it again once it opens in theaters.  I saw this with a group of friends, some former dancers (such as myself) and some completely unrelated to dancing at all.  Even my male, non-dancer friends who attended thought that this was a wonderful movie.  Because the casting went to people who were dancers, all of the dancing is beautiful and believable.  On the other hand, the acting was also very good, and at times I found myself wondering whether all of the main characters were actually doing their own dancing or they just had a really good editor.  All in all, everyone can relate to the story of finding yourself and following your dreams, and the dancing is arresting and beautiful to watch.  If you absolutely hate dance, don't see this movie.  But, if you're open to a movie with great emotion and self-realization found through the medium of dance, you will love Center Stage. "},{"Title":"not awful...","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is a movie about the competition among dancers to earn spots in the American Ballet Company.  This pits some against each other, but mostly the struggles are internal.  The acting is pretty poor, obviously the actors were chosen more for their dancing ability over their acting talent.  And the dancing is excellent, the scenes tend to drag on a bit, but very stylish and well choreographed.  However, this does little to compensate for the sometimes laughable dialogue and the flimsy plot.  If you are a dancer you will probably love the film, if you are not, like me, you will probably think it is not awful.   "},{"Title":"if you have the heart, you can do it...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is an amazing movie. It follows the lives of a group of students at the American Ballet Academy over a year, from their audition to get into the school to the final workshop that will determine their future. Much like A Chorus Line, Center Stage goes behind the scenes to give us an insight into a dancer's life, with all its demands, victories and disappointments. In the main roles, Nicholas Hytner cast dancers, portraying the characters' fears, hopes and dreams better than any actor could. Ethan Stiefel is sensational both as a dancer and as an actor. Amanda Schull, Sascha Radetsky, Zoe Saldana and Susan May Pratt give good performances as well. Finally Peter Gallagher and Donna Murphy are perfectly cast respectively as the director of ABA and the ballet teacher.As the characters soon find out, the life of a dancer is not all rosy as Jonathan Reeves tells his students at the beginning of the year, they may have been the best of their classes up to then, but at ABA they will have to work harder every day to be one of the 6 chosen ones to become part of the company. Both Jody and Maureen are forced to re-examine what they want to do with their lives at some point and everyone ends up with a different goal than the one they set out to achieve.The dance sequences are some of the best ever seen on the big screen. Cooper Nielsen's last ballet - choreographed by Susan Stroman - is absolutely fantastic. Any dancer or dance lover will greatly appreciate performances of Romeo & Juliet, Stars and Stripes and Swan Lake. As a dancer myself, I believe that this is one of the best movies about dance that I've ever seen.This is an excellent film, at once funny and moving. In the end, it is a movie about passion and how one should listen to one's own heart and not to other people. The message would be that as long as you are passionate about something, you can achieve anything.  "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Wow! that's all I have to say! This movie is truly great! Offcurse you have to truly appreciate dancing to like it, since the acting is at times quite poor. But if dancing is your passion you will have a passion for this movie! In my opinion it portrays the battles and hardships that all dancers face in a very true way. Have you ever had someone tell you your not good enough or that your body is not perfect enough this movie will give you a boost to keep fighting! Because no matter what dance-teachers or directors say, dancing comes from the heart and soul of the dancer, not from your feat or your posture but from your heart! Because that is where the fire is! Now see it! "}{"Title":"I just loved it!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I just loved this movie....the actors are not that famous. But it´s so fun to watch them.... But you have to be intrested in dancing to like it.. because it is a ballet movie.... It one of my favorites and I give it 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"It's 'Dawson's Creek' disguised in ballet shoes","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage (2000) Amanda Schull, Zoe Saldena, Susan May Pratt, Peter Gallagher, Donna Murphy, Debra Monk, Ethan Stiefel, Sascha Radetsky, Shakiem Evans, D Nichols Hytner. Inside-look drama (quite familiar of FAME and A CHORUS LINE) mainly focuses on a gutsy student infatuated with a boastful hotshot at a prestigious N.Y.C. ballet company, and also spotlights the young dancers who strive to be the best but also face conflict with pressure. Cloying film almost plays like a passé soap though rings true with some graceful dance numbers and sparks some young sensual romance, but not for kids! Great choreography by Tony Award-winner Susan Stroman; real ballet dancers (such as Julie Kent) appear in cameos. Running Time 113 minutes and rated PG-13 for language and sensuality. ** ½  "},{"Title":"Utter pap.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw Center Stage as something to pass the time on television. Now, I'm fully aware I'm not the demographic for such a film, but it was just laughably terrible to watch.You've got cardboard cut-outs of characters, dialogue that just dies and dance routines that are probably quite hard to do but just don't look that impressive. Saccharine coats everything heavily. Some of the more veteran actors do try to pull something out of their parts, but they really don't have much to work with.I got quite a few laughs out of Center Stage, so it wasn't a complete waste. Mocking a film like this can indeed be an enjoyable experience! "},{"Title":"Great Dancing Overshadowed Not-so-great Acting","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The dance scenes and choreography in this film were amazing...... great beats, great moves.  I loved the inclusion of some of the classic ballets (the Romeo and Juliet Pas de Deux is breathtakingly beautiful), as well as the modern numbers.The acting and storyline was not strong, but I think the dancing was the focal point of this film and this is what made it so enjoyable.All in all, a worthwhile film, that would hold special appeal for dancers and dance admirers. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the ballet scenes","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A lot of the acting is hollow, and a lot of the dialogue a bit forced. However for a cast of professional dancers (Schull is with San Francisco Ballet and Radetsky, Stiefel and Kent are with American Ballet Theatre) and a lot of unknowns, it's not that bad.  The dance sequences are excellent (including an original ballet by Christopher Wheeldon).A lot of the individual scenes are quite realistic, but the end of the movie is completely contrived and way too-perfect.  Still, I suggest watching it for the ballet scenes, if nothing else, and Julie Kent (with her bit part as the company's star ballerina) stands out as being absolutely hilarious.  "},{"Title":"A good flick for young adults","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Though the script and acting was a little shaky...I really loved this movie. But, since most of the actors were actual dancers, you can't really expect an outstanding display of acting skills. Center Stage had a good moral...that you don't have to fit the perfect mold and all that matters is giving it your personal best. I really do think if they made the script better and had given Charlie a more prominent role it would have been a great movie. "},{"Title":"Lame but fun!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The writers who hammered together this script must have attended the school for cliche.  There were lines throughout the movie where I was able to recite them moments before the actor had the opportunity of doing so.  The kids in the film were talented and cute, but few of them were gifted actors. But all in all I would have to say a lot of the choreography was quite original and refreshing. This film does have its charm! "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Lame","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Silly rip-off of Fame that is not helped by bad acting from the leads, an idiotic script or the few uninspired dance scenes. Director Nicholas Hytner seemed to start his film career so well with The Madness of King George and is apparently intent on working his way downward, first with The Object of My Affection and now this. Amanda Schull plays a naive but excitable young lady who decides to audition for the American Ballet Academy and somehow gets in on her charm (hmmm...). Her school year starts and finds herself in a complex world of hard-driving teachers, insensitive men and fellow students who would do anything to better than everybody else. Basically, she goes to high school again except we see more leotards. Does anyone care? Not really. Donna Murphy is excellent as a caring ballet teacher who seems strict but has a large heart for her students.  "},{"Title":"Cute, teen tripe - Slight spoilers within","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  It tries to be deep several times in the movie, but it ends up being your standard coming-of-age  movie. No surprises. Without spoiling the story, if you predict the ending based on the first 10  minutes, you've got it right. Great dance scenes, if you enjoy ballet. Outstanding salsa scenes, if  you can wait that long. The grand finale dance number was, in my opinion, very disappointing,  with numerous pointless sexual overtones and moments that appeared to be nothing other than  titillation. If you want to see another cute Teen Coming-Of-Age Thru Dance movie, this is exactly that. It has  romantic moments that fizzle, and comedy that teens would enjoy, and the usual domineering  parents who ***SPOILER*** get theirs in the end. It also has your standard gay character being  the font of all wisdom and niceness. If you really want to see a TCOATDM, I'd pick Footloose. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good drama about the hardships of professional ballet dancing, but unfortunately brought down a bit by a routine romance between the main characters.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is a very well thought out film that follows a group of dancers through their trials in a prestigious dancing academy. The acting and directing are both very good, but the film as a whole suffers from the un-creative insertion of a done-to-death love story. The exact same love triangle seen in Center Stage can be seen in countless other films of all kinds, and this is an unfortunate problem with this film, which is otherwise extremely good. Sure, there are plenty of dancing movies out there, but there really aren't that many that deal specifically with ballet. The way that the story is partially acted out while the characters are doing impressive dance scenes is excellent, but a bit of cheesy acting late in the film as well as a disappointingly predictable ending take a lot away from it. Despite its problems, however, Center Stage is a very enjoyable and watch-able film. Not the best, but definitely quality entertainment. "}{"Title":"Yikes! Center Stage Was Really Bad","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film with about 20 other teenagers who I knew (both male and female), and everyone came away laughing-- but not because the film was funny. It was just plain old bad. The film was disliked by everyone (all twenty or so of us) but we had a great time dancing all the way home on the subway, impersonating the actors. Flashdance is almost exactly the same thing, only *way* better. Go rent it instead. "},{"Title":"Entertaining dance scenes not enough to rescue trite script","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I guess if you're a 12-16 year old girl (like most of the audience was), and this was the first movie of its type you'd ever seen, you might find it fresh and fascinating. As a 30-something woman however, I found nothing new or interesting in this film. All the stock characters/plot devices are there -- the bullemic overachiever, the  Russian guy dancer, the naive good girl, the black girl with 'tude, the stage mother, the rescuing boyfriends...On the plus side, I must admit the dance scenes were fun and some of the choreography refreshingly original. My recommendation is if you don't fit the target audience profile (female 12-16), you should save your money and wait for this movie to come to cable (to check out the dance scenes). In the meantime, if you want a better movie along a similar theme, rent The Turning Point. "},{"Title":"Just a Reason to Make Those Kids Dance","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage tries to be a look at the world of dance from behind the curtain.  It ends up being the same old teenage love story/life lesson. They threw some anorexia issues, mother-daughter arguments, and a whole lot of terrible actors into Center Stage. Characters aren't really who they say they are, they're merely characatures of the typical roles.The filmmakers did nothing with them in between dance sequences. The entire film is made to get those kids to dance. While I'll admit that the dance sequences are something to marvel at, good dances do not a good film make.C- "},{"Title":"A Great Dance Movie.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"     Center Stage was a fun dance movie that is very entertaining and enjoyable, it isn't one of those boring dance movies that start out slow and end slow. Center Stage is a fast moving and fun movie to watch. I give center stage a 10 out of 10!!  )  "},{"Title":"Upstages most other dance movies, the film is a great pleasure for fans of ballet and those that think they hate it","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Jody (Amanda Schull) has just been accepted into a post secondary school program at the American Ballet Company in Manhattan. Naturally, she is thrilled, for she longs to dance professionally, and just being admitted is a great feat. Soon, she meets her roommates, Eva (Zoe Saldana) and Maureen (Susan May Pratt). Maureen has been at the school since she was nine and is one of the best students; however, she is catty, cold, and a sort of prima donna. On the other hand, Eva is warm and exceptionally talented but has an independent streak that soon upsets the staff. Also at the company is principal dancer, Cooper (Ethan Steifl) who looks in beautiful Jody's direction. Others warn her that he has fairly recently been jilted by Kathleen, who ended up marrying the company's director (Peter Gallagher). Soon, Jody has other problems, for her technique and body type are criticized by a demanding teacher (Donna Murphy). She becomes discouraged. Meanwhile, Maureen meets a waiter at a gala and, although she tries to deflate his interest, ends up dating him, opening a new world beyond the one her mother has forced on her forever. Because a major recital, featuring all of the students, is about to be cast, who will get major parts and who won't? Only those who stand out at the event will be chosen by major ballet companies around the world. Nerves rattle for all, no? Absolutely! This beautiful film upstages most other dance movies of its kind. While ballet lovers will enjoy it and welcome a glimpse into the real world of cutthroat dance, non ballet fans will also be entertained. This is mainly due to the young, beautiful, and very talented cast. Special kudos should go to Steifl, for he is not only a superb dancer but a great actor, too. Sets, costumes, script, and a solid direction make for one terrific flick. Dear Center Stage makers, you definitely make us feel like dancing, we're going to dance the night away. "},{"Title":"This is way better than the company.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I didn't even know about this movie, until a few days when i saw an empty DVD package a local thrift store - Goodwill. And I was lucky to find a copy at a local library. Wow, I can't believe that this movie was released in 2000! That is nine years old, but it felt so contemporary. I wonder what those actors look like now, and what they have been doing after this? Anyway, I first watched another movie about ballet dancers called The company, released in 2003. That movie was so dull, the storyline was weak. This movie is far more better, there was no dull moment. And everyone seems to be so real. I can't even tell which one is the real ballet dancer, which one is not. They all seem to be able to dance so well. The only part was when Sergei dancing on stage, it seems that they used a real dancer for some of his scenes, but I can't be sure.I like the Jim Gordon character, he can really act. However, he was supposed to be a premed student in college in this movie. At that time, the real actor was already 24, so he did look a little too old for that role. The dancers certainly can act. The dancing scenes were well choreographed, nice to watch. And there were scenes of guys wearing tights which the movie The company seem to avoid. Those leading actresses also performed well, I felt as if that is who they are in real life.I especially like the scenes which they showed how the ballerinas prepare their dancing shoes, who could have thought about that. Unlike watching the movie the company, this movie made me realize that dancing is not as easy as it looks. Those dancers really have to spend a lot of hours of practicing before they can actually dance on stage. This is not an easy profession, and they only have such a short lifetime which they can actually dance. They have to retire way early than normal people. Indeed, they are doing this because they love to dance. "},{"Title":"Think of it as a George Kuchar film and enjoy the ride","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" If he were to make a dance film it might be something like this only much more extreme and there would have been the unexpected, don't ask me what. Still when I watch it I think of Kuchar, I see a film that ought to be attributed to the master underground dramatist as the means of its redemption. So I have a great affection for this so bad it's so good movie. I am a big dance fan but I honestly don't remember anything about the dance sequences in the movie. Except that the last number is so over the top it's under the bottom and Ethan Stiefel is sort of painful to watch as the bad bike boy Anacin to the disco beat. Anyway the movie is succulent it goes down like cheetos and coca-cola.If you want to see something with more depth I'd suggest Stepping Out with Liza, which is actually a pretty profound movie that suggests that the audience need not only pay tickets and watch, that they might also do and that that might be even better. I'd like to think that's dangerous stuff but of course no revolution resulted. Possibly because when Liza kicks up her heels in a solo turn, we're put in our proper place! And probably in the film the benefit of doing your own things are linked to romance. Still, there are people in the movie, amateurs, rising to the occasion and in the end getting in their small way to be artists.And, of course, The Red Shoes!! "},{"Title":"Great dancing, average story","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this film, it was at the behest of friends - this is the greatest film ever! Bit of an exaggeration. I offended this friend by saying about halfway through er... this is just Fame, redone for dance school. And it is - it's the plot of Fame, with the American Ballet Academy substituted for Juilliard, and dance scenes substituted for songs.But you know the weird thing? I hated Fame, but I love Centre Stage. Can't explain why! The dancing is brilliant, the plot is transparent but let yourself be swept up the dancing and that becomes a bit irrelevant. Then it's just a fun film with some amazing choreography. "},{"Title":"How Many Had Stand-ins","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I have watched this several times with my daughter, who is taking ballet lessons. She likes this movie and plays it over and over again.I am convinced that several of the dancers do not really dance at all and appear to dance through camera trickery or using stand-ins.Sascha Radetsky, Amanda Schull, Ethan Stiefel, Zoe Saldana and probably Ilia Kulik (Charlie, Jody, Cooper, Eva and Surgei) danced their own parts.Maureen, Emily, and Erik did not dance at all, I believe.I am not sure about Julie Kent who played Kathleen Donahue and danced the duet with Ethan Stiefel.Also, I think the dance sequences involved a lot of cutting and pasting. I think it would be almost impossible for anybody to dance that perfectly from the beginning to the end of these long dance sequences.Sam Sloan "},{"Title":"From a dancer's point of view.....","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" So to start off, i am a dancer (modern not ballet) and will be as along as i can stand. i found this story very relate able. I think fellow dancers can also identify with many of the same situations and perhaps see some of our friends (dancers) in the characters. This does not mean by any means that non-dancers can't appreciate it. I think they can appreciate it as well but perhaps not understand some concepts. The acting was fairly good not the greatest in the world and the dancing was absolutely superb. The dancing was never boring. The movie overall was pretty good but not something that i would want to watch 3 times in one night or anything. "}{"Title":"Feel-Good Favourite","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" A film about ballet dancing sounded terrible to me, but I saw this at the movies and since have watched it on DVD at least 10 times. It is one of those rare films that is brand new, yet gives you a sense of nostalgic fun. I am not into any kind of dancing in any way, shape or form, but I found this film to be beautiful. I love the soundtrack, it fits perfectly. I love the ballet scenes - they are surprisingly magical and enchanting. I love the cast - mainly unknowns make the film so much nicer. I love the outcome of the film - predictable, but immensely satisfying. This is a very believable, romantic and fun storyline that I can watch over and over again. It makes me feel like a child again, and became one of my instant favourite films once I saw it. Definitely in my top ten list of films I never get sick of watching. Watch this one on a rainy day, or when you are feeling a bit down. It is strangely comforting, like a security blanket, and I don't really know why. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"high energy fun","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" i quite enjoyed this movie.it follows a group of people as they try to make it as as dancers with a prestigious ballet company.as soon as i saw it was about ballet,i groaned inwardly.i thought there's no way this could be anything other than boring.but i was proved wrong very quickly.this movie is not just about ballet.there's more going on.lets just say this is a very high energy movie,with some great dance sequences.if you don't like ballet,i feel very confident in saying that won't matter in this case.for one thing the performances are all very good,both the dancing and the acting.and the movie is choreographed very well.not to mention the great soundtrack.for me,this is a really good 115 minutes. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Center Stage","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Center Stage is a film in which one can see the troubles and the influence of what looks good can have on certain individuals. In this film, one can see the psychological effect that having a perfect body, and being pretty can have on the ballerinas in this film. Also, one can see how insecurity can drive you to do insane things. One can retreat themselves from the world, get away, get depressed, and have competition to be the best. For example in one scene, Jodi (one of the ballerinas) is told that she doesn't have the right body type, that her feet are not right. And she wished that she had her roommate's feet. She cried and despised the fact that she was told that she wasn't good. She practiced as hard as she could to be her best. She was ready to give up, because she saw herself as a failure. Later in the film she decides to practice dancing at another dance class. She met a man who saw talent in her and made her feel good. At the end of the film, she was given a main part in her original dance school. She than was offered to be partners with a private company. This shows the troubles that Jodi went through but yet found herself once again and gained her self esteem back. Another character that went through rough times was Maureen. Maureen was a ballerina because that is what her mom always wanted her to be. She always had to watch what she ate and at the long run she became bulimic. She was obsessed with looking thin and making her mother happy. Her boyfriend discovered that she was sick and made her realize what she was doing to herself. At the day of the audition, she gave her part to her friend who was also a dancer. Her mother went furious, Maureen told her mother that this was her dream not her owns. She told her that she was sick and that she didn't want to be this way any more. This film portrays the above and many more psychological effects that society ideas can have on an individual. These effects can minor and to another extreme can be very dangerous and even deadly. "},{"Title":"Psychological Review of Center Stage","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" We are living in a world where disorders are engrossing both male and females of all ages. Eating disorders are particularly growing in numbers and affecting more people throughout the world each day. Occurring quite commonly with young female ballet dancers the film Center Stage offers insight for the audience to grasp this issue. To introduce and expose eating disorders is an aid to help recover and possibly prevent future victims of such a seriously physically and psychologically draining issue.One main eating disorder is Anorexia Nervosa which is a psychiatric disorder that causes a person to have a warped perception of their body image. They have a constant and obsessive fear of gaining weight so severe that the person will starve themselves. Along with the psychological issues of body image distortion highly serious physical tribulations begin to plague the body. Anorexia can negatively affect organ functions such as the heart and muscles and can ultimately lead to death. This is a serious problem especially considering that many young adults have the disease greatly affecting their growing process.While the film has a light an airy tone it substantially touches on many important issues that are present in the world of a young ballet dancer. The constant insistent from instructors and peers to be thin weighs down on character Maureen, played by Susan May Pratt, and she turns to Anorexia and Bulimia. At first Maureen rejects food and starves herself but then when she can no longer control her hunger begins to eat and then force herself to throw up her food. The stress is not being eased from her mother, Nancy, played by Debra Monk. Unable to make her own dreams of being a ballerina a reality, Nancy is constantly on Maureen to achieve them.Most Anorexics conceal their disease because they are ashamed. Their original disappointment for not being thin enough has now doubled to their embarrassment of being sick. To tackle such an important issue of our society Center Stage is one way to help make them known to the public. The media is constantly portraying flawlessly thin woman and also men, making it hard for people to accept themselves. It is critical that our current society help changes the perception of what perfect is. "},{"Title":"It helps if you love dance","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Having read most of the other comments on this film, I find I fall pretty-much in the middle of the range of opinions. The reviewers who think this is either The Best or The Worst movie they've ever seen are equally mistaken. The plot and characters certainly are trite, but the cast performs with such enthusiasm and talent that I don't care. I love dance, on film or on stage, and the dancing in Center Stage is great. This is the Turning Point for the end of the millennium, blended with elements of Fame and Flashdance...or almost any gotta dance! sort of story. There are also story elements which seem to have been lifted directly from the novel Ballerina, by Edward Stewart.I especially enjoy the sequence wherein Amanda Schull goes to an off-limits Jazz class, runs into her dance hero/crush, and has a complete ball just shaking' it loose without Ballet discipline. It's a really enjoyable sequence, in no small part because the other class members are FANTASTIC dancers (Real non-company classes rarely include more than 2 dancers of the caliber of this entire class. Many of the unnamed people in that class are current or former members of the American Ballet Theatre).If you enjoy dance movies, you'l like Center Stage; if you don't, you won't. "},{"Title":"Jody Sawyer is a girl who loves to dance and wants to be a dancer.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I love this movie too much. For the first time, I watched it when I was a high school student. I love the plot, characters, performances, music and so on.Jody Sawyer is a girl who loves to dance and wants to be a dancer. Although she has a very pretty face, her legs are not very as good as a professional ballet dancer. Maureen Cummings belongs to the school too. She has special talent and very good legs as a ballet dancer. But she was missing one important thing, the strong passion of dancing. As time passes, the final performance day is becoming closer. Wheater the ballet company employs you or not is really up to the final performance. And of curse, someone who dances in the center stage is the closest person to be accepted. Who is going to get the position of center stage....? Although, this is a fictional movie, the characters were played by the real dancers. And the plot was great. Especially, I like Maureen Cummings' scene very much. She is so beautiful and the scene she discovers her own identity and happiness is really touching. Also music is great. I have a soundtrack. "},{"Title":"loved the whole movie","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Center Stage is my all time favorite movie. Cooper is so cute, and the dancing is amazing! i wish i could dance like Jodie. I loved how graceful Kathleen Donawhew was and the part when Jodie takes a dance class and sees Cooper.Every time i watch the movie i love it even more. But i think that it was a little confusing about how old the characters were, because in real life Amanda Shcull, who plays Jodie Sawer, was 22 when she made the movie but all of the reviews say the movie is about teenage dancers. Other than that i thought that the movie was really great, especially Moreen. I thought that Moreens character was such a good actress and really put emotion into the part. "},{"Title":"Life Usually Doesn't Hold This Much Competition","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" CENTER STAGE **** Engaging modern-day musical about the meeting of various ballerinas (both male and female) at a particular ballet school where they attend, and how they respond to each other and the training they undertake. Unlike other motion pictures of this type that casts actors for their actorial experience rather than dancing ability, 'Center Stage', features newcomers who had real-life training in dance, a real plus. Within the screenplay lies a fine balance of competitive dance numbers, interesting character dynamics, and comic humor which adds to the film's entertainment. Excellent choreography by Susan Stroman. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film About Dance","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Critics love the phrase by the numbers when referring to a movie like this for its familiar characters and plot line, but such clichés don't tell you how enjoyable the whole thing is or how well the more-or-less predictable characters come together to make a thoroughly entertaining movie. Any story about competitions, auditions and performing arts academies recalls Fame and others of its ilk (and nothing wrong with that) but this one stands out for its terrific dancing, decent acting and competent script. Stunningly cute real-life ballet dancer Amanda Schull plays against type as a fumble-footed wannabee in the American Ballet Academy and ballet star Ethan Stiefel, as the precocious, womanizing star of the Academy, performs spectacular moves in various dance genres. The final production number is especially entertaining in the way it merges ballet with modern dance, gives Schull a chance to shine in the spotlight and allows Stiefel and fellow ballet prodigy Sascha Redetsky ample scope to show off their athletic, acrobatic leaps and spins. If you're like me, you'll want a copy of this one on your shelf. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Very Good Dancing","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" If you are thinking about watching Center Stage, you should first read the plot summary and view the trailer. If neither impresses, you would be wise to give Center Stage a wide berth because they are very accurate representations of the film. The story is fairly simple, the focus is on three girls who aspire to a position with the fictional American Ballet Center in New York City. Well, they sort of aspire. The bulimic one (Maureen) is only doing it because her mother is pushing her, the girl next door one (Jody) is wondering if the company is too restrictive, and the angry one (Eva) is considering getting work as a Hooters waitress instead. Eva's seemingly bad attitude disguises the fact that she actually has the best attitude, she is there because she loves to dance.There is a love triangle between Jody and two guys, she sleeps with the one she loves (Cooper), he does not love her but he gives her the female lead in a ballet he has choreographed. He gives the male lead to the guy who loves her. Coincidentally Cooper's ballet is about a similar love triangle.This is not exactly new territory, think Flashdance, Fame, and Brave New Girl. Don't expect Fellini's Variety Lights. The plot is painfully contrived but the saving grace is the wonderful dancing and the realistic portrayal of the grind of dance school. The DVD has a ton of nice special features including extended dance sequences.The acting is nonprofessional but the director knows the limitations of his ensemble and does not ask them to do anything very difficult, at least acting-wise. The movie is full of mild melodrama, but stays nicely real life and doesn't amp the conflicts and love stories into an overwrought mess.The theme is the standard one about going after your dream through hard work and dedication, but they also focus on the necessity of first making sure that it is actually your dream. Bottom line Center Stage is a joyful celebration of dance and the talented folks who make it their profession.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "}{"Title":"What I always wanted for myself.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I must have seen it a billion times. When Eva cries watching the ballet in the beginning, I cry. Ballet is one of the most moving dance forms ever. From experience, I remember the ultimate high you feel when your body is in perfect position and you passionately feel it shooting out of every cell in your body. There's nothing like it. Granted there are some down points in the movie, but as soon as they start moving I'm glued. My old ballet teacher was from England and very by the book. I would always say, Why don't we do a ballet with modern, upbeat music? It never flew to well. By the time I had her convinced, she moved back to Europe. I never did a ballet like that for an audience, but for myself there was always a standing ovation. That's why it's such a great movie for me. I tried to create the same thing years ago. Just wish it had turned out as well. The final song Canned Heat is now in Napolian Dynamite. When my friends play it, it has a completely different meaning behind it to me. "},{"Title":"Great Dancing, who cares about the acting!","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" There are not enough movies with dancing of this caliber in them. And compared to most, this one has fairly believable characters, good acting, and a great supporting cast. No one watches a movie full of dancers expecting an Oscar-caliber film. But to be entertained with dancing, to get to laugh, to see that stage mom you know you've met once before somewhere... this movie is all of that and more. It's pure fun. The final number is so good, my friends and i will put in the movie just to watch it (and the Broadway studio dance class scene too!). If you love to dance and want to see a group who can do it well, watch this! "},{"Title":"Really Touching","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This film was absolutely fabulous. I was really touched by the dancing, but more so by the underlying conflict of the young girl's eating disorder. I know this is a common occurrence among young ladies, but it always breaks my heart. Kudos to the young actress as she moves beyond this disorder, and even more to the actress who's dancing takes her beyond the expected. The final dance sequence was phenomenal! I mean, Jamiriquoi in a movie...a great dance scene--You can't get any better than that! I hope there's a sequel on the way--I want to see beyond the eating disorder--I want to really experience the dancing. I want to feel the passion underneath the bones (of the music).Love ALWAYS! Rob Hobbie "},{"Title":"One of the best dance-related films you will ever see!!!","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage absolutely rocks!!!!! It's remains one of my favorite movies and the insight it gives is great. Many people I know love this movie and the dancing is pure electrifying. I wouldn't just watch it for the dancing but for the relationship and storyline aspect as well. When he came out on the motorbike and broke into Michael Jackson's 'The Way You Make me Feel' it took my breath away. The soundtrack is very good and has a lot of feel good songs on it. Peter Gallagher is a real talent and his energy is quite spectacular. Overall you can't possibly say it's a bad movie because the setting is great and the camera work really brings the dancing to life. Awesome film!!!  "},{"Title":"its a good story line.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. They could have made it much better, from a Christian's point of view. I don't even like ballet, & I liked it. I would not recommend this movie for kids under 13. I mean 13. NO YOUNGER. It does have some things in it that are not OK for little kids to watch.um....... if you are not a movie fan, then I would not recommend this movie to you. If your someone who likes to get together with your family I would not recommend this movie to you. This movie does give you some of the world at you. You have to remember I giving you my point of view as a Christian. Thanks & enjoy the movie.~Charity~  "},{"Title":"The best film ever!!","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Being a dancer myself, I think this film gave an excellent view on how hard dancing can have on your life. It really isn't as easy as it looks...and that's not just the dancing. Having to cope with remembering everything, having to be not only good enough, but brilliant is tough.I love how all of the characters are portrayed - they each have a different role and it makes the film excellently spread. Everyone at my dance school has seen it, and we're all in love with it! We've practically learnt all of the dances because we've seen it so many times. It's just a feel good film to watch, and I'm glad they decided to make this film.I think it's good how most of the actors are actually dancers as well, so they can actually show what it's like from the inside, rather than just acting it. A must see film!!!!  "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage was such a great movie!!  The dancing was awesome but it also has a lot of great scenes about all of the characters lives outside the dancing.  One of the best parts about this movie is that the actors are all really dancers or have some dance background so they were able to zoom in and really show all of the dancers without having to put someone else in all those scenes so you can enjoy the dancing a lot more!  The movie makes you want to dance wither your a dancer or not.  And of course they have the romance but with a little twist.  Most of the actors are pretty unknown but I thought they did a good job and of course the dancing was beautiful. The ending was the best part!  It was a great movie and I would recommend it to anyone!!   "},{"Title":"The Turning Point of Fame","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" What an enjoyable film! And far too much sneering criticism of what is a spectacular dance movie...........it disappoints me greatly that this gets such a bagging ....perhaps moaners would prefer more dumb multiplex films or more violence? Centre Stage has terrific set pieces and is a revelation on DVD with whole versions of the dance scenes. Just enjoy it. I was astonished to realise these genuine dancers could act so well. If films like this did not exist I am sure the moaners would moan that there was not enough films for its obviously intended market. It perhaps is a pity that the makers also cut the dance sequences so short, or have drama interrupting them. For me the interest is seeing whole and uninterrupted grand set pieces shown in total, not edited. It really only adds fuel to the fact that many people refuse to pay the cinema ticket cost and justify their wait for DVD saying (quite rightly) that they will be rewarded for waiting because the DVD will be more complete. "},{"Title":")","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Even though the acting is not exactly Oscar-worthy, for some reason it is hard to not love this movie. The dancing is amazing and every time I watch the movie I want to become a professional dancer. There are some parts of the movie that are a little far fetched but there are also totally relatable qualities in the characters and situations. Some of Jodie's humiliations are universal in that it makes you remember a time that you were really naive in a relationship. I give the movie thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Addictive, brilliant and well paced","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie on Sky Premier a couple of weeks ago, and now every time it's on, I watch it. I ALWAYS look forward to the end ballet performance because it is so clever and terrific to watch. I think it's fantastic the way they portray young dancers in a professional ballet school - girls who are paranoid that they will get fat, others who just want to be the best, and others who practice and practice just to get it right. I think the best developed character was Maureen - from the first moment when she is agonising over eating a slice of pizza, to the final confrontation with her mother at the end. Jodie was also equally brilliant - her dancing was unreal. The way they keep the camera close to the actors when they're dancing so you can see their faces is great - they're not slipping in any stunts in there! All in all, I really enjoyed this film from start to finish. I wouldn't class this as a 'teen flick' at all - and half of the reason for that is because even my nearly sixty year old mum loves this film, and she HATES teen movies! See this film if you love good, modern dancing, terrific acting and a great soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. I really enjoyed it. Maybe because the concept isn't played out. It was different than most of the teen oriented movies that came out around the same time. It didn't have the same people playing the same parts( like all the Freddie Prinze Jr. movies). I love the dance sequences at the end. A must see even if you aren't into dancing because neither was I. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love watching the pretty ballerinas.  They are all awesome Babes.  The dancing is fantastic.  And the lead female is the hottest thing in a tutu I have ever seen. Plus the awesome pre 9/11 scenes of the greatest city in the world New York are priceless.  Any film that shows this much leg, NY and dancing is first rate. "},{"Title":"I have been in Love with this Movie since i saw it for the first time...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is my favorite movie of all time. I honestly cannot count how many times I have seen it. I was a dancer from the time I was 3 up until I turned 13 and I was told I had really bad feet and would have to work extra hard to achieve my goal as a dancer. Because of that I can really relate to this movie. Another reason I can't get enough of this movie...CHARLIE!!! Could he get any hotter?! Without a doubt this is definately a chick flick. I recommend this movie to all teenage girls.  "},{"Title":"Dancing isn't easy....and life really doesn't hold tryouts","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Well, I don't think there's anything to say that hasn't been said. This is one of the best dance movies since Dirty Dancing. I desperately wanted to see it in theatres, but circumstances forced me to wait for the video. I swear I bought it within a month after having seen it. As a dancer I can say this movie covers so much of the truth of that profession. Dancing ain't easy, it, and any other performance profession, is one of the hardest careers there is. And chances are the easier the dancer makes it look the harder it is. This movie does an awesome job of portraying that...especially that scene where they're breaking in the dances shoes, and Jodi's bleeding feet after hours and hours of practice. That's the way life is as a dancer, you dance through the pain. Anyway, even if you aren't a dancer, this is an AWESOME movie; chances are you will watch it and every character will remind you of one of your friends. Rent it, buy it...it's a great addition to any collection.  "},{"Title":"cute and funny, for general audience not just ballet lovers","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I must admit for the first time I watched it, it wasn't bad . It has a nice story , typical teen-ballet dramody (drama/comedy) . Despite critics reviews, Amanda Schull the girl who plays Jody is really good, it was funny how her number one problem at the Ballet School  was her turn-out(feet position) and that if you've been dancing ballet your whole life, those are one of the things that should be automatic and a total established thing to your whole ballet posture/position, though okay, the directors or producers decided to make that the problem, oky-dok .. whatever, Anyway, Cooper is really the cutest around, I don't know, he seems so good , and Charlie seems, well, a little uptight . Comparing to the wild and freestyled Cooper, he's a little lame to be the guy Jody finally end up with.Uhm, the girl co-stars, Eva who really is bizarre, being the rebel among the class and turning all goody at the end, uhm . not familiar with those type of human beings , but Maureen, is a great snob. Is the actress playing her really a ballet dancer ? she sure looks like one ! But if you look carefully, while Maureen really dances, there's usually a double .I must admit, I've never been interested in watching this movie when it came out 2 years ago, I just watched it because of Ilia Kulik, which the majority of people would not neccesarily know of. He was the 1998 Men's Olympic Champion , yeah a figure skater, and well, it's his only film appearance so that's why I really rented it. In other words, he's the russian dude, Sergei who unfortunately for me does not get a lot of screen time . Hm, well, since he wasn't a real ballet dancer, during the Eva Solo at the concert, Sergei got doubled which was no surprise.Above all, this is recommended, for the average teen dancer or non-dancer , it's cute that's all it really is cute and fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Destined to be a cult classic","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  For lovers of ballet, this is destined to be a cult classic.  WARNING -- MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER --  The plot is a little thin and cliched, some of the acting unpolished, and if Jody used the word amazing one more time, I thought I would scream.  Using newcomers and real dancers was a great move and the efforts of the non or no longer dancers were very believable, use of dance doubles smoothly handled.Yes, all the cliches were there from the gay male dancer to the womanizing male principal, to the emaciated prima, to the Balanchine-esque director with his emphasis on thin, cookie-cutter-body-type ballerinas.  But, it is all worth it for the beautifully executed and filmed dance footage.  In fact, the plot could have been worse and it would have been worth it just for Ethan Stiefel's magnificent, heart-stopping leap in the jazz class.The movie never pretends to be academy award winning quality in script and acting, the dancing is another story.  From the class scenes, to the salsa club, to the jazz class,  to Cooper's Ballet, the dancing is terrific and high energy and the lyric dance scenes are lovely.Nice detail in the credit class scenes--the Cooper Neilson Ballet Company poster behind Jody shows a scene from Cooper's so not ABA...ballet for the people. And a missed great quote is Erik's I do ballet because it has nothing to do with the people; give me tiaras and boys in tights any day. The moral of the story -- heart and dedication (even with bad feet and turnout) win out over perfect but stilted technique -- is predictable, however, in spite of Amanda Schull's classic beauty you can't help cheering for her as a ballet underdog. A great romp of a dance movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is awesome.  I wasn't sure if I would like it but as of now I have seen it more than 10 times in only 3 weeks of having it.  I love the dancing and the storyline works right in with it.  I love at the end when Cooper, Jodie, and Charlie are dancing.  We know that the ballet is about the triangle with Cooper and Johnathon but you can see too that it became a triangle among Jodie, Charlie and Cooper... I am glad the movie addressed some of the issues that dancers and females in general go through ie, body image.  I am also glad that Emilie's mother addressed it straight out... We are all beautiful in God's eyes so we should not change ourselves for man. I also love Eva's character... She shows us that anyone is likeable no matter if they have a huge attitude... She was the real rising star in this movie... She came expecting nothing and became everything... Maureen found herself...This movie is awesome and would reccomend it to anyone... Will there be a sequal... Does anyone know of any other movies like this? "},{"Title":"The Best Movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think this movie would be good but after the first veiwing I found myself watching it and renting it more and more.  I love the story line of the cast. It has true emotion, I felt sad for the girl who got kicked out because they thought she didn't take enough pride in her body and that she is too fat "},{"Title":"I love, love, love this movie.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have a handful of films that I can watch over and over with ease- and never tire of- and this is one of them. Like most dancing/music oriented films, Center Stage tells a story of a girl and her struggles to be number one in a tough, competitive field. Toss in beautiful  dancing, well-developed characters, awesome New York scenery and a kick-ass soundtrack, and you have this gem of a movie.The situations are real (especially in the world of dancing). The acting is impressive- notice how convincing Peter Gallagher and Donna Murphy are. And, like all good films, there are elements of surprise laced throughout, along with a twisted love story and a fabulous finale.For anyone with an interest in the performing arts or dance (and anyone who has dreams in general) Center Stage is absolutely worth a view. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing!  Thank you for this movie!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This film reminded me fondly of my youth.  I have been pirouetting since I was nine months old and recently procured a spot with a wonderful theater company.  As an on-again off-again diva, Center Stage really rang true for me.   I was a big fan of American Anthem, the Turning Point, Fame, and Billy Elliot, and this film puts all of those to shame.  I especially liked the references to bulimia and cigarette smoking.  It was as if I was watching a documentary about my own life play out in front of me.  The over the top performances are fantastic!  After the incredible success of Empire Records, Carol Heineken is two for two!  I can't wait for the sequel! "}{"Title":"I LOVE CENTER STAGE","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I'm a fanatic about dance, so when I heard about this movie I had to see it. It has a good story line and the actors and actresses are great, if you love dance then I think you will really enjoy this movie...guys and girls equally.... *CENTER STAGE IS A REALLY GOOD MOVIE* "},{"Title":"Fast forward!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The very best scene in this movie takes place about a half hour before the end.  It's the final dance pageant.  It's worth it to rent this movie and fast forward to this finale as it is truly electric.  It belongs in a *much* better movie.You see, I slept through all but that final scene.  And I missed absolutely nothing.  I payed attention enough to want to strangle nearly every character in the scenes when they aren't dancing. "},{"Title":"Fame for Dancers!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This would be the updated version of FAME (the movie) only instead of all arts being focused on, it's strictly dance. great dancers are the actual actors and actresses and terrific shots have been placed in this movie. If you're a fanatic of the arts, this would be your movie! "},{"Title":"This does for ballet what Topsy-Turvy did for Gilbert & Sullivan","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I read through about 20 reviews on IMDb before seeing this movie and got a very accurate impression  People who love dance, people who love knowing more about dance, really appreciate this movie.  Those who just want an entertaining movie AND who care little for dance or what goes into it, may not like it.I'm in the first category.  I thought the movie did a great job of candidly showing the motivations and effort of the people involved with dance at many different levels.  If it was _not_ extremely authentic, it sure _seemed_ that way.  The dancing was absolutely spectacular.  The plot seemed as if it could be an amalgam from hundreds of true stories and served as a vehicle to show what goes on behind the scenes as well as center stage.  While in this film, everything turns out more or less okay at the end, you're given enough evidence to know how unusual for most people that would be. If you like dance, the arts, and knowing more about what goes into ballet and modern dance, see it -- the odds are highly favorable that you'll really like it.    "},{"Title":"Guys You'll Like It As Much As Your Girl!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  At first, this might seem a girl's movie, except that it has so many well formed females in it. A local critic sniped If you've seen Fame, there's no need to see *Center Stage*, and if you haven't, there 's still no reason to see it.I don't know how much more wrong he could be. About 2/3 of the way through the movie it hit me Not only is the acting in this film good, these kids can really dance, too! Later on, I found out it's the reverse They are dancers who can act.The story is fairly predictable with a few small surprises, but really this movie is not that terribly plot-driven. Most of the time you just want to see them dance.The last half-hour or so is almost nothing but dancing, and even if the first part of the movie were boring (which it decidedly *isn't*!), this part alone would have been worth the price of admission.Playing the lead, Amanda Schull is an absolute confection. Not only is she very easy on the eyes, but her dancing is superb and her acting is almost as good. She's not the only well formed female in this flick, either. And I could tell that the females in the audience thought many of the male dancers were pretty attractive, too.All in all, while no Academy Awards are in the future of this film, it's a very enjoyable way to spend two hours. And if I were going out on a date tonight, I'd probably consider seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Some Great Dancing","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage cobbles together some of the best elementsof Fame, The Turning Point, Flashdance, and Dirty  Dancing, so it feels very homogenized and predictable.That's not to say it's bad. I appreciated that the film did notgloss over the darker sides of the dance world (unhealthyobsessions with body images, bulemia, the unnatural andtortuous effects of ballet on the body), but neither doesCenter Stage dwell on them. The tone is mostly upbeat, thestructure formulaic. Although cliched and familiar, this movie does not stint ondance sequences, and the dancing in this film is prettyphenomenal. Especially noteworthy is Ethan Stiefel, whoplays the ballet company's male star. He is easily the mostelectrifying male dancer since Baryshnikov and may evenbe better. Check out his performances here of MacMillan'sRomeo and Juliet and Balanchine's Stars and Stripes andsee if you disagree. "},{"Title":"Great Flick in the vein in FAME","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Center Stage is a great drama.music themed flick. It's a similar story to that of Fame. Most of the acotrs in the movie are actually professional dancers. The acting in some parts leaves a little to be desired, but the story of an underdog dancer making it to the top is worth it. The dance numbers are music complelty give the movie a fresh/fast paced flavor. Go see it! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Center StageThe main difference between attending ballet school and public school is that at ballet school they encourage you to sleep with your teacher to get ahead.A fact at least one student in this drama proves.With only a few openings for the prestigious ballet academy workshop, a group of aspiring dancers (Zoe Saldana, Susan May Pratt, Amanda Schull) compete against one another and themselves for the coveted positions.Meanwhile, there is a power struggle between the troupe's current choreographer Jonathon (Peter Gallagher) and Cooper (Ethan Stiefel), the lead dancer looking to replace him.Tackling the commonplace concerns facing ballet dancers, from eating disorders to complex love triangles that can only be explained through exaggerated movements, Center Stage is a realistic yet ridiculous look at the cutthroat art form.Besides, wouldn't sex with a ballerina have to involve 5 additional ballerinas, just to make it feel like there's someone else there? (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"95% acting and 5% Ballet","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  It's not every decade that you see a movie focused entirely on the technique of Ballet. Any movie requires a certain amount of acting and regardless of the purpose of the movie, acting is necessary. However, there are exceptions and one of them is a movie centered around a dance style. If one were to create a movie about Ballet, or the world of Ballet, it is best to have just as much acting as there would be dancing. Having watched the movie countless of times, I became aggravated. The acting was not emotionally-driven. And there was less technique and more teeny-boppy attitude within the group of young dancers. A few things in the world of Ballet were presented calluses of the toes, binge-eating, and injuries. 1. Going en pointe means injuring your toes 2. Auditioning for a major Ballet company means becoming anorexic. 3. No matter what level of Ballet you're in there will always be a chance of getting injured. The movie gave a tiny glimpse of the world of Ballet (both the dark side and the fluffy-bunny-tutu-fairy-faking happiness-smiling side). What's interesting to note is how Ethan Stiefel, who plays Cooper Nielsen, didn't play the jerk as well as one would expect. He acted more like a typical I don't know what the hell I am high school teenager. He was rude, he was cocky. What's even more interesting to note is how the main character was criticized for things she COULD do. Julie Kent-----After everything I have taught you, I am not seeing it! Do you understand!? Use what you have.......... Jodie Sawyer was apparently a great student, otherwise, she wouldn't have been accepted into the advanced class. The problem with the movie is that it makes it seem like having a full turn-out is acceptable and not having one is not acceptable. However, in Ballet, having a full turn-out is not required. A 90 degree turn-out is how a Ballet dancer's feet should be. The movie is just another way of turning off the American audience, giving them another excuse to not go to the Ballet. But also, it's important to note that the beginning of the movie, when the girls observe the advanced class for boys. One of them asks (in regards to Charlie) Gay or Straight?. This implies that there are many gay men in the world of Ballet. There are just as many Gay men as there are Straight men. To imply that there are more Gay men than straight men is only giving the macho male audience the idea that Ballet turns boys into Homosexuals. It is hard to accept Ballet (a feminine-oriented style) as something that can't change a male's sexual orientation. After all, it is the belief that we are prone to being affected by anything. What really turned me off was how the director of the company didn't know anything about ballet dancing! throughout the movie he didn't dance, at all! What kind of idiot would hire an actor to play the director who couldn't dance? It just shows how low the director of the movie was willing to go to make the movie a major hit!  "},{"Title":"ballet is a major bore!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  after watching this movie, ballet was the worst to me ever! i wasnt fond of the cast at all, they couldnt make this movie work if their life depended on it.  the movie, summed up in a nutshell, is the kids that have a talent of twirling around on hardwood floors get the opportunity to dance and dance and dance with the best dancing school in the big NYC!  one of the main characters, the blonde girl, falls for two guys at the same time and has to make a decision about who and where she would like to go. michael jackson has a song in this movie, that is a great song, but just doesnt belong in the ballet. Arent they supposed to be dancing to bach and beethoven, and have a story involved?  the movie that could pull off that idea was save the last dance, because julia stiles has the acting ability! the girl in here only had the dancing skills, and that was only 1 half of what of required. it also appeared that they made the reference that ballerinas are always puking up meals to weigh in at 90 lbs. that could really hurt a girls ideas about what she looks like, and couldve made some the female audiences feel that the only way to be a great dancer and land the men was to go the puking route. the movie carries negative messages and delivers terrible acting. this movie stunk like the dancers feet after a performance!  Pee-You! (D D-) "}{"Title":"If you're a dancer, don't see this movie.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had the benefit (I use the word loosely) of seeing this movie amongst professional ballet dancers.  Many of them knew the the supporting cast, some of them were actually read for the parts.  I sat there, watching each and every dancer lovingly tear apart everything in this movie.  My best friend owns it, loves it and hates it with such intensity that it's ripping his soul apart.  He has it memorized, but only for its campy misrepresentation of the professional ballet world.  This movie gives people the grossest overstatement of what the ballet world is all about.  And for all the ballets I've seen, I haven't seen one with as fast costume and set changes as the one staged at the end of the movie.  And GOD, what is with Ethan Stiefel?  The worst actor in film history.  I have, unfortunately seen this movie more than twice, and will probably see it again, but for nothing else then to ridicule it and laugh at it like I'm sure all strippers did at Showgirls. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as Fame, if that's saying anything","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was not sure what to think of this film.  I understood the typical characters, but the plot confused me because the dancing was so good.  It's better than Fame, but I'm not sure if that's saying much.  I don't even know the ending because I had to leave the movie early.  And the only actor I knew was Peter Gallagher, who was good, but all the other chicks make this a typical chick flick.  I reccomend this film to dance-happy girls and girls looking for relationships in a soppy story.  Others (especially the girl's boyfriends who have to take their girl's to the film) beware. C- "},{"Title":"what the @!*#?","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I don't really understand the barrage of positive comments about this movie on this site. A 6.3??? My fiancée made me sit through this agony so I had to be polite and say it was ok. In reality, this is one of the worst movies I've ever seen; a cliché-ridden mess from start to finish. Examples The token gay guy, the innocent good girl main character, the good guy who gets shunned initially only to get the girl at the end, and the bad guy. The good guy in the movie has to be one of the worst actors in history and that scene where they all dance to that red hot chili peppers song is embarrassing beyond comprehension. Unless you REALLY, REALLY like ballet and couldn't care less about acting, a coherent story or originality of any kind, please avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Broad, Cheap Stereotype of the Real World","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a major disapointment, and I mean MAJOR. Every character, up to the anorexic ballet dancer, was a cheap cliche. It's like watching animated Ken and Barbie dolls dancing around. That's too bad, because the trailers made this movie look really good. In its defense, it might have made a good music video- anything past that, and the emptiness of the plot begins to show through. "},{"Title":"If I could I'd give it a negative 10","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen in my life.  It is boring and so predictable.  It was a nauseating soap opera that you would just wish would end!  Go with the critics on this one, its a sour lemon! "},{"Title":"terrible film!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I can not understand why people love this movie so much! I think it is one of the worst films ever made in history!!! I never wanted to watch this movie but it was on the television one night after the simpsons. They had a dance special because the episode was the one where Lisa became a tap dancer...They should have put Dirty Dancing on instead , That movie is a million times better! Even after watching it I felt like watching Dirty Dancing to fresh in up my mind! Well any way my big sister said that I should watch it because I would love it But I did'nt! it was a real disappointment. Now for why I hated this movie . The acting was awful because they chose dancers as actors . They made it seem so beautiful and romantic when she is with the professional blonde dancer and then spoiled it when she chooses someone else at the end! . It was so hard to concentrate on and I kept on getting distracted . The whole point of it was trying to get into the American academy's ballet and then she becomes a member of a guy,s she does not even like! .It was boringI Hated this movie it was awful and a waist of trampoline time and Friday night fun! the only positive thing I can look for in this movie was the incredible dancing! 2/10. Please do Not see it! "},{"Title":"Bad movie, unrealistic","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  What sort of soap opera unrealistic piece of crap is this? I dance and this movie is NOTHING like what its like. Don't see it. trust me. My friends and I saw it just because we've seen every other ballet movie out there. This one has to be the worst. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Two hours of my life--wasted","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This was quite possibly the worst film I've ever seen.  Others find the dancing and music thrilling; I found it to be crap.  Picture taking a surgeon and sticking him in a courtroom; take a lawyer and put him in the operating room.  In this film, there are dancers attempting to act--unsuccessfully.The script was absolutely horrible, hideous--a monstrosity.  It was so terrible, I found it to be offensive.  It was jam packed full of the worst cliches.The ending made no sense.  It taught that it's okay for men to treat women like crap--they're always there to beat up on later.  Absolutely horrible.The continuity was also mind-bogglingly bad.  In one scene, they're dancing on stage.  Okay, it's the same dance in supposedly the same scene, but the characters are wearing different costumes and there's a motorcycle on stage and alas, they're not even on stage anymore?  Yes, I make no sense.  The movie makes even less sense. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed the ballet dancing, I thought the dancers were really good. But the script was awful and very terribly written. I would suggest instead of seeing this movie, save your money and attend a local ballet and if you really insist on seeing this film wait until it's on tape "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Unless you are a total dance fanatic and don't care anything about believable plots, character development, or good acting, then don't waste your time or money on this movie.  I sat through this trash at the request of my daughter and I couldn't wait for it to be over.  I have been more entertained sitting through a root canal.  I kept hoping that either a miracle would happen and the movie would get better or at least the theater would catch fire so I would have an excuse to leave.  Everything that's wrong with Hollywood teen flicks is in there...Teen drinking, sex, homosexuality, unexplained attitude problems. it's all there, mixed in with nonsensical dialog and a nonexistent plot.  Too bad the producers didn't just re-release FAME.  At least that would have been somewhat entertaining. "}]