[{"Title":"Enjoyable, brisk, and musically impressive.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Barenaked Ladies (BNL) have more than paid there dues as one of Canada's most popular bands. They finally broke through into the American listening audience with their infectious rat-ta-tat hit One Week. But to like the band for this song alone is doing them an injustice. Barenaked in America tells why. Directed by Jason Priestly, Barenaked in America is a delightful 100-minute look at some highlights from BNL's tour of America. Risding on the heels of success generated by the 1998 Stunt album, BNL finally reached the American audience and Priestly was there to capture it on film. The band has the unusual ability to combine deft lyrics with layers of deph and insight, along with three to four part harmonies (they have more than once attributed this to the Beach Boys and the Beatles). Though their humor is as subtle as perinnial college favorites They Might Be Giant, their good-natured personalities shine brightly. Never ones to take part in the miost recent trend, BNL relishes in just being themselves, and do an excellent job at keeping their private lives private (lead singer Ed Robertson has a child, while Stephen Page clocks in with two). Overall, Barenaked in America is a nice review of BNL's breakthrough into America. Only complaint too short. "},{"Title":"Sell, Sell, Sell","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Back in January 1993, I returned to the U.S. from a two year mission in Chile. When I returned, I asked all my friends to catch me up with all the music that I had missed. One of them was this little Canadian band called Barenaked Ladies. I was so thrilled with them that I went out immediately and bought their CD, Gordon.For the next few years, the Ladies would release album after album of quality music, but they were just kind of thrown to the side by radio stations. I know this because I worked at a station, and I kept begging my Program Director to play some of BNL's stuff, to no avail...until One Week.Now it's been nearly 10 years, and the Barenaked Ladies are superstars! Watching Barenaked in America you can see their superstar status.Barenaked in America is one of the greatest Rockumentaries out there. It's not a bunch of pretentious rockers talking about how they wrote this song and how they made out with that supermodel. It's five guys having a blast doing something they love. By watching Barenaked in America you can tell that these guys really love their fans and their fans really love them.If you've never been to a BNL concert, you're missing out on one of the greatest shows you'll ever see. If you can't afford the ticket price, rent this movie and you'll get a glimpse of the band that is Barenaked Ladies. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted and enjoyable...","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Not bad.  I've never really had more than a passing interest in the Barenaked Ladies, but I liked the movie anyway.  The personalities of the band really come out here, especially in the concert footage and the little anecdotes.  As far as the technical side goes, it doesn't exactly shine. We've all seen better documentary footage.  Still, it's a cute, harmless little movie.  Not bad. "},{"Title":"BNL ROCK!!!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  For all fans of BNL--die hard, new or otherwise, this film is for you!  I loved getting perspectives on the filming of their video for It's all been done  (Ed's argument about the sight lines for cats is right on) to Steven's grousing about being pelted with Kraft Dinner, to Ty's outright silliness make this an enjoyable movie for fans of this truly creative band.The only scene I could have done without was the 5 minute shot of Ed Robertson grinning and shifting around on the commode with his pants down, supposedly deficating.  That's an image I could have lived my entire life without seeing, but thanks to Jason Priestly, I've got it burned on my retinas.  YUCK!   "},{"Title":"mediocre look at really talented artists","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I must say that I was disapointed with this film. I have never been a huge BNL fans, I find their songs kind of childish and obsessively nostalgic (this is me in grade 9, if i had a million dollars, shoe box of life etc). However, I have seen clips of their live show and I really like the improvisational and goofy nature of the show. I was hoping that this movie would highlight this which is, unfortunately, the most interesting part of the show because their music is well played yet somehow bland and not that compelling (there is a standup bass solo in the middle which was completely pointless and boring, despite how much Jim Creegan was digging himself). The film does not and shows only a few minutes of it (and you know they've had better moments, as in the Afgahnistan concert Koffee Anan, he's the man in charge, my name's Steve Paige and I'm really large) .BNL are kind of like when I went to Europe a few years ago and heard that godawfull Blue song by Effeil 99 or whatever every 2 minutes, I came back to Canada and then a month later that song was all over the place *again*, I nearly chewed off my own arm. BNL is like that, years ago I remember many a fond memory of sitting around campfires in Canada listening to people play If I had a million dollars. BNL was a cult phenomenon in Canada, and much of their humour has a particular Canadian slant to it (Kraft Dinner is a staple for many students up here, and the name Gordon is quintessentially Canadian) a few years went by where they slipped into obscurity and I was somewhat gratefull. Then all of a sudden they become huge in States, and everyone down there thinks they are this brand new band (yeah, they're brand new, but they're all in their 30's!) while the rest of Canada is going Oh geez, I thought those guys folded years ago, do I have to listen to 'million dollars' again?The concert footage is not bad, but I would have liked to have seen more of their stage routine, the shooting is not that great, and things like clips from their massive free show in Boston are glazed over much too quickly. The interviews are surprisingly dull for such a funny bunch of guys, I think they're all old and they have families and houses and stuff and have settled down a bit. There are times when they go into Spinal Tap type of material, where they deliver deadpan satire, then they break into laughs and giggles that kind of ruins it. The interviews with Moses Znaimer (a Canadian media mogule) and Terry David Mulligan (Music dude) are extremely pretentious and verge into Tap territory unintentionally.This movie doesn't really document very much either, I mean, it's basically one show and at the start of the film, they are already huge and have a massive touring entourage, it's not like we see them rising from obscurity and surprise they are popular, it's a methodically planned out event, so in the end it's rather lifeless, kind of half live concert, half documentary, and not much of either. "},{"Title":"Great Rock documentary","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I am a fan of BNL,but by no means am a die-hard.This band just continues to win me over.This documentary was funny,enlightening and enormously entertaining.Something I needed over the past week or so.What really impresses me about these guys is that they are just great over-all entertainers! They should look into acting(at least Ed and Steve)! Lots of good stories from the road ,too! Lots of fun!9/10!!!  "},{"Title":"It has a good beat and you can dance to it, too. I give it a 78.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I'm familiar with The Barenaked Ladies from their frequent concert appearances in my home town of Rochester, NY and my visits to Toronto. While not being a full-fledged fanatic of the group, I've listened to their work prior to their CD Stunt and their last CD Maroon.When it comes to concert documentaries, Barenaked in America doesn't rank as high as films like Woodstock or The Last Waltz but there is a lot to like about the documentary/concert film directed by Jason Priestley. Barenaked... takes an look inside a talented musical group from Ontario, Canada that's about to hit the big time performing in large U.S. arenas, having the number 1 single in the U.S. (One Week) and their album Stunt going platinum. Despite all of this, one member (keyboard player Kevin Hearn) was unable to join the group in their U.S. concert tour because he was diagnosed with Leukemia. It could have put a damper on the tour for the group but lead singers/guitarists Steven Page & Ed Robertson, bass player Jim Kreegan and drummer Tyler Stewart (with substitute Chris Brown on keyboard) still went on with the show. I like the way this near-tragedy was handled in the movie. But the film is not totally somber. It's alternately funny and insightful. It takes a look at the group's early years when they didn't have enough money to record a song in a studio so they performed in something similar to an instant photo booth, to asking people on the street if they knew who the Barenaked Ladies were and the comments that come out of the people's mouths was very funny. I tend to agree that fans of the Ladies will love this movie. I think a few people who may not have been fans of the group might be converted after watching the movie. But I'm happy to say that the conversion would be harmless. "},{"Title":"Part documentary, part music video with insightful views. *** (out of four)","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  BARENAKED IN AMERICA / (1999) *** (out of four)By Blake French	Barenaked in America is part documentary, part music video following the Canadian band, Barenaked Ladies (Ed Robertson, Steven Page, Jim Creeggan, Kevin Hearn, and Tyler Stewart) during a two week US rock tour with the #1 single song One Week, in the 1998 album Stunt. The film is a behind-the-scenes look at the lives of an atypical band and the experiences they face while touring throughout the country.  Naturally, this unusual production will entertain fans of the rock group in focus, with stories from the band's ten year career, comedic backstage traditions, humor-lacked frolics and fan nudity. The film also includes in depth interviews with each member of the band and conflicts experienced, including a member who struggled with cancer, and the task it was for the Canadians to discover an audience in America. The Barenaked Ladies began in 1988 when the band performed as part of Canada's alternative music scene. Blending easy-listening rock, jazz, and folk, the group toured throughout Canada and London-although hitting the jackpot in the USA was still out of their league until 1997, when appearances on national television programs and talk shows helped to achieve this dream. 	Barenaked in America is inquisitive and stylish, mixing the distinguished personalities of the Barenaked Ladies with zest and humor of the film's clever interviews. The Barenaked Ladies are a peculiar rock group, with interesting perspectives and an intriguing history of success. I also enjoyed the movie's many musical numbers, including the hit One Day, that not only inherits the film, but also provides an effective backdrop.	The movie is directed by Jason Priestley, who's credits range from feature films like Eye of the Beholder, Love and Death on Long Island, and Tombstone, to the London production of Warren Leight's Tony Award-winning play Side Man, to his most famous role as Brandon Walsh in the popular Fox television series Beverly Hills 90210. With Barenaked in America, he captures the excitement of individual fans in the audience of the concerts, including one man who is offered one-thousand dollars to bare all-and excepts. 	Barenaked in America is insightful and cultural, although it has points in which electric verve seems to short-circuit itself with daul mumbo-jumbo and sequences lacking interest and motion. Candidly looking at a creative group of odd individuals, Barenaked in America may not consistently pack on the energy and pizzazz we crave, but it does show the earnest point of view of Rock and Roll through the eyes of a unique band. Barenaked in America shows you just how unique the Barenaked Ladies are.  "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but I loved it!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I caught a matinee of this limited release film in Georgetown, DC, in a tiny theater with the smallest movie screen I've ever seen with very few people in the audience. I've been waiting for this one for a while and I loved it.Of course, it's not for everyone. I can't see those who aren't already fans of Barenaked Ladies being terribly interested. For me, it was wonderful-- I've been listening to them since 1992 and I consider them my favorite band. I didn't really even learn much new about them, but the documentary was lovingly done and left me feeling good. Can't wait to see BNL in concert again.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Support this movie, even if you've never heard of the band!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I just got back from the Santa Barbara International Film festival where Barenaked was screened and it was a delight from start to finish.  I only wish it had run longer as there were so many interesting and insightful moments.  Knowledgeable fans of the band (like myself) will especially adore this film, but the audience I was with was mostly an older crowd who was not as familiar with BNL's music and they enjoyed it as well.  Priestley makes a competent director and the multi-camera work on the concert at the Marine Midland arena is especially deft.  Seek it out at your local film festival until it attains a broader distribution! "}{"Title":"A must see for Barenaked Ladies fans","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It's amazing this movie was able to be made at a time of such success and such tragedy for the band.  I only hope the distributor manages to find a way to show all of North America this entertaining rockumentary.And watch for some great celebrity cameos including Conan O'Brien in a more candid moment. "},{"Title":"Fans of Barenaked Ladies will not be disappointed","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  From the onset, Barenaked In America is entertaining and full of verve. Even the opening credits offer the promise of an interesting and fun journey. The documentary was featured in the 1999 Toronto Film Festival for its world premiere with director Jason Priestly presenting along with Steven Page, Ed Robertson and Tyler Stewart of Barenaked Ladies. Priestly has had association with the band for some time and it seems to be a labour of love for him.The film goes behind the scenes to capture moments from their early history to their most recent tour. Even a native Torontonian fan of the band like myself discovered things I never knew about this dynamic ensemble. With many humourous accounts and opinions from celebrities to the BNL tour bus driver to the band themselves, I feel a second viewing is required to finally make out what I missed due to the boisterous laughter from the delighted audience.With generous helpings of reflections, interviews, past video moments like Speakers Corner and live concert performances, the diversity of this documentary is something of an allegory for the band itself. With a reputation for fantastic live improvisations on stage and proven musical talent, the Barenaked Ladies stand out as true entertainers committed to giving their best and keeping it fresh so that each performance holds something new for the audience.My favourite moment came from a more serious side of the band with unexpected comical results. For the band's shooting of their video It's All Been Done, we find the band behind the scenes discussing their discontent after seeing the initial footage. They thought the concept was fine, of shooting the film from a cat's point of view, but felt it was poorly shot and wasn't going to come across well. Talking to their manager, who seems more interested in quelling their sentiments of dissatisfaction then rectifying the matter or championing their concerns, we see them frustrated as an expensive video shoot seems like a waste of money. Ed mentions a terrible shot of little else than a shag carpet for too long a stretch until it finally reaches the band and looks up. Cats don't walk like that. It's looks terrible. Their manager responds with How do you know cats don't walk like that? Ed responds almost angrily, I have three cats, I know how they walk! I don't think I laughed as hard as I did at that moment any other time in the film, but it's probably a had to be there moment.With a subject matter like Barenaked Ladies, I'm sure the editors had their work cut out for them. They undoubtedly had enough material for a three hour film that wouldn't feature a dull moment. As it was, the breakneck pace of the film kept it fresh, entertaining and basically a treat for any fan of the band. Given the band's recent success in the American market, that probably accounts for a good number of people. Given its high quality but perhaps limited audience appeal, I wonder what sort of release this documentary will enjoy. In any case, I feel privileged to be among the few to have seen it, and look forward to an opportunity for a repeat viewing.  "},{"Title":"Jason Priestly directing a Rockumentary?","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I thought the rich were supposed to be idle, not annoying. Bare Naked Ladies may be cheese and just a quirky flash phenom, but they put on one hell of a show. Not really knowing much about them, I was thrown for a total loop when i caught their act at some festival out in Pittsburgh. Its more like vaudeville than a rock concert, and I loved every minute of it. But why make this movie! So so dumb.  "}]