[{"Title":"Cruella DeVil is at it again...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw the original 101 Dalmatians 3 times while en route from England back home to the USA and I loved it. So when I saw there was a new dalmatians movie, 102 Dalmatians, I was elated and when I saw it, I was NOT disappointed. In fact, I liked this version even better than the first. Glenn Close's performance as Ella who has been imprisoned for 3 years for dognapping but who received behavioral modification but reverts to Cruella when Big Ben's chimes go off, is delightfully dastardly. And the performance by Gerard Depardieu as the loathsome LaPelt is extraordinary. But the best performances, the ones who take the cake are those by the Dalmatians, real or created, especially Oddball, the spotless dalmatian puppy who is obsessed with S-P-O-T-S. The scene where she goes berserk when she sees a black and white sweater on a puppet in a Punch & Judy show is hilarious. There were scenes in which it looked like the puppies were in real danger but the magic lies in the fact that, when you read the credits, you realize those scenes were created; no puppy was ever in danger. I recommend this movie highly and I should; I've seen it at least 7 times and I also have the video.  "},{"Title":"Sure, it's inferior to the first, but lets not get too harsh.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My take Not as good as the first, but decent family fun nonetheless.Yes we know, it's kid's stuff compared to the original, which is an enjoyable film, no less. This one follows where the original left off. Cruella Ella DeVille is kept in prison, and a group of scientist have altered her mind, turning her from evil to a good. Sadly, when the Big Ben rings its chimes, compassionate little Ella turns back to evil Cruella, with plots to capture more puppies for her Poppy Coat and for vengeance.Of course, this one adds one more puppy to the 101 others. Sadly only one of the puppies from the first makes it here (of course, he's full-grown now), it's none other than Dipstick. Besides the dog, Cruella and her stuttering butler Alonzo (Tim McInnerny), no other character from the first film returns for this sequel. The plot, if you removed some elements, is basically similar to the first film. Making this a formulaic sequel, but let's not get to harsh in reviewing this. You got to admit it still has some entertainment value, despite the flaws. The puppies are cute, as always, and some of the laughs are well enjoyable for the kiddies.So overall, not a brilliant flick, but a fun one for the family.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Well, the puppies were cute...","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I decided that this was going to be the first movie that I took my young daughter to see. Seeing as how she is a dog lover and is riveted to the TV screen every time she sees a commercial or TV show with a puppy, I figured how could I go wrong?I was sadly disappointed.  I found that the movie tried too hard to be dark and sinister....Cruella got way too much screen time and the puppies, too little.  The movie just wasn't much fun.  Amazingly, my daughter got an hour or so of entertainment from this film, and then got horribly bored.  We ended up leaving before the movie was finished, so I'm not even sure how it ended.The movie was cute, but it ran way too long for the younger set who have a reduced attention span.  More time should have been devoted to the puppies and their antics, and less to Cruella and her scheming.  I don't believe I was the only one who felt this way....as my daughter and I were leaving the theatre, I noticed two youngsters fast asleep.  Not a good testimonial for a children's film.Save this one for a video rental so your kids can fast forward through the boring bits before they, too, fall fast asleep.   "},{"Title":"An over-the-top performance by Glenn Close makes this even better than her last turn as Cruella.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Enormous fun for both adults and children, this film works on numerous levels  there is everything from car crashes and cake in the face to some very good (yet subtle) jokes for adults.Glenn Close is at her sublimely evil best as Cruella (`call me Ella') De Ville.After three years in Dr. Pavlov's Behaviour Modification Clinic she is cured of her desire for fur &#150; even the puppy-skin fur she had so intensely desired.  She even has all of her fur coats placed in the dungeon of the extraordinary castle she inhabits.But it wouldn't be a &#145;Dalmatian' movie without the subterfuge and machinations of Cruella and you know that something will change her behaviour modification. And now she needs one extra puppy (hence 102 Dalmatians) to complete her nefarious scheme this time round.Ioan Gruffudd is instantly appealing as the hero of the film that runs the `Second Chance' dog shelter.  Though he was in `Titanic' and in last year's television version (as Pip) of `Great Expectations' I didn't recognize him; well, he was &#145;Fifth Officer Lowe' in `Titanic' and I didn't see `Great Expectations' so I am not terribly surprised.Gerard Depardieu does a delightful turn as the furrier-pawn of Cruella.  He prances and postures in the most outlandish and outrageous of fur clothing you have ever seen &#150; and does it well.  His 'Wicked Witch of the West' homage is hilarious.Tim McInnerny is superb is Cruella's not-so-evil henchman &#150; he was also &#145;Alonzo,' Cruella's butler, in `101 Dalmatians' and you may also recognize him from all of the `Black Adder' Brit-Coms.  He plays his usual bumbling, good-hearted, somewhat dim-witted character to great effect.Oscars for costuming are generally given for the entirety of the costuming in a film.  This is unfortunate as the clothing worn by Glenn Close is amazing &#150; it is incredibly detailed (note her handcuffs when she is being released from the Behaviour Modification Clinic) and worthy of such an over-the-top character.  Her clothing alone deserves at least an Oscar nomination.Animation holds a special place in my heart &#150; but comparing this film to the original animated film is like comparing apples to orangutans  it can't be done.  Suffice it to say that `102 Dalmatians' is even better than the film version of `101 Dalmatians' that came out in 1996.  There is a lot to like here  from the sight gags, the dialogue, and the costumes to the casting - it is a good film for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"102 thumbs up","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I knew 102 Dalmatians would become one of my favorite films as soon as it started because it was filled with dogs and was clear plot was very important to those involved. My love for dogs attracted me and my instincts were not as I wasn't disappointed in the result of this movie.102 Dalmatians was simply one of the smartest and funniest films I have seen. One thing that I found interesting was the director's drive and motivation to complete the project without quiting. Glenn Close has done another incredible job portraying Cruella De Ville. Her performance was so incredible that she made me angry everytime she did something evil to one of the dalmatians; when this happens, you know you have a good actress on your hands. Kudos to newcomers Ioan Grufford and Alice Evans as they pull off performances, which make them look like veterans. There performances were so great I could mistake them for naturals. These two have a lot to offer and are here to stay. I'm so glad I saw this film because it allowed me to forget the outside world and let me relax with my popcorn and soda pop. 102 Dalmatians is such a delightfully light-hearted comedy that will warm your hearts and spur you into action at the same time. "},{"Title":"More of those cute little puppies...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Unlike its predecessor, which was a live action version of the animated 101 Dalmatians, this version is completely new and original. However, the premise is as old as they get boy finds girl, boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl again, and they all live happily ever after. Of course, I'm not giving anything away here because the movie is not about the humans; it's about the dogs and one bird.  And you can't leave out the bird. The bird is the real star of the movie. His name is Waddlesworth, and he is a MacCaw that does more than just talk -- he converses. The voice is that of Eric Idle (of Monty Python fame). Waddlesworth thinks he's a dog and cannot fly and is the comic relief for the movie, adding asides for our enjoyment.This film is better than 101 Dalmatians, which in its own right was very good, and both children and adults will enjoy it. It is pure entertainment. My teenager and six-year-old both liked it and said Waddlesworth was their favorite character. This is typical Disney entertainment Wholesome with just enough adult humor for mom and dad, excitement for the teenagers, and tenderness for the younger ones. Besides, who doesn't like a little puppy? This movie has 102 of them!  "},{"Title":"Oh I will be harsh!","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cruella has been in jail and in her time there a doctor has worked with her and made her change and become a brand new person. She now loves puppies and hates fur and comes out a brand new woman. She tires her best but for stupid reason, which never gets explained in the movie, the ticking of Big Ben (the London tower clock) she goes mad and goes back to her evil self. After she had gotten out of jail, and before she turned back to her old self, she helped organize a puppy safe house. After she goes back she once again wants more dalmatians and although different in action, same in story as far as her getting them stolen and all attempts are captured in goofy glory as we see a less funny version of part one over again.Production was bad in this one, definitely a lower budget, and no where near the time and effort and talent devoted into this one. The music was bad, the acting was bad (for the most part) and its just a waste of time. Sequels often suck, so its not that big of a deal, you should know what you are getting.Glenn Close did a great job again, but her character was written badly here, so her acting couldn't save it. Most of the acting was mediocre at best. Ben Crompton did a good job as Ewan and thats about the only person that stood out. Eric idle as the voice of that stupid bird was annoying too.This movie is something you might shut your youngins up with for an hour and a half but it's a truly inferior film to its predecessor. Was hard for me to set through. 2 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"One more pup, and we've got twice the fun!!!!!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In 1996's 101 Dalmatians, Cruella De Vil was arrested by the London Metropolitain Police (God bless them) for attempting to steal and murder 101 puppies - dalmatians. All covered in mud and hay, she spent the next 4 years in the tin can. Now, 4 years later, she, unfortunately, was released from the jail. I say, that's about 28 years - in dog years!!!!!So, in 2000, Disney decided to release a sequel to the successful live-action version of the classic film and it is hereby dubbed 102 Dalmatians. In it, there is a 102nd dalmatian added to the family (Oddball is the name, I think; I should know this since this was just shown on TV recently), and the puppy had no spots!!!!! Also, while Cruella (again played by Glenn Close) has escaped again, she wanted a bigger, better coat - made once again out of the puppies!!!!!I especially liked the theme song - I'm sure everybody loves the Atomic Dog song from the 70s or so. And now, we hear a bit of it in this movie!!!!!102 Dalmatians is such a great film that I keep on wondering - WHEN WILL THERE BE A 103 DALMATIANS????? LOL10 stars "},{"Title":"a pale imitation of it's predecessor","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" unfortunately,this second live action film is a pale imitation of its predecessor.it's a lot slower,and the story feels contrived.it almost seems like filler to me.there are a few comic moments,though not as many as its predecessor.i think they should have left it at the first one,101 Dalmatians.Glenn Close returns as Cruella De Vil,and is good,but has much less to do this time around.plus,her two henchmen form th preventions film are not in this one,and they added some comic relief.Gerard Depardieu is in this one,in a completely ridiculous role,and he looks quite silly,to be polite.despite its problems its still watchable.my vote for 102 Dalmations is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"An entertaining doggy film - with stuff for everyone!","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Arguably this is a very good sequel, better than the first live action film 101 Dalmatians. It has good dogs, good actors, good jokes and all right slapstick! Cruella DeVil, who has had some rather major therapy, is now a lover of dogs and very kind to them. Many people, including Chloe Simon, owner of one of the dogs that Cruella once tried to kill, do not believe this is true. Others, like Kevin Shepherd (owner of 2nd Chance Dog Shelter) believe that Cruella DeVil HAS changed. Meanwhile, Dipstick's mate, has given birth to three cute dalmatian puppies! Little Dipper, Domino and Oddball...Starring Eric Idle as Waddlesworth (the hilarious macaw), Glenn Close as Cruella herself and Gerard Depardieu as Le Pelt (another baddie, the name should give a clue), this is a good family film with excitement and lots more!! One downfall of this film is that is has a lot of painful slapstick, but not quite as excessive as the last film. This is also funnier than the last film.Enjoy 102 Dalmatians! -) "}{"Title":"A dog of a dog movie","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A sequel to (actually a remake of) Disney's 1996 live-action remake of 101 Dalmations. Cruella deVil (Glenn Close) is released from prison after being cured of her obsession with fur by a psychologist named Dr. Pavlov (ugh!). But the cure is broken when Cruella hears the toll of Big Ben, and she once again goes on a mad quest to make herself the perfect coat out of dalmation hides.This movie is bad on so many levels, starting with the fact that it's a Thanksgiving family schlock movie designed to suck every last available dime out of the Disney marketing machine. Glenn Close over-over-over-over-acts as Cruella. With all that she had to put up with in this movie -- the lame script, the endless makeup, getting baked in a cake at the end -- I hope they gave her an extremely-large paycheck.(Speaking of which, where in the world are you going to find a fur coat factory, a bakery with a Rube Goldberg assembly line, and a candlelight restaurant all located within the same building -- as you do in the climax of this film?) Of course, the real stars of the movie are supposed to be the dogs. They serve as the Macaulay Culkin's of this movie, pulling all the stupid Home Alone gags on the villains. (Biting them in the crotch, running over their hands with luggage carts, squirting them with icing, etc., etc., etc., ad nauseum.) I have to admit, the dogs were fairly good actors -- much better than the humans.Gerard Depardieu is completely wasted in this movie as a freaked-out French furrier. The two human dog lovers -- rehashed from the earlier film, but with different actors -- are completely boring. When they have a spaghetti dinner at an Italian restaurant, the movie cuts back and forth between the two lovers, and their dogs at home, watching the dinner scene from Lady and the Tramp. I thought to myself, Oh please, don't go there! I half-expected the humans to do a satire on the Lady and the Tramp dinner scene -- as Charlie Sheen did in Hot Shots Part Deux -- doing the spaghetti strand kiss, pushing the meatball with his nose, etc.And don't get me started on the annoying parrot with Eric Idle's voice.The costumes were nominated for an Oscar, and the costumes in the movie *are* good. But they are the only good thing in the movie. The rest of it is unbearable dreck. "},{"Title":"Even Better","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   Well, Disney has done it again. 102 Dalmatians is even better than the first. Once again, Glenn Close stars as the crazy, out of the box villain of villains, Cruella DeVil. She is totally awesome,and totally believeable as she makes her transition from almost sickly sweet to gleefully evil. Alice Evans does a fantastic job as Cruella's stern, yet humorous probation officer who is less-than-thrilled about her new client. And Ioan Gruffudd is perfect as the slightly naive dog-lover who is torn between wanting to believe that Cruella has turned a new leaf, and being head-over-heels in love with her probation officer. Tim McInnerny makes a re-apperance as Cruella's flustered, frightened butler, but this time he gets to have a shining moment as he fights a bad guy, and helps to save the day. The only person I had a problem with was Gereld Depardieu... don't get me wrong, he's a great actor, but honestly, I think this role was beneath him. LePelt is stupid and snibbering, practically in love with Cruella and his jokes (i.e. the tiger head on his pants in one scene) fall hopelessly flat. I think Mr. Depardieu should have demanded some intelligence put in this role...  I can look past LePelt because Cruella and the others are so great, and the story line is charming, and the animals are once more, terrific. The addition of the talking Macaw really gave the movie an unexpected comic twist.   I give it six stars.  "},{"Title":"102 too Many.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 102 Dalmatians (2000) Dir Kevin Lima / Cast Glenn Close, Gerard Depardieu, Ioan Gruffudd,Alice Evans, David Horovitch The first one was a major letdown so it comes to no surprise that the sequel is just as bad. Cruella De Vil is released from prison as a animal lover but a side affect renders her to her old self and joined by fur exhibitionist Gerard Depardieu. They seek 102 Dalmatians because Cruella wishes to add a hood to her coat. Visually stunning with fine references to Lady and the Tramp but story is uninspiring. Director Kevin Lima does his best. He previously made the animated Tarzan. Close plays De Vil as the victim of cruelty especially since she came across as willing to change. Depardieu is a valuable French actor who is forgettable as this foolish lout. Social worker Alice Evans is given the personality of a bean bag. She obviously doesn't believe in second chances and coins De Vil for crime before she is even willing to act upon it. Ioan Gruffudd appears as the latest spotted dog lover and the role is every bit as charming as fleas are to dogs. The production values are passable but the freshness is gone after it translated to a live version before. Pointless sequel with dogs that cannot talk as they did in the animated version but we are given a parrot that thinks it is a dog. Perhaps that's the best that the screenwriter could do. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"The movie is ridiculous, but it's fun and a strong villain, better than the first film","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 101 Dalmatians now the magic is real was pathetic, boring and no one should see, and that an actress of the caliber of Glenn Close has made the ridiculous is insulting and inexcusable, and while 102 Dalmatians was just ridiculous, at least this was entertaining and the story is more original than the previous one, is forced that want to look sequel to 101 Dalmatians, in fact dog Rabito and Chloe you remember but this film saves the fact that funny and that Glenn Close, just as ridiculous to remove smiles and suspense in this movie because if it acts as a villain, is manipulative, treacherous, obsessive, impulsive and perhaps a little degenerate.Finally, 102 Dalmatians is better than its predecessor because it's ridiculous, but fun, is very, funny, we have Glenn Close doing weird things, but takes the lead in making a good villain, fledged, as seen in animation.hey! Gerard Depardieu fascinated me as a child being lePelt before I knew who did Obelix XD "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" the first film was interesting for Glenn Close. the second - for Gerard Depardieu and for the strange effect of Big Ben. but the difference is too small. because it is a family film, with adorable puppies, with same adventures and new characters/cast, not convincing but amusing, chain of adventures and chaotic - hilarious events, with the predictable end and a lot of fun. so, nothing surprising. but nice for the good intentions. and for the joy to discover a colorful universe. for the remind of Dr Jekyl and Mr. Hyde. and for the memories about the first part. so, a nice movie. not great, not special but useful for a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was like my favorite movie when I was a kid! Cruella was my favorite Disney villain ever! There is no one better than Glenn Close to play this larger than life character!! I loved the over the top costumes, and Glenn's charisma and exuberance while playing the role! I liked all the actors, and thighs they did their job well with their role. Also, the movie is very entertaining for all ages, fun for the kids and teens and adults! Disney did a Great job in my opinion with this film! I feel like they did a good job with both 101 and 102 Dalmatians. Would've liked to maybe see roger and Anita again, but it's not like that was a heartbreaker. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Bow wow yippie yoo yippie.... ugh, I hate that song!","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I liked this as a child. Today, not so much. That song in the opening credits is annoying. The whole joke where the parrot thinks he's a dog is not funny. The scene where the dogs are watching Lady and the Tramp and inter-cuts between that and the couple having spaghetti and meatballs made me want to vomit. Remember it was spoofed in Hot Shots 2? That scene was funny, but not this.Also what kind of person takes their dogs to go see a puppet show? These people act like the dogs are human.Also, when Ioan's character gets arrested, how come his dogs get arrested with him? What kind of world is this?And as for the scene where Cruella gets baked into a cake, I'm surprised that she didn't get burnt to death in the oven.However, I will praise Glenn's performance. She IS Cruella. "},{"Title":"4.6? REALLY people you have got to be kidding me right","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Why the low rating? I thought it was a very enjoyable film and its even just as good as the 1st one which was fantastic. The story maybe kinda slow in a few places and there is new actors filling in from Jeff Daniels and Joey Richardson,but still I enjoyed it. The film kicks off where Cruella De Vil played by the fantastic Glen Close is finally cured from her mayhem of getting the dalmatians and killing them for their fur. But there is a catch as the hypnosis actually wears off when the Big Ben chimes and she goes back to being the crazy dog killer again. Of course we are introduced to Chloe who is Cruella's patrol officer and Kevin who owns a dog pound both played by husband and wife duo Alice Evans and Ioan Grudffud.So what do I like about this movie well I think its got to do with the stars of the film THE DOGS and yes I am a dog lover so maybe that's why I enjoyed this flick. The acting is superb and I think this has to be the most underrated flick I have seen of all time. I mean it doesn't deserve a 4.6 rating if it got a 6.7 fair enough but really a 4.6??Oh well at least I liked this movie. Directed by Kevin Lima who also directed Tarzan and of course Enchanted,102 Dalmatians is strictly for animal lovers.7/10 "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated!","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this film is completely underrated! it's so much fun and should be thought of as completely light-hearted, the acting from the main dog owners; Chloe and Kevin, were good for the role they were given, this film is perfect for dog lovers! each one of the Dalmatian puppies were as cute as the next, also which i was pleasantly surprised about was the unique plot compared to the first, i felt the first was just trying to be a solid copy of the animated classic, and flopped dramatically. but this one has so much more charm and charisma than the first film and is completely underrated for the type of film it is trying to be, whether you like these types of films or not, take it or leave it. but believe me, you're missing out. "},{"Title":"Not as much ideas (tv)","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Maybe because it was the only name at that time, I was fed up with Disney during my childhood and it has stuck me as the best name for light, poetic and educative entertainment. Unfortunately, after each new feature I see now, I'm profoundly unhappy because the name is in fact a mirage and has lost indeed all its magic.Those dalmatians verify this rule Making a live movie of those pets and reuniting big names in ridiculous parts as well as nice newcomers (mr. Fantastic, ms Evans) was seductive. But, the recipe doesn't make it. The story is as indigestible as the final cake and the scenes drags loudly. All the energy of the cast is wasted on useless moments as nothing really essential happens. In addition, all these poor action is made intolerable with the never-ending sarcasm of a Jago clone (see the parrot of Aladin). The dogs are really leftover and don't do much. Surprisingly, the movie looks cheap for a Disney as the sets looks really like a set. So, now, you know beware the dogs and beware the brand ! "}{"Title":"Top Family Film.","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The current rating for this film is not a fair reflection. Within its genre it has to be near the top of the tree. I am a 39year old man, and feel i must fight for a film like this. It is cute and fun, that's what it should be. It has good pace, you won't get bored (something that I can't say about 101 Dalmatians). The cast are all excellent, I personally love Eric Idle's role. Glenn Close and Gerard Depardieu make wonderful villains. The many animals that also star add to the magic. If you have children and fancy a fun night in with a movie and popcorn this one will do the trick. I can't forget how much my daughter engaged with the story and laughed at the end of the film! "},{"Title":"Cute puppies, bad movie","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I will recommend all conscious adults to stay away from this movie, but of course, that could be a problem if you take your kids to see it. But please, keep the very youngest away, the end could be a bit too rough for their eyes and minds.Well, this movie has the same recipe as the original from 1996, almost everything follows the same track. It's pretty much the details in the story that more or less could come up with a few more surprises. Therefore it is predictable to the point of painful boredom, I knew everything that was about to happen in the next frames, that's not a good feeling when I am watching a movie.These extreme characters Cruella, Jean Pierre and butler Alonzo are overplaying, it's far over the top. They seemed to get as close to the original characters as possible from the animated movie from 1961, but didn't succeed. Even with yet more dog added, it didn't help, but anyway - it was the dogs who made some colourful entertainment in this disaster of a movie. It was quiet annoying to watch.. "},{"Title":"Glenn close","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was involved in this production in 2000, i always remember we were on location in the city under this old station , may have been Mile End , it rained for about two weeks non stop and i alway remember the water coming through the cracks of the station , the scene was the Catwalk , I remember that in between scenes everyone was looking for a warm corner to stay warm , Glenn close was very friendly with all the members around , i got talking to her for about 5-10 mins and she was the most friendliest ,nicest person you can talk to , she is up there as one the the best in dealing with the conditions and people around 10/10 for that ... "},{"Title":"Glenn Close tries to keep this together, but barely succeeds.","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Glenn Close returns as that bitch Cruella Devile in 102 Dalmations. Let me just say that this movie was kind of disappointing. Not that the original was that good, but this movie is funny at times, stupid at times, and odd at times.This time, Cruelle has just gotten out of prison. Her parole officer Chloe(Alice Evans) isn't quite convinced that she is sane. She was put in jail because she tried to murder dogs. Chloe, who is the main character, is a dog lover. So Cruella once again tries to get those damn dogs.The problem that I had with the last one is that the animals fight back. They do also in this film. 102 Dalmations, like the last one, would've been crap without Glenn Close. I don't believe that these dogs would kick Glenn Close's ass. If you have seen the show damages, then you know what I am talking about. I give 102 Dalmations a pass because it's a silly sequel. But Glenn Close may make the movie for you. She did for me.102 Dalmations**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Repeat","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 102 Dalmatians (2000, Dir. Kevin Lima) Believed to be cured, Cruella de Vil (Close) is released from prison and sets out to make a new start in life. Things are going well for Cruella who is busy helping homeless dogs off the street. When the clock strikes on Big Ben, things turn bad. The hypnotic cure is reversed and Cruella is back, and this time she is determined to make that spotted coat she always wanted.Glenn Close reprises her role as Cruella de Vil and once again is the highlight of the film. Every scene with her in is worth watching in this dull sequel, which feels more of a repeat of the previous film, rather than a new story.She's Changed. &#150; Ken Sheperd (Ioan Gruffudd) "},{"Title":"I like this film!","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I like this film because of what Glenn Close has done in her performance of Cruella De Vil. The movie was great, but it's a little bit too long. I never got bored or fell asleep during my time seeing this movie, because I normally don't mind sitting there for two hours or so watching the movie I am watching, and this one was definitely one of them. I liked Eric Idle from the Monty Python team doing the voice of Waddlesworth. I liked the two human leads in this movie, Ioan Gruffudd and Alice Evans. I especially like Alice Evans as Chloe Simon, she is lovely in all her scenes. Tim McInnerny as Alonzo, Cruella's loyal servant, proves that he has a talent for comedy here as he did on Blackadder. Gerard Depardieu - I didn't really know about his performance as the French fur designer. But one of the greatest performances that I like in the whole movie is Glenn Close as Cruella. Her costumes are great, bigger than life. This is a way cool movie in a few ways.Sadly, I'm giving it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After seeing the 1996 remake, I thought it was the funniest way to see Cruella De Vil getting her punishment for torturing animals just for their skin. The whole movie was quite funny, and on my view, better than the animated one. But there was actually no need for a second one. First of all, if Cruela is returning, don't cure her and make her insane again. Just make her break away from jail and that's a rap. I thought it was not very funny. It's supposed to have only one original puppy returning. I'd expected that it should be Lucky, since he was the most appealing, and besides, having Roger and Anita back too. However, they decided to have a complete recasting and adding not really one hundred, not even one hundred and two, but only THREE puppies, and a parrot that thinks he's a dog (clever). Gerard Depardieu's part was pointless. At the end, Cruella suffers way too much, way too humiliating and way too exaggerated to be true. She gets baked inside a giant cake. That was a desperate attempt of physical humor, trying to imitate the same effect from the first one. That just didn't work. It was too much over the top, and not too funny. I actually felt sorry about Cruella. "},{"Title":"less than entertaining...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Given all the talent in this project, it's hard to believe they could end up with something so... worthless.  I'm sure it made a lot of money, however, to us there wasn't anything entertaining about it.  It was beyond silly and the story was weak at best.   "},{"Title":"please, no 103 dalmations!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  okay, its disney, thats enough. a few scenes that little kiddies might scream and wonder what happened and is that cute puppy alright? it doesnt have jeff daniels who i thought bought some talent to theoriginal. Glenn is back and feisty and psychotic as ever, which is Cruella De Vil. the plot is basic if a bit inpolitically correct(wearing animal fursand plotting to strangle and skin dalmations, just a bit off the wall for your average 7 year old). Production values are good, costumes for De Vil are elaborate. Just be sure to leave your innocence at the door. "},{"Title":"Faithful Sequel","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm sorry. The movie was okay,but it does not match what the first movie had. If they had brought back Roger and Anita,it would have been better. Where did Horace and Jasper go? Or the Skinner? I was lost in this movie. And they did a really bad job of trying to copy the first movie where Cruella goes flying about. Its not a dud,but they could have done better. It doesn't matter because kids love it! "}{"Title":"two prize characters save the movie","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  102 Dalmatians is an average film.  It's a repeat plot with the same shenanigans.  It is to the first film what Home Alone 2 is to its predecessor.  Most of the characters from the first film are gone, however.  I guess they figured a new bunch of cute dogs and Cruella would be enough to satisfy us.  I won't say they guessed wrong, but I didn't get caught up in the film as much as I would've liked.  I saw it as part of a double feature with The Emperor's New Groove, and the audience that laughed so hard during that film was strangely silent during this one.The film has two saving graces  Waddlesworth, the macaw who thinks he's a dog, and Oddball, the Dalmatian puppy with no spots.  I was partial to Waddlesworth before even seeing the film, owning a macaw myself.  With a voice provided by Eric Idle, Waddlesworth barks instead of squawks, and translates the canine language into English for the benefit of his humans.  Oddball is a puppy who wishes she had spots.  It's simply adorable when she sights her spotless reflection in a mirror and whimpers.  Also cute is how she takes to wearing a spotted sweater. "},{"Title":"Not a spot of originiality on this dalmatian.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" On a rating scale of 0 to 100, I give 102 Dalmatians a 48.Be aware this review may contain small spoilers, I briefly wrote what happened in the finale.Is making a sequel out of a remake a good idea? In 102 Dalmatians' case, no it isn't. This is not a terrible film, but it is not a good one either. I actually expected this movie to be worse than it's predecessor, but, hey, it wasn't. It was better. But, that is not even a compliment. It would be pretty easy to beat the standards of 101 Dalmatians, so is this film anything special? No, no, no!After a spot of therapy Cruella De Vil (Glenn Close) is released from prison a changed woman. Devoted to dogs and good causes, she is delighted that Chloe (Alice Evans), her parole officer, has a Dalmatian family and connections with a dog charity. But the sound of Big Ben can reverse the treatment so it is only a matter of time before Ms De Vil is back to her incredibly ghastly ways, using her new-found connections with Chloe and friends.Glenn Close is superb in her role of Cruella, that is one very good about the movie, which earns it a higher rating than it otherwise would've got. Add to that a cool theme song and a hilarious finale in which Cruella gets caked, and you may have a good movie. But, what about the originality? You can search this film and find nothing new, nothing much has changed from the first film. And what about the laughs? There aren't any of them until the end, and all the way until the finale, the film overflows with unfunny 'gags' that'll have the audience snoring. Also, no points to Ioan Gruffudd, who wears shorts through the entire film and looked to me like a school boy than a grown adult.102 Dalmatians earns very, very high on the snooze factor. But, what about the entertainment factor? It hardly makes it to the score I've given it in this review. "},{"Title":"The  dogs  were  sweet,  and  Cruella  was  effective  once  again.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I  noticed  at  once  that  this  movie  really  wasn't  based  on  Dodie  Smith's  novel.  In  any  case,  it  was  a  nice  idea  that  Pongo  and  Perdita's  son  now  had  his  own  puppies.  The  cutest  of  the  Dalmatians  was,  of  course,  little  Snowball  who  was  completely  spotless  till  the  very  end  of  the  film.  To  be  honest,  I  didn't  know  what  to  think  when  Cruella  de  Vil  seemed  to  have  changed  completely  kind.  In  fact  I  have  often  thought  about  the  possibility  that  she  could  become  friendly,  but  now  that  she  so  quickly  changed  into  herself  again  and  announced  that  she  was  Cruella  once  more,  I  almost  began  to  be  really  worried  about  Chloe's  Dalmatians.Actually,  the  scene  in  which  the  puppies  watched  Lady  and  the  Tramp  while  Chloe  and  Kevin  had  their  dinner,  was  much  better  than  I  had  expected.  I  also  was  fond  of  the  parrot  who  played  to  be  a  dog,  and  it  was  incredible  that  the  dogs  had  learned  so  many  tricks  for  this  movie.  Of  course  I  was  content  that  at  the  end  the  Dalmatians  were  saved  again,  but  I  would  have  liked  to  know  what  was  going  to  happen  to  Cruella  after  she  had  lost  her  whole  property.  And  what  on  earth  could  the  dogs'  home  do  with  such  a  huge  sum  of  money?Finally,  it  was  quite  touching  that  Snowball  also  had  spots  at  the  very  end  of  the  film.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Live Action Disney Movie","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think that 102 Dalmatians is better than 101 Dalmatians.Its funny, cute and has a great villain.All the actors deserve credit but Glenn Close steals the show here.I've read comments from people who say they hated the film and that only very young kids would like it?Why?I'm 17 and I loved it.There's nothing wrong with the film in my book,its a fun family film and great for dog lovers.If you haven't seen it yet give it go.I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just as good as Original","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is just as good as the original 101 if not better.  Of course, Cruella steals the show with her outrageous behaviour and outfits, and the movie was probably made because the public wanted to see more of Cruella. We see a lot more of her this time round. I also like Ioan Gruffudd as Kevin, the rather bumbling male lead.  To use Paris as the climax of the movie was a clever idea.  The movie is well worth watching whatever your age, provided you like animals.  "},{"Title":"102 paws up","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I knew 102 Dalmations would become one of my favorite films because it was filled with dogs. My love for dogs attracted me to the film and I wasn't disappointed in the result of this movie.102 Dalmations was simply one of the smartest and funniest films I have seen all year. The one thing I found to be so cool was the director wouldn't let up on the comedy. There was not a moment that went by that I didn't laugh. I'm so glad I saw this film because it allowed me to forget the outside world and let me relax with my popcorn and soda pop.Glenn Close has done another incredible job portraying Cruella De Ville. Her performance was so incredible that she made me mad everytime she did something evil to one of the dalmations; when this happens, you know you have a good actress on your hands. Kudos to newcomers Ioan Grufford and Alice Evans as they pull off performances, which make them look like veterans. There performances were so great I could mistake them for naturals. These two have a lot to offer and are here to stay. 102 Dalmations is such a delightfully light-hearted comedy that will warm your hearts and spur you into action at the same time. "},{"Title":"Children's Fun Film","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Plot Summary Successfull Pavlovian experiment, Cruella De Ville, comes undone before our eyes. She was bad, was made good, then reverts to bad. This also sums the film up!! The dogs are incidental!Who should watch this film Glen Close fans! She is the film. She is superb. What a star! Anyone who loves Pantomime or Bawdy comedies will enjoy this. Children will be gripped with excitement. A great family treat.Personal comment I enjoyed this film initially, but it was very, very basic. I fell asleep during the most exciting sequence near the end (I never fall asleep during films I have paid for!!). All the actors were good & facialy interesting, so it must have been the script that was weak. This film could have been an animation, as it was beautiful to look at, but it's plot was that flimsy it wasn't worth paying actors. I enjoyed this film purely because of Glen Close & the puppy, Oddball, and because children with me were loving it. I certainly would resent the waste of ticket money if I had viewed with a group of adults. It is not a thinking film, it's a Christmas chocolate box film (when you finish the chocolates they are very finished!!). "},{"Title":"Not as good as 101","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie lacked of fun. I was expecting something similar to the first one, may be a repeat of the first. I did but the first one was funnier. Parts of the movies were entertaining but other parts were boring. Overall the movie will be forgotten easily. I rated it 6. "},{"Title":"GLENN CLOSE PULLS OFF ANOTHER FLAWLESS PERFORMANCE","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Definatly this movie would have been a failure if Glenn Close and Oddball weren't in it.  The french actor will scare the kids and they won't know what's going on...he was awful.  And her studdering sidekick didn't pull off as good as a job as i expected.  When Close and Oddball weren't on the screen the movie definatly sank like the Titanic.  Alice Evans and the boyfriend acted like some Junior High play.  Close once again was amazing. And wears her costumes so beautifully and her strong beautiful face is CruElla.  She is and amazingly talented, beautiful actress.  "},{"Title":"Pretty cute, actually.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  While this was a better movie than 101 Dalmations (live action, not animated version), I think it still fell a little short of what Disney could do. It was well-filmed, the music was more suited to the action, and the effects were better done (compared to 101). The acting was perhaps better, but then the human characters were given far more appropriate roles in this sequel, and Glenn Close is really not to be missed, as in the first movie. She makes it shine. Her poor lackey and the overzealous furrier sidekicks are wonderful characters to play off of, and they add to the spectacle Disney has given us. This is a great family film, with little or no objectionable material, and yet it remains fun and interesting for adults and children alike. It's bound to be a classic, as so many Disney films are. Here's to hoping the third will be even better still- because you know they probably want to make one. ;) "}{"Title":"Cute but slow and lacking the comedic depth of 101 Dalmatians","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is a good film for kids who love dogs.  It runs a bit slow early on but ends if a flurry of gooped up De Vil.  The basic plot is the same as the first movie.  The bright side of the movie for adults is the talking bird that thinks  it is a dog.  The bird talks like a human(Eric Idle of Monty Python) and barks like a dog.  It is the comedy that the film needed more of.  See it in the matinee so you don't have to pay full price or wait for it to appear on Disney. "},{"Title":"First one was better!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went to the movie theater to see The Grinch, but it was sold out so I got stuck watching this movie. After the movie ended, the first thing I thought was that the 1996 one was a whole lot better. The only returning cast member is Glenn Close and (although not technically) Dipstick, a dog from the first. Gerard Depardeu is horrible, horrible, horrible! The new cast members are sort of okay and the bakery finale is funny enough. But, I would say to wait for video for this one. Save your money. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for all!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed the film and would suggest to anyone just out for a good time. Don't take the film all too seriously because remember it's Disney and it's rated G. It's good clean fun although some parts may be recognised by adults but children would never notice, particularly the triangle between Cruella, Le Pelt, and Cruella's faithful valet Alonso. Glenn Close is fantastic and really has made Cruella her own and is believably terrifying even when she is cured of her fur loving ways, she can instill fear in the audience with her shrills that literally shake the theater. (I even found myself jumping in my seat when she catches you by surprise with her 'bipolarity' as the dog loving Ella.) All in all I will go see it again in theaters, I found myself enjoying it so much. "},{"Title":"Cute and entertaining","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie at an advance showing the other night and found myself laughing quite often.  The only thing that I saw as a fault is that they made it so the only way Oddball would fit in is to look the same as the others.  The way they did that was cute, but it doesn't set a real positive image for children to accept others no matter what they look like. Besides that, the costumes were excellent and Glenn Close did a fantastic job. "},{"Title":"enjoy it to your heart's content","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  102 Dalmatians was simply one of the smartest and funniest films I have seen. One thing that I found interesting was the director's drive and motivation to complete the project without quiting. It was clear that plot was important to everyone involved because there was nothing lacking in story. Glenn Close has done another incredible job portraying Cruella De Ville. Her performance was so incredible that she made me angry everytime she did something evil to one of the dalmatians; when this happens, you know you have a good actress on your hands.Kudos to newcomers Ioan Grufford and Alice Evans as they pull off performances, which make them look like veterans. There performances were so great I could mistake them for naturals. These two have a lot to offer and are here to stay. I'm so glad I saw this film because it allowed me to forget the outside world and let me relax with my popcorn and soda pop. 102 Dalmatians is such a delightfully light-hearted comedy that will warm your hearts and spur you into action at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie, it wasnt bad but it wasnt the greatest either, i was expecting it to be a little bit better but it was still funny and a reeally cute movie for kids and adults, i watch it whenever its on TV, its pretty good "},{"Title":"102 Dalmatians","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the sequel to the live-action version of the Disney animated film remake. Glenn Close returns as the nasty Cruella De Vil, nasty. Cruella has been rehabilitated and now adores dogs and puppies. She even treats her servant Alonzo (Tim McInnerny) like a pet. Kevin Shephard (Ioan Gruffudd) is the owner of a dog shelter called Second Chance, he believes that Cruella can help him stop the eviction of the shelter (and that she's changed). Chloe (Alice Evans) is the only person not convinced of her change, and neither's her dalmatian Dipstick (from film one as a puppy). When Cruella hears Big Ben strike, the rehabilitation disappears and Cruella soon turns cruel again. Now that she is back to normal she has not forgotten about making a dalmatian puppy coat. She gets help from Le Pelt (Grard Depardieu) in both kidnapping the puppies, and getting them ready to be coats. Also starring Jim Carter as Detective Armstrong and Eric Idle as the voice of Waddlesworth the parrot. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design. Good! "},{"Title":"Fantastic but 101 is better i think","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really like 101 Dalmations when it came out in 1996, now 5 years later i went to see 102 dalmations in 2001, i thought it was fantastic but i think 101 is better because i think it's more funnier, more humor, and also that movie was based on the same story as the cartoon version (one hundred and one dalmations (1961) i wonder if there are plans for 103 Dalmations. I hope there is, maybe yes, maybe no, all of us dalmation fans will have to find out if there is going to be 103 dalmations in the future. "},{"Title":"Not for kids, not for anyone.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film was pure pain.  Sitting in the theater for x-amount of minutes, I was wondering when the film was going to start.  All the setups were in place; typical love story, characters have to overcome their short-givings, villain has to emerge, but none of it ever initiated.  By the time these things happened, I was already bored stiff and the devices were completely ineffective.  In scenes that required immense tension and buildup, it felt like necessary frames were cut. Kid's stuff does not have to be this way. Children's films can be as riveting and engaging as adult ones.  The excuse, hey , its for kids, is bull.  I'll take Sword in the Stone any day. This was terrible. I'm getting the feeling that Disney will put out anything these days.  And as for the kids, the 10-year I saw this with will agree...pure trash. "},{"Title":"Inferior to the first, but not a terrible movie by all means","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first film was a nice one, but it is not as good as the wonderful animated classic which I found more poignant and endearing. This sequel is inferior, but not bad at all. Sure the slapstick is too much, the script has its weak spots and the plot is a tad uninspired. But the dogs are very cute here, and Eric Idle is hilarious as the macaw. The film is nice to look at with stylish cinematography and eye popping costumes(especially Cruella's), and the music is pleasant. The acting is mostly very good, Ioan Gruffudd is appealing and Gerard Depardieu while he has given better performances has fun as Cruella's accomplice. But the best asset, as it was with the first film, is the amazing Glenn Close in a deliciously over-the-top performance as Cruella, even more evil than she was previously. Overall, nice. 7/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Pointless sequel lacks wit or imagination","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This sequel to 101 Dalmations is pointless. Glenn Close milks a few laughs out of her Cruella De Vil character and that's about it. The puppies remain cute but it all feels calculated. The script as a whole lacks wit or imagination. Eric Idle manages a few decent lines as the parrot Waddlesworth. Ioan Gruffudd and Alice Evans are bland. Grard Depardieu is wasted. There are a lot of references to previous Disney films that bored viewers may notice. Kids may go for this sequel with its Home Alone style 'family-friendly' violence but adults are best advised to stay away.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"Spotty at best","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I wouldn't bring a child under 8 to see this. With puppies dangling off of buildings squirming through dangerous machines and listening to Cruella's scary laugh to name a few of the events there is entirely too much suspense for a small child. The live action gives a more ominous feel than the cartoon version and there are quite a few disquieting moments including some guy that seems to be a transvestite, a lot of tense moments that will worry and may frighten small kids.I don't know what the Disney folks were thinking but neither the story nor the acting were of their usual level. The puppies are cute But this movie is spotty at best. "},{"Title":"Not really for the kids... or adults","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't know why, but for some sick reason, I think since I've been on the Disney sequel binge, I decided to just go ahead and see 102 Dalmations. The first movie that was a remake of the Disney cartoon classic starring Glenn Close as Cruella De Vil, it seemed like a sure hit, but it was just a bomb. I think the reason why these movies don't work is because 101 Dalmations, the original, was a cartoon, it just worked better and was more appealing to the kids as well as adults. This was not really that fun because it's adults running around trying to act like cartoons instead of just actual human beings, I understand they're trying to make sure that it's appealing to the kids, but it's ridicules to see the way these actors are behaving in the film. And 102 Dalmations's story isn't really that good.Cruella De Vil has been in prison for a while, but things change when she is proved that she now loves animals and is a pleasant human being. But her reputation is now damaged as a puppy-napper, but she buys a man's dog shelter and is all of a sudden is being loved by everyone and it looks like she's changed. But when she sees her probation officer's Dalmatians, she goes crazy and starts seeing spots, and she looses it. She's back for revenge on puppies and is still determined to get that Dalmation coat she's always wanted.Glenn Close is such an amazing actress, very under rated, but her taking on Cruella De Vil, she's good, but let's face it, this movie made the fun villain just more of a silly nut case. Also, as cute as the puppies were, it just works more for the animation, it sounds stupid, but it's just not as believable without the cartoon and their personalities being in the mix. I wouldn't really recommend 102 Dalmations, it's alright, but if you agree that the first movie was just a waste of time, this is just the same thing.2/10 "},{"Title":"Spotty - avoid","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This sequel is thoroughly uneven, incoherent and rambling in plot (if there really is one)and tries too damned hard to be modern (ridiculous, out of period and character 21 st century style songs predominate) and cute (yawn there are too many manufactured, belaboured jokes with animals.) The actors in his film are secondary to the juvenile plot. Even Glenn Close (and she is normally very good) sweeps through this film, parodying herself as the original De Ville and the lead from Sunset Boulevard! It's a film that isn't even good to look at. This is a very good example of a bad and pointless sequel. Even Basic Instinct 2 had a plot, characterisation and acceptable acting. This doesn't. It is bad. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment for Children","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Only reason I have seen 101 Dalmatians was its nominations for original song and costume design for the Oscars. I must admit that I was less than impressed with this film. In this sequel, Cruella DeVil(by the way Glen Close pulls off this role very well) is released from the hospital due to her good behaviour. She likes all sort of animals and locks all her furs away. From that point, we only wait until she starts having crises. Soon enough, she does and tries to make the best coat of fashion world, of course for herself and from fine Dalmatian fur. Apart from Glen Close, I found all cast quite silly but from a child's eye funny. That is fair enough as its target market is, I assume, children under 12. Quite a good entertainment for children and families, but didn't do much for me. * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Needless sequel to the live-action remake of '101","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 102 DALMATIONS (2000) ** Glenn Close, Gerard Depardieu, Ioan Gruffudd, Alice Evans, Tim McInnerny, Ben Crompton, Carol Macready, Ian Richardson, Eric Idle (Voice only). Needless sequel to the live-action remake of '101' with Close hamming it up apparently only to her delight as the arch nemesis of all animals, specifically the spotted doggies, Cruella DeVil, who upon release from an asylum and for all apparent reasons 'cured' of her hatred for the four-legged critters returns to full form of meanness and again attempts to get her coat of dogs made at any cost. Slapstick ensuing only produces many yawns but kudos to costume designer Anthony Powell for his devilishly good black and white concoctions. (Dir Kevin Lima) "},{"Title":"Good but not great live-action cartoon of a sequel","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cruella de Vil is no longer evil.  In fact, she's almost lovable.   A judge is willing to parole her on the grounds that she forfeits what is left of her fortune (the lawyers got the rest) if she ever kidnaps puppies again. Chloe, her probation officer, also is handling the case of one of the caretakers of The Second Chance Dog Shelter, which is about to be evicted.  After she meets the head of the shelter, we see signs of a possible romance.Problem  the facility that rehabilitated Cruella has discovered that their animals revert to their former behavior if they hear Big Ben, even if it was only on TV.  Chloe's office is near Big Ben ...Glenn Close was good again, though not quite as enjoyable as she was in the first movie, because most of the time she was calm and decent (or maybe just pretending).  She did go crazy briefly early in the movie from reminders of her old life.  Gerard Depardieu made a delightfully nasty fashion designer, though I didn't think he reached his full potential, given that he acted like a WWE wrestler when introduced.  Another standout performance comes from Eric Idle, the voice of Waddlesworth, a talking bird who lives at the dog shelter because he thinks he is a Rottweiler (later he discovers the truth; he's actually a Retriever).  The dogs (mostly Dalmatians, but also shelter residents of other breeds or mixes of breeds) seemed quite intelligent. I have to believe, though, that some of their talent came not from training, but from the use of animatronic substitutes or perhaps computer wizardry.  The canine characters seemed almost human; some were capable of operating machinery, which added significantly to the physical comedy, most of that near the end.  Alonzo, Cruella's butler, got banged up a lot and had more and more bandages as the movie progressed.Several interesting scenes  Cruella, newly released from prison, imagines that all of London, including the cars and Big Ben, is white with black spots. And while their dogs watch the spaghetti scene from the movie 'Lady and the Tramp', the dogs' owners are eating spaghetti on their date.It wasn't as good as the first, but still enjoyable.Possible spoilers  Close and Depardieu were really good together--because Cruella wanted to make another coat out of puppies.  The movie's title comes from the fact that it would take 102 of them to make the coat she had in mind.Poor Glenn Close.  She REALLY got messy.   "},{"Title":"better than the first but still not great","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After seeing 101 dalmatians I watched this 1While the first movie was quite unoriginal this 1 has a complete new story and totally new characters except for Cruella and her butler AlonzoGlenn Close is again the star of the movie, her transformation from nice lady Ella to the mean Cruella is splendid, the other characters don't do anything special to make this movie special, to be honest they needed some dumb crooks like Jasper and Horace in the first 1 as Alonzo and Mr Depardieu failed dramatically to do a funny jobthe storyline is not that bad but again the animals were cute but didn't do anything special to steal my heart, only the parrot was a bit funnyAnd what has happened to Roger, Anita and their dog family?oh yes and in the last part of the movie Cruella gets again a lot of trash over her body, this isn't funny !!!!Summary more original than the 1st movie but while the first one was funny to some extent this 1 didn't make me laugh once "},{"Title":"One Dalmatian too many!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved original 101 Dalmatians as a kid...enjoyed seeing the remake as anadult with youngsters in tow, but 102 just destroyed the mystique and charm of the Dalmatian franchise with a speedy and greedy sequel. "},{"Title":"The sequel is usually not up to the original, but this is ridiculous.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Conventional wisdom is that a sequel is seldom as good as the original movie.  There are occasional exceptions, but this is NOT one of them. Disney should have quit while they were ahead.  This was a real disappointment after a reasonably entertaining 101 Dalmatians. "}{"Title":"Good, Clean Fun For The Whole Family","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Glenn Close was born to play Cruella De Vil. She is just magnificent in this role, this time playing a reformed Cruella (Just call me Ella) who slowly drifts back into her puppy-napping ways, lusting after a Dalmatian coat.There's a lot of fun in this movie - and a lot of adorable puppies - and (amazingly!) absolutely nothing here that should make you embarrassed to let your five year old watch it with you. No language, no violence, no sexual innuendo. That in itself is worth applause.Unfortunately I have no children. I watched this primarily out of curiosity and while it was an enjoyable enough way to help pass an afternoon it contained little of substance to keep me glued to the set, so my attention did wander from time to time. Trust me on this - you'll enjoy this a lot more if you watch it with a child.My (admittedly adult) feeling? 5/10. The child within me would go significantly higher. "},{"Title":"a really stupid movie","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this is really an overlong and stupid movie.the ending is easy to figure out 2 minutes into the movie.all in all it is boring,stupid,and about 70 minutes too long.watching your neighbors home movies is a lot more fun "},{"Title":"Pointless sequel.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  102 DALMATIANS (2000) Rating 5/10Someone please tell me what the point of this film was? The 1996 film 101 Dalmatians was a remake and now they're doing a sequel to a remake? That is seriously quite odd. Even though this movie is much better than 101 Dalmatians from 1996, I still don't really see a reason to sequelize the movie. Anyway I really didn't see much values in this family film, apart from good ol' Glenn Close and the dogs. Yes, the dogs are still very cute and make the movie bearable enough. However, the story is absurd, the typical predictability deal is here in this movie and I didn't laugh very much. Apart from the ending where Cruella literally gets baked, this film is pretty much comedy-free. Kids will find it hard to laugh at this flick and to generally enjoy this film too. Even they're little minds will not be tricked by the movies dotty silliness. Adults will be dragged along by kids to see this sequel, but I'm sure none of them will think too much of it. Sure, 102 Dalmatians has some good points - the groovy opening song, Glenn Close's excellent performance, the funny ending and the cuteness of the dogs &#150; but ultimately it doesn't succeed. This is a sequel that you will only be bothered watching while you're one a plane or a boat or something just to pass the time. I'll ask again, someone please tell me the point of this movie? "},{"Title":"Please...","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  (Contains spoiling information, so that you don't need to see this movie)Disney seems to stock up on LOTS of pot, cocaine, and other drugs that shouldn't be mentioned in a Disney review.Why they had to make a 101 Dalmations remake is beyond me-and even farther is a sequel.I had no intentions of seeing this, but a bunch of kids on a bus with me on it wanted this, and so I was forced to watch this. The irony is, I was the only one who watched it all the way through-the other kids fell asleep. Ha ha ha ha ha... well, anyway.The summary is this We see that Cruella DeVille not only has a stupid name, but also is cured of her love... er, hate of dogs. Soon later, she sees those dumb dalmations, and she goes back into her normal, I'm-too-stupid-to-buy-a-fur-coat-so-I'll-just-make-one-out-of-dogs self.And, if you've seen the first, you don't need anymore explanation minus the dog with no spots (who becomes a mutant at the end, making his own spots), and the fact that she needs 102.I have to end this quickly, so here's my endingNEVER SEE THIS! "},{"Title":"The dalmatians came back for an encore!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I rented 102 Dalmatians and I really enjoyed it! Glenn Close made another hilarious and brilliant performance. This movie is very funny and I enjoyed the story. This is a very funny movie, and you will be laughing non-stop. I give this movie a 10 out of 10!!!! "},{"Title":"A Huge Disappointment.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had heard 101 Dalmatians was far better than the first, but unfortunately, this sequel managed to maintain the same low standards of the first!Cruella De Vil (Glenn Close) is up for parole after serving three years for the dog-knapping of the Dalmatians in the first film. Her Dalmatian owning parole officer is suspiciousof her, but she manages to gain her backing by donating to a dog shelter. However, it's not too long before she's back to her evil ways and in search of material for her dream Dalmatian coat.There are little things I liked about this film, for instance, the the title card, obviously the dogs and the opening and closing theme song. Glenn Close's performance is the best thing about the movie - she is superb as Ms. DeVil in a film that obviously doesn't deserve her. But, the story is flat, the laughs are regulary unfunny and most of the actors are horrible and talk so fast that I could barely understand them. The film runs out of ideas far too quickly, and apart from the finale of this sequel, I was bored out of my mind.102 Dalmatians is a film you watch while you're on an aeroplane or a ferry or something, not just for your regular entertainment.I rate 102 Dalmatians 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Little Family Film","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  102 Dalmatians ***102 Dalmatians is a cute, harmless little movie. The plot is about Cruella De Vil (Glenn Close) who  is after the puppy coat the she was deprived of in 1996. She hires Jean-Pierre Le Pelt (Grard Depardieu) to make her coat. She has her butler, Alonso (Tim McInnerny), kidnap the puppies. The owner of Dipstick (one of the puppies from 101) is Chloe Simon (Alice Evans), a dog lover who is upset about the release Cruella from prison. Cruella claims to be cured but when Big Ben goes off, she goes back to normal. Also in the plot, Kevin Sheperd (Ioan Gruffudd) owns a place called 2nd Chance where he takes in stray dogs. One of the dogs is actually a bird (voiced by Eric Idle) who thinks he's a dog. And of course, a romance starts between Chloe and Kevin.102 was critically bashed. But it's harmless. I know, it's not a great film. It's barely even good. But think about how a child would feel about it. The movie is aimed at children, that's why it's hard to review movies like this. It's a cute little family film. Aimed at families that have small children. You can take your child to this movie without having to worry about sex, violence, or language. The only violence in it is slap stick, which is completely harmless. So if you go to the movie expecting it to be good you will be very disappointed. But if you go to this movie with an open mind and just want to see a good natured movie, I think you'll have fun. "},{"Title":"My wife liked it","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you like animal movies, this movie will please.  My wife likes animals and animal movies, she especially like the parrot in this film.  It is geared towards kids, but I laughed at most of the humor.  The French fashion character made me laugh, and adds balance to the script.  It is a Disney film, with its sappy, happily, family apeal, but I like leaving the theater with a positive fealing. "},{"Title":"Weak and padded","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  102 DALMATIANS Walt Disney  I wasn't a fan of the previous installment and this effort has all the weaknesses of the first, a silly padded storyline, terrible over acting by Glenn Close, who hams up every scene as though she's playing for her own amusement, and incredibly borring and uninteresting lead actors. Once more the dogs are the only actors that seem real and thats a stretch. Another wasted effort here. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Another buzz-cut from the Disney Regime","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  102 Dalmations isn't as good as the first (if you can call the first one any good), despite Ok performances by Glenn Close and Gerard Deardieu.  Story is original (not a remake, I'll give it that), but it lacks a core, even if it is a kids movie.  I guess it's a good kids movie, but unlike the Rugrats or especially the Gricnh, that's it's only lock in.  Eric Idle brings very little as the voice of a parrot.  C+ "}{"Title":"I don't know what to say...","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...because this was simply awful. 101 Dalamatians was funny even if formulaic, but this is nothing more than puerile drivel. The same plot except with the story excised from it; the world's most intelligent and horribly annoying macaw; Tim McInnerny proving that he really can't do comedy (everone remembers Percy in Blackadder but that was his high spot - it's all been downhill since then); direction so poor that if a group of college students had made this you'd throw it in the bin and tell them to do it again - properly this time. Ieuan Grufford better go back to Hornblower sharpish, whilst Glenn Close and Gerard Diepardieu ought to go into hiding for several years.Perhaps I could be too harsh; after all I didn't manage to sit through the whole film. It gets 1/10; only because I can't give it 0. "},{"Title":"A fun enough sequel.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first movie, 101 Dalmatians wasn't already exactly a masterpiece but it still was a fun and enjoyable movie. This sequel is a pointless one and is too much of the same. Still the movie is fun enough to watch, especially for children.Thank goodness that Glenn Close is still in this one. Without her the movie would had been terrible. She really plays her villainous role perfectly over-the-top, in an enjoyable way. Grard Depardieu supports her as another villain. He also is fun and over-the-top but his character doesn't feel completely necessary for the story. It was like his character was written for the story in case Glenn Close would say no to this sequel. Another returning actor is Tim McInnerny as the butler Alonzo. He already was perfectly cast and fun in the first movie and he gets luckily more to do in this movie. Main characters in this movie are played by Ioan Gruffudd and Alice Evans. Not the two most interesting actors if you asked me.The story is perfectly simple, like a children's movie should be. It's filled with some humorous moments but it misses some of the slapstick and subtle comedy the first movie had.Another thing that's missing is the Michael Kamen musical score. David Newman, who scored for this movie, is by no means a bad composer of course but Kamen his score had a more fun feeling that did good to the movie its atmosphere.The movie yet again has some good looking costumes and this time they even got nominated for an Oscar for this.The movie might be a bit too simple and too much like the first movie to be regarded as terribly original or good. Still this movie is perfectly fun to watch but by no means a must see, not even if you already have seen the first movie.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"jaw-dropping dud","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Remember the name Kevin Lime - and please, please never lethim direct again. Timing, pacing, editing all hopelessly wrong.Three or four decent professionals (next time, guys, walk off theset) can do nothing to save this film from amateurs like AliceEvans, and the kind of production standards you'd expect fromteen-produced children's shows on british TV.Greatest  mystery the music. A score so inept, inappropriate andill-matched to the tone of the film that one seriously wonders if it isa case of sabotage. Add an acoustic that booms apparentlyunengineered from a single mike, and a director who onlyintermittently remembers to add auditory action offscreen, and wehave what must be on of the greatest ratio of money to result ofrecent years.  "},{"Title":"Character Engineering","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Disney has the world's most advanced character lab. That's what these kinds of movies depend on. What we see are the broad strokes, but what's more interesting are all the little touches that are added based on the science of discovery through tests.It all revolves around the notion of the wheels of justice. So the mechanical ticks of the character mesh with the John Hughes-like mechanical contraption she gets caught up in at the end. And that mirrors the mechanical way that all this is derived and the mechanical reaction we unwittingly intend for our children to have when watching.Wish he would have used Molly Ringwald.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"a dopey movie that didn't even bother to try","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie provided NOTHING new or worthwhile. After seeing it, my wife and I both agreed that the studio simply churned this out and could have cared less if it was entertaining. This is a good example of a concept only film--they have a concept about a film and the other details are unimportant because execs KNOW it will make $$ just based on the initial concept.The movie starts with Cruella getting out of prison and going on parole. She no longer hates puppies but has been programmed to adore them--she simply couldn't hurt a flea. This doesn't last too long after her release and she's back to her old ways. Period.The most annoying aspects of the movie were the supporting characters. Eric Idle as the voice of Waddlesworth the bird made me HATE him--and that is TOUGH considering I am a die-hard Python fan. It was obvious he did this because they gave him lots of money (there can't be any other reason). Cruella's low self-esteem servant, Tim McInnerny, was funny in the Black Adder shows but here he is totally wasted and unfunny. And it must have cost a few bucks to get Grard Depardieu but he was utterly wasted as well. There were some other supporting actors as well but given how poorly written the characters were, I am trying to block them out of my mind.Overall, you'd be better just to let your kids watch television or even play Grand Theft Auto than bother letting them see this drivel. "},{"Title":"A review by my 10-year-old daughter...","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My 10-year-old daughter, Alexandra, writesI thought it was very boring, and I thought it was just a  repeat of stuff from 101 Dalmatians.  I couldn't wait for the movie to end.  The best part was the credits at the beginning - they were cute and well done.  The rest of the film is not worth watching.  Thank you.  "}]