[{"Title":"Popcorn movie at its best","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now, some people say this is just your standard genuine popcorn movie- and they're right. There is no big surprise, no overly brilliant acting, no twisted story, no well known producer (you all know who I'm talking about..)..But it's a very well made, nice to see movie. Acting is good. Or better, it's like it should be in any movie. Photography seems sometimes a little bit careless, but it's OK- it does the trick. Directing is well done.To get to this conclusion, I compared that flick to Last Boy Scout, because it's basically almost the same background. And I have to say while LBS is supported by the acting of Bruce Willis, this movie is founded on the acting of each actor. They all do well, the evil guy is convincingly evil (flat character maybe, but hey- it's a popcorn flick, don't forget!), the effects are pleasing, the story is neat, and the director does his best to put all of this on the screen so you can enjoy the picture.What do you want more? A bag of popcorn. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The previews on TV made this movie look like a dumb-guy goofball comedy, and with Jamie Foxx in the lead it was worth seeing just for that.So when it turned out to be a full-on big time movie with lots of action, great characters (including a host of well done supporting roles), true love, a government conspiracy and some genuine laugh-out-loud moments, I WAS PLEASANTLY SURPRISED! "},{"Title":"Somewhat funny and well-paced action thriller.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhat funny and well-paced action thriller that has Jamie Foxx as a hapless, fast-talking hoodlum who is chosen by an overly demanding U.S. Treasury Agent (David Morse) to be released on the streets of New York to find a picky computer thief/hacker (Doug Hutchinson), who stole forty-two million dollars from the treasury and left two guards shot dead.Bait marks the sophomore feature for Antoine Fuqua (The Replacement Killers) and he handles the task fairly well even though it doesn't top his first movie.  What the two films have in common is the action sequences, which are flat-out excellent.Foxx is pretty good here although his character is annoying in the beginning, but throughout the film, I began to catch on.  Hutchinson is marvelous as the mastermind who can be ruthless as John Malkovich and patient as the late Laurence Olivier was in Marathon Man.  Morse is okay as the agent who comes up with the ingenious plan to get whoever did it at all cost.   "},{"Title":"Good action and Humorous","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the film.  Some of the action scenes were very interesting, tense and well done. I especially liked the opening scene which had a semi truck in it.  A very tense action scene that seemed well done.Some of the transitional scenes were filmed in interesting ways such as time lapse photography, unusual colors,  or interesting angles.  Also the film is funny is several parts.  I also liked how the evil guy was portrayed too. I'd give the film an 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Action+Comedy=great movie!","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a really interesting movie. It is an action movie with comedy mixed in. Foxx teams up with comedian Epps in this movie to give it a comedic spin. It will keep you wondering whats going to happen to Foxx next. It was a well shot movie, the director used the right colors in this movie(dark blue colors) to give it the right kind of feel. Kimberly Elise also starred in this movie and it is always a pleasure to see her on the big screen. She plays her role well. Even Jamie Kennedy is in this movie. It's worth seeing it you haven't seen it. It's definitely worth having if you are a Jamie Foxx fan. It deserves more credit than it is actually given. "},{"Title":"Really Enjoyable Movie","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Of course the idea is pretty much out there...the federal government arranging to have a tracking device implanted into the jaw of an small-time thief to lure a more dangerous thief/computer hacker out of hiding.  But Alvin Sanders, the man who the feds have volunteered to be implanted with the device, is a very likable person and it turns out to be a lot of fun getting in his head with him for a little while.  Alvin even eventually proves himself to be much more than a good-humored but passive or one-dimensional character when he shows that he is not nearly as easily manipulated as he may seem.   Definetly worth a watch.   "},{"Title":"Crystal Clear What's Wong with Hollywood","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie epitomizes the empty-headed, empty-calorie storytelling and directing style of today's Hollywood - and Antoine Fuqua (director) is a shining example of everything that's so wrong with film-making today.No doubt he is great as a music video director - flashing images on the screen as the song tells the story - but you cannot build a movie on just flashing images - since he cannot tell a story and have no ideas how people talk to each other - his movies and this one, BAIT is completely devoid of anything remotely resembling a movie.If you enjoy the short cinematics between video game play - this is the movie for you. What exactly is this movie about? Well, it has possibilities, the Treasury Department decides to use a relatively innocent decoy as a dupe in drawing out a hacker - adventures and attempts at humor ensues.What format did Antoine Fuqua decide to tell this story? - well, since is frame of reference and sum of cinematic knowledge & of life apparently stretches all the way back to DIE HARD - that's what we get - warmed over DIE HARD. But instead of a smirking Bruce Willis (at least original in the beginning) with sarcastic comments to uncut the tension and make it more real - in this case, substitute hip-hop/street in the guise of Jamie Foxx - Jamie certainly tries hard but maybe Spike Lee was right in his comments about Africian Americans and their minstrel movie roles.And while this innocent dupe is wandering around NYC getting into new troubles, do we get any glimmer of humor or thought in the story in keeping him out of trouble? - this might constitute a spoiler alert if anybody cares but in one instance, they think he needs money so they dress up an undercover agent as a mailman and hand him a check - I hope they didn't shutdown the set to spend all day to think of this one. Or that the Treasury Department has a whole special underground computer facility with a hundred agents working on this case but of course, the few that come in contact with Jamie Foxx undercover are the same ones he sees over and over again.But that isn't what crushes the movie - what crushes it is it makes no sense at all and insults our intelligence at every level. And the final insult, we have an omnipotent hacker who can get into an impenetrable government computer & vault and track the whereabouts of Jamie Foxx's character in NYC but when you see the final shot - we're suppose to believe his not-very bright partner with the heart condition was able to elude the hacker and drive around NYC with a excavator to bury the loot in a place where thousands of people work there everyday? If you accept everything at face value, the director apparently made of list of shots he would like to see in a movie - mostly music video shots like helicopter infra-red shots of Manhatten, a tanker skidding on a wet street, people typing on computers, a taxi hitting a Porsche on a wet street, an alley footchase through (get ready) a wet street or places that make no sense like a racetrack (just to be original.) - then add in a bunch of fog machines and water hoses, you have a movie according to the director - the rest of film-making plot, storytelling, acting, coherence and intelligence - that's all secondary (or worse) to moving the camera around real fast and quick cuts.Empty and stupid.   "},{"Title":"A good rental movie.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie to rent.  I enjoyed it for it's entertainment.  This is not a movie that I would have to see over and over again, then again there are very few movies that good.  Overall, though, this was a well made and entertaining movie.  After reading some of the reviews, I still hear people who are wanting perfection out of a movie before they can just sit down and enjoy.  People, remember they are just movies. If you want reality watch the news.  At least this movie had some good acting and some humor built into it.  I'll be the first to admit that I have seen some better movies than this one, but then again, I have seen way worse.If you just enjoy sitting back and laughing, with a little bit of adrenaline rush, rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Status check please.....","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Alvin Sanders, a fast-talking street punk, is on his way to prison when he's stuck in a holding cell with a dying man who has a $43 million secret. He knows where stolen gold is hidden. With his last breath, he tells Alvin something that makes no sense to the US Treasury agent, Clenteen, who soon interrogates Alvin. Eighteen months later, Clenteen wants to find the robbery's mastermind, an elusive computer genius named Bristol. He lets Alvin loose, as bait. As Alvin tries to change his life, he becomes an unwitting pawn caught between the murderous Bristol and the uptight, hard-nosed Clenteen....The first you thing you notice about this film is that it comes across as the poor mans Enemy Of The State, from the one sheet, right to computer geeks. And the second thing you notice is that right after Pastorelli dies in the film, the film falls flat on its face, and goes from watchable, to joke worthy.Foxx was in the mode of trying to be too funny and too likable at the time of its release. Everything he does After Collateral, he is watchable, tolerable, even endearing, but in this, Booty Call, and Breaking all the rules, he's too smug, too annoying, and eventually someone you couldn't care less about.Morse is okay, but you see his character in every hard nosed agent from 1993 to 2005, and Hutchinson isn't t a very good villain.The story and narrative is poor, and the best thing in this is Pastorelli, and he dies 15 minutes in.I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me. Some things were clicheish and some technological elements reminded me of the movie Enemy of the State starring Will Smith. But for the most part very entertaining- good mix with Jamie Foxx and comedian Mike Epps and the 2 wannabe thugs Julio and Ramundo (providing some comic relief). This is a movie you can watch over again-say...  some Wednesday night when nothing else is on. I gave it a 9 for entertainment value. "}{"Title":"Better than you'd expect","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am amazed at how this movie(and most others has a average 5 stars and lower when there are crappy movies averaging 7 to 10 stars on IMDb. The fanboy mentality strikes again. When this movie came out just about everyone slammed it. Even my ex-girlfriend said this movie questionable. Years later I sat down to watch this movie and I found myself enjoying. Even laughing quite a bit. This and The Replacement Killers are the movies that had people labeling the director Antoine Fuqua as the black Michael Bay. I don't see how since most of Fuqua's movies are smarter than anything Michael Bay has came up with. At any rate...Story Alvin Sanders(Jamie Foxx) is former convict that is used by a no-nonsense Treasury agent Edgar(David Morse) as a pawn to catch a killer named Bristol(Doug Hutchinson). Alvin's every moves are tracked by a bug implanted in his jaw after an accident. While these agents are after Bristol, Bristol is after the gold bricks that were taken in a heist gone awry.Jamie Foxx is funny as well as great as Alvin Sanders. Alvin is a fast-talker that is a lot smarter than he lets on. Doug Hutchinson is okay as Bristol. He can be over-the-top sometimes in his John Malkovitchesque demeanor. He was better here than he was as Looney Bin Jim in Punisher War Zone. David Morse is good as the hard edged treasury agent. Even Mike Epps is funny as Alvin's brother Stevie. Both him and Jamie had some funny moments on screen.The only flaw of the movie is the some of the attempts at a thriller fall flat. The scenario at the horse race track is way over-the-top but I couldn't look away. The director went all out there so he gets points for that. Plus the bomb scene with the treasury agent tied to a chair while the detonator rests on the door was pretty nifty.All in all Bait is not a bad movie by a long shot. Its never boring, its always funny and I wasn't checking my watch every minute. That should count for something. Bait is one of the most underrated movies of 2000 period.PS to the reviewer that claimed this movie is too violent.... How long have you been living under a rock? I'm pretty sure you've seen the Die Hard series and EVERY movie by Quentin Tarantino. But those movies aren't violent right? Weirdo. "},{"Title":"Subtle yet entertaining","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have to agree with most of the other posts. Was it a comedy? a drama? to me it leaned a little to much towards the comedy side. I could have been a great movie without the comedy and it was horribly contrived. Jamie keeps running into the Julio and whats his name. In New York, how many times do you run into someone you know in downtown Cleveland.And just how could Robert Pastorelli dig up Yankee Stadium to hide the gold. Again, a comedy or drama? But it was still entertaining especially for a Sunday morning. I enjoyed Kimberly Elise's performance, she certainly a beautiful actress and seems to take her craft seriously. She is a younger actress that is going to be viable. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Original and Fun","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had no expectations; I'd never heard of Jamie Foxx; all I knew was that the film has some strong character actors in it.  I thought it was highly entertaining; it was fun.  The plot was different and unpredictable enough to hold my interest.  To me, Foxx is an original.  David Morse is terrific (true, this is not his finest role).  I thought the chases and pyrotechnics contributed to the film and were well done.  I didn't expect a lot and I was happily surprised. "},{"Title":"A comic & dramatic surprise, unexpectedly satisfying.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Both my friend and I thought this movie was well done. We expected a light hearted comedy but got a full blown action movie with comic thrusts. We both thought that this movie may have not done so well at the box office as the previews lead us to believe it was a comedy. I was impressed with the supporting actors and of course Dave Morse always puts in a terrific acting job.  Most of the supporting cast are veterans not first timers and they were solid. We both felt that the writing and direction were first rate and made comments to each other about buying this movie. If you don't buy rent it for a good time. "},{"Title":"Comedy More Than Action","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me and turned out to be pretty good.  I left the room when they started to watch it but the bits and pieces I caught at the beginning were enough to reel me in.  In Bait Jamie Foxx plays an ex-con being used without his knowledge as lure for a dangerous criminal.  I thought Jamie Foxx was really funny.  All throughout Bait I kept drawing parallels to Will Smith and Enemy of the State(one of the surveillance actors from Enemy of the State actually plays the same role in Bait). Foxx is definitely funnier than Will and that makes the movie as a whole really funny.  I don't know how the movie was promoted, but I would actually describe it as a comedy before an action film.    "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Bait is the type of film that makes you say Wow!!!! I enjoyed this film.There are several things I enjoyed about Bait. The first thing was the villainous character played by Doug Hutchison. His character is the second villain since Will Patton's Gen. Bethlahem in The Postman that was not only excellently played but done so with such brilliance.The second thing I enjoyed was the fact that the script seemed to be so unique in what was being played out on screen. When I go to movies I look for originality and that is what I found with Bait. Furthermore, it was not just action nor was it a comedy but it was I was so glad to see David Morse back on the screen after his captivating performance in The Green Mile.Finally, I enjoyed how Bait never let up from the beginning to the end. Also, each cast member brings something special to Bait, which makes it much more dramatic and funny film. Bait is  a film that will appeal to everyone young and old and for those who like dramatic scenes as well as comedic scenes. I give this film two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"unacceptable fascism","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Let's drag the ugly stuff up front for all to viewThe federal agent character played by David Morse is a disgusting brutal fascist thug. To make his character a supporting 'hero' effectively makes the following arguments to the audience (the validity of which I comment on in parentheses)For the sake of 42 million dollars of stolen gold, government agents may ignore the Constitution of the United States and 1. Torture; 2. Deny medical care to suspected criminals; 3. Threaten informants with summary execution; 4. Fail to advise the accused of their rights and deny access to their attorneys (Is there any lawyer there representing the Jamie Foxx character anywhere anytime in this film? - nope.) 5. Assault a convict in order to engage in experimentation during consequent surgery; 6. Engage in close survey of innocent citizens without warrant; including implanted communications and tracking devices, wire-tapping, and audio-voyeurism during suspect's sexual activities; 7. Commit to a policy of killing innocent citizens in order to kill a suspected criminal; 8. Commit to the intention to kill a suspected criminal without arrest, trial, conviction, or judgment; 9. Commandeer the municipal police of NYC without respect to the rights of the state or municipality.ALl this in 2000, before the horrid Bush regime?! David Morse's character needs to be hauled before a congressional committed, arrested, tried, convicted, and sentenced to several life-term in prison, running consecutively (meaning, one life after another, just in case he has several), without probation. George Bush, too.And since the victim of most of these crimes is a Black man, do we detect just a little racism here? only mitigated by out-right pandering to potential Black audiences?Disgusting. Burn it. Burn every film like it. Restore the Constitution of the United States, including its sacred Bill of Rights! "},{"Title":"Baiting Entertainment.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Bait (2000) Dir Antoine Faqua / Cast Jamie Foxx, Doug Hutchinson, David Morse, Robert Pastorelli, Kimberly Elise It looks pretty much like every other carbon copy action film but it is a notch above because we care about the hero. It regards the value of human life, which is more than I can account for many other films of this kind. Jamie Foxx stars as a flawed thief arrested when he is mistaken for a gold thief. He is given information then a tracking device is surgically implanted in his jaw. Foxx is set free in hopes that the criminal searching for the missing gold takes bait. Directed with insight by Antoine Faqua who made the dumber than sh*t The Replacement Killers. Here he makes a film that not only contains energy in its action scenes, but also a sense of care in its hero. Foxx delivers a sympathetic performance that is the one element that holds the plot together. He plays a guy on the wrong side of the law whom suddenly is put in position to do right and start over. We are given an exhilarating climax and a deadly villain, played by Doug Hutchinson as lethal as they get. Morse's role is somewhat flat as a cop forcing Foxx to undergo this crap. Robert Pastorelli has a brief key role as a criminal with information and then he dies so it really doesn't matter. Superb escape entertainment that should bait action lovers in the mood to root for the underdog. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Mixture Of Action & Comedy","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are plenty of laughs in this crime thriller about a small-time thief who's given a clue to the location of a huge amount of stolen gold. The information he holds leads to him (unknowingly) being followed by both the Feds and the criminal who masterminded the gold robbery. The problem is, he's in no position to profit from the knowledge he has because he doesn't know what the clue means.Two robberies from different ends of the criminal spectrum are carried out at the same time and Alvin Sanders (Jamie Foxx) who'd been arrested for his part in the theft of a consignment of prawns, finds himself sharing a prison cell with John Jaster (Robert Pastorelli) who'd been involved in the theft of $42 million worth of gold from the Federal Reserve. Jaster, a man with a serious heart condition, fears that he may not live long enough to get out of prison and so gives Alvin a cryptic message to pass on to his wife. The message which refers to The Bronx Zoo and There's no place like home, means nothing to Alvin and so he gives it no further thought.The gold robbery had been meticulously planned by Bristol (Doug Hutchison) but during the heist, when he needlessly killed two security guards in execution-style shootings, Jaster was so appalled that he deserted his partner and drove off in the getaway vehicle and hid the gold. After being incarcerated, Jaster is questioned by tough U.S. Treasury Agent Edgar Clenteen (David Morse) but suffers a heart attack during the interrogation and dies. This leaves the ruthless Clenteen with nothing to go on and so he decides to manipulate Alvin's early release from prison so that he can put him out on the street and make it generally known that Alvin knows where the gold is. In order to do this, Clenteen illegally arranges for a tracking device to be implanted in Alvin's jaw.The tracking device enables the agents at a control centre to monitor Alvin's precise location at all times and also to listen in to his conversations. This, Clenteen believes, will bring Bristol out into the open and eventually lead to the recovery of the stolen gold.Bait is an entertaining mixture of action and comedy that includes some well choreographed car chases and stunts. The two dominant colours used are dark-blue and black and they complement the prevailing atmosphere perfectly. Jamie Foxx is brilliant as the hyperactive and apparently not-very-bright Alvin whose personal life and talent for getting into trouble cause problems for both him and the Feds and David Morse makes a big impression as the totally humourless Clenteen. Doug Hutchison is suitably creepy as the soft-spoken psychopathic computer genius whose ability to hack government networks, makes him an on-going threat to the authorities.There's nothing particularly original in Bait but what makes it so enjoyable is Jamie Foxx, some crazy over-the-top moments (like the stunt at the end of the movie) and the skillful way in which the violence and the humour are balanced so effectively. "},{"Title":"All attitude and no fun","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Alvin Sanders (Jamie Foxx) is a career petty criminal who got caught stealing prawns. U.S. Treasury investigator Edgar Clenteen (David Morse) is working on a case of stolen $42M gold. John Jaster (Robert Pastorelli) double crossed his partner Bristol (Doug Hutchison) and hid the gold. The investigation finds Jaster's fingerprint and it turns out that he's in Rikers for DWI. Before he dies, the sick Jaster tells Alvin to tell his wife that There's no place like home. and about the Brooklyn zoo. The technically advanced Bristol is using his skills to follow Clenteen in his investigation. The amoral Clenteen secretly plants a tracker/bug in Alvin's jaw, and let a rumor out that he knows where the gold is. They allow Alvin to walk and Clenteen hopes to catch Bristol when he comes after Alvin.Jamie Foxx is trying so hard to be the smart-mouthed fun guy, and the movie is trying to be a high-energy thriller. Neither one reach their goal. It's just too outlandish. There's too much ridiculous stuff going on. Director Antoine Fuqua is trying hide a mediocre comedy thriller with a lot of attitude. It just tires out the movie. Of the three lead characters, I like none of them. The constant yapping from Foxx is not fun, and Mike Epps is not a good partner for him. They're almost the same character. The duo needs a straight guy. And the action is second rate anyways. "}{"Title":"What on earth?","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the course of a massive robbery, psycho Bristol (Doug Hutchison) murders two prisoners and partner Jaster (Robert Pastorelli) abandons him, only to be caught, having stashed the loot. When Jaster dies in custody, Treasury agent Clenteen (David Morse) presses his cellmate Alvin (Jamie Foxx) into being unwitting bait to snare Bristol.This is a perfectly serviceable plot. So is the wrinkle about Alvin discovering he has become a father while he was in prison, and resolving to get a job and become responsible. The balance between gritty action and humour is a little uneasy and makes the film feel as if it doesn't really know what it wants to be.But the big fault lies with two of the characters. Most are absolutely fine, but David Morse's Lenteen has no humanity and is unlikeable, and Foxx's Alvin is so irritating that you want to smack his head together. Yes, I know. "},{"Title":"Escape Me If You Can","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The sophomore feature of visual stylist Antoine Fuqua (Training Day, Brooklyn's Finest) rotates around a simple, but pretty brill idea. After a bank heist gone awry when psychotic computer whizz Bristol (Doug Hutchison) executes several guards, heavy-duty specialist Jaster escapes in a truck filled with gold. Soon he is captured, however only after the loot has been hidden. During his stay in prison he confides in Alvin Sanders (Jamie Foxx), small time crook caught stealing shrimp, sorry, prawns, from a warehouse. Soon after Jaster unfortunately gets a heart attack during interrogation by agent Edgar Clenteen (David Morse), leaving Sanders to be privy to key knowledge. In an attempt to capture the dangerous Bristol, Sanders is unknowingly bugged and released from prison, as live bait...Fuqua is undoubtedly one of the most intriguing African-American directors out there and here is proof of capabilities, albeit delivery is faulty and jumpy. Much can be attributed to the apparent Fuqua seems to be a director heavily dependant on source material. Given a good script he will deliver a brilliant movie. However Bait possesses only a mediocre one, fraught with lesser plot holes and unfeasible situations. Furthermore Jamie Foxx struggles to capture the role of a talkative Chris Rock wannabee, feeling much better in more dramatic or action-packed sequences, where he excels.Nonetheless a thrilling ride with some stunningly filmed sequences overflowing with potential and well-thought gimmickry. Just needed some polishing in dialogue and plot to push up the satisfaction level to more acceptable levels. "},{"Title":"A vehicle for a fresh funnyman","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jamie Foxx is the movie. His portrayal of a f**k-up with a good heart -- that melts when he gets out of jail to find he is a father -- is not new but it's fresh. He's that classic a scared small-time no-good with lip. But funny lip, so he gets away with it. He plays Alvin Sanders with just that wonderful mix of fright and bravado -- turned up to 11 at the climax, but by then you're so on his side that you'll let him and the director get away with anything. Wonderful dialogue. And kudos to the director, cinematographer and editor the action stuff is whirlwind exciting, and camera business takes the place of spurting blood. Girlfriends can like this movie! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me. Some things were clicheish and some technological elements reminded me of the movie Enemy of the State starring Will Smith. But for the most part very entertaining- good mix with Jamie Foxx and comedian Mike Epps and the 2 wannabe thugs Julio and Ramundo (providing some comic relief). This is a movie you can watch over again-say...  some Wednesday night when nothing else is on. I gave it a 9 for entertainment value. "},{"Title":"One good movie this is.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best action comedies that I have ever seen. It is one that I heard about while reading the filmography for Jeffrey Donovan after I had finished watching BOOK OF SHADOWS BLAIR WITCH 2. And when I heard about this movie, I had to see it immediately. I bought it at Jewel (its not funny) and started watching it as soon as I got back. And it was well worth it. It starts out slow and then once we get to Jamie Foxx and Mike Epps' intro scene, things are rolling. They even make a small reference to The Godfather Trilogy. This movie has some hard-hitting action sequences with some hilarious humor thrown in by Foxx and Epps. *spoilers* David Morse takes on a different role from his usual kind and caring big men and takes on the role of a Government agent searching for a killer who has stolen 42 million dollars in gold. Alvin Sanders (Foxx) shares a jail cell with one of the men who stole the gold. Jaster (Robert Pastorelli) has just hidden the gold from his partner, Bristol (Doug Hutchison) and is now hiding out in jail. After he dies of heart problems, Edgar Clenteen (Morse) comes up with a plan. Hint that Alvin Sanders knows where the gold is, and see if their elusive killer will come out of the woodwork. And this leads to hilarious and explosive problems. Even a little bit of suspense thrown in every now and then. The ending is a little cliched. Alvin must save a large group of people from meeting their demise by driving a bomb into a lake. That was the only thing that I thought was kind of dumb. Other than that, this movie never slows down. They main characters are well developed. Jeffrey Donovan and Kirk Acevedo were the two funniest people in the film. They were a riot. I give BAIT 5/5 for making me laugh harder than I have in a long time. "},{"Title":"Jamie Foxx's first shot at action flick","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie may not win awards but it's entertaining and cool. I  think Jamie Foxx's character as a petty thief used as bait to catch a killer was good.  Mike Epps also played a pretty funny character and his good looking girlfriend was pretty hot.  David Morse's character was well played as a Federal Agent who had no sense of humor at all. Especially the line when delivers the good news and bad news. Doug Hutchison's role as a psycho was pretty good but he was to Malkovich-Like. All I am saying is give this  movie a shot, like  it or not. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this one. If you have to watch only one movie a year, maybe  this isn't the one. But if you are anything like me, and watch alot of movies, then this one is good. Not alot of plot complexity mixed with plenty of laughs and a bit of fun makes for a good movie experience. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good story","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is great and I like the story. I prefer this movie than other movie such The cell ( sick movie ) and Highlander ( silly movie ). I just tell the truth, I like a reality hehe and also a true story ) "},{"Title":"Way better than expected","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I tuned into Bait one night on cable when I had nothing better to do, and was quite glad I did. Some have called this film a poor impersonation of Enemy of the State, but the cast from this movie is actually superior to that cast.Jamie Foxx plays Alvin Sanders, a typical New York City hustler type who runs afoul of the law without being violent. His main game is to steal large quantities of prawns (expensive shrimp) and sell them on the black market. He winds up busted by a guard dog and sent to prison, and that's where his troubles begin.Alvin's cellmate turns out to be Jasper, who dies of a heart attack during questioning about the heist of $42 million in gold from the US Treasury, in which a Treasury agent is murdered (otherwise, they wouldn't have gone to the trouble to catch him). Before he dies, Jasper confides in Alvin (in code) where the gold is, and the T-men realize that he can be used as bait to flush out the superhacker who thinks that he knows where the gold is.Alvin is clueless as to what's going on, but slowly comes to realize during the film that the killer wants him dead, and the government doesn't care if he dies in order for them to catch the Killer. To that extent, the movie uses the formula that The Firm did so well years earlier. Foxx's comedic talents greatly enhance his performance, and show once again (as John Candy did in Cool Runnings) that the proper use for a comedian in a major motion picture is to use his talent to add depth to a dramatic role.Jamie Foxx has won an Oscar for Ray since this movie came out, and is now on the A-list. David Morse went on to star in Hack on television and has impressive credentials all his own. The supporting cast is solid and you'll recognize most of them from their other work (such as Robert Pastorelli of Murphy Brown playing Jasper, or David Paymer, who also was good in Joe And Max on Showtime).When a bad movie takes itself too seriously, and pretends it's a good movie, it can be insufferable. Fortunately for the viewer, this movie takes itself seriously because it really is a good movie, well-acted, and with a cast that makes the most out of what it was given. Sure, the movie could have been better, but not by as much as one might think if they haven't seen it.The only thing I didn't like about the movie was Kimberly Elise as the stereotypical together single black mother who looks down on the very type of man she rushed into bed with to have her child. "},{"Title":"Enemy of The State meets Seven","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film was.. decent. It's Enemy of The State meets Seven, basically. A lot of high tech gov't gadgets.. Think of it as Kevin Spacey'scharacter in Seven, with Gene Hackman's NSA knowledge from Enemy of the State..Hutchison did an excellent job imitating Spacey's John Doe character.. right down to the expressions & movements.. I wonder how many times he had to watch that movie, to get it just right..It's too bad he didn't bring something original to the character though.. If I wanted to watch Seven.. Id watch Seven.Jamie Foxx was hilarious though.. he needs to do MORE films.. he's someone you could never tire of..David Morse also did a great job.. he plays a dick, just as well as a good guy.. we need to see more of him in movies too.The movie itself.. kinda drawn out, but tolerable.  "}{"Title":"An embarrassment for Foxx","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  BAIT (2000) * Jamie Foxx, David Morse, Doug Hutchison, Kimberly Elise, David Paymer, Mike Epps, Nestor Serrano, Jamie Kennedy, Robert Pastorelli.  (Dir Antoine Fuqua)Jamie Foxx is on a crest of superstardom but wipes out here in this incredibly derivative and unoriginal action comedy that supersedes his talent and an audience's endurance.Foxx plays petty criminal Alvin Sanders, a fast-talking loser who winds up in deep trouble when he's busted for an ill-conceived prawn heist (that's right, a prawn  heist) - so bad that he keeps explaining the difference from regular shrimp) and thrown into jail with another would-be thief named Jaster (Pastorelli) who was part of a two-man operation to rob the Federal Reserve of $42 million in gold bars when his sociopathic partner, Bristol (Hutchison doing a mean John Malkovich) , who offed the two security guards and wound up without their treasure.  Only Jaster knows, or so it seems, and his heart condition only makes matters worse when he croaks during his interrogation by hard-on Treasury Agent Clenteen (Morse, completely wasted of his talent here) who then assumes Sanders might have some knowledge since he rationalizes they were cell mates for eight hours.When he gets nothing from Sanders, Clenteen sees to it he gets his prison sentence and flash forward 18 months later with Sanders being released as part of an intricately planned maneuver by the still relentless Clenteen which involves implanting a microchip transmitter in Sanders' jaw (don't ask) whereby he can trace every move the ex-con will make (naturally in the path of the inevitable gold; smart huh?) Sanders hooks up with his crime loving brother (Epps) and reunites with his girl (Elise) who is skeptical and has Sanders' baby to prove he better be talking the talk and going straight. What follows is just another pedestrian script of letting some throwaway one-liners by Foxx and the usual pyrotechniques by the film's ridiculous climax involving Bristol menacing his family and an elaborate set up at a race track. Foxx squanders his natural talent here and needs to re-focus his film path (he was great in his semi-dramatic turn in `Any Given Sunday' last year) and continue re-fining his comic skills on his tv series.  The film is an embarrassment to himself and to his fans.  "},{"Title":"Well made","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Bait is the type of film that makes you say Wow!!!! I enjoyed this film.There are several things I enjoyed about Bait. The first thing was the villainous character played by Doug Hutchison. His character is played with excellence and brilliance.The second thing I enjoyed was the fact that the script seemed to be so unique in what was being played out on screen. When I watch movies I look for originality and I found this with Bait. Finally, I enjoyed how Bait never let up from the beginning to the end. Also, each cast member brings something special to Bait, which makes it much more dramatic and funny film. Bait is a film that will appeal to everyone who enjoys dramatic scenes as well as comedic scenes.  "},{"Title":"One of the best action/comedies I have ever seen!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of Jamie Foxx before this movie, but he has the same humorous black-style comedy of Eddie Murphy, Chris Rock and Chris Tucker. Him being cast as the anti-hero who every one can relate to is a great method of evoking sympathy in him, when he is up against the horrible evil manipulative computer genius who also carries the film, because his presence is so threatening, throughout the entire film.The film plays like an action/comedy of 'rush hour' style, except it has extremely morbid elements in it, that makes it more demanding viewing than your regular action comedy. It is well worth seeing, and from someone who sees about ten movies a week, I can say that you can't find a better way to spend a night than by watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Much, much better then expected.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film resembles in many ways `Enemy of the State' with Will Smith and Gene Hackman, as we have an innocent (black) man being pursued by the `government' with all the modern technology known to man.  Usually when storyline is copied like this the result is a disaster.  That does not apply here.  Of course I love everything David Morse does, so maybe my comments are not fair, but there were more good things about this film then that.  The main baddy, played by Doug Hutchison, was brilliant, and the story flowed with excellent extras such as David Paymer and Robert Pastorelli.  Our hero, Alvin Sanders (played by Jamie Foxx), was however irritating most of the part.  He is so out of place, cracking bad jokes, evoking no sympathy from the audience.  Or not to begin with, the strange thing is that he kinda grows on you (and on his followers as well!).  I didn't expect much when I rented it, but was surprised with a good solid action movie with comedy bits. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Liked it a lot","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I happened across Bait on cable one night just as it started and thought, Eh, why not? I'm glad I gave it a chance. Bait ain't perfect. It suffers from unnecessarily flashy direction and occasional dumbness. But overall, this movie worked. All the elements aligned just right, and they pulled off what otherwise could have been a pretty ugly film. Most of that, I think, is due to Jamie Foxx. I don't know who tagged Foxx for the lead, but whoever it was did this movie a big favor. Believable and amazingly likeable, Foxx glides through the movie, smooth as butter and funnier than hell. You can tell he's working on instinct, and instinct doesn't fail him.The plot, while unimportant, actually ties together pretty well, and there's even a character arc through which Foxx's character grows as a person. Again, they could've slipped by without any of this, but it just makes things that much better.I'm surprised at the low rating for this. Maybe I just caught this move on the right night, or vice versa, but I'd give it a 7/10. Bravo, Mssr. Foxx. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this film has much to recommend it, particularly an especially sinister performance by David Morse and a more than passable performance by the always worth watching Mr. Foxx.  Although there are a lot of holes in the plot and the motivation is very, very hard to follow in some cases, all in all, it makes for a nice time in front of the tube. "},{"Title":"great action/comedy","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is one of the best action/comedy ever.Jamie foxx was pretty funny and he also proves that he is also a man of action.This movie reminded me of the other action movie with will smith which is enemy of the state.I don't think that anyone would say no to this movie,for those who likes action/comedy. I give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Action Comedy - Nothing more, nothing less.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really am shocked to see the number of reviews that lambaste this movie. This movie was not intended to be a deep thought movie, which is what the vast majority of the reviewers seem to think it should be. In fact, it would appear that if ANY movie doesn't produce a life altering insight, and a deep, twisted, mind boggling plot, they would rate it a 1 or 2. Don't trash a movie because you don't like the genre, people.This movie was an Action/Comedy flick, and that's all it was intended to be. And for an Action/Comedy, it was very well done. I was actually rather surprised that I enjoyed it as much as I did, having never really been a Jamie Foxx fan, and having the over-used plot that it has.The plot was nothing spectacular, using the typical criminal gets out of prison, and is thrown into bad-guy plot while trying to clean up his act (See Blue Streak, Hudson Hawk, 48 Hours, etc. etc. etc.) but it was warmed over with a bit of a technological twist. Now the bad guys are actually the good guys and the REAL bad guy is an uber-geek.Jamie Foxx actually plays a convincingly humorous, while at the same time rather intelligent and serious main character, and didn't try to overdo the humor side of the film.If you're looking for a deep underlying plot such as in The Matrix or a drama such as Of Mice and Men then this movie isn't for you. But if you enjoy the raw action, excellent fast-paced filming, and an occasional twist of humor tossed in, this movie won't disappoint you. I would normally have rated it about an 8 (on the same level as the Die Hard Trilogy), but instead gave it a 10 to try and bring the score up to what it SHOULD be. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie.  When the guy who was in on a bank heist of $40 million in gold dies, his cell mate is used as Bait to lead them to the high-tech crazy killer partner (by having a monitoring device implanted in his jaw without his knowledge). It's an action, spy type film with enough comical scenes to keep it light. It reminded me of Enemy Of The State. Well acted and good enough plot.  "},{"Title":"A mediocre action/comedy/drama for younger audiences","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Bait doesn't work as an action flick or a comedy or a drama. However, as an action/comedy/drama is makes for a somewhat enjoyable watch. Starring Jamie Foxx in the title role (the bait), the flick is shot like an action film, acted like a drama, with the comedy coming from Foxx who does what he does best playing a fast talking, street wise, bungling hero of sorts. A total no brainer for the younger audiences. "}{"Title":"Bait could have used a switch from Foxx","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There's every reason to think that Bait should be a great action-thriller -- a good plot, compelling characters, high-flying action, and catchy music.But as good as Bait gets, there's this little voice at the back of the noggin that says `it could have been better' and it boils down to a very fundamental problem. Comedian Jamie Foxx, an alumni of the esteemed In Living Color television series, may be a funny guy on the small screen, but he simply lacks the star power to get airborne and rise above the personalities that surround him.In fact, he more or less drowns in the sea of talent that makes up the rest of this movie as central casting seems to have done a great job in finding the right actor for every role but the main one.For example, we have David Morse, who looks and acts remarkably like Russell Crowe, playing to near perfection Edgar Clenteen, a tough cop who will stop at nothing to find his man.Then there's Doug Hutchison, whom many may remember as Percy Wetmore, the spoiled brat turned prison guard in the Green Mile, or as the evil cyborg Elroy L in the television series Space Above and Beyond. This time he plays a soft-spoken sociopath with enough eeriness to run Satan out of hell.And don't forget Robert Pastorelli as Jaster, a desperate ex-con with a bad heart looking to make one big score if not for him, then for his wife. Or David Paymer as Agent Wooly, the nervous but reliable assistant to the firey Clenteen. Even in their limited roles they exude personality plus.Foxx, on the other hand, has all the prescence of a wet dishrag as he more or less shuffles along, yammering away in some sort of barely decipherable hood talk that rarely rises above annoying and never to funny.   A better choice for the central role would have been someone who does a lot less talking and a lot more acting. Even Ice T has shown the ability to speak a thousand words with but a single, tortured facial expression.   Fortunately, the storyline is such a good one that Foxx's faults can almost be excused. Reminiscent of the heroin-addict-turned-unwilling-assassin in La Femme Nikita, we instead have Alvin Sanders, played by Foxx, a two-bit shrimp thief, who becomes the `bait' with which the authorities try to draw out a ruthless mastermind who not only stole $42 million worth of gold but killed two security guards in the process.The twists, the turns, the crosses, and the double crosses make for great suspense, made all the more exciting when the pawn discovers that he's a lowly yet pivotal piece on a very complicated chess board.Too bad that as even as an underdog, Foxx is difficult to cheer for. "},{"Title":"It's good as a overall flick","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is fair here and the acting is also fair.  But the comedy is good.  Jamie Foxx can deliver in any circumstance whether it is a action comedy, football drama, or even a booty call, he call give a good performance.  He plays Alvin Sanders (Foxx), a prawn theif who gets some info on a gold robber from a bunk mate in jail.  Some time later, the feds want to catch the gold thief (Doug Hutchinson plays this villain better than the villain in The Green Mile) so they plant a transmittor in Sanders hoping to snif out the guy, but then, Sanders turns out to be a lot different then the feds though.  Part Enemy of the State because whenever Sanders has the bug on him, you have that thought in the back of your head telling you that no matter what Sanders is in, he is being heard by the feds.  But also part comedy because Foxx can bring laughs up just by having a conversation with his criminal brother (Mike Epps).  Somewhat ludicrous ending, but it doesn't matter in a film like this.  Overall, B+ (for some flaws). "},{"Title":"A good action film","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Hey John, we have another film here that we want you to be in.  You would basically be playing the same role you did in IN THE LINE OF FIRE.  But still, it looks pretty good.  You could have some fun with it.  I'll send you over the script and you take a look at it.   ( After reading the script, John carefully considers it and decides that he does not want to play another Mitch Leery/Booth, so he passes on the film, even though it looks like a pretty interesting script.)  So who is the next best choice to play the heavy in this film?  How about that guy who kills the mouse in GREEN MILE?  Yea, he is a perfect Malkovich.  So the producers get Doug Hutchison to play the heavy in Bait and even though he does a very admirable job, one can't help but to compare the two characters.  There is especially one scene where he tells Alvin that the only reason that he is alive is because he allows it and those words are almost taken right out of the screenplay for IN THE LINE OF FIRE.  But, having said that, the question is, is the film any good?  And the answer is YES!It's too bad the producers of the film didn't know a thing or two about release dates because this one got swallowed up in it's first week and made just over 5 million dollars.  This originally had a summer release date and they pushed it back for whatever reason, perhaps thinking they would wait until the summer films ran their course and the public was thirsty for another Martin Lawrence/Eddie Murphy type film.  But even if they would have released this film a month or so ago, it may have finished second or third in the weekend sweeps, but it still would have made more than 5 mill at the box office.  Now this film will probably end it's domestic run with about 15-17 million and if it was released earlier, you could have added about another 20 million to it.  But hey, not my problem.This film works for many reasons, one of them of course being Jamie Foxx, but more so because of the story.  I like how the script called for Alvin to figure out what was happening to him and it smartly unravelled the mystery for him.  It was an intelligent script and along the way it had time for some humour as well.  But not quite as much as I expected considering how funny Foxx is.  But no matter because the film kept me entertained and hey, not everyone can do the BEVERLY HILLS COP/BAD BOYS thing to perfection.  I also like David Morse in his role as the tough as nails investigator that seems to hold a personal grudge against Alvin.  He was always p***ed about something where as the rest of the surveillance team seemed to be growing to like Alvin.  It was also kind of interesting to see Morse and Hutchison in another movie together ( they were both in Green Mile ).As for the ending, I have to agree with other people that have said that it is quite impossible for the money to be where it was.  But hey, that's the movies for you.  Not possible, but a nice way to end the film.Bait is a good action film with a twist of a mystery in it and it is a very good film.  Foxx shows that he is quite the serious actor when he needs to be, just as he did in ANY GIVEN SUNDAY.  I think this is one of the surprises of the year.  It isn't as good as a film like GLADIATOR or THE PATRIOT, but it is certainly better than most other films that have disgraced the screens this summer.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie was far better than I expected. In fact it was great.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok I went to this movie expecting a few great one-liners and a bit of action from Jaime Fox. Instead I got this superbly directed, great action, comedy, drama all in one. You would not nearly expect the intensity of this film especially toward the end you are absolutely on the edge of your seat. Go watch it! "},{"Title":"Good Film, Foxx is Amusing","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Went to see this film on the review by Roger Ebert. It's okay. It plays with the busted gold heist, gives the star a wisecracking urban adorability, and holds the audience interest through the end. It's heavy on the high tech, illegal surveillance angle. I lost count of the number of monitors the feds have as they track the Jamie Foxx character, so I hope they got a good deal at Circuit City. The movie does a lot with a little. For instance, in the first scene, we see Jamie Foxx and a friend about to rob a seafood warehouse for a couple of thousand dollars. Foxx makes a point to his friend -soon to be a coward- that they aren't hitting a shrimp joint. They're prawns. Foxx gets a lot of mileage from that exchange. Jamie Foxx is quite funny with the faces and the one-liners. However, it means the film is flipping between semi-comedy and murder/thriller styles. That's hard to do. The suspense of the film is compromised by one thing. The tension of the last half-hour is based on the threat that the mastermind of the gold heist will kill Jamie Foxx's girlfriend and baby. It became clear to me early there was no way she and the baby were going to die, so that punctured the anxiety the movie wanted as a timebomb ticks down to the inevitable explosion. Finally, the ending of the film is preposterous. You don't see it coming, but when it comes, it's beyond my capacity for belief. Given the fact that the gold heist was busted, it's hard to understand how in the world the film's conclusion could have been arranged when the bank robbers were clearly in a state of confusion and duress. It's an attractive conclusion, shot with an aerial perspective, but it wasn't supported by the facts in evidence. I think Hitchcock or somebody like him said you have to design a film so it's immune to refrigerator logic. That's when the viewer of the movie gets home, decides to grab a bite, and when he is at the fridge, he thinks about the film, There's no way that could happen. That's the ending.Still, it's a good action film, it goes by quickly, it has a few laughs, and the photography is very good. Ebert was right, three stars. "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Bait is the type of film that makes you say Wow!!!! I enjoyed this film.There are several things I enjoyed about Bait. The first thing was the villainous character played by Doug Hutchison. His character is played with excellence and brilliance.The second thing I enjoyed was the fact that the script seemed to be so unique in what was being played out on screen. When I watch movies I look for originality and I found this with Bait. Finally, I enjoyed how Bait never let up from the beginning to the end. Also, each cast member brings something special to Bait, which makes it much more dramatic and funny film. Bait is a film that will appeal to everyone who enjoys dramatic scenes as well as comedic scenes.  "},{"Title":"A wild, funny ride!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Jamie Foxx.  I think he is a hugely talented comedian and has great energy.  And he really displayed that energy well in this movie.  The plot is not completely original, it's a little derivative of Enemy of the State, but it's a fun movie.  And I enjoyed it a lot.  I also liked Mike Epps, who played Jamie's friend.  He was very funny in Next Friday, and he lends a good supporting hand in this one too.  Bait is a fast-paced blend of action and comedy that almost never ceases to please.It's only towards the end that I thought the film got pretty contrived and overdid itself.    "},{"Title":"Next!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not funny at all. It's clichs after clichs. This movie is so damn predictable, it makes you laugh. You've got too much time for yourself? Then rent this one. I gave it a 5 and I was way too generous. I don't know what people see in Jamie Foxx. "},{"Title":"Why Bait made me groan miserably","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, Bait. How do I hate thee? Let me count the ways. 1. You try to be funny, but are corny and unenjoyable; every joke is predictable and expected, and when it comes, does not inspire laughter. Instead, I want to hurl. 2. You try to be dramatic, but are unbelievable; the woman overacts to a terrible degree, and the bad guy looks like Bill Gates, and is about as scary as...well, Bill Gates. (Just try to imagine Bill Gates trying to intimidate somebody with a gun. Doesn't work, does it? A lawyer, maybe, but not a gun. Doesn't fit.) As for Jamie Foxx, well, just watching him try to deliver a dramatic and heartfelt dialogue is ludicrous, and makes me want to hurl. 3. You try to be action-packed, but instead are dull and dragging too many times. And when the action heats up, the tripod for the camera must have been lost, for the scenes wobble more than those in The Blair Witch Project, and I find myself nauseated, and once again I want to hurl. 4. You try to be a good movie, but you failed, you FAILED, YOU FAILED! I would rather walk barefoot across the Sahara with a pack full of beef jerky and no water, no sunscreen, and only Meryl Streep for company. This hell would be lovelier than a single minute more spent watching everyone in Bait overact their way through an idiotically written story with Bill Gates for a bad guy, and let's not even talk about the massive bomb that goes off in a car that Jamie Foxx's character has just driven OFF A CLIFF, but somehow manages to escape...just kill me now, or do the right thing and promise me that somehow I'll never have to watch a movie that is this bad, ever again. "},{"Title":"Endurable Thanks To Foxx","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jamie Foxx is one of those few comic actors who has a certain charm that makes just about anything he does decent.  In fact, he's the only thing that really holds together Bait, which at best, seems like a direct-to-video that only made it to the screen due to Foxx.Foxx stars as Alvin Anderson, an unsuccessful small-time con man who gets jailed for an absurd crime and is chosen to be equipped with an experimental tracking device.  He's then used as bait to bring down gold heister Hutchinson.While Bait appears to have been meant as a star vehicle for Foxx, it makes little use of the actor's comedic charm and instead chooses to spend too much time on its dumb, meandering plot.  None of the characters feel genuine, cliches abound, including an all-too-familiar digital readout from a time bomb, a team of government officials wearing headsets and clicking away at computers, who end up look more like Time Life Book operators than agents, and a hard-assed, humorless cop bent on just capturing the criminal.  Then there's Hutchinson's cool, deadpan delivery as the computer mastermind who resembles John Malkovich not only in appearance but in menace, feeling like he was lifted right out of In The Line Of Fire.  None of these things offer innovation and make the movie pretty stale.Jamie Foxx's character is the only worthwhile reason to sit through this pedestrian action/comedy effort.  He's fun, sexy, has a likeable air around him, and generally gives good comedic delivery.  If you don't like his character at the beginning, give it time.  Once gets over on the cops in one standout scene, you will.  Jamie Foxx is a star just waiting to be made, if only he could be blessed with a good script.  Bait makes little use of his talent, but it would be nothing without him.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Pretty good, though a square peg in a round hole","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie had trouble deciding whether it was a comedy or an action thriller. But I don't think I would have enjoyed it if the comedy hadn't been there. I won't say Jamie Foxx showed the talent for playing Ray Charles, but he was okay. He wasn't a complete goofball. If he showed any range at all, it came in jail when the other prisoner got sick. If anyone gave a good performance, it was the man who was chasing Jamie, but I don't remember his name. Quite a disturbing character. Also good the actor playing the government agent who seemed to be in charge.The best thing about the movie was the way it ended. Very exciting, with lots of good editing and stunt work. I will say only that this happened at a race track, with one rider going against the horses who were in an actual race! It was also exciting the way the FBI was able to keep track of Jamie's character. I don't know how realistic the technology was, but it was interesting and the special effects and computer technology were enjoyable to watch.It wasn't the best action film ever, but it wasn't complete garbage. "},{"Title":"Variety defends the idiocy.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Fast talk, fast action and different imagery make BAIT a perfect star vehicle for Jamie Foxx. Two hours does not seem that long thanks to clever and witty dialogue from Foxx, helping the movie. Good support acting by David Morse is a plus.Eighteen months after being thrown in jail for prawn-lifting, Alvin Sanders is sent free, unknowing the government has put cutting-edge technology in his jaw to help track a high-tech killing thief.All the elements of an unoriginal movie are here. Also, all of the actors are made of cardboard, minus Foxx who is two or three expressions above everyone else. But the cinematography works, as does the lighting and New York is given a nice look. It's a half-decent effort. "},{"Title":"Better than most people give it credit for","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Good...Good Movie.I am amazed at how this movie has a low average(3 stars?) when there are crappy movies averaging 4 and 1/2 stars and 5 stars on Amazon and IMDb. The fanboy mentality strikes again. When this movie came out just about everyone slammed it. Even my ex-girlfriend said this movie was suspect. Years later I sat down to watch this movie and I found myself enjoying. Even laughing quite a bit. This and The Replacement Killers are the movies that had people labeling the director Antoine Fuqua as the black Michael Bay. I don't see how since most of Fuqua's movies are smarter than anything Michael Bay has came up with. I Loved this movie, and I think you will too. It had a lot of action in it, and it was humorous. Good story, nice plot. Its Just A Good, Good...Good Movie.danceability-1 Amsterdam Holland "},{"Title":"very enjoyable","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" i just bait on television.i did not expect much and jamie foxx,well..i just don't think he is a star.but boy he proved me wrong in that picture.i think that,besides his Oscar performance,i think that he was quite excellent in that movie.although he had the standard clich likable-easy going drifter,he added his personal talent,and made the character very enjoyable to watch.all the actors were very good in their roles.the bad guy was great,and all the rest character actors were just right.the rhythm of the movie was good,it did not have any really awful,sickly twisted bloody scenes,well..just your standard ones.the end was kind of poorly thought.after all the movie takes time to give us a very intelligent bad guy.all and all one really more enjoyable movie of its kind than you would expect.i have one question though.i know that the sum of stolen dollars mentioned in the movie is a lot,but a bad guy of that kind of intelligence,one who can get in the national security's computers,and kid around ,you know were i m going with this one don't you,well..couldn't he steal a lot of money through computers,and with the advantage of doing it totally safe?does he have to go and do it like the local thief taking so many chances?..and taking for a partner the guy in the beginning who seems totally untrustworthy?that does not seem like the clever man that we see for the rest of the movie.. "},{"Title":"great but not funny","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great but not funny.Jamie Foxx did not make me laugh once.The movie would be even better if it was just an action movie.The two actors that they had were David Morse and Doug Hutchison.David Morse was great playing the role of Edgar Clenteen who is a Tough FBI Agent.Doug Hutchison who play the vilian in the movie was great,I loved Doug as Bristol.Bristol is some smart killer who likes f***ing with the government.  "},{"Title":"One time watcher","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie once and might watch it again, but although Jamie Foxx is good in the movie, I feel they could have used a 'less funny' character as Alvin Sanders.  Foxx's scenes for instance in the jail when he is confronted by Edgar Clenteen (David Morse) are too funny.  David Morse again is a wonderful portrayer of a cop.  His tough yet mostly quiet features are perfect for his role.  Once again Morse meets Doug Hutchinson (Bristol) in the theater.  Morse ends up coming down hard on Hutchinson.  They are both perfect for this scenario in each film.  I personally love that quality in a film, where actors end up in the same situation as a previous film, as these two did in The Green Mile.  Overall it was a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Actually this movie was not so bad. It contains action, comedy and excitement. There are good actors in this film, for instance Doug Hutchison (Percy from The Green Mile), who plays Bristol. Another well known actor is Jamie Kennedy, from Scream and Three Kings. The main characters are played by Jamie Foxx as Alvin, who was pretty good and also funny, but the one who most surprised me, was David Morse as Edgar Clenteen. He plays a different character than he usually does, because in other films like The Green Mile, Indian Runner, The Negotiator or The Langoliers he plays a very sympathetic person, and in Bait the plays almost the opposite, a man without any emotions, which was nice to see. The only really negative thing about this film, are the several pictures of the World Trade Center, which makes this film perhaps look a little dated. Overall I thought this was a pretty good little film! "},{"Title":"predictably entertaining action movie","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you want deep meaning, find something else at the video store. If you want a bad  guy-goes-good yarn with tough cops, a creepy bad guy, and some humor, rent it.Jamie Foxx plays a clueless crook targeted by a homicidal gold thief. While the cast  is fun to watch, a note to future viewers  The New York setting features several  prominent shots of the World Trade Center towers, giving the movie an unintended  poignancy.6*  of 10  "},{"Title":"ONE TIRED MOVIE","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't see this film in a theatre.I didn't rent it from a video store.I paid $3.99 to watch it on pay tv.I should have waited until it was shown on the movie channels.What a waste of money.I do love Jamie Foxx.I just can't believe he accepted this role.The film is racial.I hated it.It is a tired movie.The director is even tireder.Anyone who sits through almost 2 hours of nonsense like this,without falling asleep needs a life.ONE TIRED MOVIE. "},{"Title":"If choosing, don't choose this !","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, i can and will be very short.   This is a wrong-balanced, non-convincing film that could have been a little bit better.  The script seems to not know which way to go ... from funny to cliche-wise serious... it's a bit silly.  That plus too much sentences we have heard before the hacker is in florida, or no, he is in madrid, no he is in ... , he is screwing the signal.  4 out of 10 "}{"Title":"stylish","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good film.  I really am a fan of Fuqua, this cat is really stylish.  Not only was the story engaging and suspenseful but the levity brought by Foxx was well done.  Often times when a film is a comedy/action or drama/comedy one of the two elements lacks but this film was able to balance these nicely.  Visually this film really delivers in a stunning way and I have nothing but good things to say about it...what do you think? "},{"Title":"terrible photography","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  photography was too jumpy to follow. dark scenes hard to see.Had good story line too bad it got lost somewhere. Too noisy for what was really happening Bottom line is it's a baddddd movie "},{"Title":"Don't expect much, then you'll be rewarded.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The reason I liked this movie is that the characters portray genuine emotion about the events that take place.  David Morse truly scares his subjects and it shows in their reactions.  Mike Epps does a good job of freaking out when things don't go his way.The other thing that made me smile was the fact that the movie drifts away from the plot of finding the gold, but keeps you wondering whats going to happen to all that loot.  The ending doesn't disappoint in revealing the location.I wouldn't classify this as a comedy because I was too busy involved in nail-biting.  I vote a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Predictable and not funny.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first time I ever saw a movie with Jamie Foxx, and I bet it will be my last. I failed to see why he was funny, although people in the audience thought it was very funny when  he made a face to the camera, or for saying I am going to take a shower.The plot is completely predictable. The bad guy comes after the good guy. The good guy has a woman, so the bad guy uses her. In between, the officials screwing up. The final scenes are utterly unbelievable. You spend 2 years and millions of dollars chasing a guy, but you don't do your home work to solve a trivial riddle?There's no great acting, there isn't much of a plot or storyline, and the shooting is done MTV style. Don't waste your money on this one. "},{"Title":"This is a bad, bad, movie.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love Jamie Foxx.And I enjoy 99% of all movies I see.And I walked out of this one.Now, I admit, it may have had something to do with the two middle-aged white women in the back of theatre who laughed at every little thing (Oh no, Jamie's knocking on a door!  HEE HEE HEE!), but... this was just so incredibly annoying.  There could be no sustained camera shot, and no camera shot from a conventional angle... everything had to be in-your-face, loud, and annoying.The bad guy tried to be smooth and Malkovich-like, but at this point, it's just old and tired.  He brought nothing new or interesting.  From all the characters, too many lines you saw coming, too many you've heard before, and too many tough guy lines... and I don't mind that sort of thing, really, as long as there's a bit of originality to it.  In fact, pretty much the entire supporting cast just sucked.I love Jamie Foxx, and I think he's really funny, and I thought he was funny in this movie... but not nearly funny enough for me to endure everything else.  This movie needed less shoot-em-up, less annoying camera shots, more emotion, more feeling, and more Jamie Foxx.  I gave it a 2. "},{"Title":"Great Viewing Experience","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you like Jamie Foxx,(Alvin Sanders),Date From Hell,'01, you will love his acting as a guy who never gets an even break in life and winds up messing around with Shrimp, (Jumbo Size) and at the same time lots of gold bars. Alvin Sanders has plenty of FBI eyes watching him and winds up getting hit by a brick in the jaw, and David Morse,(Edgar Clenteen), Hack '02 TV Series, decides to zero in on poor Alvin and use him as a so called Fish Hook to attract the criminals. There is lots of laughs, drama, cold blood killings and excellent film locations and plenty of expensive cars being sent to the Junk Yard. Jamie Foxx and David Morse were outstanding actors in this film and it was great entertainment through out the entire picture. "},{"Title":"Listen guys, do I have to be around for this?","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Are you familiar with concept of children's artwork? While it is not the greatest Picasso any three-year-old has ever accomplished with their fingers, you encourage them to do more. If painting is what makes them happy, there should be no reason a parent should hold that back on a child. Typically, if a child loves to paint or draw, you will immediately see the groundwork of their future style. You will begin to see their true form in these very primitive doodles. Well, this concept of children's artwork is how I felt about Fuqua's depressingly cheap and uncreative film Bait. While on all accounts it was a horrid film, it was impressive to see Fuqua's style begin emerging through even the messiest of moments. If you have seen either Training Day or King Arthur, you will be impressed with the birth of this director in his second film Bait. While Foxx gives a horrid, unchained performance, there are certain scenes, which define Fuqua and demonstrate his brilliance behind the camera. Sadly it only emerged in the final thirty minutes of the film, but if you focus just on those scenes, you will see why Fuqua's name appears on so many Best Of&#133; film lists.I will never disagree with someone that Fuqua's eye behind the camera is refreshing and unique. His ability to place a camera in the strangest of places to convey the simplest of emotions is shocking. I am surprised that more of Hollywood hasn't jumped aboard this bandwagon. Even in the silly feature Bait, you are witness to Fuqua's greatness. Two scenes that come directly to mind are the explosion scene near the middle of the film and the horse scene close to the end. In both of these scenes I saw the director Fuqua at work. Alas, in the rest of this film, all I saw was a combination of nearly every action film created. The likable hero down on his luck that suddenly finds his life turned around by some unknown force is a classic structure that just needs to die in Hollywood. We have seen this two often, and no matter who you are (unless you are Charlie Kaufmann), you cannot recreate the wheel. It is just impossible with this genre, and it is proved with Bait. I was annoyed with Fuqua for just sitting back and allowing this to happen, which could explain why it took me three viewings to finish this film. I was just tired of the structure, and while I hoped that Fuqua would redefine it, he did not.Then, there was the acting. While Jamie Foxx has never impressed me as an actor, I was willing to give this helmed vehicle a try. I wanted to see if he could pull off another dramatic role similar to Collateral. I was under the impression that perhaps this was the film chosen to show producers that Foxx could handle the role in Collateral. Again, I was disappointed. Foxx was annoying. Not in the sense that it was the way that his character was to be, but in the sense that it felt as if neither Fuqua nor Foxx took the time to fully train Foxx on what should be ad-libed and what should be used to further the plot. Instead, we are downtrodden with scene over scene of Foxx just trying to make the audience laugh. Adding second long quips and culture statements just to keep his audience understanding that he was a comedian first, an actor second. Fuqua should have stopped this immediately. Foxx's jokes destroyed his character, which in turn left me with nothing solid to grasp ahold of. Instead of character development, he would crack a joke. Neither style worked, no joke was funny. The rest of the cast was average. By this I mean I have seen them all in similar roles. They were brining nothing new to the table, nothing solid to the story, and nothing substantial to the overall themes of the film. They were pawns filling in dead air space. Fuqua had no control over this mess, and the final verdict only supports that accusation.Overall, this was a sad film. With no creativity in sight and unmanaged actors just trying to upstage themselves, what originally started as a decent story eventually sunk faster into the cinematic quicksand. Foxx was annoying, without character lines, and a complete bag of cheese. In each scene I saw no emotion, and when emotion was needed to convey a message, he chose to take his shirt off rather than tackle the issues. Are my words harsh? I don't think so. When you watch any movie you want to see some creativity, some edible characters, and themes that seem to hit close to home. Bait contained none of these. While I will give Fuqua some credit for two of the scenes in this film, the remaining five hundred were disastrous. Apparently, I took the bait when renting this film, but now having seen it, hopefully I can stop others from taking that curious nibble.Grade ** out of ***** (for his two scenes that were fun to watch) "},{"Title":"Nothing Original, yet entertaining.","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Good Much like a train wreck, you can't help but watch. I'll admit that I was entertained. I wanted to know what happened to the gold. Everything else is predictable the bad guy, the smug tough guy federal agent, the helpless girlfriend and the hostage baby.The Bad Didn't we see something like this before? Enemy of the State, perhaps? The Ugly (1) Stock footage of New York to make it seem like its NYC when all the while 95% of this thing is Canadian. (2)The John Malkovich-like clone of a bad guy. (3)The non-stop Jamie Foxx schtick. I mean he's a funny guy, but it gets tiresome in EVERY scene.CONCLUSION No one should own this movie. Don't buy the DVD. Don't even bother renting this turkey. It is not worth the rental fee. Check out the public library, I'm sure you can borrow it from there. "},{"Title":"It's hard to believe...","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...that Jamie Foxx would ever deliver such a wonderful, Oscar-winning performance. One of the reasons why I was so impressed with Foxx's performance in Ray was because from watching his hammy, obnoxious acting in movies like Bait and Booty Call, I would never imagine he would ever hold the Oscar. If people told me five years ago that Jamie Foxx was one day going to win an Oscar, I would laugh right in their faces. Who knows? Maybe he's better off sticking to drama, because if you watch Bait, it's clearly evident that comedy is not his forte. I swear, Jamie mugs so much in this movie that I'm surprised his face didn't fall off. And why does he have to do those stupid voices at every chance he gets? Anyone familiar with comedians like Bob Newhart and Steven Wright knows that doing comedy doesn't require being loud and obnoxious. If a joke is funny, it's funny. If it's not funny, then doing some crazy accent is not going to make it any funnier. The problem I have with some comedians who decide to try acting is that they favor getting laughs over being in character. In real life, normal people don't always have witty comebacks and quips. Like Albert Brooks said in an interview discussing his character in Taxi Driver, it's important to be funny as your character, rather than be funny as a comedian. A prime example of Jamie violating that rule is the nauseatingly awful scene where his mug shots are being taken, and he starts posing for the photographs like a model. If a regular person were being thrown in jail, would he really be acting goofy while having his mug shots taken? And wouldn't the police try to scold him if he was? There are many scenes like that throughout the film. Another awful sequence is one where Jamie is on the unwittingly on the phone with the villain, and he starts doing a phony Caribbean accent. Not funny! Not to mention Jamie never seems to acknowledge the timing of a joke. Giving a comedic performance requires patience, whereas he goes straight to the punchline, whether it's the right time for it or not. I'm not even a big Mike Epps fan, but even his performance is good in comparison to Jamie's. As a matter of fact, this is the first time I felt somewhat relieved whenever he would appear on screen. Epps has the same flaws when it comes to comedy, but at least he chooses a more low-key approach. One of the few bright spots in this clunker of a comedy is David Morse, a highly underrated actor mostly known for his supporting roles as villains. He seems to be the only actor in the film concerned with grounding it in reality. However, fellow Green Mile star Doug Hutchison is disgustingly over-the-top as the villain. A big surprise, considering he gave a superb performance in The Green Mile, also playing a heavy. Antoine Fuqua has proved his directing chops in movies like The Replacement Killers and Training Day. Even in Bait, he shows he can direct a hell of an action sequence. His only problem seemed to be in disciplining Jamie Foxx, who probably improvised half the script with one bad joke after another. Unless you're a die-hard fan of Foxx, please don't take the bait. "},{"Title":"A 2 hour movie that should have been 1 hour","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After a day at work, I sat down to relax and turned on the movie channels. The movie came up on the guide and sounded interesting so I tuned in just before it started.  The first 30 minutes were enough to make me interested, but the lack of acting ability in Jamie Foxx and the slow plot movement made me want to get up and find food during the movie.  If there is any credit to be given for acting in this movie it should go to David Morse who at least tries to make the movie interesting.  All in all, don't plan on impressing your friends by picking this one as a renter for a movie night. "}{"Title":"Once again a respected black comedian plays a clueless thief in trouble with the law.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jamie Foxx is my favorite comedian. However, I feel that he sold out in order to gain his first big budget lead role. Foxx follows in the footsteps of the likes of Chris Tucker, Martin Lawrence and Dave Chapple, who have all seen their talents wasted by stereotyping producers who think black males who commit pretty crimes is a funny concept (See Money Talks, Blue Streak).Okay I laughed a few times and granted all of these comedians continue to pick up hilarious roles, but I would love to see these guys branch out ala Marlon Wayans portrayal in Requiem to a Dream. Or In Living Color's Tommy Davidson and Damon Wayans moving performances in Spike Lee's satire Bamboozled. "},{"Title":"Predictable - not really worth the time","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jamie Foxx is fun but this movie has been done before. The bad guy plays a malkovichian character from In the Line of Fire.  The cops will do anything to find the bad guy - and of course the good guy has two sets of bad guys and one set of cops after him - all the while he is just trying to turn over a new leaf...  "},{"Title":"Mr. No Personality  believes to be funny","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What? Is Jamie Foxx supposed to be funny?Does he really believe he is funny?Well, it's funny watching his confidence in being funny.The man has no identity whatsoever...I mean you can immediately see who his idols are, Denzel Washington and Martin Lawrence, because he tries really hard to imitate them in most of his movies.The only problem is that he does it bad, uneven, and what comes out are some parts where he somewhat looks like Denzel, with that macho-s**t attitude and then abruptly goes to being Martin Lawrence, the funny and clumsy-silly comic. There's no personal touch to all that, I mean he contributes nothing to the personality he tries to sell, and I'm sure he has nothing to say personally. He really is Mr. Dull-boy in person. "}]