[{"Title":"Uplifting, complex, nuanced, unexpected and fresh.","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blow Dry is one of those loopy, quirky British comedies that continue to scream to the deaf ears of Hollywood that humor doesn't have to be infantile, vulgar, sexual, physical, heavy-handed, or banal. It can be uplifting, complex, nuanced, unexpected and fresh.A small town in England hosts the National Hairdressing Championships, (Do you really think they have one?) and nobody seems too excited about it except a few ruthless competitors to whom winning means absolutely everything. Local boy Alan Rickman, a has been hair wizard now doing short back and sides for 7.50 is convinced to enter the competition by his son, his ex-wife and her girlfriend.Natasha Richardson (daughter of the incomparable Vanessa Redgrave) is brilliant as the terminally ill lesbian mother trying to use the event as a way to reunite her family. Her comedy and her pathos are equally moving, and her beauty isn't spoiled by chemotherapy-induced hair loss. Rachel Griffiths, whom you may remember from the hilarious Australian comedy Muriel's Wedding, is the model who left Rickman for his wife on the eve of his triumph in hairdressing, hence his present low state. Either of these ladies could have carried the movie. To have both of them is a treat of excess.Rickman is more believable as a barber than a high style hairdresser. Still, he pulls it off because he's Rickman. Much has been made of Josh Hartnett and his murderous accent. In reality, it's hardly noticeable. Get over it.Bill Nighy is fantastic as the unscrupulous London artiste pulling out all the stops to win the Championship for an unprecedented third time, using his daughter, the insanely beautiful Rachel Leigh Cook, as his model. Rosemary Harris, the perfectly cast Aunt Mae of Spider-man fame, is powerful as the elderly Daisy, confidante and model for Richardson and her team.The unseen treasure of this movie, and the genius behind it, is writer Simon Beaufoy. Beaufoy grew up in Keighley, the setting of Blow Dry. Until more recently he was probably best known for also writing the hilarious and inspired The Full Monty. As he developed as a writer, he later gave us the Oscar nominated 127 Hours, and Oscar winning Slumdog Millionaire.There is a scene, at the very end, when Rickman reveals his ultimate creation, that has to be seen to be believed. I still gasp every time I see it, and it reinforces for me a notion of beauty that transcends everything from age to gender. And don't miss the end credit sequence. It's hilarious.Too many movie viewers think being cynical makes them appear more intelligent or more profound, so they slam gems like this for their lighthearted humor. Nonsense. This is a funny 10 out of 10, and if you don't own it, log off right now and go get it. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Blown Away by Blow Dry","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film about hairdressing championships could be disastrous,but a superb cast of fine British actors saved this film from Stinkville.The storyline is actually not bad,and the rivalry between Phil Allen (Alan Rickman) and Raymond Robertson (Bill Nighy) is humorous and entertaining.While this movie is amusing and light hearted it does focus on sadder issues like broken families,and terminal illness.Australian actress Rachel Griffiths gives a fine performance and perfects a British accent for her role as Sandra,who is romantically involved with Shelley (Natasha Richardson)who lives in fear that the truth about her illness will ruin their relationship.Young stars Josh Hartnett and the very adorable Rachael Leigh Cook are pleasant contributions to the film,with their brother-sister chemistry and secret adoration for one another.Heidi Klum also makes a special appearance,and sports some outrageous hairdos and costumes.Blow Dry was a film that should've,could've and would've been disappointing,but for some reason,wasn't. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh and cry","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife had me convinced for a long time that I had seen this movie, but last night after I had searched for over 40 min for something to rent I took the risk and rented this movie.  And of course I was right &#150; I hadn't seen it!  This is not a film one will forget having seen.  As so often before the British are the strongest in character building, with every role filled with good actors and every detail and dialog driven to perfection.  You might say that the story line is predictable, not to mention if you see the making of beforehand, which more or less tells you every detail of the story!  Blow dry is one of these beautiful films that make you laugh and cry at the same time.  You disappear into the film, becoming one with the characters and their lives.  It has similarities to Brassed Off, both in scenery and storyline, but manages to stay original and unique.  I loved it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Make sure your hairdresser hasn't seen this film before you make your appointment!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A welcome break from the usual gratuitous violence of the average modern film, this is a colourful fantasy with some excellent performances from British stalwarts.  The wonderful Alan Rickman plays Phil, the deserted and disappointed husband of Shelley, played poignantly by Natasha Richardson. Phil owns a small barber's shop in the Yorkshire town of Keighley, but in the past he has been a champion in UK hairdressing.  However, life's traumas have reduced him to giving up any thought of ambitions on the public hairdressing stage.  When former rival hairdresser Raymond, (Bill Nighy) arrives in Phil's home town for the national hairdressing championships the scene is set for a dramatic confrontation and by the end of the competition many people's lives have altered.  Warren Clarke gives a bravura performance as the town's mayor, who gradually metamorphoses from a boring local official to an ever more ebullient show host.  The requisite romance is provided with a touch of the Romeo-and-Juliets.  This will probably be considered a `woman's film' but every hairdresser in Britain of either sex will want to see it.  Overall, although the progression of the plot is fairly predictable, if you can leave your critical faculties at home for the evening it could be an enjoyable fairy story. "},{"Title":"a story and a social document","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this film was wonderful, a slushy feel good film with classic Shakespearian sub-plots. What is most poignant is that it depicts a town that is disappearing in England. Films like this are social documents. If people don't act like this, then this is how we would like to have historians of the future remember us.It's nice to have films about people and places that are not normally considered glamorous. It's funny, thoughtful and a gentle story. No violence, no car chases, no sex. A bit of swearing, but that's part of normal language nowadays.I loved the compère moving from his mayoral robes to night club glitter jacket through the competition. I loved the young ones falling in love. I loved the closure on the separation.I'm sure some cinematographer could have done more with the visuals of the hair cutting but this was a narrative film. It had a story, and I will add it to my collection of British movies. "},{"Title":"A Cut Above","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kieghley is a small Yorkshire village far from the fumes of the tour bus. Mayor Tony, overjoyed by his town's choice as host for the Year 2000 British Hairdressing Championship, announces this grand coup to a lukewarm response by the small group of townsfolk who bother to show up for his meeting. Young Brian Allen(Josh Hartnett), however, is very excited. Full of expectations, he approaches his father, Phil Allen(Alan Rickman), proprietor of the local barber shop where Brian works as well. Brian's reminder to his dad that Phil has already twice won this championship is met with a low growl of parental hostility. Phil flatly refuses to discuss it, much less enter. Blocks away, Shelley Allen(Natasha Richardson), walks the short distance to the local hospital for her doctor's appointment. Here, quite unexpectedly, this light little film delivers a heart punch. Watch Richardson's beautiful performance as the doctor reveals the cancer she's been battling is back. As he begins dispassionately discussing her treatment options, she forces him to make it personal by completing his speech with brutally honest cynicism (Your last two treatments have failed, so its probably trying to tell you summit there...). He urges her to consider another round of chemotherapy, but they both know she won't go through it again.Richardson perfectly captures the dignity, and agony, of a bright, intelligent woman who, facing the fact she is dying, decides not to pursue a hopeless situation. Her exchange with Daisy(Rosemary Harris), a terminally ill inpatient at the hospital, is acerbically poignant. You get the sense that she's suspected this for quite some time, and now it's time to prepare to leave this life, and set her affairs in order. To Shelley, the British Hairdressing Championship seems an ideal way to reconcile many old wrongs. An accomplished hairdresser, she owns the local beauty shop, living upstairs with her partner Sandra. Ten years before, she and husband Phil had competed for their third championship title with Sandra as their model. On the eve of competition, she and Sandra left Phil to enter into their lesbian relationship. Phil never forgave either one of them. Although just blocks from one another, he hasn't spoken to her, or Sandra, for years. Brian remained with his father after the breakup, and Shelley's relationship with him is, at best, awkward and strained.Now, however, she desperately wants to change all that while there is still time. She wants the old team back together again for one last go. But how? Brian likes the idea but turns her down. He has issues with his mum. Sandra thinks the whole thing is mad, and hates Phil as much as he hates her. Phil wants no part of it whatsoever. His sense of betrayal and deeply abiding hurt are palpable. It seems impossible. Resolute, she enters her salon, A Cut Above, into the competition anyway, to the delight of Mayor Tony, who hypes the entry in an effort to foster local interest. The contestants arrive with their glittering entourages. These include the infamous Raymond Robertson(Bill Nighy), with his unscrupulous assistant, Louis (Hugh Bonneville), and his daughter Christina(Rachel Leigh Cook), over from America on holiday.The hotel is full, and Robertson is forced to lodge with a local sheep farmer. David Bradley (Argus Filch of Harry Potter) is terrific as Noah, the dour farmer. He doesn't say much, but shows his sense of humor over his dead relative's hairstyle and sympathy towards Christina for having a git like Ray as her father. Bill Nighy as Raymond Robertson is excellent. Arrogant, ruthlessly competitive, nothing is as important as victory, including his daughter. Prior to the start of competition, he simply cannot resist the temptation to visit Phil's shop and gloat over the fall from grace of his former rival. The meeting sparks a heated confrontation between Brian, who witnessed the exchange, and his father. Angry at Phil's handling of the situation and his refusal to enter and show Ray up, Brian defies Phil and informs Shelley he will cut for her in the championship. Although pleased, Shelley knows they still really don't stand a chance in the final part, The Total Look, without Phil. Although his legendary signature event, Phil adamantly wants no part of it.That's enough synopsis to be going on with, I think. Watch especially the subplots. Mayor Tony's hilarious transformation from pompous small town official into glittering event presenter. The rally of the townsfolk behind their local team. Brian's funeral fiasco. Christina's Technicolor sheep. The amazing Daisy in Evening Hair. Sandra and Phil in a bathtub on a hill. Rachel Griffiths performance as Shelley's lesbian lover Sandra is rich with detailed emotion. Her unresolved conflict with Phil, her insecurity at being only the f*cking girlfriend, her reaction to the awful reality that the person she loves beyond reason is truly dying. And, gloriously, her radiant Total Look, which has to be seen to be appreciated. Well. A little more in depth than I had planned, but that's the overall feeling you get from Blow Dry. More than expected. More than planned. It works on so many levels. The lighthearted silliness of the British Hairdressing Competition, of all things. The reunion of two childhood friends, Brian and Christina, who rediscover each other as attractive adults of the opposite sex. The study of a man who must come to terms with the lesbian lifestyle of his wife, whom, deep inside, he still loves. And the moving portrait, throughout it all, of a dying woman's last attempt to recapture former glory and engineer the reconciliation of all those whom she most loves.Buy this film. Treasure it. And, when somebody asks you how you felt after you've watched it, you can honestly turn to them and say Never better, love, never better. "},{"Title":"the ladies steal the show","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So it's a comedy about hairdressing. In truth, the hairdressing provides little more than colour commentary (pun intended), because it's the relationships that take first stage, and they take it really well. Alan Rickman is good, sincere and has depth, Josh Hartnett has an okay delivery ruined by his trying-too-hard faux Yorkshire accent, and Bill Nighy is Bill Nighy, you'll always get a few laughs from him, but the real stars are Rachel Griffiths and Natasha Richardson. Griffiths, in particular, is splendid, going from funny to poignantly hurt to deep, deep love without skipping a beat. Richardson also makes a strong impression, and you can feel the pain in her as the film goes. Oh well... It's a fun film, but it's also a good film. "},{"Title":"Hair Today . . .","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite a lot of Big Hair, this is not a big movie. Nonetheless, it is an enjoyable romp, with some affecting performances. There is nothing revelatory or even unpredictable about the story, but it works nicely and certainly entertains. The film does have a few rich moments, but seems mostly a vehicle for a group of talented actors (and it is a highly pedigreed bunch here) to take decent material and put out a fun and sometimes very moving film.While it may drag a little in the center, don't give up watching for the finale and Rachel Griffiths total look finish that is about as outrageous and breathtaking a total look as one can possibly imagine. The normally brilliant Alan Rickman here sometimes feels just a little bit on autopilot, American Josh Hartnett is vastly underused, but surprisingly effective in an important role and Natasha Richardson, as ever, positively glows on the screen and raises the emotional and dramatic stakes to a level that makes the whole affair worthwhile.Not great? Perhaps, but an immensely enjoyable little movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Fun","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I tuned into this movie not really expecting very much. I mean, how interesting could a movie about the British Hair Dressing Championships be, anyway? In fact, what I found was a quite funny movie with enough human interest thrown in to make it a worthwhile movie.The story revolves around a hair dressing family who have been broken apart when Shelly (Natasha Richardson) leaves Phil (Alan Rickman) for Sandra (Rachel Griffiths). Son Brian (Josh Hartnett) stays with dad Phil and works in a barber shop with his dad - quite a step down for Phil, who used to be one of the best British hair dressers. The family is brought back together when the Hair Dressing Championships come to their home town, and Phil, Shelley, Sandra and Brian pool their resources to beat their rivals.It's all quite well done, and the hair styles are - well - unbelievable in some cases. But there's also the backdrop of Sandra's illness that she's hiding from her lover Shelley. All in all, although I'm not at all interested in hair dressing, I throughly enjoyed the time I spent watching this. Give it a try. You'll like it.6/10 "},{"Title":"More drama then comedy","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If your expecting a laugh out loud comedy forget it, but if you want a good film with a great cast, you won't be disappointed. The acting and casting is wonderful, and the story is quirky, fun, and also sweet, sad, and serious. Focusing on love, forgiveness and family without ever getting too heavy handed. How could it when the setting is a competition between top hair stylists. I don't want to include spoilers as I probably enjoyed it more by getting something I didn't expect. It is quirky and has some laughs but the drama between the people is what this movie is really about. "}{"Title":"British hair-dressing championship. And budding love.","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At home on Netflix streaming movies.I searched out this movie upon hearing of Alan Rickman's recent death. He has always been one of my favorites and I had not seen this one yet.In typical British movie comedy style they take a silly premise, a British hair-dressing competition in the small town of Keighley, and build a story around it. Interestingly it also features two American actors the cast.Alan Rickman is Phil Allen who runs a hair-cutting shop with his son, Josh Hartnett as Brian Allen. It seems some years earlier, about 10 years, his wife, Natasha Richardson (also now deceased much too young) as Shelley Allen, left them to be with her lesbian girlfriend, Rachel Griffiths as Sandra, and they run a shop together. Their story is complicated by Shelly being treated for cancer.The issue comes up that for either group to have a chance in the competition for their small town to compete they must figure out a way to work together. Phil has not spoken to either of them since the split, he is still bitter but the son seems more willing to forgive and move on.Then pretty, 20-ish Rachael Leigh Cook (another of my personal favorites) shows up as Christina Robertson, daughter of one of the men competing in the event. She lives in the USA with her mother but Brian remembers her from when they were very young and it seems he had a secret hope she would someday return. From that stems the budding love.This is a fun movie which has some serious messages embedded, anyone who like the British style of humor should like this movie. "},{"Title":"The Strictly Ballroom of Hair","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Rickman, Natasha Richardson, Bill Nighy, Josh Hartnett, Rachel Griffiths, and Rosemary Harris star in Blow Dry, a 2000 film directed by Paddy Breathnach.When the small town of Keighley wins the right to have The Annual British Hairdressing Championship, comes to Keighley, it brings up a few questions for Phil (Rickman) and his son Brian (Hartnett) run a barbershop, and where Phil's ex-wife Shelly (Richardson) and her girlfriend Sandra (Griffith) have a beauty salon. Since Shelly left Phil for Sandra, they have ceased talking. Shelly has just learned that she's come to the end of the line with her cancer.Phil has no interest in competing, and one of his rivals, the cheating, underhanded Ray Roberts (Nighy) comes to town and ridicules him. Brian, however, wants to enter. Brian decides to enter the competition with Sandra and his mother. Now the question, will champion Phil enter as well? Ray is using his daughter as his model; Phil's model was once Sandra -- can they mend their rift and help Shelly through her last days? Funny, moving, and well-acted, Blow Dry is clever, fresh, and entertaining. The hairdressers test their blow-dryers and then compete in cut, styling, evening, and finally, full body, re-creating Nefertiti, as an example, or Madama Butterfly. Very serious judges score them. Hilarious.Really lovely movie, about a family trying to come back together, letting go of bitterness and resentment to help someone they love. Terrific. "},{"Title":"Rachael Leigh Cook and Josh Hartnett are Brits??","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a British parody of an annual British Hairdressing Championship coming to small town Keighley. Everybody is playing it up as wacky hairdressing.It stars some great British talents such as Alan Rickman, Natasha Richardson, and Bill Nighy. And also Australian Rachel Griffiths. But the sore thumbs sticking out are Rachael Leigh Cook and Josh Hartnett. They are obviously trying to get some buzz going with a couple of hot young Americans. The problem is that I just can't get over these two youngsters trying for a British accent. Sadly, it's unnecessarily distracting.Whereas the story itself is amusing at times. I didn't have any big laughs. It's more cute than funny. "},{"Title":"Just because something's fixed, doesn't mean it can't be broken.","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The British hairdressing championships are coming to Keighley and it just happens to be the town where Phil (Alan Rickman) lives. He used to be the champion until he wife Shelley (Natasha Richardson) left him for Sandra (Rachel Griffiths). Oh, My! Now, he is just a barber (gasp!) and wants nothing to do with Shelly or the championships. Problem is, there is no one else in town that can represent it.A family reunites and we get to see some of the finest British actors.I just hope my hairdresser doesn't see this and get weird ideas. I don't want to come out with green spikes! "},{"Title":"A Cut Above Comedy","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This light weight comedy throws in a more somber, serious backstory to make this British hair competition a cut above. This entertaining comedy has Alan Rickman in this fun movie that has the usual number of sight gags, the fumblings, the intentional (accidents), the dramatic relational conflicts to make this a cute trip to Britain and the world of hair styling. There isn't anything that hasn't been seen before except hair, but what hair and the simple but coherent storyline is competently handled by the cast in a straightforward manner. The acting is decent, the hair styles intriguing. Overall, this simple movie works because it doesn't fool itself into being a classic, but to be enjoyed. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Who's Mrs. Burkett?","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie very much (although I think Never Better would have been a better title, but I'm sure there are specific reasons why that title was not used). Thought the lesbian theme was handled well, well enough that I wasn't embarrassed watching it with my 80+-year-old father. Thought the soundtrack was 'fun', but not quite sure why a few of those choices were made. The Climax Blues Band's Couldn't Get It Right is a classic drug song and one of my favorites, but I don't see how it fits. And there a few, very few narrative flaws, but no more than typical. Easy to overlook and forgive.What puzzles me most is why the doctor in the early scene, when she learns she still has cancer, calls Shelley Mrs. Burkett. Anyone have any guesses? "},{"Title":"Great comedic film and Rickman at his best","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Rickman is wonderful in this movie. In many of his more well-known films, he is required to be obvious with his brooding nature. This film is much more subtle, and Rickman pulls off an incredibly believable character and demonstrates a range that we rarely see from him. Rachael Leigh Cook is highly underused. She needed to have been given more prodding from the director to bring her true acting talents out (her hair is also atrocious for a movie supposedly about hair). Cook often has great chemistry with actors, but her relationship with Hartnett falls a bit flat. The other actors (especially Natasha Richardson) do extremely well. The plot is wonderfully simple. The competition arch is played out very well without feeling as though we have seen this before. The romantic triangle is great, and the relationship between Sandra and Shelley (Grffiths and Richardson) is sweet. The homosexual element is understated and is never politicized. The comedy is subtle and occasionally hilarious, but the drama is the true reason to see this film. "},{"Title":"all British-in settings, characters and humour","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Right off the top let me be honest-I loved the movie. I have seen it at least five times (and still enjoy it every time). It is great to see two veteran (older actors)-Rosemary Harris and Warren Clarke-give outstanding performances in small roles. I measure movies by what I call magic moments- that is those moments that reach and affect you on the most basic level, that is emotionally. This movie has several of these-Rachel Leigh Cook cuts her hair in protest of her father's underhanded tactics; Rachel Griffith's total look ; the conversation between Natasha Richardson and Rhachel Griffith when Rachel finds out about the cancer. Add to this a wonderful ensemble cast of spectators and hairdressers and the film is complete and worth not only seeing, but buying. "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet movie","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This cute movie is uplifting and fun to watch. It deals with the tough subject of cancer, but somehow gets you laughing at the same time you want to cry.Alan Rickman plays Phil Allen, a small town hairstylist who gets pulled into the Annual British Hairdressing Competition when his rival, Ray Robertson (Billy Nighy). Along the way, he comes to terms with his ex-wife (Natasha Richardson) who left him for her lesbian lover (Rachel Griffiths) during the last competition he was in.And if you've ever been to or competed in a hair show, you will recognize all the supporting roles as more than just caricatures.My only problem is that this is billed primarily as a comedy, and where it is funny as anything, it is a serious movie that makes you laugh occasionally.Absolutely worth watching! "},{"Title":"Aussie-style","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is very reminiscent of Strictly Ballroom inasmuch as it has larger-than-life characters and tongue-in-cheek acting.The film centres around a terminally-ill hairdresser Shelley who left her hairdresser husband Phil to live with with his former hairdressing model ten years earlier. She set up her own beauty salon whilst her ex-husband and their son ran a barber shop.Reluctantly they are thrown together when a national hairdressing competition is held in their home town of Keighley.The ensuing events and subplots unravel up to the competition final with each stage displaying more exotic and bizarre presentations than the last.It's a funny and watchable film with heart-wringing moments. "}{"Title":"Good and bad?","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting idea. I really enjoyed the film, actually, I really really enjoyed it. I was not sure what to expect but was extremely surprised.The cast was very good even though Josh Hartnett was a bit strange in choice to me. His accent was nearly very good. I do enjoy it when well known stars make small films. Alan Rickman was as deadpan as ever, wonderful.It is almost typical to find these bizarre styles of films to come from UK (see Full Monty, Trainspotting). I do think the success of this film was the fact that it was not particularly commercial. Another Indie success.Will suspect that this may become a cult film.  "},{"Title":"Ahwwww bless","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a bad film at all. I watched it when there was nothing else on, drooling at the prospect of Mr Hartnett and not expecting much else. I was pleasantly surprised by the great storyline and lovable characters. The star was without a doubt Alan Rickman. He just rocks so very, very much. A lot of people have of course been commenting on Mr Hartnett's attempt at a Yorkshire accent. Anyone British like me and no doubt most of everyone else will also be wondering what country he's pretending to be from when he says the majority of his lines. It seems the writers gave him lines as short as possible to avoid him buggering up completely. Even so the film is great and Josh, despite looking strained does a fairly good job. Bless 'im.  "},{"Title":"bright and eccentric.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With an all-star cast this wacky, out of sorts movie, is the type one does not usually see, but due to the eccentric colours and the lure of Josh Hartnett, I decided to make it a viewing.The movie is set in a small British town called Knightley, as we follow the life of Shelly (Richardson) as she tries to reunite her family before the cancer she has been struggling with overcomes her. The whole movie revolves around a national hair cutting championship and Shelly, Sandra (Griffths), Phil (Rickman) and Brian (Hartnett) must all work together to with the coveted golden scissors.Fortunately the different uses of hair proved rather intruiging rather than comedic as hoped, but still held up the movie, and little snide comments from Phil (Alan Rickman), made the movie all the worth watching. With some sad intrepid scenes, and some abnormal realities for a small British town, such as Shelly (Natasha Richardson) and Sandra (Rachel Griffths) Lesbian relationship.Unfortunately the let down seemed to come from Josh Hartnett and Rachel Leigh Cooke, who were the original reason for my watching the film. They seemed  totally out of place in the small British setting, with some over the top British accents pouring out of Josh's mouth. It also seemed that Rachael's character was actually void of character and was only placed in the movie to look cute and pout every now and again, and bungle up most things that come before her. As blank expressions seem to be her forte she can be forgiven for her lack of enthusiasm.All in all though an enjoyable watch and is worth a look see just for the Total look segment of the hair cutting tournament.   "},{"Title":"The most comedy thing is Josh Hartnett's accent","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one confused mess. The cast and crew must have thought that they were on to a winner, with a Yorkshire set comedy by the same writer as 'The Full Monty.' However the few gags there are just come across as ridiculous, most of the characters are way over the top, and at the end things take a turn for the surreal, but not in a good way. The funniest and most interesting thing about this film is Josh Hartnett's attempt at a West Yorkshire accent. To be fair, some lines he seems to pull off ok, but most of it seems to be Yorkshire via Scotland, California and somewhere in India by the sounds of it. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Great Surprise","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alan Rickman's films are always fun to watch, and Blow Dry is no exception. This British comedy shows surprising depth with its cancer victim sub-plot, and every single performance was applaudable.  The story moves forward easily and carries the audience along without a bump.  Plenty of laughs, plenty of snickers.  Rent this one and be delighted for yourself. "},{"Title":"Not as flaky as you might think....","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only the British could take a movie about a profession as seemingly innocuous and shallow as hairdressing and turn it into a tour de force.  I think what makes this movie work so well are the dark undertones beneath the hilarious main plot.  Although the movie certainly works well as light fare, it is the sub-plots that make it shine.  The real story here is a dysfunctional family unit coming to terms with two of the most serious subjects in the human experience  sexuality and mortality.  They do so splendidly.As always, Alan Rickman is outstanding - right down to the tattoo on his sole!  Rachel Griffiths gives her usual terrific performance but it is Natasha Richardson who pulls out all the stops in this movie.  I have watched this film several times now and I see something new in her performance each time.Take my advice - don't just watch this movie once.  It is worth a second (and third and fourth...) look.   "},{"Title":"Blonde Alan Rickman and dodgy english accents","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wot a film! i watched it by accident and i was so happy, i mean Alan Rickman as a blonde hairdresser - yey!!! The only real down side was Josh harknetts english accent which was awful! and i think we should have no more dodgy english accents please. "},{"Title":"Karate Kid meets Shampoo","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can just see the writers of this movie wondering how best to parody the formulaic martial arts competition movies.  So, they found the complete antithesis to kickboxing, namely hairdressing.  The movie includes the has-been master who's been chewed up and spit out by the industry, being drawn back in to thwart the evil doers who will stoop to any depths to win.The movie is fun to watch.  Lots of good actors.  Keep the perspective that this is a farce, and just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, cute and funny!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blow Dry is a well written wonderful comedy. At first I thought that they had messed up by Rachael Leigh Cook not having an English accent, but then I realized that her character and its mother lived in Minneapolis, Minnesota (of all places, this is Rachael Leigh Cooks true birth-place), so as soon as I accepted that, I could not stop laughing at this ridicules and funny concept, but then how often do you see a competition on hairstyling... adds a nice comedy element to a well written story...don't you think? "},{"Title":"Aww.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie gave me a nice warm fuzzy feeling.  It had much more depth than I expected and I thought it was a really sweet story.  The hairstyles were crazy, but I think the ones in The Big Tease were worse.  Alan Rickman, Natasha Richardson and especially Rachel Griffiths were all very good. This is probably a chick movie, but a very enjoyable one. I liked it very much and I'll probably watch it again.  "}{"Title":"The Rocky Hairdo Picture Show","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Think of it as Rocky - only this time the underdog dons a pair of clippers in lieu of boxing gloves.Blow Dry tells the story of family of hairstylists and how their lives become entangled (no pun intended) with cheesy-pink-haired corpses, rainbow-colored sheep, and an array of bizarre but dazzling 'do's and campy fashion when the British National Hair Championships descend upon their small, unsuspecting working-class Yorkshire town of Keighley.  At the heart of this dramedy is Phil (Rickman), the local barber who is ambivalent about a reunion with his estranged wife, Shelley (Richardson) in an effort to ditch a scheming nemesis and take a stab at the prestigious Silver Scissors trophy.  See, Phil and Shelley's history is as interwoven as a spiral or piggyback perm.  Ten years ago, Shelly ran off with his model, Sandra (superbly played by Griffiths) and left him to raise their son, Brian (Hartnett).  To add even more ammonium thioglocolate to the perm solution, Shelley is now dying of cancer and wants nothing more that to use the contest as a means to make amends with her ex-husband and son.Contrived plot aside, the result is a bittersweet blend of comedy and drama, heavier on the comedy, which stylishly illustrates the importance of family-no matter how unconventional.  The comedy is superb, as is the cast. Quite appealing in their supporting roles are Hugh Bonneville, as a flamboyant sidekick and famous runway model, Heidi Klum, as a kinky, two-timing siren.  They both display a light, comic touch in the some of film's most winning moments.   The story climaxes at the Total Look portion of the competition, where the creative genius of Academy-award winner for Elizabeth, Jenny Shilcore 's hairstyles and makeup provide a unique feast for the eyes.For those aficionados who can't get enough of hairstylists' inherent charm, last year's An Everlasting Piece and The Big Tease offer a laugh or two. In my opinion, with a stellar cast and all its heart and humor, Blow Dry is certainly a cut above the rest.  "},{"Title":"If you've seen 'Strictly Ballroom' you don't really need to see this...","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Blow Dry' has a similar plot, a similar garishness of subject matter, and a similar sense of humour. Of course, unlike 'Strictly Ballroom', this film has Alan Rickman. So there's one good reason to see it. Natasha Richardson is another. She's a very good actress indeed. The film is very predictable and the actors are given very little to work with, but it's pleasant enough to watch (and enhanced by the high standard of acting from the British cast members.) It's not offensively bad, in fact it probably would've been quite good if it hadn't been made at least ten times before (in various guises.) This time it's about hairdressing. A few years ago it was about a brass band, before that it was a bunch of male strippers, and before that ballroom dancing. It's nothing new and nothing special, but nothing really awful either.  "},{"Title":"Movies about hair are interesting.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is, like other movies about hair cutting, funny just because it is about hair cutting.  Pretty well acted, Alan Rickman is always pretty good.  Nice lesbian twist, with sheep coloring, cheating hair stylist and humor - what more can you ask for. "},{"Title":"been here before?","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Haven't I been here before?  Yorkshire town, a bit depressed and depressing, an important contest forming the backbone of the story and providing a route to renewed status and self confidence, one of the main characters in the competition terminally ill, love interest provided by a girl who was local but has left the town for &#145;down south' (or was that America)?  Brassed off? You might be.  But despite the lack of originality, if you can leave your higher brain functions at home, a good sentimental movie.  This is almost a children's film, but if you want a nice undemanding night at the cinema this could be for you. "},{"Title":"You can do a lot worse.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By no means a great movie but anything teaming Alan Rickman and Rachel Griffiths will get my money.  Although there are too many subplots that could have used some more screen time and a hokey walking-off-into-the-sunset ending, this movie proved to be a pleasant way to spend an evening with some (but not enough) funny bits.    "},{"Title":"great actors in an OK movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Im not sure if such an event such as this hairstyling competition,but the movie was ok. Josh Harnett's accent wasn't to good and the whole movie just wasn't in the league of other movies made by these actors. I mean you have people such as Rickman, Griffiths, Harnett, Cook. These actors have great bodies of work but this movie was a drop for them. In all honesty there are only 2 reasons I watched this movie. Rachel Leigh Cook and Heidi Klum. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film was fabulous!  It dealt both with serious issues as well as those of the lighter persuasion; it was both hilarious and sad -- a mix which leads to perfection!  The cast was fabulous and the supporting characters added delightful color and eccentricity to the story.  I thoroughly enjoyed it; I would watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Kick back and Enjoy this predictable but good film","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No special effects on this low budget film and yet still lots of fun just unwind and enjoy, from the makers of the Full Monty and made on location in West Yorkshire, the Yorkshire accent like most of these films is by no means right and I speak as one that has one, no matter, the film is just one to watch "},{"Title":"Dire","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly excrutiating film. I've read positive words about it on this site and all I can say is they cannot possibly have been written by people who had seen the film. I run a small cinema in Lancashire and I made the mistake of booking this on the basis of the talent involved - great cast, Simon Beaufoy and so on. Well I've had it playing for a week now and I've sold THREE tickets. THREE. And I felt like refunding the money of those three. It's been big screen foot and mouth as far as I'm concerned. Despite showing it seven times and not having anyone to sell popcorn to, I've still only managed to watch it half way through. It's dire. I assume the producer rewrote the script. "},{"Title":"Mordant Yorkshire wit combined with camp gay humour; see it!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A tale about hair-dressing rivalries in a small Yorkshire town might not seem an obvious subject for a comedy, especially when one of the characters is a dying lesbian, but this is a movie with a huge amount going for it. An excellent ensemble cast features a rather subdued Alan Rickman, a deliciously arch Bill Nighy, wonderfully incompetent Warren Clarke and a very perceptive Natasha Richardson.  There are faults with the writing - it's a bit uneven in places - and Josh Hartnett as Brian seems to have a real struggle with his supposed Yorkshire accent, but the end result is something quintessentially British that reads like an episode of 'Last of the Summer Wine'.  It has mordant Yorkshire wit combined with camp gay humour, an odd combination which for some strange reason actually works.If the plot developments are not exactly unexpected and the relationship between the young lovers seems rather superfluous, these are minor faults. It's not an excellent, first-rank movie - not quite up to the standard of 'The Full Monty' with which it has been compared - just good, solid fun.  I particularly relished Bill Nighy's 'queen of the hairdressers' dumped unceremoniously in the wilds of Yorkshire like a slightly camp Withnail; it's a performance to treasure in a film I'll enjoy watching over and over again.Don't let the reviews put you off; give this one a chance.  I loved it. "}{"Title":"funny and amusing","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent performances from a cast of top actors who extract a lot of humour and pathos from a simple script about a hairdressing competition.   Warren Clarke as the local mayor who gets more and more into the spirit of the event and Bill Nighy as the bad guy with numerous tricks up his sleeve are exceptionally funny, and Alan Rickman (looking more and more like a relation of the British comedian Frankie Howerd as he gets older) doesn't let us down as the morose local ex-champion hairdresser who is pressured to make the inevitable comeback. The story isn't too original but the characters and their situations produced plenty of laughs, particularly in the heat of the competition.  I laughed too- in the wrong way- at Josh Hartnett's Yorkshire accent.  I understand that a US star would be a selling point in the USA but why not do us Brits the courtesy of getting the accent right?  "},{"Title":"A good script mangled by an unsympathetic production.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The warmth of the original script shines through in some of the scenes in this movie. Much is made of the fact that it is set in the small,down-at-heel,and yet homely town of Keighley. Unfortunately very few (if any) of the scenes have actually been shot in Keighley the production choosing to use much larger and essentially more glamorous buildings in other parts of West Yorkshire. As much of the humour is in the the contrast between the impoverished but essentially honest character of the area and the wealthy,glamourous but essentially dishonest character of The South many of the opportunities to reach out to audience are lost. The cast in most respects are excellent and, when given the chance to act the script they signed up to, are genuinely touching.Only Heidi Klum fails to catch the essence of the narcissistic and sexually predatory West London stereotype set out for her. A trip down to Ealing Broadway to watch the originals in their habitat would have been no end of help here. In summary The director took his camera to Yorkshire, but his mind never got much further North than Staples Corner....   "},{"Title":"A poor relation to The Full Monty","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blow Dry. `Ladies and gentlemen, start your blow dryers!' Not the classiest line in the film, but it gives you the gist of a story about competitive hairdressing that is not totally unprecedented. Kevin Allen's The Big Tease of two years ago had Scottish hair 'artiste' Crawford battling against his barber nemesis to win the Platinum Scissors competition. Here, the plot is an elaborate framework for the kind of hearty, slice of life humour that made The Full Monty a smash hit. Championing the underdogs seems to be the only driving factor that makes up a large portion of British films. Our poor, downtrodden working classes are the subject again, and while there is plenty of meat left on that kind of idea, if it is done properly, writer Simon Beaufoy seems to be left only with the bones of The Full Monty to work with, despite an acclaimed cast including Alan Rickman, Natasha Richardson, Rachel Griffiths and Warren Clarke. Translated to screen this time by director Paddy Breathnach, Blow Dry admittedly has enough guts about it to feature terminal illness, and alternative lifestyles within the characters of Sandra (Griffiths), who ran off with her hairstylist's wife Shelley (Richardson), who has cancer, but they seem like contrived details to wrench some emotion out of the story, and are never fully tackled. There also seems to be an unfair ratio of American to British actors happening in British films lately. We get the token Brit in American films from time to time, but these days our films are being infiltrated by bad accents and over-rated actors. Rising American star Josh Hartnett plays Brian, Phil's (Rickman) trainee barber son, who is the link to tie up animosity between his parents and coax them into entering the National British Hairdressing Championships which has come to Keighley for some reason. Hartnett's accent has been stitched together from every over-heard vernacular from the whole of the UK, which does nothing for the film's sincerity. Along with far too many sub-plots, and wince-worthy clichés, Blow Dry undermines the abilities of its cast, and the people it represents, which makes for a weak film from a strong writer. The only good thing about this, is the realistic portrayal of stylists own atrocious hair-do's.  "},{"Title":"Sorry to be corny, but it was shear fun!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great cast of characters and extremely interesting provocative styles makes this somewhat reminiscent of Strictly Ballroom or Pret-A-Porter, but this was much better.  I don't care what other people say.  This was an extremely enjoyable movie that left me with a smile on my face the whole night after I saw it.Hartnett's accent and acting are surprisingly better than anything I've ever seen him in before, making him worthy in my mind of playing a character in a family played by greats like Rickman, Richardson, and Griffiths.  The major feel-good aspect that prevailed throughout was the changing family dynamics of our times and we how we still manage to pull together into a family no matter how weird everybody else may think it is.  That certainly was underplayed, but just enough was left in the final cut to make me happy.The score is a strangely interesting mix of your usual stuff reflecting the emotional undertones and some more modern movement during the actual haircutting scenes.  The music actually did make me think of scissors cutting through hair, though, so that was a nice touch!Who cares what other people think....listen to me!  Blow Dry is by no means a great movie under classical and conventional terms, but it'll certainly lift your mood and make you chuckle a bit, so it's definitely worth 90 minutes of your precious life. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes I don't need depth and academy award winning screenplays, sometimes I just want to be entertained.  This movie was very entertaining.I found it to be somewhat similar to Strictly Ballroom and Best in Show in that it focuses on an elite group of unusual people passionate about something that may not be of great interest to the cookie cutter masses.  I love the fact that the characters wanted to kick some hair styling butt. It was also refreshing to see Rachael Leigh Cook and Josh Hartnett in a movie that did not wreak of stale beer and the desire to get laid.  It was quirky and different, and I'm glad I chose to see this over one of the other mainstream, formulaic movies that are out now.   "},{"Title":"Its not grim but reasonably funny up north!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of the North of England.  More genuinely funny moments than the Full Monty but failing to give the warmth of Brassed Off.  Seeing the European Premier in the Town it tried to represent was a blast, any mention to Keighley getting a cheer certainly added to the film.  I  would not expect any of our transaltantic friends to understand the irony of the competition in hairdressing, as it seems more rational than american football or WWC wrestling etc.  The humour is certainly better than the drama in this bittersweet parody and in truth it would be better seen on the small rather than the big screen. The greatest shame is that it continues the myth that people suffer up North whereas we really benefit from the best people, best countryside and the best beer in the world. "},{"Title":"What went wrong?","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What went wrong with this film?  I can't help thinking that it was filmed as a tragedy and edited as a comedy, not to mention cut from 2 hours to 90 minutes. It meant that various storylines were reduced to being synopses--the star-crossed teen-lovers' story was routine at best, and what I suspect was a story about a small, downtrodden town coming into its own was reduced almost to nothing. And Natasha Richardson's character's fight against cancer seemed inappropriately bleak and a downer in a film that was supposed to be a comedy.  If they'd edited it as a tragi-comedy or tragedy, scenes that came across as mawkish could have been touching. What a shame. Incidentally, did anyone notice that Heidi Klum was the only person involved with promoting this film?  I wouldn't be surprised if the others had flatly refused to have anything to do with it. "},{"Title":"Nobody else enjoyed this?","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite what else you may read in the comments section of Blow Dry... know that at least one person liked it.  I enjoyed it and think it is definitely worth taking a look at.  Josh Hartnett was surprisingly good, and convincing with a British accent. The progression of the Lord Mayor's character from the beginning up through the duration of closing credits was great too. If you are picky about your movies, then you may not enjoy this, but if you're willing to give a film its fair chance, without pre-determining what you'll think of it by reading other's views, you might just like it. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie seen as Blow Dry","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very enjoyable.  Alan Richmann played a part different from any other I have seen him in.  There was drama, laughter, & good fun to be seen in this flick.  The actors did a good job.  This wasn't a great movie but I have seen a lot worse.  I would recommend it for being different. "},{"Title":"US release title is BLOW DRY","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This opened rather quietly in several Los Angeles area theatres on 3/7/2001. It is inconsequential, formulaic, contrived and predictable. Unless you are obsessed with one or more members of the cast, and I can understand that, there isn't any good reason to buy a ticket. Speaking of the cast, they aren't really to blame. Natasha Richardson is as effective as the material will allow, but Alan Rickman is dull in a dull role. Rachael Leigh Cook is attractive as an American, but this will do nothing for her career; Josh Hartnett completely convinces as a Brit, although I can't even guess how he ended up in this type film. Rachel Griffiths is woefully miscast. You will be reminded of writer, Simon Beaufoy's successful previous project, THE FULL MONTY, and will wish you'd just rented a tape of that instead.  "}{"Title":"Blow dry really got blown dry!","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, during the opening rolls of this movie, I wondered where would it go as it's mainly about hairdressing! But it took me by surprise. There are couple of fun moments however overall, the movie is kinda dry! I mean this movie could have gone below average if not for the presence of Alan Rickman and Bill Nighy(liked watching him in the Underworld movies). Just their acting lifts the movie from doldrums. Because, otherwise, I felt many of the scenes were handled too simple or plain. Nothing really engaging or memorable to hold your mind. And there was really no need for stars like Josh Hartnett or Rachael Leigh Cook. You could have put some newcomers in their place & the movie would have still run just fine. Talking about the hairdressing scenes if I must, they were handled quite well.Verdict If you're a hairdresser(sorry I don't know what else to say), you may like this. Or else, just forget it. "},{"Title":"Great film with laughably misguided marketing.","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this film probably four or five times, and I love it more each time. I sought out Blow Dry because I love Bill Nighy, Alan Rickman and the late, great Natasha Richardson ... but it took me ages to find the DVD because it had these two random American kids on the cover.I was puzzled because Richardson, Rickman and Nighy had obviously been relegated to sub-plot which seemed incredible, but I watched it anyway. In the event, the marketing became only more baffling. I can only assume that the publicists played on Josh Hartnett and Rachael Leigh Cook for the American market, but in doing so they must have put off an awful lot of people like me - and surely Richardson at least carried plenty of weight in the US? And Nighy and Rickman are hardly unknowns!Anyway, now that I've found it in spite of the marketing people totally missing the point, I can review it. Blow Dry is whimsical, gentle and funny - and I mean that in the best possible way. It's a British comedy in the best tradition, understated, warm and centred solidly in the very ordinary lives of very ordinary people.Bill Nighy is predictably surreal and steals every scene he's in, but handles his role as the devious, dastardly but ultimately vulnerable and really quite likable villain of the piece very well. Alan Rickman struggles a little to portray his character's bitterness and hostility at first, but as the character warms up he comes into his own. Given his character's back story it must have been something of a task both for Rickman and for the writers to avoid making him utterly pitiable, but they managed it and Phil comes out the hero, still hurting but beginning to move forward with life in totally non-pathetic fashion.The screen belongs, though, to Natasha Richardson. The relationship between Shelley, played by Richardson, and Sandra is brilliant; totally convincing but not in any way more of an issue than it should be. There's a brief moment of surprise when you realise they're a couple, but it's written and played so well that you very quickly accept it and it becomes simply part of the story. Richardson's balancing act between pathos and comedy is finely-tuned and very admirable; the fact that she's dying is never forgotten, but neither is it allowed to overshadow the plot or stifle the comedy. For one of the best examples I have ever seen of good, simple writing skilfully delivered, watch Richardson's scene with the doctor in which her character learns she is terminal; it should not be possible to be that sad and yet funny at the same time!My one complaint with this film is the casting of Josh Hartnett as Phil and Shelley's son, Brian. Rachael Leigh Cook is non-descript and suffers from being on the same screen as Bill Nighy, but at least they just let her be American even if she was a strange choice in the first place. Josh Hartnett, meanwhile, should never have been allowed anywhere near this film, and all the line-cutting in the world (and you get the impression they cut as much as they could get away with) can't prevent him from ruining what should have been some of the finest scenes in the film. The scene about halfway through in which Richardson's character reveals to Phil and Brian that she has cancer and is dying should have been a deeply moving showcase for the talents of Richardson and Rickman, but the viewer is thrown completely out of the moment by Hartnett's utterly appalling trampling of the Yorkshire accent - which, in spite of its awfulness, still seems to have been absorbing enough to prevent him from actually acting at the same time.Aside from this utterly bewildering casting choice, Blow Dry is a fantastic film - I could rave about it even longer, but your time would be better spent just watching it. "},{"Title":"a movie with a boring story that doesn't deliver","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" now i'm not going to say this film is terrible but its not good in the slightest. with it being rated 6.0 on this site makes me laugh. the film is basically about a hair dressing competition in england, a little dismal i know.the only thing stopping me rating it so low is the cast, even though they didn't do a good job its nice to see them all in one film. Josh Hartnett (Lucky Number Slevin, Sin City, 30 Days Of Night, Pearl Harbor and Wicker Park) is a brilliant actor but has an odd accent in this. Alan Rickman (Dogma, Die Hard and the Harry Potter films) is also a fantastic actor but doesn't really pull off being an English hair dresser. Rachael Leigh Cook (Antitrust, Josie And The Pussycats) Bill Nighy (The boat That Rocked, Underworld, Shaun Of The Dead) Warren Clarke (Clockwork Orange, I.D.) and Rachel Griffiths (Six Feet Under) are also in the film. so if there was any film with a cast like that you would definitely give it a second look. just too bad the film was poorly made and quite tiring to watch.i would like to say that i'd recommend this to girls as it is sort of a chick flick but i wouldn't wanna give them false hopes on seeing a good film.......... 3.6/10..........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"Peculiarity...Actors","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many times you watch a movie for several reasons or because you want to find several things, and during the movie you find other things that you didn't expect but become extremely pleasant. I decided to watch Blow Dry because of Rachael Leigh Cook, not even because of Josh Hartnett. If I had known that I'd find Alan Rickman, Bill Nighy and some of their fellows, the ride would have been very different. Fortunately; I didn't know.The events in Blow Dry unfold in a very peculiar way. In fact, the film is a peculiar comedy with peculiar characters that go through the most peculiar situation. Surprisingly, they are all human beings at last; there's a buried story between them and they show natural emotions as they speak. Maybe it's Simon Beaufoy's solid screenplay, or the fact that the past explains every action and, unlike typical romantic comedies, characters know each other and don't fall in love within days.What makes the picture dynamic and enjoyable is that there are not only two main characters, or only one love story. The plot shows the lives of two families encountered (one separated) by one peculiar (yes) activity hairdressing. The annual British Hairdressing competition takes place in Keighley, a little town. This competition, declares the mayor Tony (Warren Clarke) Will change the history of this town.Raymond Robertson (Bill Nighy), the world champion, assists the competition with his daughter Christine (Rachael Leigh Cook) alongside him. She'll be one of his models, given that the competition consists on different kinds of hair styles done to different people. Robertson is scared for only one man from Keighley who could enter the competition Phil Allen (Alan Rickman).Allen cuts hairs in a local barbershop with his son Brian (Josh Hartnett), but has been out of competitions for ten years, since the day his wife Shelley (Natasha Richardson) ran away with his model Sandra (Rachel Griffiths) in a lesbian affair that left him all alone. There are things unsaid here; more than we could ever imagine. The stages of the competition take place and the characters' relationships evolve.Who wins the tournament, why and under which circumstances becomes less interesting as we see the other part of the film being developed; the part of the emotions. Paddy Breathnach, the director manages all of this perfectly, leaving a lot of room for the comedy and taking advantage of every illuminated moment the script presents.These illuminations arrive with the cast of gifted actors and the different colors they bring. From the younger, like Rachael Leigh Cook who hasn't been doing much lately but has a great career for her age and a beautiful smile to connect with her talent; and Josh Hartnett, with a well accomplished British accent and experimenting with comedy before his lead in 40 days and 40 nights. To the elder, like the duo created by Richardson and Griffiths, which depends on a lot of accurate chemistry; and Warren Clarke's Tony, who is a revelation as he gains confidence while the days go by in the competition.But finally, those relaxed and calmed old men (to put it in a way) who have great talents and make anyone laugh, but probably will never be recognized for it. When I saw Galaxy Quest I noticed certain uniqueness in Alan Rickman's voice and look; years after it's still there. The man makes me laugh with no efforts, and so does Bill Nighy, an eternal stubborn and annoying actor who couldn't care less about the roles he plays; so to ridicule them, which makes them perfect.British comedies are and have been the funniest comedies of the world; it is because of actors like Rickman and Nighy&#133;Believe me. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie!","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like the Full Monty, this is a story where real human tragedy is inevitable. And we know, from the very start.Yet living triumphs over dying. Not content to make her exit quietly, Natasha Richardson's character drives those around her into one great creative effort, in which each gives of their very best.Wonderful, wonderful moments abound in this movie, but the unforgettable moment for me is Natasha Richardson's acting when she sees the transformation of her lover at the hands of her ex-husband. She is absolutely overwhelmed by what she sees, and so, indeed, is the viewer.There is another magic scene in which artist and model, drawn together by their love for the same woman, suddenly rediscover their old intimacy. "},{"Title":"Warren Clarke is a real hoot","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This pleasant film has a good ensemble cast, especially Rachel Griffiths and Rosemary Harris. However Warren Clarke, best known in the UK for his sublime portrayal of Andy Dalziel, gets to use his comic talents in a a thoroughly enjoyable OTT way. As the Mayor who is hosting the competition, his transformation is very funny, as are the closing credits. I wonder if he really is from Yorkshire, he does do Yorkshire so very well. The sheep scene is also very funny - wonder how they managed it?? All in all I give it an 8/10. It is a shame such films don;t get a wider cinema release. "},{"Title":"Dodgy Yorkshire Accents Ahoy!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable for  the most part, but some of the  worst Yorkshire accents I have ever heard. Bill Nighy  excellent as usual.  "},{"Title":"Oh, aye?","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was quickly checking the TV program and noticed that a movie with Alan Rickman and Natasha Richardson had just started. So I tuned in. I was totally unprepared for what I got. A low-key comedy about... hair dressing? With a lesbian or bisexual subplot? I was bemused. Puzzled. Fascinated. This is one of the weirdest movies I've ever seen. It had a lot of entertainment value, but in an intelligent, highly eccentric way. It wasn't laugh-out-loud funny, but weird funny. It was intriguing. I hesitate to say it was really good, but it certainly was an experience! The actors were all very watchable (even poor speech-impaired Josh, most of whose lines were fragmented half-sentences - the only right choice!). Bill Nighy is always a pleasure, so too for Rickman and Richardson. Rachael Leigh Cook was a beauty to behold (though I still find it difficult to dissociate her from that awful, awful piece of teen idiocy that was She's All That). Rachel Griffiths was also good. Heidi Klum was just the right type for her role (wow, didya see that fan 'do she sported towards the end?!). And the other minor characters - like the Kilburn Kutters and the Style Warriors, and the whole thing with the dead body getting a Sid Vicious hair-do - were really some of the best elements in the movie.Importantly, this movie had a good and satisfying end. The Total Look outfits were *incredible*! Winter, Nefertita and... just Sandra. Fantastic, jaw-dropping efforts - which in the real world would surely be *absolutely impossible* to accomplish in 45 minutes. But by God they were stupendous-looking. (And that's coming from a long-haired guy who hasn't been to a hair-dresser since 1988 and really couldn't care less about the vacuous world of hair-dressing. Someone mentioned that the movie was about vanity - well, the setting wasn't chosen by accident, then!)As a whole, the movie must be said to be a fine effort. I rate it 7 out of 10, which is my good, decent movie rating.  "},{"Title":"The worst Yorkshire Accent I have ever heard","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why on earth they chose to cast Josh Hartnet is beyond me. There must be plenty of good looking young actors from the UK who could have done the job.The film may have been half decent, but the appalling accent just put me off the movie. Its a shame.  "},{"Title":"Hair-dos and don'ts","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blow Dry could have been about the baddest gunslingers converging on a quiet little western town for a showdown to determine once and for all who is the fastest gun in the West. Among the players would be the retired gunslinger (the hero) who doesn't pack his sixgun anymore; an evil gunslinger (the villain) who everyone knows is a back-shooter; a beautiful woman who once loved (and still does) the hero; and some hapless townsfolk who are caught up in the whole shebang including a young couple who will eventually fall in love; etc. Well, substitute scissors for sixshooters, move the whole thing to England, and you've kinda-sorta got Blow Dry, a fun little underachieving mix of comedy and drama with a solid cast and enough subplots to keep the viewer entertained in spite of the lack of overall success. Worth a look, especially for those who enjoyed The Big Tease. "}{"Title":"Comedy and Compassion Meet","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Each of the main characters is well portrayed.  Perhaps the director and the writer weren't sure how much of a comedy as opposed to a drama Blow Dry was supposed to be.  The result is much like life - comedic moments align themselves uncomfortably with serious issues.  I haven't been to Yorkshire in decades and I certainly don't know any hair stylists except for the woman who cuts my hair but I could identify with all the characters.  Their humanity escapes their locality. "},{"Title":"A Good But Unusual Movie.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blow Dry was nothing of what I expected, but it was an okay film. Natasha Richardson, Josh Hartnett, and Rachael Leigh Cook were great in the film and were believeable. Like I said, it was a different movie, but it was rather good. I give Blow Dry an 8 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Split Ends","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BLOW DRY is a film with a split personality that ends satisfying neither. Part sentimental relationship comedy and part scissors satire, the film's cast somehow manages to rise above the unkindest cut as somewhat stylish. Natasha Richardson defends the Redgrave dynasty nicely (though we know she no Yorkshire lass, she).  Alan Rickman is a bit under-utilized.  Yank Josh Hartnett does nicely with the accent but a Brit boy could've done as well. Rachel Griffiths adds her usual quirky presense.  Stage thesp Bill Nighy is oddly over-the-top as the evil stylist out for the title.  But the rift between styles gives film a coiff that's none too flattering overall.  "},{"Title":"Amiable light comedy","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Making an emotionally satisfying movie and climax out of a hairdressing competition is no mean challenge, but considering how such a plot seems doomed to mediocrity the film manages to be entertaining enough as light background drivel of the mildly humorous sort. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The quaint town of Keighly is the site of the British Hairdressing Championship and the whole town is aflutter with the arrival of the country's top stylists including Ray Robertson (Bill Nighy). His one-time rival (Alan Rickman) has led a quiet life as the local barber ever since his wife (Natasha Richardson) left him. She now owns a beauty shop and wants to enter the competition, but first the doctor has some news for her.This Britcom boasts an ensemble cast of talented stars and a very witty script. There is an interesting back-story for each character; some are silly, others poignant. Bill Nighy is an absolute riot as the flamboyant and unscrupulous hair diva, Rickman plays it serious as a poker-faced used-to-be, while Richardson is plucky as a lesbian with health issues. All of the smaller roles are gems, too, especially the uptight Keighly lord mayor (Warren Clarke) who sings Elvis, and Rosemary Harris as an elderly nursing home resident.This collection of eccentric characters competing in an over-the-top contest had me laughing from start to finish. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Cast and Fun - Sitcom with Farce and Meaning From H Potter fan!","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a fantastic cast! Harry Potter fans will be immediately reminded that Alan Rickman was our Professor Severus Snape, not only by his appearance, but by his snarling speech early in the movie. But will all Potter fans also recognize David Bradley from his role as Argus Filch? Who cares if Josh Hartnett get his accent right - he gets his Part as young son of Rickman and Natasha Richardson (as Shelley) who left the marriage for a Lesbian affair. This is a Situation that I can relate to as my wife left me for a Lesbian Relationship six years ago and we still share life and nearly grown children in the same community. The strains and bitterness are real, and so is the occasional necessity of pulling together as a family in spite of heartbreaking disappointments. CHARACTERS with former GREAT Roles! Bill Nighy as the competitive Ray Robertson in one of his greatest of Many great roles too numerous to mention (tho I've seen nearly all of his Award Winning Performances now.) Rachael Leigh Cook is story-book perfect as daughter of Nighy, falling in love with Hartnett in the competition family. Her role in 'Nancy Drew' is not her greatest, but find her in 'She's All That' or 'Strike!' and you'll want to see more of her as I have. Rachel Griffiths is beautiful as both Model and Lesbian Partner, and this relationship is given fair play as serious love. Heidi Klum is also beautiful in her share of sub-plot.But again, so what if the basic setting of a British National Hair Styling Championship is a bit farcical with stereotypically gay Hair Dressers! Or even if some of the acting appears silly! The action is Fun and Funny, while setting stage for very real life drama. That is GREAT ENTERTAINMENT! "},{"Title":"Jewels behind vanity","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a movie! The world of hair-dressing-art embedded in the surrounding of the industrial area of Yorkshire This contrast is a fantastic mirror for the theme of the film - vanity. But the real sense of the film is developing love - the pure love that is free of jealousy, vanity and egoism.And here comes Alan Rickman! As hairdresser Phil Allen he starts as a resigned man who has left the claim for big career behind as well as the love of his life when his wife left him and his son years ago. Allen comes back to life by becoming involved into the styling-contest. Rickman gives us some scenes that took my breath away - and, promise, not only because of his velvet-voice. His soft presentation of pain, of lost love and in the end of an enormous celebrity is the jewel in a story that is also carried by wonderful humour and crazy fun.The other pearls of intensity in `Blow Dry' are Natasha Richardson as Shelley, the ex-wife of Allen and Rachel Griffiths as Sandra, the former model of Allen, who is now living with Shelley. Convince yourself!All in all, `Blow Dry' spins a thread between big fun, big pain, hurt hearts and healing hearts, just like life should be - or sometimes can be, when love leaves egoism. `Family' may exist in many forms! I feel sorry that films like this don-t have more success, but it´s always the same People seem not to want intelligent, warm-hearted and sensitive elements on the screen. Or do the ones, who decide what people get presented, just think that? Anyhow Pity!Nevertheless  I love that film!  "},{"Title":"Really Wonderful Feel Good Film","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you give Blow Dry a chance, you'll be rewarded with a funny, romantic, warm movie with a positive, hopeful message.  It's not preachy or anything like that, but it leaves you with a good feeling.  And it's very funny.  I've watched it a dozen times and there are still places where I laugh.  And I discover new things about it every time.  The cast is great, especially Natasha Richardson and AlanRickman.  Rachel Griffiths is terrific as always.  And both Rachael Leigh Cook and Josh Hartnett put in very solid roles as the offspring of competing British Champion hair stylists.  15 years later they're back fighting for the British Hairstying Championship 2000, and there's a lot of history among them. It's a story about family, and hope, and about human companionship and how noneof us can live without it.  If you're looking for something a little off the beaten path, with no explosions or car chases, then give this movie a try! "},{"Title":"A True Jewel in Yorkshire's Crown","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I take issue with the posters who negatively compare this movie with The Full Monty just because the two were made by the same person and Monty garnered far more box office (it probably would have won the Academy Award that year if wasn't pitted against Titanic).  The movies are totally different, and I love them both!Alan Rickman, Natasha Richardson, and Rachel Griffiths are joys to behold and their characters are unique, funny, deep, and well-defined.  Bill Nighy is also awesome (I can't picture anyone else as Raymond Robertson), and even the lesser characters of Louis, The Kilburn Kutters, The Style Warriors, Lord Mayor Tony, and the B&B proprietors are funny and well-acted.  The only drawbacks are the utterly talentless Heidi Klum, and the (always-present-in-every-non-American-movie-nowadays) useless American, Rachel Leigh Cook.  Although Josh Hartnett also is an American, and it's certain that a British actor could probably have done the job better, he is really cute as Brian and does a fair job on the accent (extremely rare in Americans).The movie is unique and different and that's what makes it so good.  It's not meant to be a great, theatrical drama, but is just a simple, little movie that elicits a smile and a warm fuzzy, while being very funny as well, yet having it's touching points.  It doesn't have the enormous comedic impact of The Full Monty because it's not supposed to.All in all, this movie is definitely worth seeing, because it appeals to all sorts of movie-watchers, no matter what your particular interests are.  Even my roommate, who never watches anything but blow-me-up movies and the Sci-Fi channel, really liked this one.An interesting note for anyone who likes British comedy  the town of Keighly, where the movie takes place, is the hometown of Mollie Sugden of Are You Being Served fame!     "},{"Title":"Josh's accent wasn't THAT bad...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a complete Josh Hartnett fan, but I have never seen Blow Dry..only because it didn't look that great. But tonight, I gave it a chance. The movie was cute...kind of weird..but cute. I thought that Josh's english accent wasn't horrible, but then again, i don't really notice that detail too much. Rachel Leigh Cook was alright in it, but nothing special. This movie is cute to watch if your bored. I really liked the whole romantic tie-in with Josh's character, Brian, and Rachael's, Christina...that part is worth watching. Overall, the movie was alright, but not the best Josh movie. As far as the rest of the cast, they were pretty good. Now from watching the movie, I can understand why no one liked it...only b/c it was silly. But if you happen to flipping through the channels when your really bored..it's worth a look.--Natalie-- "}{"Title":"Lightweight fluff, but GOOD anyway. Rickman and Richardson are GEMS!!!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Much, much lighter fare than the great Strictly Ballroom, to which it has (erroneously, in my opinion) been compared. But nonetheless, a delightful movie. The resemblance between this and Ballroom is superficial--- people with funny accents wearing WAY too much makeup, excited about an arcane skill that most of us would find a bit goofy.Alan Rickman is so good, it was a pleasure to see him as a non-villain for a change; Truly, Madly, Deeply and Galaxy Quest notwithstanding--- he was a hero in both of those. Natasha Richardson is another under-used and under-admired star. The rest of the somewhat odd lot of fine character actors came through with typical good-indie-film great performances as well.I recall reading some flak from some folks in England, complaining about Josh Hartnet's non-Yorkshire accent. Maybe. I don't know what a Yorkshire accent sounds like, although I am a lover of the pudding. But Hartnet only spoke half a dozen times, and then only 2 or 5 words each time. So perhaps it's a small and trivial sacrifice for the audience to make, that is, if the accent was really off. From here (California), it sounded muffled and somehow like a Scotsman trying to speak while swallowing potatoes.Blow Dry isn't Strictly Ballroom. Heck-- it's not even Moulin Rouge, nor Brassed Off. But it IS good fun, with a mostly innocent heart and fresh-enough writing and acting to make it worthwhile. Lighten up! ...and enjoy yourself with this DVD rental, perhaps? "},{"Title":"Predictable and forgettable, but funny and good-hearted","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blow Dry is not a film I would put on my top-ten list, but it has an odd charm to it.  It's funny and good-hearted (it figures, from the writer of The Full Monty), and I can't say the premise isn't original.  Come on, what other movies have there been that take place in a National Hairdressers Competition?  I can be wrong, and if you can name another please let me know.  It gave a pretty good exploration into these little-known competitions, but I still felt more could've been done with the setup.As a saving grace, we have a cast of talented actors.  Alan Rickman, who everyone knows as Bruce Willis' nemesis in Die Hard, is terrific as usual. He's a fine English actor with a strong screen presence.  Natasha Richardson, who I didn't even recognize at first, is also good.  She wears an obviously phony blonde wig throughout the film, since she plays a cancer patient still undergoing kemotherapy.  I kept watching her saying to myself, I know I've seen that actress before!  Where the hell have I seen her??!!! Rachel Griffiths, who I previously badmouthed for her over-the-top performance as Johnny Depp's mother in Blow, is also good as Natasha's lesbian lover.  I guess she should stay away from American movies...lol. Well, I thought she was very good and I feel like taking back my harsh remarks.  I enjoyed Warren Clarke as the ringleader of the big event.  He is very funny, and I didn't even know him by name before viewing this movie. For some reason, I felt as if I've seen him before.  I was delighted to find out that he was Dim in A Clockwork Orange!  Of course, he looks much different (and much heavier) now.  Well, I hope to see him in more movies. Josh Hartnett is OK, but his accent drifts at points.  Overall, I think he pulled off a pretty convincing accent, but I think English directors should stick to casting English actors.  I used to think that it sounded better when American actors do English accents than English actors doing American accents.  First of all, I'm sure English actors can point out the inaccuracies on the accents better than me.  Second of all, I take that back.  Though Michael Caine couldn't quite pull off an American accent in Cider House Rules, there are still a good deal of English actors who can do very convincing accents like Gary Oldman, Kenneth Branaugh, Kate Beckinsale, etc.  Speaking of bad accents, was Heidi Klum (who was even more unrecognizable than Natasha, in a HUGE blonde wig!) actually trying to do an English accent?  She used the word bloody at one point, so I'm guessing yes.  Couldn't she just play a German?  Wouldn't that have been easier? Models have a hard-enough time acting; don't make them put on accents.  I think they also used Klum to help the marketing.  On the back of the DVD box, they showed her as...Heidi!  Without the stupid blonde wig.  So I expected to see her in the movie as herself and not playing a silly character.  OK, I vented my frustrations.  *breathes*The plot is quite predictable.  Don't expect any surprises.  But the characters are likeable and well-developed.  I liked how the subject of lesbianism wasn't exploited.  Most of the time when you see lesbian characters in movies, they're either 1) used to create a hot, steamy sex scene/ 2) used to bring out a preachy, politically correct message/ or 3) used as objects of homophobic humor.  It's not even verbally expressed that the two characters are lesbians, and at times you assume they're just real good friends.  Rarely do I see the subject handled in a non-superficial manner.This is not a laugh-out-loud comedy, but it does have laughs and they are earned honestly.  No cheap shots.  No slapstick.  However, the movie as a whole doesn't quite possess a unique, significant quality.  Though it's entertaining and funny, I probably won't remember much about it as time goes by.  Doesn't have an everlasting quality, but I still think it's a good rental.My score  7 (out of 10)         "},{"Title":"Alan Rickman knows where the Fountain of Youth is.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So, the movie's plot is a waste of time.  And whose idea was it to have this has-been sing a Presley song at the end.....were they trying to be funny?  It came out pathetic.  REminded me of the climax of Little Voices. But here is why it's worth seeing 1. Alan Rickman....what a doll.  Even if he is beginning to play Alan Rickman plays Whoever just like John Wayne did. 2. Beautiful, quirky England.  I love every scene where I could see the wierd sand castle buildings on 70 degree streets, steeper than San Francisco.  What architects they must have in the hinterlands!!  I saw a viaduct that looked much like the one we have in Canton, Ma...otherwise unique. 3. How much the Richardson girl looks like her mother, Vanessa.Who was the old lady?  She was Grrrreat!!!  I thought it was Vanessa, but couldn't be sure under the blinded eyes and wrinkly chins.  I, too, wonder how such great stars could act in such drivel, but Michael Caine says that you need to follow the money when he was in a stinker, it was usually because he needed to add a wing to his house.I also enjoyed just the wierdness of it, and seeing the English small town folk, and comparing them with the small-town folk of my country. Scam artists are everywhere.Even my remarks on this movie are smarmy, but I can't help it.  There's just nothing to inspire me, but Rickman's sex appeal.  (Which is more than enough.) "},{"Title":"A little bit of many things,  not adding up to a great flick","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WARNING-MAJOR SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THIS POSTBlow Dry is a movie about a hair dressing competition. Well-that's what it's SUPPOSED to be about. The movie's a bit deceptive, in it's advertising and that's the main problem I had with it. While I didn't hate or even dislike, this flick and even found some parts enjoyable, I would not market this as a comedy. While there are a few funny moments, this is, by and large, a drama. There are many characters but they are all linked to Shelly, played with excellence by Natasha Richardson. Shelly has just found out she has terminal cancer. There are a lot of estrangements. Estrangements between lovers, children, parents, spouses, etc etc. And yes, in the midst of all this is the hair dressing competition that will ultimately bring all together again.There are, sometimes, movies that can pull off the combination of comedy/drama thing very well. Blow Dry doesn't quite do it though. It is surprisingly heavy for almost the first 40 minutes. While I like heavy movies just fine, my question is, if one is flicking channels and tunes in for a good comedy, where is the comedy? It doesn't really start getting funny for quite awhile and even then is never really laugh out loud funny. But, by that time, many may turn it off anyway.Likewise, if someone wants a good drama they are not even likely to know this might be one, from it's description. Bow Dry has a reputation as being a comedy and I don't think many people who have heard of it would expect it to be so heavy. With a movie like this I think it would have been more enjoyable as straight comedy or straight drama.The other problem I had was the competition itself. Where was it? The whole hair dressing competition is more of a backdrop to Shelly's story and the dynamics between the characters. Woefully little of the actual competition is even showed. Virtually no glamor till the final round, and even then, much to little of it.Blow Dry is a movie that could have been worse, but was made much better by the superb casting of Richardson. I wish the movie as a whole had been stronger, because as weak as I found the movie, she still succeeded in playing the heck out of Shelly and elevating the character into unforgettable movie character status. Imagine what she would have done with a stronger movie....Although, I didn't like Blow Dry all that much, the end was very sweet and I did care about the characters, particularly Shelly. So that's why I'm giving it a 5 of 10, about average, though Richarson's performance and the last 15-20 minutes gets a 10. I just wish the whole movie could have been in the same league as the above mentioned. It was decent, though, not awful, and Allan Rickman has great feet. My vote is 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Accent on bad accents","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josh Hartnett's accent really awful but not quite as bad as Natasha's. Whatever possessed them to put the poor lad into this bag of nothingness. Oh Natasha! I can't remember seeing her in anything noteworthy. One of the most unoriginal ideas for a film. Was it a comedy? Why wasn't it funny? Was it a drama? Why did they fill it with actors who couldn't get work on a daytime soap? A waste of everyone's time and, in some cases, talent. One that Peter Kay seems to keep quiet about which is unusual. To confess I only watched it to see if I could recognize any of the locations and they were pretty much the most noteworthy things in there. "},{"Title":"Watchable rubbish (just ignore Josh Hartnetts accent!)","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ended up watching this last night when i couldn't sleep, usually films like this knock me out in seconds, but this time I finished it partly through the reasonable stab at a storyline and partly for local intrigue as i'm a yorkshireman.The plot line isn't really what drew me in as really it's more to do with the character interactions which unfortunately leads me to the only problem of the film which is two of the three American actors in the film, Josh Hartnett and Rachel Leigh Cook. RLC did her usual job of phoning it in and really didn't add anything to the film. JH isn't too bad apart from the accent he's attempting. For those of you not from Great Britain you may not realise that we have a very diverse collection of accents; you can even tell which town or village people are from. As such it almost hurts to hear my accent attempted by an American. I'm not having an anti-American jibe here, it's just that there are a lot of fine British actors who could have done a better job of it, especially as there was already a good collection of fine actors in this film already providing the star draw and presumably some of the funding pull. I really don't mind American actors is British films, just have them playing Americans and not British people.Rant over "},{"Title":"Let it stay wet...","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If it were not for Alan Rickman, I would have stopped this movie ten minutes in.  Josh Hartnett was boooooooring.  His fake accent was terrible, his acting ability seems very limited, and however he may look, he is one of the worst young actors in Hollywood.  He makes Christopher Lloyd look talented. Rickman carried whatever was worthy in this movie.  When he came into scene, the movie was fresh and fun.  The tattoo on his foot was very sexy. "},{"Title":"Pathetic Accents","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fairly average film. Fairly humorous but apart from that there was nothing else really going for it. The film doesn't really have much to keep you interested and it had the feel that I'd seen it a score or more time before. I'm sure there are films out there with the exact same plot but are about dancing or summat like. What really got my goat, though, was the worst Yorkshire accents I have ever heard in my life. Rickman didn't even bother to try and sound northern, whilst at times I thought Hartnett was trying to sound more like he was from Ireland, Italy or Kentucky than Keighley - sometimes all three at the same time!All in all, forgettable film, unforgettably dreadful accents. I wouldn't watch it again, but if I were, it would only be to stare wistfully at Rachael Leigh Cook. "},{"Title":"uh,ok,whatever","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  every one mentions  josh harnetts accent so i wont, i mean we all know it was bad.But this film wasnt that bad. the story and the plot were good even if there was not that much to it, you felt for the well developed charactors.well played by top actors and through the sadness there where even a few laughs. But its downfall was  it was forgetable it just doesnt stand out. i dont know whether to recomend it or not a bit undescript really. "},{"Title":"US and UK stars fall out of place.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The accents in this movie are terrible. Josh Hartnett tries a Yorkshire accent? As bad as it sounds. Rachel Leigh Cook suddenly turns up in a northern town - I wish. Both look out of place as do much of the rest of the cast. Warren Clarke was perhaps the best cast but even he cannot pull off his role as Mayor. The script lacks any form of interesting plot or laughs and the film is based simply upon hairdressing being a rather poncey career.  "}{"Title":"How a great cast can make a really bad movie","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So this film,which is being dumped into US theaters under the title of Blow Dry,has a cast which by itself made me want to see it. Alan Rickman,Rachel Griffiths,Natasha Richardson,plus others.Surely,I thought,they must have read the script,and would only do a film if it was worth doing. WRONG! The movie fails at every level,it isn't funny,it has no insight into the characters,and the pathetic attempt at melodrama by having one character with only a short time left to live is mean-spirited and desperate.What a waste! "},{"Title":"Terrible film, with few redeeming qualities","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie constitutes little more than Simon Beaufoy attempting to continue his run of luck after 'The Full Monty' by presenting another 'down-to-earth' ungainly comedy/drama set somewhere in the impossibly bleak north of England, evidently a place where nobody has any hope or individuality. The film is uniformly and off-puttingly low-lit throughout, presumably a directorial decision but possibly the failure of sufficient electricity or sunlight to reach a positively medieval Keighley.Generally speaking, the decision to cast Josh Hartnett was so ill-advised that watching his performance in this film, and hearing his lamentable Dick-Van-Dyke-style attempts to mimic a Northern accent, is almost enough to cast a shadow over his other work (which has generally been of a high standard).Alan Rickman has no more excuse for his mocked-up accent which is ridiculously exaggerated and spoken with a clichéd hairdresser lisp, the combined effect of which will leave anyone from West Yorkshire either laughing out loud for the full running time or feeling somewhat insulted that this debacle was ever put onto film.Differing opinions over the casting aside, it is unlikely that many will find this movie very funny. This seems absolutely reprehensible in a would-be comedy. Love or hate Beaufoy, 'The Full Monty' was a genuinely funny film with a good selection of big-laughs. However, Blow Dry's humour, where it exists, is facile and normally pokes fun at the supposed oddities of working-class culture. Opportunities for humour are overshadowed by the frequent lurches into confrontational and embittered 'realistic' scenes which play out like poorly scripted 'Eastenders' exchanges.The half-baked hair Dressing theme is actually more-or-less incidental to the contorted but occasionally well-worked plot of former lovers, professional rivalry and long-lost childhood friends, and is nothing like as interesting as the strip-club milieu of The Full Monty. It could, one suspects, easily have been exchanged for countless others without rupturing the proceedings too much. The actual 'competition' scenes are a chore to sit through, consisting of the usual hastily-assembled montage sequences focusing on only one or two competitors. Rickman's credentials as a hairdresser seem less convincing than his accent, if that is possible.Amidst the usual cohort of British actors is Rachel Leigh Cook, who looks quite appropriately lost in the movie, probably wondering, like most of the audience, how Hartnett and she became embroiled in all of this. The only scene of any significant originality in the movie, in fact, is that in which Cook chooses to cut off all of her hair to escape from the whole competition circuit - again quite uncannily mirroring audience psychology.In retrospect, it can be seen that the late 90s and early 00s saw a glut of these 'provincial' comedies that were set in deliberate opposition to the London of Richard Curtis' 'Four Weddings' universe. This had a polarising effect so that mainstream British films, and especially comedies, were either set in working-class locations akin to Royston Vasey or else in an unreal city of Whitehall and Anglo-American relationships. Some such productions, like 'The Full Monty' or 'Brassed Off', were good films, others, like this one or something like 'The One and Only' (which was little more than a promotional film for the North East) were terrible. British comedies have become more sophisticated in recent years, and are no longer satisfied with such stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Total Shocker","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an appalling film. Rickman cannot pull off playing a working class British Barber but at least gives it a fair aul whack. But Hartnetts accent is quite easily the most shocking that I have ever encountered in a motion picture. And I'm Irish so I've noticed a lot of Shockers. Paddy Breathnach must have done his best though, as I honestly do not believe a director could have allowed such poor acting in his film had the casting choice actually been his. And whats the deal with 'Quirky British movies'? They are by and large fantastical hodgepodges crying out for originality but consistently looking like the idea was scibbled on the back of a beermat. "},{"Title":"Very Very Poor","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i have to say i have never seen such a poor film in my 15 years of watching films all the time!i don't understand the reasons why an American should be cast as the main role when trying to do some kind of yorkshire accent that sounded more like an American from the deep south!the film was full of clichés and the fact that it was about a subject which not many films have been about did not stop the fact that the film was poor. the storyline was obvious from the start. especially with the introduction of a young good looking girl to the plot. the idea that people may have actually paid to go see this at the cinema shocks me and is inexcusable. the director should give up and start working at a hairdressers. "},{"Title":"I would have liked it much better if???","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If a movie must have homosexuals in it, please don't be so graphic, these movies should be labeled AL for Alternative Lifestyle so that you know ahead of time, then let the viewer decide ahead of time if they still want to see it instead after you have paid to see it. "}]