[{"Title":"The Anti-Maid in Manhattan","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this movie, there are no purloined designer clothes to masquerade in, and Prince Charming doesn't come complete with a political career and a three-piece suit--he's a scruffy charmer in a baggy t-shirt with little more to offer than a megaphone and a cause.This is a film made by a director who has to be spiritual kin to Michael Moore, but his subject matter is quite different.  Here we see real immigrants (both legal and illegal) being used rather cynically by companies whose business plan includes hiring the most downtrodden and fearful and hand-to-mouth in our country, paying them the lowest possible wages, giving them absolutely no benefits whatsoever, and thereby winning contracts to provide custodial and other services over companies that pay a fair and living wage, plus benefits, to primarily unionized employees who are American citizens. You know this really happens. It does. The best remedy for the situation is certainly a matter for debate, but no matter what your political slant or position on labor unions and illegal immigrants, you will most definitely find food for thought herein.OTOH, if you are also one of the drooling legions of newbie Adrien Brody fangirls, you will find even more food for thought.  Brody is painfully cute in this movie-a piquant mixuture of earnest, funny, sincere, sweet, and fiery, topped off with a kinghell case of `bedhead'.The three central players are Pilar Padilla, as idealistic illegal immigrant Maya, her overburdened sister Rosa, played by Elipidia Carillo, and Brody as Sam Shapiro, an organizer and activist for the cause.  No fairy tale, this movie, though a few of the cast are reasonably good-looking.  The cast, many of whom really are janitors and custodians, are as real as it gets.  You can see a lifetime of hard labor and long hours in their faces, and the slump to their shoulders.I really grew to like these struggling janitors and maids. None of them were types--they were all real people and their conflicts and concerns were illuminated very well, despite limited screen time being available to each. By treating these characters with respect and making them fully-fleshed out, it made the passion of the organizers for this particular cause more understandable, and not just as sometimes seems the case in some portrayals, a matter of someone who is bored or spoiled or has some sort of guilt-complex trying to find their identity and using do-gooderism as a means to that end.  Through coming out from the shadows, and joining the great and messy American experience of organized dissent, you could practically see some of these characters changing into `Americans' before your eyes, no matter what their official papers might say.  Thinking like Americans, standing up for their rights, making their voices heard. That's how it's supposed to work-isn't it?  Isn't it?If there are caricatures in this movie, then those would be some of the building administrators, but their screen time is so limited, and they are usually so surprised and besieged by Sam Shapiro's stunts and protests that their lack of articulate or sympathetic response seems realistic enough to me. But the one thing that stands out is more than anything else is the absolutely natural acting style. Nobody really seems to be acting in this movie. It's as if there was a very unobtrusive documentary maker following these folks around. The movie is, however, well-paced between scenes which are rousing or charming, and those which are raw and painful.Although this movie is not a love story or romance, per se, Adrien's character does get some action in it. In fact, in one amusing scene, he is literally hauled into a janitor's closet by an enterprising female (smart girl!!) and snogged silly. One can but applaud that sort of enterprise and initiative on the part of a recent arrival to this great country of ours. That's the kind of can-do immigrant spirit that made this country great, and if I were there, I would be sure to tell her how much I admired that quality in her, when I visited her in the hospital to apologize for having accidentally whacked her out of the way with a long-handled mop.But it can't all be funny and cute, and indeed, in this same section of the movie is a scene of such raw emotion, harsh language, honesty, and truth, between the two Mexican sisters that I cannot say I have ever seen anything like it. Even Ebert said in his review that it's the kind of scene that would win an Oscar if the Academy ever saw movies like this, which of course, they don't.The ending is both feel-good triumphant, and bittersweet. I think that such an ending was very much in keeping with the tone and overall realism of this movie--yes, some things changed for the better, but for people like these, not everyone gets that happy ending and lives happily ever after. At least, not right away.There's real passion here, on the part of everyone involved, and it feels genuine, not manipulative.  It's a pleasure to see a movie with good quality production values and excellent acting which was made for a reason, not just to make money. "},{"Title":"Of Bread and Roses","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As the daughter of hard-working Mexican immigrant parents and having been raised in one of Los Angeles' poorest barrios, I often saw the story of Rosa and Maya being played out in real life within my family and amongst my neighbors.  The authenticity with which this story is told is astounding, showing a deep respect for those who in search of a way to make an honest living, subject themselves to countless humiliations and are relegated to live outside the margins of mainstream America.Kudos to the writers!! This is the first time I have ever seen an American film in which the dialogue in Spanish was written by someone who actually speaks the language and can grasp the nuances and feeling of the language so perfectly.  Richard Hicks is to be commended for casting both Elpidia Carrillo and Pilar Padilla in the roles of Rosa and Maya, respectively. They deliver their dialogue, especially in Spanish, with an emotion and passion that is rarely seen on the Hollywood silver screen.  Needless to say, Bread and Roses is now on my list of must-have-films to add to my DVD library. "},{"Title":"Just Experience It and Enjoy","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I attended a screening a week ago sponsored by a local public supported radio station (KPFK) in Los Angeles, I was not certain if this film was a documentary or typical crafted Hollywood-style hyperbole since I listened with half an ear while jogging and listening to an opportunity to attend.Who would have thought that a simple discussion on a local public supported radio station in Los Angeles (KPFK) a few years ago would compel a screenwriter (Paul Laverty) to visit a union organizing effort in downtown Los Angeles (circa 1999) resulting in a film that was drama, comedy, farce, fear, compassion and a taste of dusted immigrants creeping through Tijuana-to-USA shrubs to gain entry via the abusive coyotes human smuggler routes.  Most of these immigrants land in day-worker situations and low pay and yet Los Angeles would collapse without them.  This film concentrates on the downtown office area -- owned and occupied by the elite of Los Angeles establishment - and where many undocumented workers toil under conditions that are far less than that suggested by international Human Rights standards.This was a polished non-Hollywood-capability-film but yet intimately Los Angeles.  I listened to an interview yesterday on KPFK with Laverty and learned that funding was elsewhere - Europe I recall - not 'Hollywood'.  And Laverty is from Scotland.  One would never guess that the film was actually on the low-budget scale when compared with Hollywood's pleasure to spend big dollars.I also learned that the film was made in 30-days (hence the vibrant interaction of all cast members and energetic direction by Loach) and is in release this week with 30 prints in Los Angeles, and 300 nationwide USA.  Sounds like some symmetry there and potential Lottery pick permutations.My only reservation is that the story is highly political in an undercurrent nature and may frighten an extensive audience --- unless the viewers just take the courage to go, watch, and enjoy.  The film will do the rest.  The viewer will leave with more than the cost of a matinee price ticket.I also suggest that in an upcoming meeting between Vicente Fox, President of Mexico, and George W. Bush, President of United States, that Vicente snag a copy of the film and show it to George while sipping tea in Texas. And then for dessert, sip more tea and watch Traffic.      "},{"Title":"Vivid dramatic depiction of workers' struggle and perseverance","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bread and Roses is an engaging film about immigrant workers' struggles against poverty, state violence, and economic exploitation. I saw Bread and Roses at the Denver Film Festival thinking it was going to be a dry, lecturing documentary.  Instead, it was a nuanced and complex dramatic depiction of powerful and engaging characters.  It is rare to find such a politically charged film that is made so effective by presenting very human characters struggling with the contradictions of everyday life.  It allows us to appreciate the tough choices we all make in conditions not of our own choosing--it allows us to explore issues outside of the knee-jerk judgments of good guy/bad guy and appreciate the very human responses to often inhuman circumstances we all participate in creating. The acting is generally very good, especially for a low budget production, but the main character's older sister delivers a monologue on her struggles with deprivation that still chills me to the bone even though I saw it months ago.  Sorry for leaving out the details, but this is one film whose details you'll want to discover for yourself. "},{"Title":"Uncle Ken goes to America","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is Ken Loach's first film to be made in America, which might have proved risky for a director so closely associated with his native Britain as Loach.Happily, it is a complete success, proving once and for all that Ken Loach's films are universal because of his attitudes to people rather than his politics. It's a shame Loach is so associated with politics as that puts off an audience who might otherwise enjoy his films.Bread and Roses is about a group of South American immigrant janitors who protest in order to get union rights. Might not sound exciting but trust me, if you're prepared to watch the film on its own terms, it'll give you far more than Battlefield Earth.The (mostly unfamiliar) cast is uniformly excellent and it would be a crying shame if they went unnoticed when the little gold statues were handed out. The one star name, Adrian Brodey, is superb and justifies the hype which has grown up around him. By choosing to work on interesting projects with gifted directors, he's showing just how hollow most actors in America are today.OK, it'll probably remain firmly lodged in the Art House ghetto and no one will see it. But if you're bored of special effects, if you're tired of Hollywood cliches and if you want to see something mature for a change, check it out.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant, emotional film.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have a deep sympathy & connection with this movie, because two of my dearest friends were Spanish-speaking cleaners in the UK (although completely legally).  Now - through ridiculously hard work and frugal living - they are bilingual, educated, skilled, and making a decent life back in their home country, where I hope to visit them one day.As such, I can tell you that this film is so true-to-life it brought tears to my eyes.  It also has moments of laughter and comedy, and an extremely important message to anyone working for low wages and low respect, and an equally important kick up the backside to people like me who never think we're paid enough, and forget about the 'invisible' people earning half our wages for doing twice the workload.The actors (many of them cleaners in real life) are never less than excellent, and you have no trouble believing every scene.  I encourage anyone to watch this movie, as it has an almost Shawshank-like feelgood factor, but is much more poignant and relevant than even that great film.The additional programme on the DVD is not as informative as I expected (being more 'fly-on-the-wall' than documentary), but still packs a powerful emotional punch, and really adds to your appreciation of the reality behind the movie.  "},{"Title":"This movie IS complex and smart, funny, and totally moving, IF you're truly open to it","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, this film is about a dreary topic, labor organizing and workers struggling for a living wage. Yes, it is political in taking the point of view of the workers. Yes, the heroes are janitors, some of whom are illegal immigrants. These might be reasons why you might be turned off by the movie. BUT, if these are your reasons to refuse to see it or give the movie a bad review, then you are only judging this film with your HEAD, not your HEART or your GUT. I agreewith the reviewer who said that if you are not totally moved by the relationship of Maya and Rosa and what happens to them and the other workers, you need apulse check.First of all, the movie, the characters, and the conflicts ARE complex, but the complexity is complicated and sometimes very subtle, just like in real life.Just because it doesn't show you the life of the mean boss (played brilliantly by comedian George Lopez, whose humor about being Mexican in America is assharp as Chris Rock's about being Black in America) outside of his work doesn't mean that he is one-dimensional. It's not hard to understand why he would be such an asshole at work, towards other brown people who are immigrants like him (or perhaps his parents or grandparents; he does speak Spanish but it's not clear whether he himself is an immigrant). Think about it! This is a guy who has probably sucked a lot of ass himself to get where he is--a brown manager in a large American corporation, working in one of the largest buildings in downtown L.A. Don't you think he's got a lot at stake himself to keep his job? Is he going to let a bunch of unruly janitors working under his thumb threaten his position as king of the hill of working colored people? Isn't he ultimately just as vulnerable as the janitors themselves?--the coporation probably sees him as a dime adozen too, if he doesn't do his job--which is to protect the corporation. Of course he's going to be ruthless and therefore one-dimensional in this environment. As for the other corporate workers, lawyers, etc.--they are ambushed by the workers in an environment where they expect them to be invisible and meek. I don't think it would be realistic for them to have any other initial response than shock and disbelief. This would also come across as one dimensional forthose who are only interested in seeing the other side get some sort of equal play.This is NOT a simplistic illegal immigrant-as-saint -and-totally-triumphant hero movie. Maya IS punished at the end for robbing a gas station and is deported on a bus to Tijuana. The INS officer tells her she is lucky to get off so lightly and indeed she is. Her sister Rosa does have to whore her way to the U.S. and is a traitor to her fellow workers. Maya comes across as young and impulsive andmorally a little questionable at times (she steals to help her friend get his scholarship), which is what she is. It's both what makes her charming andvulnerable. Her Mexican immigrant boyfriend accuses her of ditching him forthe labor organizer (Sam, played by Adrien Brody) because he's white, and she denies it a little too vehemently. I found that Adrien Brody was a far less powerful presence in the film than the actors who played the workers. His zeal as a labor organizer was legitimately questioned--by Maya, who asks him, what does he have at stake, as a college- educated worker whose $22,000 organizer salary is still almost double that of the janitors and who doesn't have to support extended relatives like they do? And his supervisor in the union also becomes upset that his riskyconfrontational antics will jeopardize the union and wants him to back off the entire fight. That scene displays enough of the intra-union politics to show that unions themselves are imperfect crusader agents--they also pick and choosebattles, often choosing the ones that they think they can win. And self- righteousness is probably an easy trap to fall into for union organizers when the odds against their victories are so high; they gotta find some reason to continue this hard work!I agree that the scenes of Sam, confronting the building manager, and theending where the corporation all of a sudden bows down and decides to settlew/ the striking workers and reinstate all of them, are unrealistic and less than convincing. But on the whole, this a movie that punches you in the gut, hasgood humorous moments and good pacing, and characters that make you careabout them, IF you are open to it and pay attention to subtleties that are there.  "},{"Title":"not since Martin Balsam","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Elpidia Carrillo has a scene in this film equal to the ...I'm the best possible Arnold Burns self-justification speech in A THOUSAND CLOWNS. It's so real and raw it's almost hard to watch.  I saw this film at the Santa Barbara Film Festival, and it so beautifully delivers the drama and the realities of the Justice for Janitors campaign.  Ken Loach does it again...with an American accent (ALL the Americas).  Adrien Brody is Ron Leibman's NORMA RAE organizer if he were younger and less seasoned, but just as much the true believer.  Pilar Padilla's Maya is all passion and youth and fun-loving troublemaker. The documentary style that Ken Loach uses is perfect for the subject. "},{"Title":"Brody's Appeal Perks Up This NORMA RAE for Hispanic Janitors","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As Sam Shapiro, a labor activist who helps Hispanic janitors in an L.A. office building to form a union, Brody's blend of earnestness and mischief really livens up this well-meaning, sometimes moving, occasionally didactic Ken Loach film.  Brody's beard and bedhead make him look especially cuddly; no wonder engaging heroine Pilar Padilla eventually drags him into a closet for some hot and heavy nookie! -) (My husband also remarked that all that hair made Brody's prominent proboscis look, well, less prominent -- not that Brody's noble nose ever bothered me, thank you very much! -). "},{"Title":"The Threepenny Opera","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a white person I had been taught about racism as something which puts others at a disadvantage, but had been taught not to see one of its corollary aspects, white privilege, which puts me at an advantage. I was taught to see racism only in individual acts of meanness, not in invisible systems conferring dominance on my group. - Peggy McIntoshEconomics is haunted by more fallacies than any other study known to man. - Henry HazlittBread and Roses was director Ken Loach's first feature to be set (and filmed?) in the United States. The film was funded by small European financiers and received limited distribution in the US. Though Loach waters down his narrative for Hollywood audiences &#x96; the film's fairly conventional, plot-wise &#x96; his customary mix of political sermonising and urgent neorealism (what he calls socioeconomic realism, an offshoot of socialist realism) remains absolutely abhorrent to most moviegoers. For this, he remains marginalised. Its title alluding to a 1912 textile mill strikes in Massachusetts, Bread and Roses revolves around a workers' strike in a non-union office building in downtown Los Angeles, the home of Hollywood. Much of the film revolves around impoverished office workers and Latino immigrants, who struggle for decent wages, to keep their families together and to fight against their ethnic and professional invisibility. Sounds familiar? Loach has been making such films for decades, but this is one of his best. He skirts around most Coroporations vs Little Guys clichés, and focuses instead on the ways in which underclasses prey upon themselves, and how such bickering serves only to bolster exploitation. Corporate executives and limousine liberals, who pick up humanitarian awards while relying on custodial firms who pay less than minimum wage, remain off camera, alluded to but never seen. Loach's cast is primarily composed of non-actors, but some famous faces turn up. Adrien Brody plays a young union organiser named Sham Shapiro, and exudes a nice mix of likability, scruffy dissidence and intolerable smugness, his character self-righteously mouthing union maxims from the safety of suburbia. He organises the workers, helps them unionize, but they take all the risks, and his sheltered, financially stable life-style is far removed from their squalor. Brody's the son of the great Sylvia Plachy, photographer, artist, left-winger and radical. Comedian George Lopez also turns up. He essentially plays a supervisor of janitors, a monstrous spawn of capitalism and Latino machismo who protects his position by ruthlessly enacting the will of the bosses, cultural and familial ties be damned. And then there's veteran actress Elpidia Carrillo, who plays a burnt-out Mexican woman who betrays the unions. A volcanic last act revelation, in which she spells out for her righteously indignant little sister why she did what she did, is particularly mind blowing. Here the actress summons a powerful blend of tear-inducing pain and fury. Her revelation hammers home the point of the film, the point of many of Loach's films, and a point which Bertolt Brecht famously laid out almost a century ago in The Threepenny Opera First comes food, then comes morality. Brecht's statement encapsulates a range of human behaviours, primarily two which operate as a sort of double-helix or feedback loop; man ignores immorality because he fears of losing what he has, and man ignores morality when he has nothing. Somewhat unique for this type of film, Loach's immigrants are not portrayed as some ubiquitous, exotic mass, but full characters with diverging, very individual views, some indifferent, some self-centred, some politically informed (and indifferent or self-centred for diametrically opposed reasons) and some engaged in political activity back in Mexico. They are not naive pawns led by Brody, who in another director's hands may have developed into a white saviour. Brody's gang are real, savvy, and have their own deeply embedded (and often conflicting) modes of survival. For all its cathartic fury, for all its nods to 1920s Soviet Cinema, with its marching militants, placard pumping, Eisensteinian ideals and collective heroes, Loach's last act is ultimately pessimistic. Our heroes are shipped back to Mexico and we're suspicious of even what little has been won. Loach, like John Sayles, is too much of a small thinker to navigate his way out of the problems his films deal with. And while his brand of cinema is necessary, there is a feeling that, as Theodor Adorno once showed, though art represents a resistance to the violence of conformist thinking, non-conformity itself wasted away long ago, became insipid, became consumer goods. Art can no longer be a refuge for truth, Adorno believed, in the long term it will merely represent a flight into illusion, even if it does have a dialectic force. Still, Loach at least encourages some engagement with a prevalent form of cultural metapathy, which is not just traditional apathy, but a pathological indifference, in which all manners of misconduct (from stolen elections to benign policies which actively court illegal immigrants) can happen without the batting of an eyelid.8.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. Makes a good companion-piece to Salt of the Earth and My Name is Joe. "}{"Title":"Underwhelming. Yet again.","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Illegal Mexican immigrant Maya (Pilar Padilla) arrives at her big sister's house looking to work with her as an office cleaner. She dodges potential abduction and rape on her hazardous quest to make a better life for herself. However, union organiser Sam (Adrien Brody) convinces her that betterment lies not in slaving for below minimum wage, but in joining his Justice for Janitors campaign.Watching Bread and Roses I realised that, for many years, my wish to support Ken Loach and Paul Laverty has over-ruled my actual dislike for their films. Bread and Roses references an inspiring story, but the actual relaying of it cinematically by Loach, and in narrative terms by Laverty, is flat and under-realized. The rhythm of the scenes is stuttering, like poor improv or early rehearsals. Sam shows up at big sister Rosa's house, and immediately launches into a pro-union speech like he has known these people for a while. The cleaning company boss is a pantomime villain. There is some kind of spurious romance triangle that never really develops, and a few so-called comedy scenes to ease the intended sense of tragedy, except the whole thing is so uninvolving that it hardly matters.As much as Laverty cannot characterise beyond two-note archetypes, Loach appears unable to manage shot flow. The camera seems merely plonked down in front of the actors - there is not one frame where the composition seems planned, never mind memorable.Kes is a masterpiece. But since then, I have sat through Riff Raff, Land and Freedom, Sweet Sixteen, My Name is Joe, Carla's Song, Ae Fond Kiss... and come away underwhelmed each and every time. The themes are oh-so earnest, the politics very correct, the focus on the under-represented, marginalised and disenfranchised laudable in the extreme. It just never seems cinematic. Does Loach ask himself Why is this topic better as a fiction feature than a documentary? If he does, I cannot imagine what the answer is.My father was a car factory shop steward, so I grew up with these issues in my living room. I come from a Glasgow working-class background, so I am empathetic to many of Laverty's chosen arenas. But the bottom line is, I just don't find myself entertained or edified by any of these films. Watching Bread and Roses, I didn't laugh, and I didn't cry. And it was clearly going after both reactions.Loach does get some great performances at times (e.g. Peter Mullen in My Name is Joe), and here Pilar Padilla as the lead, and Elpidia Carrillo as her long-suffering elder sister Rosa, bring a touch of authentic rawness to the subject. But in a key revelatory scene between the two, the camera is placed at an in-between distance, the cutting arbitrary, and the words seem scripted rather than spontaneous.Loach and Laverty now have a substantial body of work to their collaboration. Quite simply, I do not understand why. "},{"Title":"under the expectations","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Same typical themes handled in Loach's work. I felt something strange, while watching it, maybe the San Diegan locations might be strange to the fans used to seeing English and Scottish cities. Nevertheless I couldn't say the effort of observation and insight doesn't work; the young Mexican gal propelled by the American dream is very believable, the unknown cast acts with passion, expressing the various faces of injustice and biases migrants must endure. However, my final opinion on the movie is that it fails to illustrate the real situations these kind of people live in and their genuine feelings, that is the Ken Loach's peculiarity. "},{"Title":"Maya has a knack for making strangers","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Ken Loach describes in the film Bread and roses the struggle of an American trade union in order to improve the working conditions of the janitors. And they are actually victorious, since finally the firm gives in to their demands. So on the surface Bread and roses is another homage to the search for freedom and justice. Joke, to make this review more attractive a lawyer, who assists a client in a law suit, calls him Justice has prevailed! The client replies So we have lost the case? Loach is like that. Although his films always concern the socially deprived, the personal shortcomings of the main characters dominate the social injustice. This makes his films rather gloomy, since the viewer finds it hard to identify with the characters. Bread and roses fits particularly well in this scheme of Loach. Although probably the Justice for janitors campaign was not as glorious as its reputation, Bread and roses really sketches an unfavorable image. The main character Maya is selfcentred and almost devoid of morals. She has a knack for making strangers immediately. When she enters the USA from Mexico as an illegal immigrant, she and her sister Rosa even cheat on the human traffickers. Maya accepts a job offer in a public house, but she soon gets into a fight with customers. Then she wants to work as a cleaning woman, just like her sister Rosa. The husband of Rosa is unemployed, he suffers from diabetes, and has never paid for health care insurance. Rosa is a former prostitute, who is still in the habit. She does not even know who is the father of her children, so apparently she economizes on contraceptives. If here Loach mocks at her, I find it a bit morbid. In her cleaning work Maya retains her lax attitude. Just one detail she uses the stationery of the clients of her cleaning firm to write her personal letters. Hard work never killed anybody, but why take the chance? Her colleagues are industrious. Maya complains that they do anything for the money. However, it must be admitted that her employer is harsh. For instance, he does not pay for health care. So the firm has low costs, and ousts the unionized competitors from the market. Obviously the union dislikes this. Therefore one of her organizers instigates the workers of the cleaners firm, including Maya, and harasses its clients. He does not shun aggressive methods, like disturbance of the domestic peace. Maya, who always loves to complain, agitates for the union. At the same time, she robs an employee of a gas station, who tries to help her. She is indeed a prime candidate for natural de-selection. In the end she is arrested. The state offers her a lawyer free of charge, but she asks for a witness for the defence (joke). Maya is expelled to Mexico, without imprisonment. Incidentally, it strikes me, that Loach imputes a hatred of the American society to the illegal immigrants in his film. So how should Bread and roses be rated? The quality of Loach films lies in their excellence in showing the room for social improvements. But personally, I prefer films that show at least a glimpse of human kindness and decency. "},{"Title":"Very Good...until the End","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK...my problem was we're presented with an effective, compelling story that gets flushed at the end.SPOILER ALERT Why does Maya steal for a man she's not in love with? And Maya, didn't you think of slipping on some latex gloves before you touched the cash register?Also...what was up with only facing 3 years for robbery? What happened to unlawful imprisonment for the guy she locked in the bathroom...who had a witness to it?Also...didn't Maya and Sam (the guy she does love) discuss what would happen if the cops showed up during the demonstration in the building lobby? It was only done to weed out any illegal aliens...would they risk that? Once the cops ordered them to leave, in the real world all of the illegals would have stepped outside.It also seemed that the resolution came too fast and out of nowhere...too much like now we need to hurry and get the movie over with. "},{"Title":"Unmitigated propaganda!!...","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I caught this on cable - thank goodness I didn't have to pay extra for it! It is pure propaganda and apology for illegal immigration and illegal employment of illegal immigrants. As if illegal immigrants have any right to a job, a union, or to negotiate for wages!! I'm glad this battle is finally coming to a head in our country.I moved to Britain as a youth, just out of high school. I hoped to get a job to sustain myself while trying to be a musician. No one would hire my (rightly so!) even though I arrived legally - on a tourist visa. That is the way it works folks - immigration is a legal process that bestows certain rights on those would go through that process. Employment and union wages are NOT a right just for crossing the border in the dead of night. I have no sympathy. And....theft (as undertaken my Maya!) is a felonious crime!This film actually made me angry - it was NOT entertaining! "},{"Title":"The Least of Ken's Films (that I've seen)","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" On the whole I have been greatly impressed with Ken Loach's other works, however, without question, this was the low point in my experiences with his films. Speaking as a Brit with a lot of North American life experience, I would say that Ken understands and portrays British society brilliantly, however, he hopelessly misunderstands American society. At one point, for example, one of the evil company bosses is supposed to be excruciatingly shamed in public by the gutsy and imaginative union organiser who crashes his lunch meeting ... only, in America, this simply wouldn't work - at all - in a restaurant like that in the US the other patrons would respect someone for making money & not give a crap what some scrub had to say about the percentage rate of profit that went into x dental plan, or what have you (I'm not really sure that that would work in Britain or anywhere else either - but in any event, it seems to me, never in the US & especially never in LA). As such, all the fabulous nuance that invades Loach's British based films is starkly absent in this one. Consequently, watching Bread and Roses was quite literally an excruciating experience - like watching a childhood hero fail embarrassingly, & without grace. Ken creating wooden characters? How is it possible?? (See above). I don't consider myself political. I am someone interested in ideas, fairness and justice. I respect people who approach the world with those ideas in mind. On this basis I usually have all the time in the world for the films that Ken creates. But realistically, I can't recommend this one. In the end I gave this movie a 5 & a half (then rounded up) but all of its score comes from a particular realistic, powerful and highly revealing moment. There's too much of the remainder left over, however, for that single moment to carry the whole. "},{"Title":"Too Real","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A remake of Norma Rae nasty boss exploits unfortunate workers. It seemed gratuitous and over the top, but things like this really do happen. That's why it hurt to watch. Bosses take advantage of workers with all sorts of manipulative tactics as portrayed in this film. They must have studied my grandma's boss to create George Lopez' character, except in real life he was much, much worse. "},{"Title":"Anachronistic Agitprop","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two illegal immigrant sisters get involved in an attempt to unionize janitors in this anachronistic piece of agitprop. I must confess I was watching the bulk of the film with a confused look on my face. I missed the opening credits and for the life of me I couldn't figure out who made it and why. I decided it had to be the product of a liberal Hollywood producer who felt he need to make amends for taking advantage of his household and gardening staff. Had I known Ken Loach directed the film, I would have had more respect for it. However, his presence also explains why I found the film anachronistic. He just did not have the feel for class in America, or the American labor movement &#x96; or should I say what remains of it. I found film very simplistic &#x96; though, granted, the issue at stake for these abused janitors were simple, as opposed to, say, autoworkers or airline personnel who are forced to balance their needs and security against the overall survival of their industries. (Spunky Norma Rae managed to unionize her plant, but I would have to doubt the plant would still be open if they filmed a sequel!) Also, politics, America, and labor aside, the film was very anticlimactic. The strike could hardly have been resolved with less drama. I can't recommend it despite some compelling performances. "},{"Title":"The only thing worse than the movie are the user comments","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many reviewers love this movie and compare it favorably to typical mainstream movies.  But this movie is worse because of the pretensions. The characters are as one dimensional as in die hard 2, and the polemics as simplistic as the typical hollywood plot.The fact is that politics turn art into propoganda, and this movie is nothing more than a sophomoric essay. I am not even saying that my politics differ.(yeah, they do) I would have enjoyed a movie showing the lives of those we too often treat as invisible and the injustices they face. And I would have been moved and affected by such a movie.But the audience manipulation is so transparent that by the end I was cheering for the dickhead managers, if only to rebel against a director trying to tell me how to think.If one is going to make a message movie, make it balanced, or at least subtle. Better yet, show the pure unadulterated truth on the screen, and the message will come out by itself.  My money would be better spent on another teen movie how the hell was this movie nominated at cannes i will never know "},{"Title":"Mediocre flick saved by Padilla and Carillo.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bread and Roses is a journeyman drama at best which centers on the plight of an illegal Mexican alien, Maya (Padilla), and her struggle to help a union organize the janitorial laborers in a Los Angeles office building. The film is ill-focused, a tad soapy, plays to the viscera, and shows some mean spirited demonstrating which would more likely hurt than help the worker. However, Padilla makes a wonderful centerpiece for a flick which will most likely appeal to Hispanics and others with an interest in the problems of Mexican labor in America. C+ "}{"Title":"Ken's Glasgow becomes L.A.","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You have to admire good, worthy Ken Loach. Always admirable in motive and honest depiction, he is Britain's true indie maverick.However, when he moved this production and story to L.A., even I felt a bit cheated and I'm sure a few lost allegiance for the director. But, just because it (at least at first) seems to lacks the kaleidoscope of colourful characters that we can identify with when he's shooting on home soil, it's about the people and in this case, Mexican workers employed illegally by a large non-union contractor as office cleaners.I've heard of Americans requiring subtitles in order to decipher a thick Glaswegian accent and here we experience lots of subtitles, as much of the dialogue, from a largely amateur cast, is in Spanish. We, who're used to such soon get used to this but it's all a slight barrier and uphill struggle before we feel submersed into the story.The story itself won't be recited around campfires for years to come and the dialogue is more of your typical bitty everyday conversation than the lovingly crafted screenplays that win awards. The filming, often in similar looking corridors and offices hardly allows for creativity either, but as Mr Loach is the nearest we have to the simplistic approach to the Scandinavian 'Dogme' movement, this comes as no surprise.A charismatic Adrien Brody drops his Oscar winning stature to play a 'Justice For Janitors' unionist and at first we see him hiding around workplaces where he is definitely not welcome. He soon gets on the case of two young women, recently taken on as cleaners but have families to support.Like more locally grown Loach's, there's lots of often grating arguing, raised voices, splashes of humour plus that all-important social message. We, or at least I, perhaps wrongly, however, cannot quite warm to the campaign as much as I do with a British Ken Loach film and like the characters themselves, feel somewhat alienated from both them and their plight.So, far from Ken's best but still not bad. "},{"Title":"an excellent political movie!","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" surprised that this movie got an overall 7.1 score. I think it deserves much higher than that. I think part of the reason could be this movie is heavily political and sympathetic to the problems that most illegal immigrants are facing in real life. However, it is also a fact that the problems portrayed in this movie is universal for all workers who do not have a union. The script is very nicely written, except in one occasion when Maya stole money from the service station. I thought that it was unnecessary to include this episode in the script; it diluted the seriousness of the film; she could have easily asked Sam to loan the small amount of money that Maya needed in order to give it to Ruben.Acting by Pilar Padilla (Maya), Adrien Brody (Sam), and Elpidia Carrillo (Rosa) are outstanding! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As the son of a hard-working Cuban immigrant father and having been raised in some poor conditions during some rough times in mny life, I often saw the story of Rosa and Maya being played out in real life within the family I grew up in. The story is extremely authentic and respectful to those immigrants who must work their asses off every day for low pay. Not only this but they are humiliated and forced to live on the outer boundaries of American margins.The underpaid and mistreated workers in Bread and Roses are taken advantage of by a boss who knows that they are at his mercy due to their illegal citezenship, or lack thereof. Eventually, Janitors For Justice was established and the poorly treated workers are able to go up against the oppressive Angel company. They even avoid the seven stereotypes discussed in the article, The Seven Deadly Citezens. They hold meetings, recruit, network, and encourage others who are mistreated like them to rise up for the cause of activism.Activism is about bringing social and political change. This movie shows that if enough people are passionate about the right things, they can come together and achieve their goals without violence. Sometimes violence is unavoidable, but unity is the shell that protects an activist group. "},{"Title":"My Bread and Roses Experience","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a member of United Food & Commercial Workers. The first time I saw this movie was August 23, 2004 at a youth conference. This is one of the best union movies I have seen. I was in Montreal this summer at a convention and we all sang the song as well. The movie is very moving and gives a very powerful perspective on what happens at some strikes and also what happens when workers find out you are trying to organize the workplace. Organizing is when you try and get the workplace unionized. As a female, I am truly amazed at the fight these women put up with to become unionized. I personally have been touched by Bread & Roses and I know many fellow union members who have been as well. "},{"Title":"A Noble Effort to Make Real The Individuals Behind Labor Strife","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bread and Roses was less agitprop than I expected, though I just tuned out on the more didactic speeches (so maybe I missed how the Pyrrhic labor victory was actually negotiated). More docudrama in feel, per director Ken Loach's improv style, than Norma Rae, the movie is made poignant by the two counter-pointing women leads. As sisters both trying to improve their lot in life, from brutal immigration to the search for respectability and a modicum of comfort through hard work, the actress's chemical reaction of their relationship keeps the movie real. The romantic side story is thankfully just a blip, as it doesn't work that well.While I got a kick out of the cameo appearances of Hollywood SAG-member actors at their lawyers' party while the lawyers are accused of owning the buildings that employ the chintzy janitors' contractors, a little more on that legal side would have made the contractors' less stereotypically evil. I was reminded of a conversation I had with my grandfather, who lived to be over 100, when he overheard some trial being called The Trial of the Century -- he launched on in detail about how the owners of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory had gotten off thanks to the silver tongues of their lawyers, whose names were etched in his memory.The laudatory gimmick of providing bi-lingual sub-titles as the characters slip between English and Spanish is lost when (once again!) the subtitles are white on white -- what, does yellow cost that much more? Maybe movie patrons need to organize!(originally written 6/3/2001) "},{"Title":"Interesting But Simplistic","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bread and Roses was a good movie in some ways, and has some appeal in showing the sorts of barriers and prejudices Latinos face in the U.S.  The acting in general was good, but I had some issues with the script writing.  In particular, the pro labor stance taken here (noted by other's) was presented in a bit over-simplistic terms (particularly later in the film) and the organized labor response employed situational ethics.  Furthermore, the bad guys in the film (except possibly the manager, Perez, masterfully played by George Lopez) were in general portrayed as simpletons, who could be rather easily outwitted.  Maya's character almost reminded me of La India Maria (the character popularized by María Elena Velasco ) at points.  I wish Rosa's character was more developed, the presented part was well handled (I don't wish to give spoilers here).So I gave this film a 6 out of 10, as a well intentioned but somewhat weakly scripted story.  The acting was generally good.  The depiction of latino-anglo, black-latino and native born latinos-mexican born latinos was well portrayed. "},{"Title":"capital x labor","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like Costa Gavras, director Ken Loach thinks that cinema is a powerful instrument for noble causes - political as well as social - rather than pure entertainment. Bread and Roses is a story about a group of L.A. janitors trying to unionize, while two of them, the Mexican sisters Maya and Rosa, end up following completely different paths. Loach's conflict between capital and labor may seem a bit schematic or didactic, but reality is not much more complex. In fact, Bread and Roses avoids two easy and simplistic solutions to divert the labor-oriented plot to a love story between Maya and Sam (the witty union organizer), and to give us an unlikely but comforting happy end. The bittersweet finale fits perfectly. Also good is Rosa's monologue on how she managed to survive in the U.S., though the most magnetic character is Maya's, with her humorous energy, her smart but well intentioned tricks, her very personal but undeniably warmhearted ethics. Not a brilliant movie, but a good one (7/10). "},{"Title":"Let's have more movies with a social conscience like this.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a joy it was to see this movie appear at the  downtown cineplex. A fine alternative to the mindless action mush that permeates present day Hollywood cinema.We need more films that challenge the power structure out there which controls so much of our lives. Cinema could and should mobilize people into taking on those who oppress us instead of turning us into passive receptors of loud obnoxious junk put out by those same oppressors. It doesn't take a sociologist to realize that this is the intent. I was deeply touched by the trials and tribulations of these helpless people working in humiliating underpaid jobs. I was completely blown away by the character Rosa during her powerful emotional confrontation with her sister.There are so many millions of people out there who slave in menial jobs. They ought to see this movie but most won't as its probably out of reach anyway. Strictly for the film buffs and the art houses. I'm sure that there will be very few movies like this in the near future. "},{"Title":"Bread bored","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching Bread and Roses is like being in school - you get the lessons but there isn't enough playtime.Almost every character is either totally bad or totally good and that is totally tedious. Only the lead character's sister shows more than one-dimension as she is torn between solidarity or getting health benefits for her ailing husband. But for some reason it was felt she needed more audience sympathy so the character gets an overlong unconvincing confession about her past.To liven up the proceedings and presumably allow silly stunts, the union organiser is a loose cannon defying the official union line.  So you get a bizarre confrontation with building staff as they do lunch where the union organiser takes the food from their plate.  I wouldn't have minded but the building staff were employees not bosses and had no power to change the situation.  The same scene is replayed later a bit more relevantly in front of people who do have the power to change things.Laverty is surefooted on the politics but his story-telling and characterisations are lame.  I'd rather watch a documentary on the issue. "},{"Title":"the storyboard would have done just fine","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The idea was good; the injustice of the plight of illegal Mexican workers is well- felt (especially from the p.o.v. of a woman, for once). However, there are various scenes in the movie where corny is the only adjective I would use to describe the intensity and feeling. In a sense, by watching Bread and Roses, we understand what role each character is supposed to play in the layout of the story. George Lopez's character (Perez) is the dick boss; his non-stop cursing and unnecessary shouting at old ladies gives him away-- unbelievable, un- authentic.  The first meeting the Angel workers hold is reminiscent of something the Bayside crew would have done on Saved By the Bell-- again, the viewer knows what's supposed to be going on.. but it's of the utmost cheese. Thirdly, Sam's argument with his boss is again another typified scene.. In fact, the only truly believable scene is Rosa's breakdown during which Maya's Yo no sabìa's are felt loud and clear. Just because this movie treats a taboo subject, it raises no questions; it conjures no thought-- why not get into Perez's character a little, and get into his role as a recent immigrant? How about the smugglers? How about Maya's (and other workers') status as, illegal aliens in the first place-- can they demonstrate against a corporation when they themselves don't pay taxes to contribute to the making of laws, etc. that are supposed to protect them? The husband's diabetes? Who pays for the health care that these workers desperately deserve? TAXED workers do, that's who! None of these questions were raised.. this film is mediocre, at best.  "}{"Title":"Documentary or entertainment?","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ken Loach goes American and tells a story of illegal immigrant workers and how their 'rights' are trampled on. Whilst a good enough depiction of all-too unacknowledged systematized injustice, the moral high ground is unbalanced and self-congratulatory. As a simple documentary it might have been interesting - as entertainment it is a well-made film that fails to entertain. "},{"Title":"politics is nothing to be ashamed of as long as the story is good.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why do so many reviewers (not only here in magazines and journals as well) mention the fact that this film is about politics, about organizing for your rights as something shameful? It seems as if a film promoting politics from below is worse than showing a porno or violence. this film has a sense of humour. the story is subtle and has none of the silly binaries of good and bad most films have and yet it is treated as if it has somehow crossed the line of good taste. it is not only about socialism, it even treats it as something positive one critic says (although i do not really see where it is about socialism, anyway). oh my god - can you imagine? how shocking! i think it's about time we get a lot of good films which show that you need to stand up for your f***ing rights (sorry, but that's a quote from the film) and we need much less films which make us believe that all problems can be solved by heroic individual men fighting their lonely but successful battle against the rest of the world (see the insider).long live ken loach and i hope there will be much more like him out there,anna "},{"Title":"Happy Ending a little much, but very real in nature","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A great film,-good story, good actor. The direct actions of the characters in the film are brilliantly displayed protesting against Corporate America and standing up for justice as it relates to immigrant rights in California. Si se puede! This film was just as good as other documentaries on the same subject matter. The main character girl was good,-just saw it on an HBO Channel from start to finish, on my day off! Short, independent film with only two actors that looked like familiar faces.Si Se Puede! Visit www.ireportla.com "},{"Title":"An honest delivery of a very complicated issue","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just recently watched the latest attempt from Hollywood to ease their minds about Latino issues. Walkout is an HBO movie that takes a historic moment in the struggle for equality and makes an after school special out of it. On the other hand Bread & Roses delivers in every front, a good story with candid acting and a solid structure. The back drop is similar. Minorities confronted with discrimination and racism must come together to force change. A basic rule of good writing calls for a story of universal value and this one resonates beyond it's outline, because the story of the immigrant in this country is everybody's story. Bread & Roses doesn't preach and it doesn't dumb down the intricate subtext of the story, most of all it takes the characters seriously and never uses them as just background to carry on. HBO must remember that it takes more than a Latino surname in the credits to make a Latino story resonate. Bread & Roses relays on the elements that are true to good film making without having to label it. Always respect your story. "},{"Title":"one of the most moving films I've ever seen","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film gets less attention than it should because it's so explicitly political. That's one of its  strengths, but if you think it will bother you, see it for the great story and the wonderful  acting. Bread and Roses is one of the most intensely realistic films I've ever seen, but at the  same time it's one of the most dramatic, and also one of the most moving. If you can watch  the confrontation between Rosa and Maya, or the last few scenes of the movie, without  crying, you need to check your pulse. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not bad","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is definitely reality based. It may be dramatized, but is a portrayal of a struggle that takes place everyday. If you sympathize with the values of being a union worker, this is a movie to see. The movie revolves around two sisters, Maya and Rosa. They are both janitors in a downtown Los Angeles office building. Tension builds with an argument between the two. "},{"Title":"El Norte goes Union","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film surprised me.  It could have gotten all gooey and cand-assed, reading like civics 101, but instead there was a complexity of issues and characters...as well as some heavy-handed one dimensional folks, just as in life....which kept this story of new immigrants being screwed in the good old American capitalist spirit soaring along to a nice denouement.  Compare this to the Sally Field thing and its constant begging the questions (and heightening the music) and you will see its fine qualities  by contrast, at the very least.  Think Les Enfants Gates (Spoiled Children, Tavernier) and El Norte.  Again, by contrast, John Sayles's film dealing with border issues and bigotry was heavyhanded.   Fine acting, good direction, and an undeniable verisimilitude.   "},{"Title":"Loach & Actors Deliver The Goods","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've enjoyed many of Loach's British films (Riff-Raff Raining Stones, etc.)and this one set in Downtown L.A. is also an excellent film. He tells a fascinating story about two sisters (one who has just snuck into the country)and how their work as cleaning ladies in a high rise leads to attempt to unionize and deeply affect all their lives. There is a real documentary feel to the film and the performances he gets out of the two women who play Maya and Rosa are magnificent. In fact, when one of the sisters explodes with rage about a secret in her past - it is one of the most real, powerful scenes I've ever seen in a film. Reading some of the other comments makes me shake my head when some whine that the film is bleeding-heart and liberal this and liberal that. That's b.s. Just because someone decides to focus a film on three-dimensional poor people, on janitors and illegal immigrants and show their lives, their struggles and their hopes, where's the politics? They are just honestly telling a story and a powerful one at that. "},{"Title":"A denounce about the working conditions of Latino emigrants in California","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This picture denounces the conditions under which several latinos, most of them Mexicans, work in California. No rights for medical care, for elementary break during the working hours, and some other violations is the real life of these emigrants, who are compelled to go to California or any US States, sometimes illegally, looking for job in order to provide money for the subsistence of their families in Mexico or Central America. The film gives an idea of the problem and proposes modest solutions. Its end is dramatic when Maya has to leave the country after being discovered that she was the person who stole the money in a gas station. Money stolen was to help his colleague to pay the fee for his university studies after been dismissed from his job.      "},{"Title":"Politically incorrect but still enjoyable.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was rather inpressed with this movie even though I don't agree with the message or the cause in this film. I personally feel that if you are in this country illegally anyways, you are at the mercy of your employer. All political opinions aside though, I thought the acting was good-especially from breakthrough actress Pilar Padilla (Maya.) Very interesting movie with a realistic touch. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Ken Loach is always Great even in USA","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not have any doubt about a Loach's film shot in USA, the social power and the rest of the elements of his films are there.The cleaners reality, not only in USA, is always the same, they are underpaid and normally without social security services and benefits. This is a beautiful and very sad history about a Mexican girl who wants to find fortune in USA with her sister that is already in Los Angeles. Is well known that power of the unions in USA is not as strong as in Europe and this is the leit motiv of the film. A cleaner union is starting to be more powerful and the main character, the girl, is trying to convince the rest of the workers of the importance of a union. Then there is a love relation between her and the union leader with the final achievement of their rights.  Rating 7/10  "},{"Title":"Obviously Pro-Labor (nothing wrong with that...). Incredibly natural acting.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This, in turns English or Spanish, film has a very strong pro-labor (or as the director would spell it, pro-labour) sentiment, but I applaud that, and hell, anti-labor corporations many times ARE as bad as the men shown in this film...Getting off my soapbox, and focusing on the story and acting  The story worked well enough as it was, even though there were a lot of laughs and mischief at the hands of Sam (Adrien Brody, the main male character, and the one who convinces the janitors to unionize) that very likely would never have been possible in real life... And though the dramatic scenes not directly related to labor sometimes seemed a little forced, as in Oh, c'mon, like THIS would happen TOO., the acting, especially that of the main female character, Maya (Pilar Padilla), was some of the most NATURAL acting I have ever witnessed in a film.I caught this movie at FilmFestDC, and if it ever comes out on video, or comes to your city as part of a film festival, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Beneath the hills of Hollywood","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ken Loach has made outstanding, impassioned films about the British working class for decades, but some of his more recent material has felt a bit lacking in variety. His decision to make a film set in Los Angeles was undoubtedly a good one, especially as, in 'Bread and Roses', he tells of a side to that city (its immigrant underclass) usually unrepresented by the Hollywood moguls. What's best about this film is the realistic insight it provides into the lives of its characters, and knowing that it is based on a true story only increases one's interest in how it will turn out, and one's political anger at the gross injustices in our societies. The two-faced attitudes that affluent countries have towards migrant labour are also directly exposed. What's slightly less strong is the film's narrative arc (judged purely as fiction); everything ends quite suddenly, and, surprisingly for a work by Loach, optimistically as well. Nonetheless, Loach has seen things that many who live in L.A. chose to overlook; and the film constitutes a distinctive entry in his distinguished canon. "},{"Title":"I was there.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had a direct involvement in matters portrayed in this film.   I knew the players on all sides.  I directly witnessed many of the raucous and disruptive rallies that the SEIU Union conducted.  I can tell you that this is a glorified view of the Union leaders, the Justice for Janitors campaign, and their side of the labor movement in Southern California at the time. Company leaders are vilified and made into raging buffoons straight out of central casting.  The film is full of the anti-employer and immigrants as victims rhetoric which will thrill a pro-union pro-immigration audience. If politics and the labor agenda are not your cup of tea, this movie will not be either.   "},{"Title":"a wonderful authentic look at janitors and the union","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film on HBO and I didn't know Adrian Brody came on this flick, I didn't see the film because of him, what made it interesting is what was going on with the film. The story is about two latinas who make it through the border in order to find work in the United States, Adrian Brody plays an attorney that wants to help these two sisters by organizing a union in order for better wages, benefits and vacations. The sister Maya wants in; but Rosa, Maya's true hispanic sister doesn't want part of the union because she's afraid that she might lose her job. This film is incredible!I know it won't be a cult classic or a classic to begin, but it wouldn't hurt if audience members such as ourselves would see these kind of realistic movies. Not to mention the correct Spanish dialogue that many people speak.3 stars and a half.Adrian's less work before his Oscar win for the Pianist "},{"Title":"Socialist tripe","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My God, could this movie get ANY MORE bleeding heart?  Wonderful - a story of illegal aliens who sneak into the US and then complain that they're not getting enough from their illegally held jobs.  Argh...Sorry, Ken.  It didn't work for me with working class Brits in _Riff Raff_. It's even worse when you try to do the same movie again in the US. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but simplistic","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ken Loach's one-dimensional liberal stance spoils this otherwise entertaining film about an illegal Mexican immigrant, Maya,who finds a job as a cleaner in an anonymous downtown LA skyscraper where her American-based sister, Rosa, already works. The film follows fiery Rosa's plight as an underpaid cleaner, her various conflicts with her sister and her eventual political awakening via the intervention of Adrien Brody's character, Sam Shapiro, a subversive Union representative. The film is a fictional reinterpretation of real life events involving the Justice for Janitors campaign against low pay for cleaners. Despite the human dramas that unfold during the film, Bread and Roses is a thinly-veiled attack on American economical injustice, especially against illegal immigrant workers. Oddly enough, Loach does not balance his Anti-American views against the lack of opportunities and poverty in Mexico. He never considers why Maya has left Mexico. Yes, she wanted to be with her sister - but was this the only reason? it's very easy to take pot shots at North America, but when it's this simplistic, one must question Mr Loach's lack of subtlety as a filmmaker. Overall, Bread and Roses works best as a human drama rather than a political one. "},{"Title":"If You Want To Send A Message ...","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Take a look at the biography of Paul Laverty on this site . A truly remarkable and gifted individual who has led a very interesting life . What a pity then that he didn't sacrifice some of his lust for life by reading up on what makes a good story . Sorry if I'm sounding bitter or personal towards Mr Laverty but is there any type of market for this movie ?BREAD AND ROSES is the story of Maya , an illegal immigrant from Mexico whose sister Rosa gets her a job as a janitor . Being a non union service the work supervisor can hire and fire people on a whim so Maya with some others organizes  A Justice For Janitors  campaign I do concede that not every movie can be LORD OF THE RINGS in epic scope , technical ability or just plain excitement but really who is going to stand out a cinema in the pouring rain wanting to buy a ticket for something like this ? One things for certain - There won't be a long queue in front of you if you do decide to see it I do concede that Ken Loach directed movies are very popular . But only with people obsessed with  social realism  and once again Loach directs a movie with zero commercial appeal . Anyone who has attended any worthy film class will realise there is no longer ( If there ever was ) any type of market for this type of film . Of course some very privileged people who are professional socialists will scream that we need film makers like Loach and Laverty in order to point out the grave injustices of the socio economic divide but I suggest that India , a country that personifies the injustice between the haves and have nots , has perhaps the most successful film industry in the universe and there's no such thing as  social realism  in a Bollywood movie The bottom line for Loach and Laverty is  If you want to send a message try Western Union "},{"Title":"Cute illegals","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd like to start with a positive note I liked the performance of Elpidia Carrillo.I did not care much for the rest of the movie.It has been shown, again and again, that trade unions are bad for the American economy. The UAW union has been successfully destroying the American automobile industry; the teachers' union has been no less successfully destroying the American schools; et cetera, et cetera. But these minor details shouldn't matter, should they, when we watch Bread and Roses? This movie, if you take it seriously, wants you to believe that without a union, the only way for a woman to get a job for herself or for her sister is to sleep with the boss; otherwise she can only support her family by becoming a prostitute.The cute female lead, an illegal Mexican immigrant, robs a gas station, but we are supposed to sympathize with her because this is for a good cause.The male lead, a union organizer, steals the food from a table in a restaurant, and we are supposed to admire him for that and other examples of outrageous anti-social behavior.The demonstrators, when asked for their names by the police, give the names of Mexican revolutionary figures, and we are supposed to laugh at the stupidity of the American policemen.The illegals, oops, the undocumented workers, struggle to improve their lot in this country, instead of doing the same in their own country, or waiting in line to come here legally. We of course are expected to fully support them, to embrace them, to learn their language, to sing their songs. It shouldn't cross our mind that they have already broken the law of this country by crossing the border illegally and just for that alone should be treated as criminals.And that's both funny and outrageously shameful. "}]