[{"Title":"Not outstanding, but definitely good","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this movie because of a trailer I watched on HBO. Never heard of it before, but it seemed interesting.Point is, I loved it to the point of even recording it and recommending it to my friends.  I was in the rave scene during the mid 90's, when the likes of Scooter, Faithless, Robert Miles, Mark 'Oh and many others were at their peak.I truly enjoyed this movie and felt I was there the whole night. This movie is definitely not meant for anyone, much less for those who still don't understand what indie films are about. This was certainly not Arakki or Aranofsky, but I have to commend director Greg Harrison for this piece of work.This movie starts with the sound of a modem connecting to the internet... sooooo 1998! It was funny.  Then you see all these fast stories about weirdos and their lives.The plot was definitely secondary in this movie. I could not care less about Leyla, or Colin, or whoever... But I guess that wasn't exactly the point.Although the party was somewhat different from what I used to go to, its structure was basically the same Clandestine party, where you need maps and bribe a few guys to know exactly where you're going; the different levels of music throughout the night, from slow-beat clubhouse to orgasmic trance; the amount of drugs, the doped people, the escape from it all.There were pointless scenes, like those gay guys trying to get to the party (there was already a gay moment between Colin and that masseuse guy.. poor Harmony!). I recognized Rachel True, the gorgeous girl from The Craft, I had no idea she was on this.I agree with the one who commented that John Digweed would never play in a party like this.. Actually I laughed when he made his cameo... So what was next? Tiesto? Johan Gielen? Paul Oakenfold?This movie was also a reflect of how these parties were about 5-10 years ago. Yes, the electronic scene has become much more commercial, specially in Holland and Belgium.  I guess that it's not so special to me anymore, now that virtually everyone has discovered it.And yes, once the party got busted, there's no way they would have gotten away with starting it again!When the party is over, the movie is over, leaving the viewer with the SAME FEELING most ravers had when leaving... Now what? After an amazing night of everything, you have to realize that it's all over and life must goes on... at least for most of us. "},{"Title":"As good as you can get to being at a rave yourself","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Groove has often been compared with Human Traffic, but both are actually quite different. While Human Traffic was about a group of people who go to clubs and take drugs, Groove is about an actual rave. Director Greg Harrison is less interested about depicting the lives of the people who go to a rave than trying to cinematic ally get his audience to experience what a rave is like. On that level, Groove is a triumph. For those who used to rave, this film is the best flashback you'll ever get, the best way to relive the experience. For those who currently rave, it will make you want to go out and find a party NOW. For those who have never raved, the film brilliantly shows the sight and sounds of a rave while trying to be like a rave itself through careful pacing and use of music.The characters are thinly sketched in the early scenes but that's all we need, it's what they are and do at the rave that matters ,with the exception of the squabbling gay couple who may not make it to the party at all and are hilarious. The growing attraction between experienced 'partied out' girl and dorky novice is touching, and all the characters in the film have at least one stand out moment. Performances are generally strong, and some of the use of sound is superb, such as when the main protagonist is 'coming up'.The film has been criticized for being pro drugs, but it just shows the drug especially Eexperience in it's various forms. Some characters abstain, some overdo it and pay the price though like Human Traffic there are refreshingly no deaths or serious fatalities, most just enjoy themselves. The film is not saying drugs are good for you, it's just saying that drugs are something many people do, and maybe not because that are addicted, but because to them it's fun!The music is excellent, varied and well chosen. The appearance by a certain superstar DJ at this small rave of around 200 people has been rightly called unrealistic, and lets just say that acting is not his strong point! However comments that parties never start up again after they are shut down as in this filmare untrue, I experienced it! In any case, it climaxes the film on a true 'high'.The many shots of people dancing may bore some, and there will be many for whom this film will have no interest at all. But ignore some of the hardcore purists, this is as close to a depiction, and more importantly the experience, of a rave as cinema can probably get. "},{"Title":"This was an excellent show of the rave party scene.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This film was verrrry well done. To those that say it wasn't...I guess you have never owned a club where raves took place. I did.I bought this movie in a stack of films and it only cost me 99 cents. Well shock the pants off me.What I thought would be a lame party and just a bunch of stoners walking around talking trash was certainly an enlightenment.GROOVE is EXACTLY what a rave is about...and how would I know? I know because I hosted them myself...packed to the hilt in Vancouver B.C. at PLANET X...and you could guess what the X stood for.Anywayz, this is very well done in terms of casting, lighting performance, music, tone and everything. The scene that struck me most is when Ernie says this...and this is classic to me.Guy Why do you do this to yourself? Don't even get paid, risk getting arrested, for what? Ernie You don't know? Guy No. Ernie The Nod. Guy The Nod? Ernie Happens to me at least once every party. Some guy comes up to me and says Thank you for making this happen... I needed this. This really meant something to me. And they nod... and I nod back. Guy ... That's it? Ernie That's it. That little piece of dialogue is everything...it's what made me want to run the rave at PLANET X, even thought I was't making big bucks...to me it was the NOD...So I know exactly where Ernie was coming from...and I felt the director Greg Harrison was getting to.Watch Groove and relive your youth before it slips away from you in your daily 9-5 and rush hour traffic.I only wish I was at the club...because it was so intense and so real...and made me so jealous that I was only watching it on my TV screen.With a $500000 budget, this is tops.Once again, everybody...extras and all cast included...an awesome job and one very satisfied viewer...certainly worth my time. "},{"Title":"Just a Really Good Vibe","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was entirely too much fun.In many ways, it reminded me of Dazed & Confused, or Go, but it was done so much better, both in characters, character development, and the best ending of all three films.The movie is about a Rave, pure and simple, in modern day San Francisco.  The characters are real, the acting is really surprisingly good, and the cultural statements are just beautiful.  I do believe this marks the first film appearance of Red Bull energy drink.The movie itself is like a rave.  Loud, by in a flash, and you find yourself wishing you could just say good-night to all the characters one more time before the evening is over.  But then it is, and you're left with just a really good vibe.This movie was just a really good vibe.  See it with a bunch of friends, and get your groove on. "},{"Title":"Insightful","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I've never been to a rave before, so I can't say anything about how realistic this film is.I've also never used drugs before, but I really liked the way drug use was portrayed in the movie...  One of the characters mentions that when it comes to drugs, it's best to be baked not fried, which I interpreted as using not abusing.  The parallel threads we see evolve throughout the film observe people who don't use drugs at all, others who use them, and others who abuse them... All but the last case end up decidedly happy and content.  But the film also remains very open minded and non-judgemental about the abusers; it refuses to condemn them, but rather it simply shows the results of what they do and allows the audience to form an opinion of these people on their own.Another interesting theme I noticed was the fact that although raves are a great experience, there might be more to life than having a good time... One of the ravers explains how she has spent her entire life going to raves and has enjoyed herself, but somehow feels unsatisfied about what she's doing with her life.  The idea that people must face fear in their lives in order to be content is presented, but a conclusion is never made, once again allowing the audience to use the film as food for thought and figure it out on their own terms.The soundtrack to the film is great, as are the visuals... The movie has a very energetic feel to it that really made me want to be at a rave, even though I might not end up liking it.If you want an interesting slice of American filmmaking and generational portraits from the 1950's, 70's, and 90's, I suggest consecutively viewing American Graffiti, Dazed and Confused, and this film.  All of these films are done in a fairly similar style (following multiple story threads at the same time, being non-judgemental about the characters) and have a very feel-good atmosphere about them while still portraying the atmosphere, lifestyle, and challenges of a generation in a very interesting and entertaining way. "},{"Title":"i have been there","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Just seen 'Groove' for the first time on pay-per-view, after forgetting that it was even made... just remembered about it after seeing it in the cable guide tonight.Holy crap - they certainly did their homework. I have been in almost every one of the situations in the film at least once over the past 9 years (i've been doing this way too long). Trying to find parties @ 4am, inviting everyone in a club back to my folks house for breakfast, overdoing it too much and becoming comatose, thanking promoters for the best party ever, sponging tunes of big name DJs, losing it on the dancefloor. Without a doubt the most accurate Rave film I've seen so far (not that there's many too choose from of course).Some observations - I am the male version of Leyla, too much Trance, US candy kids are hilarious, I recongised Brian B from Hyperreal spinning in the chill room and was like I'm sure I've seen that guy before then got it confirmed in the credits, the Asian DJ kid is hilarious at the end, Digweed can't act for toffee. "},{"Title":"Outstanding, magnificent soundtrack, great visualization","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is probably the closest you can come to experiencing a real rave without actually attending one. I can't understand user comments about poor acting, as I felt that everyone did a very good job here. The story centers around a group of people looking to have a harmless good time, with a number of side-characters. The rave organizer story is great, and the gay couple who can't find where the happening is is absolutely hilarious. The strongest part of the film is the magnificent soundtrack, and appearances by some of the best (and most underappreciated) DJ's around, John Digweed, Pollywog, etc. If you're at all into techno/rave music, just rent this for the great tunes. And you might find that you also enjoy the storyline. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was pretty good, but it had some parts that I did not like.  For instance, another comment, below me, said that a rave is not a time to reflect, and I agree.  While it is a time to turn lose, and be yourself, you do not go through a whole, as drunks call it, a moment of enlightenment-pulp fiction.  When you are rolling, you feel more like touching and feeling, like Colin, rather than talking and expressing.  However, a good aspect is that the drugs played a big part in reluctant first-time ravers.  It allowed them to leave their inhabitions at the door.  Also, if you want a deeper film about the rave scene, check out Be77er living through circuitry.  It is a documentry with great music, visuals, and insight.  For those who like fiction, and scripts, see this.8/10 "},{"Title":"Groove is the best rave movie EVER","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The comment below me couldn't be more wrong about rolling and talking and expressing yourself. I have been rolling for 7 years now...and I have expressed myself very fully while doing it. There are moments when I don't even feel like touching and feeling and blah blah blah...there are moments I would rather sit and talk then touch and feel. A rave is a great time to reflect, if you can find a quiet enough spot to do it in...yes that is difficult at times at parties, but it is possible. The below comment is so wrong it insulted me. I wasn't even a member of this site, I registered specifically to make sure that people know not to listen to the foolish comment below. That person is WRONG. I have reflected a lot at raves in the past 6 years that I have been in the scene, I have talked and expressed myself more than I can even say in the 7 years that I have been doing E. This movie is the BEST depiction of a rave, ever. It makes you feel like you're there, the end is better than any other rave movie I have ever seen (GO pretty much sucked) and um...yea, I love Groove because of the way it truthfully depicts not only the scene, but the feelings involved in the scene and in rolling. This movie is TRUE. Period. "},{"Title":"Puts you in the Party!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Finally! A film that dead-on nails the rave experience. It's about time that an emotionally accurate depiction was shown to the public. These intimate underground parties are truly a positive unifying force; bringing all sorts of people together through music. There have been some previous attempts on film to capture the rave scene. Last year's film, Go, tried, but the rave segment was merely a background setting. The story wasn't ABOUT the party. Party Girl was a pretty cool take on the New York scene of several years ago, but still failed to capture the true passionate essence of THE PARTY itself. Mainstream media has inaccurately and negatively smeared raves as being wholly BAD just because of some reckless drug use. Trying to use scare tactics by harping on the constant drug overdoses. It is indeed very unfortunate that there are party-goers who are not smart enough to know their limits. One must remember however that most rave folks' intentions are pure, like the promoter states in the film It's all about the nod... the subtle, grateful acknowledgement from a party-goer who's spirts were lifted by the party. The rave experience is not solely about the pursuit of profit or the perfect drug high. It's about joining with your loved ones, friends, and peers in a magical and musical setting where anything seems possible. Even if only for a night (into an early morning!). Groove definitely captures this vibe and you can't help but love it. Even if you're not in the scene, I beleive that there is a universal message of compassion and community that should speak to all. Groove literally puts you IN the party... the surround sound with the sounds of other party-goers talking around you create this amazing illusion. You feel like you're actually in the movie, taking part. Groove doesn't make you feel like an outsider. It wraps you up and sucks you in and leaves you jones-ing for more. That's why you'll have to make sure that you make plans to go out and dance right after you see it. Groove IS the Saturday Night Fever for the Millennium. Get up and dance and FEEL IT!!! "}{"Title":"Well done in my opinion...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought that this movie did a very good job of realistically portraying the all-night party atmosphere.  I only wish they had parties that cheap with free water around here.  Although the actual character acting wasn't all that great and the script was a tad thin, I thought that all the actors did a spectacular job of acting like they were high!  I actually thought they were really wiggin in a few scenes.  This writer/director has obviously had some experience with this lifestyle because that's the closest thing to any rave that I've ever seen on-screen.   "},{"Title":"Thought this movie was a fair depiction...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  As far as Rave Movies go, there haven't been many of them....I thought this was a fair depiction of a rave...I was in the rave scene in Washington, D.C. for a bit.....while there was a wide use of drug use, believe me, you do not have to do them to have a good time at a rave.  The music alone, if performed by good DJ's, will get you high as a kite.  The music in this movie was really good.  The interaction between the people at the party is on target.  Good to see Digweed and Polywog...$2.00 for Digweed...they must be on drugs...All in all, pretty good movie.  It was funny to see the interaction of the gay couple in the Beetle.  Enjoy...I did. "},{"Title":"Finally, a portrayal of US rave culture based in reality","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Too often the story of 'raves' are told by people far removed from them. This movie finally demonstrates a filmmaker has taken the time to look at the US rave scene before attempting to describe it to a mass audience. The movie and the filmmaker both succeed splendidly.The movie is a series of vignettes piecing together the background and experience of the variety of people involved in a rave.  The character's stories all start the day of the party and end in its afterglow.  As each character threads through the film they develop unique and interlaced stories with ultimately good or bad outcomes.  No effort is made to candy coat what happens at the parties, but likewise the spiritual and emotional dimensions of these events are finally given play.Watching the story develop I could relate to each actors persona.  Where most modern films build up bigger than life characters that test my suspension of disbelief this movie has a set of characters I can relate to. The characters are people who would work in my office, live in my apartment building or pass me on the street any given day.  Each characters possesses an anima or soul you can recognize in your circle of friends.  You connect to the characters and eventually experience this night vicariously through their actions.This is a slice of life movie, a slice of life that I would want to live. "},{"Title":"one terrific movie","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Being a self proclaimed movie buff Groove is one of the best movies I have seen in a very long time.  I spent some time in the New York City club scene and it is very similar to the ways of the San Francisco Rave scene as depicted in the movie.  Going through many of the things that happened in the movie truly made me appreciate what a tremendous job Greg Harrison and the whole crew did with this movie.  Some people really knocked Groove saying it glamourized drug use.  Let me be the one to tell you, that is exactly the way it is.  Face reality people, its a huge part of youth today. However, thats besides the point, Groove had great acting, very good plot lines, the cinematography was terrific, just an all around great movie. I strongly suggest that if you havent already seen it, to make sure you do. And if you are familiar with the rave and club scene I'll bet a million dollars you related and love the movie. "},{"Title":"The Little Independent That Thumped","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The first thing you need to know before seeing Groove is this just as watching Lawrence of Arabia in a pan-and-scan format on a 19 television won't cut it, watching Groove on a system that does not have at least a decent set of speakers/subwoofers is not only a crime, it's pointless.Maybe the movie would still harbor some form of engaging charm if viewed on the aforementioned 19-incher. But I wouldn't know, and I seriously doubt it.The movie's tagline is Are you feeling it for a reason. The makers of Groove had the sound design mastered by Skywalker Sound (the gods of system-threatening bass) for a reason. And this movie is one of my all-time favorites for a reason.Who cares whether or not Groove accurately portrays the rave scene. Watch it on a sound system that earns the right to play it, and you will be so buzzed by the end you'll be wishing you had been at the rave depicted in this movie, real or not.Director Greg Harrison says on the DVD commentary that he told the pros at Skywalker Sound this movie has to thump. In response, Skywalker mixed the roar of an actual jet engine into the music.You're damn right I'm feeling it. "},{"Title":"Groove's portrayal of the rave scene is the best I have ever seen in a film","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove not only nails the rave experience, but also the drug experience. The characters in this film are amazing, one of the best performances given by Hamish Linklater as first-timer David Turner.  If someone wants to go to a rave and take ex, without actually having to go, this is the closest they will ever get.  Great music, nice people, and the most fun you will ever have makes Groove the most honest account of raving I have ever seen!!! "},{"Title":"I was surprised","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  We went into this movie expecting to not like it and were blown away at how well everything was pulled off.  The music was excellent. Digweed makes an appearance which gives this movie a great deal of credibility.  All the characters were well thought out and represented.  A very real movie; truly a day in the life of a Raver.   "},{"Title":"Groove...","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Despite the fact that im a pur Kandyraver and i do rave really often, the movie isnt close to the genius of Go. It as a simple story line with no clues about whats coming up... the music is gay as digweed is... he really is, no joke. Anyway, it's a good movie about the rave scene... but as i said... it's style NOT a rave as they really are... pills love my ass, they will break up soon enough... "},{"Title":"Highs and Lows","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  So far as the lows The script was pretty shoddy, with the exception Leyla and Colin the acting was laughably bad, there were a lot of old techno culture cliche's (the ambiguous warehouse party, the candy ravers, PLUR, etc.).So far as the highs The music was good, it was cool to see Polywog, Wish FM and Digweed in a movie, the cinematography was pretty nice and the climax (set to Bedrock's Heaven Scent) is orgasmic.In closing, it's by far an entertaining movie. Perhaps if I were still 14, playing w/ glow sticks and taking minithins to get my buzz on it would've been cooler, but I try not to be too anylitical about it. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly simple portrayal of Club Culture","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Perhaps the most accomplished film made so far that depicts the world of dance music, easily overpowering the rather naive english film Human Traffic. Never letting complex plots or characters take precedent over the general feeling of a rave, director Greg Harrison successfully portrays the rather other-worldly feeling that the music and settings create.The story follows a few characters and tells of their reasons for being there, but always makes clear they will always play second fiddle to the creating mystique of a rave. As a young englishman - living in a place where alcohol and parties are easy to come by, it is fascinating to gaze upon the world of the american rave. They seem to be one of the few places in a country which spits on those under 21(- Lou Reed,) where minors can merge with adults and take drugs and drink as much as they like. Perhaps the film is only relevant to those who are interested in the culture, but it is not a film devoid of meaning. By the way, this film should only be seen by those who think that they can stomach John Digweeds acting ability. "}{"Title":"the most genuine and honest party movie ever","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove is the most accurate portrayal of the underground party I have ever seen.  The film probably won't win any academy awards, but it definatly deserves praise for a flawless representation of underground raves.  Every aspect of the film, from the email gatherings, to dorm rooms, to map- points is 100% correct.  I actually clapped during this movie, because in the beginning scenes, a young woman is standing in a laundromat watching her clothes dry, and the beat of her clothes flashes her back to exctacy experiences.  This was particularly familiar since that actually happened to me!  The filmakers know their stuff.  The drug taking scenes are among the most accurate ever put on film.  While the cast (young nobodys) wasn't particularly brilliant, the scenes in which they rolled on E were spot- on. Hooray for Groove! "},{"Title":"This is the movie ravers wished GO was.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Lemme start by saying that if you are not part of the rave scene/culture, then don't bother wasting your time with this movie because you just won't get it.  With that said, lemme just say that if you ARE a part of it, then get ready for our movie.  Bad/Sub-par acting aside, this movie is the closest thing you'll get to condensing the rave-experience into an hour and a half, from packing up your gear to that I can't believe it's morning already-feeling.  Yes, there are drugs in the movie, but it shows the good, the bad, and all areas in between.  More importantly, I think that the movie emphasizes responsible drug use (which I know I'll probably get flak for saying) although not all characters in the film are high to have a good time.  The characters were all (except for one) likeable, and I don't know about you, but I've known someone like each of them in the movie.  Raves are not about drugs, they are about reminding you why you are alive, and that sense of community.  This movie perfectly captured that feeling without bashing you over the head with it.  One last thing, make sure you watch the beginning because (I think) the best part in the film is at the beginning in the laundromat.  Those of you who have seen it will know what I mean and if you haven't felt that way before, then...oh well. Groove's tag is Are you feeling it? My answer? Oh yeah...so when's the after-party? "},{"Title":"Well made, realistic view of the rave scene","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Really enjoyed this movie. Greg Harrison obviously took great pains to try and present a realistic view of the rave scene both good and bad. From the DJ getting his first big chance to those going to a rave for the first time to the rave veteran who can't get on with her life it was about as close to the real thing as you'll get in a movie. Great music throughout the movie and nice cameo by DJ John Digweed. "},{"Title":"A simple film that will get you in the mood...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" ...to party, that is. Following the course of planning and putting together a rave in San Francisco, Groove definitely succeeds in capturing the atmosphere at such and event with humor and style.There are a few storylines, the two principal ones being David's first venture into drugtaking at his first rave, and his brother Colin's night with and without his girlfriend Harmony. Hamish Linklater (David) does a fine job of portraying the naive party-goer, and his reactions to the drug he takes are presented with comedy and precision.The smaller storylines succeed as well, adding more comedy to the story. A few of them don't seem as necessary as others, but their inclusion balances the film.At points, this film seems a bit contrived, as if it has been edited to fit that teen-film mold,(some of the conversations and scenarios are too Dawson's Creek for their own good) but all in all, by the end of it, I noticed myself leaning forward in my seat, tapping my feet, enjoying the music (which is excellent)and the mood. And any film that leaves me with a huge smile on my face as I leave the theater has my seal of approval.This film is definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Groove &#x97; The archetypical underground rave","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Groove is the perfect rave in the sense that it's not commercial, it's from the fringe by locals, there's no alcohol, it's small, and everybody is having fun. However, nothing is perfect and so the night goes...The good. Excellent music. You meet almost every kind of raver. The characters are nice, well developed, and acted just right. Each scene has something special and represent a usual occurrence in a rave. You can feel the ecstasy taking hold, and you can live the tracks as if you were dancing the floor. The dialogs, interactions, actions, reactions, settings, and costumes are very realistic.The bad. Nothing.The ugly. Nothing.The result. If you've ever experienced a rave, after seeing this, you'll be looking for your next one. "},{"Title":"One of the best rave scene movies","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie totally rocks it is the one movie which shows the scene for what it is. Not a nightmare of crime or squalor but an uplifting representation of the scene at the time. The movies music is one of the major selling points as it goes thorough quite a spectrum of house tunes also chucking in some drum and base which might date the movie a little bit. When the house messiah John Digweed turns up for the final set of the night the movie truly hits it peak. The acting is fine and believable. Admitedly the movie crams a lot of different house stereotypes into the mix some convincing and others not. But Im from the British scene so there could be cultural differences. Anyhow If your interested in the early house movement check this movie right out. "},{"Title":"fun fun fun","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" After this movie, I listened to Digweed, and I listened to Sasha, and I listed to Digweed and Sasha, and I subscribe to Transitions on iPod and I totally dig Digweed. What's to get upset abt? Music sweet music... Gotta have ten lines, so at the risk of repeating myself...I enjoyed the music, I thought I saw some female humans in it, and as I like girls a lot, that made me very happy (okay, I'm a dirty old man, but I come from a long line of dirty old men), and the music was fun, the atmosphere was not like when I was that age but it was also not so unlike, just different, but it's still people, there's still a beat, people still care and love, I enjoyed it and hope to see (AND HEAR) it again. "},{"Title":"Nice to see some raver films","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Even though this movie came off pretty corny (bad acting), and unrealistic, ($2 to see John Digweed I wish) I thought it was a pretty accurate at times. (just the little raver tidbits that I feel normal people wouldn't even understand) Though I also thought it put too much influence on the drugs, c'mon if these people were all doing them, they wouldn't be up and dancing all night, they would crowding the walls asking for back rubs and light shows.  They should have shown alot more dancing and its many forms. (which that and music are the driving forces in this culture)  The music was excellently portrayed, I love the soundtrack, especially Heaven Scent by John Digweed.  By the way, I met Polywog at Love in Houston last weekend and she was just like she was in the movie, it was great.  She tore it up.  My favorite scene is where where they showed the normal world in the middle of the night, and then then the rave, it was great! -PLUR "},{"Title":"Ride the wave...","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie, plain and simple. The subject matter is near and dear to me and this film does an excellent job conveying the vibe that is so unique to the rave scene.The director has done a great job walking the tightrope between reality and cinema to produce a journey so like a real night of partying that I was tempted to get up from my couch at 11pm on a sunday night and head into San Fran to seek and find...I highly recommend this film for anyone that leans lightly or heavily to the side of unity, expression, freedom and exaltation. "},{"Title":"candy coated but rather good","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I haven't seen many films on the rave culture.  I have seen the cautionary Dateline segments and such, and I have been to a few raves in my time. What I see usually parallels the Dateline cautionary tales to be quite honest. Groove is entertaining, they got the lingo and most of the interaction right.  What Groove missed (or blatantly avoided) is what usually precedes the cops busting a party ambulances hauling off kids that are incapacitated from all the drugs they've ingested.  I have to agree with Ebert, in the not too distant future a film will depict the gross underbelly of these parties. Groove could have done so but chose to sidestep the horrible things that can happen overly loved-up, doved-up kids and instead focused on the whole PLUR (peace, love, unity respect) thing.  You do see that E makes one do things they would ordinarily not, but we don't see how those consequences would pan out in reality.  A little more honesty would have made this a more proper insight into the whole scene. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen in my life!!!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove was amazing. Great soundtrack, great plot, great humor, and (not a spoiler) the best climax I've seen since Reservoir Dogs. This was like American Grafiti while chewing E. The acting had a little more to be said for, but it doesn't matter. The acting was believable and I had a great time watching it.And, in case you're wondering, this rave, however small, is extremely accurate to what a rave is really like.All in all,this is one of my favorite movies. If you liked Go, you'll love Groove. Hey, even if you hated Go, you'll love Groove. "},{"Title":"Hey, it made my top ten list...","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is simply beautiful. I don't know of any better way to describe it. For those of you who don't know, this flick, written by Greg Harrison focuses on the underground rave scene in San Fransico. It starts out wonderfully with the planning for the events to follow (the rave) and introduces us a little bit to some of what goes on behind the scenes when you're setting up for this kind of huge party. It then progresses into the introduction of several groups of young ravers as they get ready for the evening. Acting praise must go out at this point to Denny Kirkwood and Mackenzie Fergins for their roles as Colin and Harmony, two very believable characters. Qudoes also must go out to Steve Van Wormer for his great job in playing Ernie, the sponsor of the rave. Then its time to take it up a notch as everybody arrives and the rave gets rolling. I won't spoil anything for anyone, but lets just say that emotions run high, peoples lives are changed, love is found, love is lost and the floor is thumpin' with some killer techno, all in the span of that night. That brings up another great point. This was the first movie where I had to immediately run out and grab the soundtrack. Now, I'm an avid techno/trance fan but the music in this movie is simply the star. It was billed as nothing less. And so, late into the night, as things seem to be at their worst for our young raver friends (who we've fallen in love with over the past hour or so) the master, John Digweed himself, steps onto the screen and saves the day. And if you know his name, you know that when the man from across the pond shows up with a fresh crate of vinyl, the party has just begun. This was simply one of the great moments in film and I almost got up out of my seat and started cheering, that scene will stick with me for some time to come. Three cheers for a great film, three cheers for a great sound, and more cheers than you can muster for a fresh film, beautifully filmed, with a fresh idea. Thank you independent films, for renewing my faith in cinema. "},{"Title":"I'll go as long as they don't play that happy house crap","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove is a great example of a independent film that is a visually interesting film.  This movie looks great.  It's a film that starts good and gets better as you move through it.  The characters aren't very complicated, but then it's only showing a single night at a rave.  There isn't a lot a changing situations for the characters to develop.  But that isn't important to this film.  This film is about the party and the experience. Recommended. "},{"Title":"All right....I guess...","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  My first impression of Gregg Harrison's film is that he definitely spent a lot of time researching the rave scene. It shows, I've been to a few myself and it looks authentic. But the film just falls flat when it comes to characters. It seems like he wrote the movie about a rave and used the characters to function the rave, not having the rave function the characters. I know that's not the point of a rave, it's a collective thing and so on, but this is still a movie. You have to have a reason to watch the thing. I thought the editing of the movie was very good though, especially the title sequence. It was funny seeing Digweed being portrayed as a celebrity like Michael Jordan (bad acting and all). Hate to be cliche' or an armchair director but a this movie seems to be a case of style over substance.  "},{"Title":"A great party, and a solid film","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Back when this film was in its initial stages, I was actually a fairly regular participant in the Bay Area rave scene, and remember distinctly what a stir it was causing among the Klub Kids who feared director/screenwriter Greg Harrison -- an outsider -- would get it all wrong. Having now had the chance to take in the finished product, I can say with some sense of authority that those fears were most definitely unfounded.Groove is the most realistic portrayal of rave culture -- and especially THAT particular rave culture -- that I've ever seen. Harrison definitely went to painstaking efforts to get the details right, from having one character send out a message to the ACTUAL e-mail list that serves to drive the scene asking the strangers on the list for a ride to the party; to smartly showing that the main adherents to the scene are not, as some might think, urban hipsters, but more often freaks and geeks from Berkeley or Alameda; to having a bunch of the gang end up at the, ummm, EndUp, a legendary San Fran greasy spoon; to including as cameo figures some of the biggest names in turntables (DJ Polywog and the legendary Jon Digweed in particular) all combined to give it an air of authenticity that left a smile on my face.If you are or ever were around the PLUR scene, you'll appreciate some of these small details. If you've never been, you'll get an eye into a world you wouldn't ordinarily see.So, the film is true to life (the only quibbles I had were that the average age of the ravers appeared to be mid-20s, which is a bit older than is usually the case, and the fact that the bathroom is shown to be inexplicably empty -- NEVER true at any party I've been to, by a long shot) but is it any good?Well, if you don't go in expecting anything more than a nice little diversion, and some really great tunes, I think the average person would enjoy it nearly as much as I did. But that said, the film isn't really about much of anything. It's just one night in the life of a party. The dialogue has its spotty moments, but there are a few gem exchanges that I loved, such asBUMMED OUT PARTYGOER When did you get all Haight Ashbury, dude? You listened to Nitzer Ebb! HIGH AS A KITE ACCOMPLICE Yeah, but I was 13 years old, and a Nazi.The main subplot, if you can call it that, follows a fish out of water tech writer at his first party and his love at first site encounter with an East Coast transplanted slacker (the aforementioned e-mail writer.) It's more than a little cliched, as there's no doubt in my mind that any actual version of this chick would never give this dude the time of day. But both actors, Lola Glaudini and Hamish Linklater, breath life into their roles, and end up coming through with performances well above what you'd normally expect from this kind of low-budget faire.The theme of the film? Thankfully, there isn't one. It doesn't search for some greater meaning to all of this. It doesn't pretend to be a voice of a generation. It's just the chronicle of a really good party. How well you respond to that notion will go a long way to determining how you feel about the picture.But if nothing else, do pick up the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"I'm feeling it...","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Greg Harrison stated many times during the Q&A's after each screening of his film at Sundance that he wanted to portray a realistic account of the San Francisco rave scene.  Well, he succeeded.This film appeals to anybody who enjoys partying but is also presented it in such a way that it is appealing to a cross-section of generations. The characters are realistic, cinematography outstanding and the music will blow you away.Drug taking is an integral part of the rave scene whether we like it or not and Harrison presents that fact without over-glamorising it or turning it into a chemical orgy a la Trainspotting.Any film that has audience members cheering and clapping throughout the screening has to be a sure thing.Sony Pictures Classic seemed to think so - they picked it up on Sunday for $1.5 million for a worldwide distribution so get ready to GROOVE!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"brief summary of why I feel this is a great movie","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I had the privilege of seeing the first screening of this film at the Sundance Film Festival. All in all I thought this was a fabulous movie that did an excellent job of spreading the PLUR and portraying the energy and vibe that is the underground RAVE scene. The plot explores the many different aspects that incorporate this diverse and exciting lifestyle ranging from the DJ's role, to those who painstakingly put on the rave, and those loyal ravers that faithfully attend. It's a great movie and I sincerely hope it gets picked up for distribution by a big name as it is an independent film that had a very small budget. There is only one thing I didn't like about the movie and that would be the portrayal of drug use. It isn't until our main character takes E that he starts to enjoy himself. It almost sent a message that until you do the drugs you won't enjoy or be included in the rave scene and this is not true. However, drugs are a big part of the scene and so avoiding this topic would have harmed the movie overall. The point I think they were trying to get across was that you need to cut loose and enjoy yourself, but I don't agree that in order to do so you have to take drugs. The Filmmakers do show what can happen if you are not responsible with yourself but they don't stress the fact that drugs are not necessary to have a good time. Overall I thought it was a good movie and It really grabbed me at the end but I won't ruin that for you all!  "},{"Title":"Hysterically awful - 3 stars for unintentional comedy value","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Unlikable wooden characters deliver poorly scripted lines at an unrealistic warehouse party. Hilarity ensues. Yes, Harrison may have tried to encapsulate the rave scene in meticulous detail, but anyone who thinks he's actually succeeded in this is overlooking the most glaringly obvious element of fantasy in the whole film John £3,000 per hour Digweed playing at an illegal warehouse party for free? What a joke. Speaking of Mr. Digweed, did anyone else notice how uncomfortable he looked throughout the film, and how he couldn't keep a straight face when delivering his first cringeworthy line? Also uproarious - The pseudo-scientific 'jargon' released by the token 'smart guy' through which we are meant to be impressed with Harrison's erudition, and the painful 'literary' conversation that they have in the Chill Room, which amounts to nothing more than flagrant name dropping without a trace of substance to make it credible. Has Harrison even read Kerouac, Burroughs and Hemingway? Probably not, if Groove is a product of his love affair with the printed word.You can imagine someone - even yourself, probably - being bludgeoned by narcotic stupidity and thinking it would be an awesome idea to make a movie in which each plot segment was defined by a different DJ set. But then the drugs would wear off and you'd feel embarrassed for conceiving an idea so excruciatingly prone to cliché. You wouldn't actually turn it into a film. But someone did.You've got to see this. It is tremendously entertaining, but not in the way intended by the screenwriter/director. It's a veritable masterclass on transforming bad ideas into an embarrassingly dire product. "},{"Title":"Groove Succeeds by Failing","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Greg Harrison apparently thought he was making a pseudo-documentary of the San Francisco rave scene. According to all the dismissive reviews from die-hard ravers, Harrison has failed in this aspiration. In failing though, Harrison has succeeded in creating a small movie which works on many levels. Groove has humor. It has moments of dramatic tension. It shows drug abuse for what it is without being preachy or judgmental. The music is awesome. The cinematography alone is worth your time. And then, just when you have enough elements to make up an okay niche movie about the rave scene, Groove adds The Nod, a mini concept piece which transcends the genre and adds a second climax, an intellectual one, after the first musical/spiritual/dramatic climax. Groove is filled with the kind of self-revelatory scenes which give the viewer a sense of truth and the truth always hurts. "},{"Title":"painful.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  i had really looked forward to seeing this movie. it featured a cast that was for the most part from my neighborhood and it was set in my town.unfortunately, i hadn't made it out in time to see it in the theater. still, everybody seemed to rave about it so i kept it on my 'to see' list. what a waste of time. it was such a waste that it made me angry i'd dedicated an evening to watching it.groove is bad, but not in a funny way. not funny at all. it seemed really outdated for the time it was made -- more like a  poor representation of 1991 ravers or a 40 y.o.'s impression of a warehouse party constructed from vague details provided by a 13y.o.. the pacing was erratic, the dialog was poorly written and i couldn't have cared less about the characters.it was painful. it was embarrassing. it was painfully embarrassing. one comment from a friend sums it up it was made by 415 productions for chrissake, what do you expect? touché. "}{"Title":"recommended to party-freex","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I was never really into going to 'raves', but I used to listen to this music for a long period of my life. I still do, sometimes. I know the world 'rave' scene quite good, especially the older days.This film has NO identity, NO personality. What does it want to say? That the party aint over until the last record is spinned ? Thats absolutely crap. Is it just a depiction of a 'rave' ? Then its really, deeply poor.Would John Digweed play for free in an underground illegal party of 200 people??? Hehehe, everyone into the thing knows thats a big lie! He only plays the role of himself in the film to get credit and earn some more bucks.The only thing the film succeeds is to depict the confusion drugs (especially Extacys or MDMA-like drugs) offer and the fact that love nation, E-generation, love-peace-respect or whatever you want to call it is a big-big lie. In any case, its an illusion induced by the drugs.I will propably look for some other rave-movies that are suggested here by people that obviously know the thing. This film is a big joke. Cant say its not enjoyable, though, its not boring - its just EMPTY of meaning. "},{"Title":"Not Oscar material, but pretty entertaining","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I used to be into the rave scene myself, so i'm pretty familiar with the subject, and i thought the movie was pretty entertainiing. If you're a trance addict, or used to be, this'll give you a little flashback to the times you experienced in the club, those moments when the DJ puts on a track that just gets the place jumping and blows your mind. The dancefloor shots were done pretty well(although i could've done without the little slo-mo during Digweed's set), and the soundtrack is great, very well selected. If you dont know much about the trance scene, this is a nice intro to what being at a rave is like, but dont take it as a guide, because the actual rave/candykid/PLUR scene is dying out and shifting to the more commercial setting. The music is still around, and still great, but it is no longer as underground as it used to be even 4-5 years ago. Anyway, nice little movie,despite some plotholes and some little things that could have been done a bit better, it keeps your attention, and not a waste of time. Digweed just rocks the house during his set, especially with Heaven Scent. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this late Sat. night/Sun. morning on IFC.  Wonderful film with good work by the director.  I guess the bad reviews made here in IMDb were written by people who don't make movies? The movie carried me into the scene, wound me up, and left me unable to get the music out of my head )  I've gone and bought the Bedrock CD and Paul Oakenfold's Tranceport CD. Point one Independent film made so well I never feel as if I'm facing indecision in the editing room. Point two I couldn't take my eyes away from the film, from start to end. Point three I love the fast/slow motion trick Greg Harrison does to sync /scratch the video to match Digweed's Heaven Scent audio! In the end, everybody reaches simultaneous bliss during that song, followed by the inevitable Sunday morning sun (I hate Sundays).  Though hinting that this lifestyle can't go on forever it is blissfully free of the overdone TV-style sin like this and die guilt messages. Two thumbs way up (as if Ebert would ever publicly review this, laugh.) "},{"Title":"Not so funny but really fun","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This wasn't the movie I thought it was going to be. Looking back, I thought this was going to be a 24 Hour Pary People type of movie, but instead it traces all the emotions and craziness of many different characters as they all get together for one San Francisco night rave. This is a totally different rave scene than most people would imagine as it's the run from the cops type of party rather than the typical Ibiza dance / rave / event.While not all the characters or acting are strong, the film keeps a solid momentum from beginning to end, portraying the modern circa 2000 dance scene in San Francisco. I only wish they had a scene with the rave kid sitting on the subway with the disco ball! "},{"Title":"an unpolished love letter to raves","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Groove is a short film that weaves several characters and stories into one night at a San Fransisco rave. Shot on a bottom-feeding budget, this movie isn't the most compelling or convincing story to be told about raves, but it is a pretty postcard. When you watch this movie you see a rave take place from start to finish, each dj taking over from the last and creating a new vibe.Groove is an unpolished love letter to raves and ravers alike. Through it's winding narrative, the film carefully balances the positive side of love and unity through music with the realities of drug use and sketchy characters at raves. From the moment the film starts at the pre-rave warehouse, you're taken into a subculture that reveres its music of choice and accepts its substance abuse as normal.The direction of the film goes from subplot to subplot, often interweaving but never confusing. Along the lines of a postcard, the stories tell the human side against the backdrop of many shots just devoted to people dancing and having fun. Some performances from the main characters were too cliché and underdone for their themes, but on the whole Groove feels real to those who have been all-nighters and to those who still rave, everyone in the movie is someone you've met along the journey of raving.Groove had great cinematography and really pulled me into the rave atmosphere, but some of the direction and dialogue was unrealistic. Nevertheless, I suggest renting it. A good subculture flick with enough substance not to leave a bad aftertaste.7/10 "},{"Title":"Sure Got Mine On!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" A very cute little tale of the Southern California underworld action going on up in this film. This isn't one to watch if you're looking for an Oscar flick in the making but if your goal is too zone out with something entertaining for just a little over an hour then look no further! Some ravers complain that it wasn't accurate enough but think about it, I mean real shady stuff goes down at these parties and if they were to show it exactly as it is then the movie would be rated NC-17 at the least. The music was great and I thought it was neat how they had real life DJ's make some cameos. The multiple sub-plots made it interesting to follow because it switched between a couple of groups and I liked it since even though it did this I didn't find it confusing at all. The only flaw I really found was the acting tended to be a little weak but a handful actually did okay. I also thought the movie was too short and they definitely could've extended it to two hours and still have demanded my attention but with the low-budget they had it's to be expected. It got my mind off things for awhile and I enjoyed it.Final DanceMovies I wouldn't mind going if only to hear it on the gigantic speakers.DVD Purchase Will have to think about this for a little bit...but is a strong possibility.Rental I already want to watch it again! "},{"Title":"'American Graffiti set to house music","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" GROOVE (2000) ** Lola Gardini, Danny Kirkwood, Hamish Linklater, Steve Van Wormer,, Mackenzie Firgens, Rachel True, Ari Gold, Vince Riverside, Elizabeth Sun, Angelo Spizziri, Jeff Witzke, Nick Offerman, Dj Polywog, John Digwad. First time filmmaker Gregor Harrison attempts to bring the underworld of ravers in San Francisco to light a la 'American Graffiti' one endless evening into morning coming of age, mixture of oddball characters and the common thread of music interlinking them. However it falls short of that auspicious design with its ordinary and not worth reflecting upon ensemble and music that could be interchangeable at any given moment. A for effort. "},{"Title":"Catch the Rave.","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove is another Generation X Rave-based movies. It's about an all-night rave at some abandoned warehouse. There is no real story, other than focusing in on some of the little tidbits of several of the attendees.I never really saw a movie that depicts the rave culture the way that it should be--the love and invigoration of the underground music pounding in your ears to the flash of a some pretty colored lights. You and about thirty other people jumping on the floor with nothing else on your mind but having a good time. Unfortunately, movies like Groove tend to undermine that aspect, instead concentrating on some of the most idiotic characters imaginable. Albeit the music is hot (finally not cheesy pop raves like the movie Human Traffic had), but the character themselves are highly annoying mirror images of actual rave personalities, giving you a glipmse at a culture that has produced something quite as oblivious and ridiculous as hippies were in the 60s and 70s. That's a bitterly annoying aspect of this film, people sitting around buzzed, talking about their hallucinations of absolute euphoria and being one with the universe. And in the end, after sizing up their lives so far and talking about how disappointed they are with it, they don't change anything. Aside from the vigilance of this part of the underground culture, the movie emphasizes (far too much) absolute nonsense. I think if the characters were much goofier and more willing to have fun, instead of being just a bunch of tired burnouts, then this movie could've been a lot better to watch.By the way, if it's the generation x rave movies you like to watch, give Human Traffic, a try. It's about a bunch of friends in Britian who shake off their tired work week at a weekend of raves. It's funnier, but then again, you do wind up running into that one with the universe bull again.  "},{"Title":"Fun Exercise in Style Flattened by Lack of Character Development","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"     After an impressive opening shot, Greg Harrison's Groove uses quick cuts and blaring music to introduce most of its characters.   This is a section of the film that is wasted in a typical case of style over substance.  This film mostly takes place at a rave party, but instead of trying to grab the audience's attention at the beginning, writer/director Harrison should have been more concerned with elaborating the people attending the rave.  When the party finally happens, not only is it hard to care about the outcomes of the characters but more importantly there is no emotional anchor to keep enough attention to them.          The thin story Groove has is about a post-school limbo of uncertainty.  It is about a struggling author being pulled to his first rave by his free-spirited, party-loving brother and sweet girlfriend.  All of them are drifting in life without really realizing it.  The mix of drugs and pulsing dance music helps to take them out of their misery for one long night.          The ending is a high point in the film, but when the movie ends it is hard not to get a feeling of nothingness about the movie.  Like the life its characters lead, Groove is aimless, occasionally fun, but ultimately empty. "},{"Title":"I had a good time with it","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I had a great time with this movie. Don't look for it to 'teach' you about the rave scene or throw you with oscar winning acting, but it does keep pace nearly the whole flick. It's just a fun little movie, with trendy dialogue, in a setting many are not familiar with. If you do happen to partie there is a lot to identify with, and a lot to laugh at. Much better than Go which had to incorporate a gun into it's plotline to sell. "}{"Title":"A positive (a bit naive) film about party culture","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film reproduce the feeling of underground parties, in a Hollywood way. So it is a bit naive, happy-ending type, but definitely makes you re-feel the good memories of partying, or gives you an impression if you never experienced it. It shows lot of the ideas behind party-culture, some based on hippy culture (PeaceLoveUnityRespect, rejecting money, pre-made life vs. conscious life, acceptance, etc.) The music and how they used it in the film is also great. John Digweed is very cool, but the other party-scenes also. The film also shows the bad part of party-life (losing time, you dreams about yourself are nicer according to what you can really be). It shows the paranoid parts too, although if you have not felt yourself, maybe you will not realize it, or it will not mean a lot for you. Somehow the whole thing is an utopia what is in every party-people's mind, I do not know, if I ever experienced it as a whole, or it is only a dream. But it is definiately a platonic idea, if you know what it means (it lives inside everybody without experienced it ever). "},{"Title":"You don't have to rave to get this, but it helps","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Like Rave the hairspray, Groove is cheap and tacky --but it works.Premise A night in the life of not-so-creepy club crawlers.Plot-points --Boy meets girl-- An unrealistic, unbelievable story of the veteran raver Leyla teaching the ropes to the novice/party nerd David (Hamish Linklater).  In reality, it would probably take someone higher up the genetics food chain, to get a babe like Lola Glaudini to spend her nite nursing an ecstasy-stupored dork back to coherency.  Especially considering the fact that Leyla is sober during the event, and I can't think of too many sober club-goers willing to sit and listen to a drug-addled mess of a stranger spout jibberish.  But whatever.--Boy proposes to girl, then meets boy-- Colin & Harmony, the quintessential club kid couple.  He helps her dye her hair purple and she paints his fingernails black.  Ahhh, to be in love. Enter creepy massage guy.  I'm sure that a great number of straight female ravers can relate to this storyline.--Boy desperately seeking the nod-- The perils of party throwing 101* How to decorate an abandoned warehouse* What to do when one of your DJ's is M.I.A. (too whacked out to spin)* The boys in blue are here, now what?That's basically it in a neon nutshell.  First-time director Greg Harrison's ode to party people, a film that probably should have skipped the soapy storylines and reinvented itself as a documentary.There are some cute in-jokes though A raveboy becomes ill after over-dosing on the drug GHB, his friend nurses him and after concluding that he'll be okay, she says What are you, *new*? EAT before you do drugs.   Cute.Groove is that party that isn't really all that happening, but not buzz-kill bad either.  Once you make it past the lumberyard acting and surrender to the idea that music and dancing are some people's idea of doubles tennis or a night at the opera... you may see this movie for what it is A simple, colorful, shout-out to club kids everywhere.Groove Not a party for the ages but well worth the cover charge "},{"Title":"REALLY REALLY GROOVY","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  (New Memberness)This movie rules and I don't know why everyone has a problem with it. It is the little things that makes movies aweosme and this movie has plenty. PLENTY. So what if the story is SUPER ORIGINAL the way it is portrayed is great. And if you don't want a completley story driven movie then check out Go but Groove is the greatest. And Better living rules too, i'm not bad talking it or anything. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Film follows the events that take place within 24 hours at an underground rave in San Francisco on a Saturday night. Of course this rave is different because a whole bunch of the characters will find their lives changed forever. Entertaining, but unmemorable effort made on a shoestring budget features a few nice directorial touches and moves along nicely, despite very familiar material. Rated R. "},{"Title":"Wow.  Skip it, see Human Traffic instead.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This was hailed as a fictional documentary of a night in the rave/party scene.  The party sequences are fun, but if you have no experience with raves, the best parts of the movie are somewhat missed.  If you do have experience with raves, I feel that Human Traffic is a better movie.My main gripe with this movie is the fast-paced character development doesn't really leave you caring about the characters; other than that, the movie is good enough to hold interest. "},{"Title":"Nice recreation of small rave party atmosphere. Nice sights & soundz. Lacks edge or bite.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Good to see this little touched on subject being the focus of a feature film. And good too that the film isn't self conscious about the drug use, and so is neither pro, or anti drug, but remains fairly neutral and just gets on with the show. Sure there's a few stereotyped characters and situations like the too-many-drugs-almost-dies character, but never does it get serious in this respect, nor dwell on 'issues' that people so often get bogged down with when reflecting on the rave culture.The central character's transition from nervous first-timer to relaxed guru-gets-the-girl type, was a bit far fetched for my liking, but hey - it could happen I suppose.Another criticism could be that it lacks a certain creative edge to the story. It tries to cover too many characters & emotions, and ends up just skimming the surface of most. Perhaps this was intentional. But it would have been great to see more from the DJ side of things, and some kind of story about them. The notion of beginner DJ, Master DJ, the interaction between DJ and raver, the music, the party dynamics, are all fascinating - much more so than where the ravers are going with their lives outside of the party, and whether they have career direction and focus - a topic the main character and the chic indulged in at length. When you're at a rave, you aren't thinking about these things!Bottom line It may not be the most memorable movie, but ravers and young people will relate to it, and so will get a lot of enjoyment from it. Nice cinematography too. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  If for no other reason, this movie is worth watching simply because it has a couple of moments in it that manage to capture the positive vibe of a really good rave. Examples of this are a girl stopping everyone in the chill room and saying Ok, has anyone seen a stuffed animal in here?...or a guy offering a sip of his bottled water to a dancing girl he doesn't know, who takes the water in stride, sips it, hands it back, and continues to dance without skipping a beat.Those are the little kind of things that go on at raves that would make them fun. People just don't act like that around strangers normally...but at a rave things are different, and people seem to lower their shields to the rest of the world.There's other examples in this movie which illustrate special aspects to the rave world. But, to me it's the little things in this movie that are special. That's because they are things that aren't too cliche', and you would forget about them if someone weren't to remind you of them.Don't compare it to Go. Go isn't about a rave. It is about events that take place in one night that happen to include going to a rave for one little shred of the movie. This movie revolves around the event itself - in the dance floor, the chill room, and behind the scenes.Cute movie.  "},{"Title":"The only redeeming quality about this movie is the subject matter.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Overall a very contrived film. Unnatural line delivery of a weak, at best, script. The characters had very shallow development making it an overall very shallow film. The only convincing aspect of the film was the interaction between the gay couple celebrating their anniversary. If you want a better glimpse at the electronic dance music scene check out Modulations, or Human Traffic. Even Go had more substance.  "},{"Title":"Still hasn't got the vibe","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Rave movies eh?Pretty hard to get right, by all accounts.Go managed it, but then again, that was about much more than just a night out.  Human Traffic managed it as well, apparently, but I haven't seen it.So what does Groove manage?Watching it, i was mainly reminded of Whit Stillman's The Last Day's of Disco - intelligent twenty-somethings discuss life in a nightclub, which is eerily silent off the dancefloor.Much the same with this - except none of the side-stories has any depth to it (youngster in relationship trouble, older guy realises he's wasted his life by not dropping a pill before etc., etc.).Some dodgy performances too, especially from the guest Superstar DJ.And funnily enough, although not surprising from an american movie, the subtext was quite anti-drug.At least i can say the soundtrack made we want to go to a club - but only to prove it couldn't be as dull as Groove. "},{"Title":"overated","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  What a disappointment!  I came into this movie with high expectations, from all the praise I had heard, but was terribly disappointed.  It merely paints a superficial, inaccurate image of the rave scene.  The plot is paper-thin and the characters are one cliche after another. The storyline is terribly contrived, and the characters, especially those in minor roles, are mindless dolts.  Some of the 'rave kids' were so lame that I felt embarrassed on behalf of anyone associated with the music.  This movie was preachy, uneducated, corny, poorly acted, and all around horrible.  I don't see where the acclaim comes from.  Obviously anyone who gave this movie knows nothing about electronic music and the corresponding culture.  Or acting, for that matter. "}{"Title":"Don't make me watch it again...EVER","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I am at a loss as to why previous comments think this has any credibility whatsoever. I cringed countless times...let me see...was it the acting... the plot, (or absence of one), perhaps it was the lack of script, the presence of so many one dimensional characters...hell I don't know. No risk-taking here. A boring warehouse rave, that I would have left half an hour after arriving. About as underground as Disneyland and musically...well... defunct comes to mind.  Hardcore? oh please...they can't be serious. This would be one of the worst movies I have ever seen and viewers should be warned -  Don't go there. 2.5/10. P.S My friend left the room in disgust.  "},{"Title":"no feelings here","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove is an extremely lame movie about the rave scene. This could have been a good movie but the cast was cliched and acted like they were in a high school production. Even the dj's weren't the best of the bunch. It's hard to even concentrate on the plot because nothing exciting happens. The action revolves around the rave organizers and the first time raver. Wooooohooo drugs, especially the trendy xtc are all around..everyone is having bad movie party fun. The only quality piece of this movie was the female lead. She is hot and deserves better than this crap. Go is a way better movie than this pale imitation.* "},{"Title":"A restrained look at an unrestrained event.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Groove is a restrained and moderately realistic look at an all night rave happening in a hijacked Frisco warehouse. The film refuses to pander to the viscera as it follows a few ravers, portraying them as ordinary vulnerable people, while presenting a thumbnail overview of the anatomy of a rave including the requisite sex, drugs, and bottled water. When the party's over, the film ends. Groove will have very limited appeal as the PDA's will fault it for its inaccuracies while main frames won't be able to empathize. "},{"Title":"Bad Acting doesn't make good rave","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to this movie hoping to see if someone had finally captured the vibe of the CA rave scene on film. Boy was I disappointed. It was just a bunch of loose plots strung together by even looser script. Even though some of the actors were talented, even they could not save the schlocky dialogue and predictable Hollywood banter. I wanted to like this film ALOT. But all I was was BORED, BORED, BORED.  "},{"Title":"Groove simply wanted to be about a rave, but it wasn't even that","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting a nice look into the rave culture - the music, the drugs, and the dancing that characterize a rave and are the reason people go.  Unfortunately, I found a movie that got horribly sidetracked.  Instead of being about a rave, it was about this group of people - of 5, 10, 15...too many people - and too many horrible actors trying to be these people.  I hesitate to use the word characters because since not one of them was developed at all, I can only call them people.All the conversation in the movie was trite musing about myriad grand themes that should not have been the purpose of the movie.  This should have been a movie about a rave - people should have talked about the music, the drugs, and the atmosphere.  They should have danced and tripped and rolled - a rave is not a place you go to make a lifelong friend - its a place you go to separate yourself from reality...to meet people you will see again only at another rave, but each time you see them, to connect on a deeper level.  A rave isn't a holy experience nor a time to reflect upon the meaning of one's existence - it is an escape - one thing this movie failed to grasp completely. "},{"Title":"Sure it's about a rave, but that doesn't mean it's good.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Saw Groove last night at a preview screening. Heard some really good things about it beforehand. It's a shame most of them didn't hold true.They've got most of the aspects of a rave represented, but in a way that is trite, boring and heavy-handed. The dialog is much worse than one would expect for a low-budget independent. It's as if they are trying to make it bad. It's not over 'til the last record spins, come on! Much of the acting is weak, but with the characters and dialog they're given it's understandable. When it comes to delivering the messages in the movie the preferred method is a blunt blow to the head.I wanted to enjoy this movie, but the fact is this a movie full of standard film cliches with a rave as the setting. I'll wait for a more enlightened portrayal of this scene, or better yet a documentary.The soundtrack sound like it would probably be pretty good. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is terrible. Stiff actors portray boring characters for the purpose of tossing around over-used and misunderstood buzzwords pertaining to the rave and drug subcultures. The only redeeming quality of this movie is the sub-plot of the gay couple in the Volkswagen, which was only slightly amusing and made up less than 10 percent of the movie.In general the scenes are awkward and poorly edited. With all of the possibilities a rave presents for interesting filming and camera-shots this movie found a way to make it all seem silly and boring.Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Party freaks dance all night","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Crazy picture about a group who go to all manner of effort to put on techno dance parties in abandoned buildings. The spaced out dancers for want of a better word were entertained for several hours by a succession of DJ's, each with his/her own collection of tunes. Since the law was being broken to hold the event things didn't go smoothly all night, however everyone seemed to take it in stride. Interesting look a portion of a degenerate generation whose sole intent is to have a good time.  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking at Sundance?","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Not very good at all I'm afraid.  All the makings of a bad movie.  There are poor characters that you just don't care about.  It's got little or no plot, and when something does happen it's completely predictable.  If somebody asked me what this movie was about I would say, It was about a rave... WHERE NOTHING HAPPENED. Long story short, avoid this film. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic after-school special piece of garbage.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  As a techno DJ with somewhat of a name, I can tell you as an authority that this movie will purely disappoint if you're looking for a film that will realistically depict the Rave scene.  If you're looking for just another film that washes over the interesting parts of the story it's trying to tell by copping out with a boy-meets girl kinda thing, then this is for you.When you're dealing with a first time director who also wrote the screenplay, you know you're in trouble.  The script simply does not work.  There are few good lines, and the story is boring.  So much can be done through film when you're thinking about the rave and club scene, and film after film continues to disappoint.  I didn't like Go when I saw it, but at least it has a better story and better continuity (this was the most linear damn film I've ever seen).The editing was fine.  It was probably the film's only saving grace.  Don't get me wrong - what they did with their shoe-string budget was impressive.  But damn, man, don't bore me to tears and dumb down the scene for your would-be Hollywood audience!  Oh, and don't even get me started on the whole Digweed thing.  I'm willing to bet money that there was some sort of contract stipulation that required that scene in the end where the newbie DJ says to him, That last record you played changed my life and it's why I spin! to which Digweed responds, Oh, that's the new Bedrock single.  For those who don't know, Bedrock is Digweed's label.  Give me a break.Worst line of the film (paraphrasing) The party ain't over until the last record is spunI yelled out loud at that one.  Utter crap.  Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Whatever happened to good acting, engaging storylines, believable characters, believable depiction of events such as E use or delicate music induced state of epiphany...? This is the most hackneyed useless should be an episode (at best) of Dawson's Creek film I've ever seen.... why I'm wasting my time writing this, I don't know.... perhaps for the sublime music.... "},{"Title":"Good soundtrack; lousy movie","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I think that pretty much sums it up. Feeble acting, direction, and writing combine to make a dank and useless little stain of a movie. What else is there to say? Does Groove really deserve four lines of criticism? Hm... ah, the protagonist is perhaps the most annoying male lead I've seen. He made me want to become a lesbian. "},{"Title":"Hands Down the Worst movie EVER","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The terms best and worst are bandied about ironically so often that they are meaningless. I have never committed to the absolute  best or worst of anything until recently. After experiencing Brad Harrison's Groove, there is with out a doubt a champion.My interest in the film sparked from both the high praise at Sundance and my background in the early rave scene. The terribly amusing promotional shots of a raver holding a discoball while riding the subway didn't hurt, either. After finally seeing the thoughtful, entertaining Human Traffic, I was ready for an American rave film. What I got was a sloppy hour-and-a-half episode of Mtv's Undressed.Although the details of Groove are a bit hazy to me - I saw it a little over a year ago - this doesn't mean much as the details of Groove are hazy to those involved with its production. The script is sloppy, filled with one-dimensional cliches with disco-dancin' legs. We have the uptight nerd; the hot (yet clear-headed) chick; the wacky, offbeat druggies; the sleazy dealer; the oh-so-nice hippie, susceptible for a double-cross. I suspect that first-time writer/director Greg Harrison used The Big Book of Cliched Dialogue to write most of the characters' verbage. For example, as a camera slow closes in on the serious face of a lead character, he says, with true conviction, It's not over 'til the last record spins.Much like Human Traffic, the film never makes a definitive message about drug usage (which plays a large part in both films). But Justin Kerrigan's film closes allowing the viewer to draw his/her own conclusion. The only use narcotics play in Groove is to show that, yes, Harrison understands that drugs are used at raves. No overt stances is ever solidified about drugs. Technically, the film is deeply flawed as well. The actors sound as if they are monotonously reading lines. In many of the scenes, it is obvious that this supposed rave consists of about twenty extras in a warehouse. Despite this fact, I will give Harrison credit for shooting a film that LOOKS mid-priced. But why would you purchase a pretty car whose insides are damaged beyond repair?After spending $8 to see Groove - and bringing two friends, causing me to turn a deep shade of red out of embarrassment for my choice - I was in a rage. I immediately ran home to gather more information about the film. Why do people enjoy this? Why was it a hit at Sundance? It seems that people like Groove solely because it is about something they are a part of rave culture. I want to remind viewers that just because a cereal box champions your favourite sports player doesn't mean the contents are delicious. I read a review that stated, 'yes, the film is flawed, but we have so few movies about raves that it will do. Three stars!' This is a very unprofessional attitude. A truly discerning critic would rather eat no eggs at all than rotten ones.Recently, I argued with a friend that almost every film has its redeeming qualities. A good example, I told him, is Mac & Me, a mid-80s E.T. ripoff about a wheelchair-bound boy and a rubber alien puppet. It is so cluelessly flawed it's great! The kid can't act (only hired because of his disability?), the FX are cheaply done, and (for Christ's sake) SEARS is featured prominently. You have to love that. However, if one film has no redeeming qualities; if one film's only effect is of wasting time; if one film exists only to steal your soul, your creativity, and any drive or ambition you have ever had for life, it is Brad Harrison's Groove.(I have NEVER given this score to ANYthing in life) 1/10 "},{"Title":"what was the point?","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Saw this movie last night - admittedly i was tired but to my understanding this movie really did not offer much.Drama 1 / 10 - none to speak of - some minor issues with a couple announcing engagement after only 5 months of knowing each other. A gay couple who were always arguing about stuff. A guy who was a rave virgin and was worried about taking drugs.Comedy 2 / 10 - a little bit of comedy with the gay couple arguing with each other - but nothing much - a bit stereotypical - reminded me of the British family comedies of the 1970's about husbands and wives living together but sort of hating each other - nothing to write home about.Character Development very little - cannot really remember any of the characters - one of the characters (Leyla or Lyla or something) explained how she had been around Europe but only saw the inside of clubs and never really saw daylight - that struck me as just a tad sad - but hey ho - not really my scene anyway (this revelation was the only thing that stuck in my mind about her - and therefore the only character i half remember).I cannot see who this movie is for? The rave scenes seemed to small and compact to give a proper representation of club life (the atmosphere of 1000's of people all dancing in a warehouse with nice n loud music pumping constantly). There quite a bit of music played but you generally don't have this music to sit and listen too (or watch on your TV in a movie) - this music is for dancing to - it loses a vast quantity of it's appeal if you are sat in a sober quiet environment like your home. For non-party goers this movie does not really add much either - it does not really seem to offer any form of insight into the dance scene of the day and as i said earlier there is certainly no dramatical content to keep you occupied. Maybe people are watching this movie with the sound turned off while a real party is going off? Who knows.Acting - this seemed fairly good to me - each character was played reasonably well by the actors concerned - it certainly seemed more than just a bunch of ravers stuck in front of a camera. This is what raised the rating to a 4 for me.Anyway - if you like this culture then you may get something out of this (although i am not sure what though). If you don't it won't endear you to it or inspire you to hate it either - it will just leave you a tad bored. "}]