[{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies of the year, De Niro and Stiller make the perfect comedy pair. *** (out of four)","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"60 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEET THE PARENTS / (2000) *** (out of four)By Blake French	The main character in Meet The Parents is a Chicago-based male nurse, Greg Focker (pronounced just how it is spelled) who realizes how unlucky a person can be. He is about to propose to his schoolteacher girlfriend, Pam (Teri Polo), when her sister Debbie (Nicole Dehuff) calls and explains that her new fiancé, Dr. Bob Banks (Tom McCarthy), received a blessing from her father before he asked the question. This information makes Greg reconsider his method of choice, and instead jumps at the opportunity to meet Pam's overprotective parents when they fly to the east coast two weeks later to arrange Debbie's wedding. 	At the airport, the attendants loose Greg's parcels. Thus he arrives without any luggage. Once at Pam's parent's house, they exchange greetings and aquatint themselves with each other. Pam's parents, Jack and Dina Byrnes (Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner) learn about Greg's unusual last name, that he does not like cats, and is a male nurse, all facts that do not settle well with Pam's father. Greg does manage to gift Jack with a pleasant supply of rare flowers. However, even though Pam explained to Greg  that her dad is in the hobby of rare flowers, he does not seem too impressed.	Even More complications ensue, especially when Greg learns of Jack's peculiar behaviors and suspicious gadgets, such as a polygraph and hidden cameras placed in every room of the house, as well as meeting Pam's brother, Denny (Jon Abrahams), and Debbie's soon to be in laws, Larry (James Rebhorn), and Linda Banks (Phillis George), and Pam's wealthy ex-fiancée, Kevin Rawley (Owen Wilson). Soon, Greg's chances of receiving Jack's permission to wed his daughter become less and less probable as his bad luck only manages to increase. 	The film introduces Greg and Pam with silly quirks that come up later in the story. Pam's parents are also quite the treat; the movie does not go over the top but portrays them with serious humor and charismatic wit. It is De Niro and Stiller who make the movie, however. They form an very effective comedic chemistry, even more amusing than the likable shtick between De Niro and Billy Crystal in Analyze This. The filmmakers take advantage of the phenomenal tension between Greg and Jack, and place them in one hilarious situation after another. 	While outrageous and at times explosively funny, director Jay Roach takes the plot seriously. His previous films, including the Austin Powers films and Mystery, Alaska, have had trouble with taking anything seriously. But Meet The Parents has emotional connections, develops solid empathy for Greg, and we really believe he has something precious that can be lost Pam.	The movie does not completely develop romantic chemistry between Ben Stiller and Teri Polo, thus there were times when I simply did not believe the two were really in love. The relationship sometimes feels trite and contrived. There are also important plot nuggets left only partially examined Jack's pot-head son, who could have contributed a lot more to the drug related material, is left as a plot device to provide another string of conflicts within Jack and Greg. 	I really enjoyed the whimsical performances and opportune casting. Ben Stiller reprises his There's Something About Mary role, with cute charm and the obscured zany flippancy. Robert De Niro is perfect in a role he was born to play, with serious attitude that results in the main portion of the film's funny moments. Blythe Danner is also charming in a kind of role that is becoming all too usual for her.	Meet the Parents is one of the funniest movies of the year. It gives audiences with a solid story that does not interfere with the comic material, but contributes to it. The top notch performances and lively direction also raise the film to a higher level. During a year in which effective comedies are an endangered species, Meet The Parents is a landmark achievement in light entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) is a male nurse, poised to propose to the woman he loves, Pam (Teri Polo) but the right thing to do would be to ask her father's permission first. During a weekend of getting to know them, he manages to make a strong impression; for all the wrong reasons. Her father (Robert De Niro) isn't quite what Greg has been led to believe, and right from the start he seems to have it in for his daughter's partner.De Niro and Stiller play off each other brilliantly, and both of them give fine comic performances, with a surprising level of depth for comedy characters. This film is packed with slick gags, hilarious scenes and it has a really fun story; it's a comedy film that you don't want to miss.8/10 "},{"Title":"Very funny - but the real strength of the film is being able to relate to the characters","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"50 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Our story begins when a male nurse named Greg Focker (Stiller) is about to propose to his girlfriend, Pam (Teri Polo); unfortunately, things come to worst and before Greg can say, Will you marry me? he finds out that Pam's father, Jack (Robert De Niro) approved of Pam's sister's fiancé because he asked Jack's permission to marry her first. Taken aback, Greg decides to wait until tomorrow, whence they are going to meet Pam's parents, and ask Jack for approval before proposing to Pam. Should be a piece of cake, right? Wrong. Pam's mother (Blythe Danner) is very nice, but herein lies the problem Not only is it apparent from the start that Pam's plant-expert father is not really a plant-expert (as Greg learns after Jack doesn't seem to recognize a plant Greg gives to him--one of the rarest plants in the world), but it turns out Jack is really in the CIA and was a human lie detector, as Pam herself puts it. In fact, Jack even gives Greg a lie detector test in one scene to see if he liked the dinner earlier in the evening. Yes, Greg replies, to see the needle jumping. Well, it was a little rare for my tastes, maybe. Greg, desperately seeking approval (and nervous as ever), seems to unintentionally cause mayhem in his possible parents-to-be's home. Nerves shot like a drug addict, Greg is the definition of a nervous wreck, and all his problems seem to escalate more and more until a funny-if-sappy comedic showdown.You know how sometimes you are really nervous, but try to hide the fact? You seem to keep your cool, until you do something, then all your nervousness explodes and you start knocking over things, saying stupid things--single-handedly DOING stupid things that you just never do? And then you look around and everyone is looking at you like you are some sort of freak? Well, that's how it is with Greg's character in Meet the Parents--he is so easy to identify with. Just like all of us, we want to keep our cool and impress people--but once we lose it, the coolness seems to slip farther and farther away from our grip until we are klutzes on feet. For Greg's character, small things turn bigger and bigger and bigger--from knocking over the remains of Jack's mother (and having a cat go to the bathroom on the remains), to setting the house on fire and busting the septic tank. Situations seem to escalate farther and farther out of control and they just keep getting worse and worse.In one scene, Greg tries to impress everyone while playing volleyball in a pool. His team is losing because of him. Get up and hit the ball, Jack says to him. So the next time the ball comes around to Greg, he jumps up and smacks the ball with all his might, sending it flying towards...Pam's sister (whose wedding is the next day), shattering her nose. Greg lands back in the pool and seems to be happy, until he realizes he smacked his sister-in-law-to-be in the nose. Then everyone looks at him like he's an insensitive idiot.Things like that have happened to me countless times, and that is why I can so easily identify with Greg. People are yelling at Greg to do something, and when he finally does it, it backfires and everyone looks at him like he's stupid, even though he did exactly what he was told.That's the kind of thing that makes this movie so great--not only is it extremely funny, but we can easily identify with the main character countless times throughout the film. That is, perhaps, the best thing about this comedy. "},{"Title":"A modern comedy classic with emotional depth.","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"45 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With a hero called Gaylord M. Focker, you might expect this to be a film of snickering silliness.  It IS snickeringly silly - the soon-to-be-immortal champagne/urn scene; the cat-milking discussion; the skimpy swimming trunks; the volleyball bloodbath; the flushing cat; the wooden altar conflagration; the septic tank spray etc.; all good, healthy, daft, slapstick, prurient, scatalogical stuff.  And while I in no way condone Greg's vile rage directed at the air-stewardess, it is very funny.But, 'Meet the Parents' has the emotional truths that turn it from being merely a funny film into a comedy classic.  Anyone who has ever been married or about to will recognise the horrible accuracy of this film.  My own father-in-law is remarkably like Jack Byrnes here; not that he is an ex-CIA spycatcher (at least, I don't think so); but in his ability to intimidate, humiliate, terrorise, impose his power.My point is that Jack's profession is only a comic exaggeration of what all fathers- or mothers-in-law are like, figures terrified of losing their children, defending them like animals in the wild, convinced that a prospective so-and-so will never be good enough for our baby, not even thinking that neither might they have been; refusing to admit they are getting old, that they are losing power and control.It's only logical that the monster in-law from hell should be obsessive about power and control.  His domestic panopticon is a superb metaphor for extended family life, the idea of being judged, marked on 'success' or 'suitability' ratings, your every personal, financial, health etc. problem a matter for family investigation.  Bitter, moi?  Greg should be lucky Jack isn't married to Monica Geller's mom.But the film doesn't simplistically pit Capraesque good guy Greg against shady CIA man Jack.  If Jack is all about control, then so is Greg.  The film has one of the best musical openings in recent memory ('if you're gentle and sweet, you're an idiot...'), but the opening montage is more sinister, as a faceless cameraman takes home movies of a pretty blonde. Pam is the true victim of this film, the prize in a macho battle of wits, the female bystander in the great masculine generational conflict, as Jack proves he's not past it, and Greg proves he's not a loser.  Those voyeuristic home movies echo Jack's surveillance cameras and perform the same function, to watch, to control, to limit (just as Kevin remembers Pam by his photographs and his erotic memories).One is heartened by the ironies of the ending, not just Jack breaking his word, determined to keep up his power games as he watches his CCTV's filming the most private places, where people are at their most vulnerable and exposed (revealing, truthfully, that the in-law struggle never ends)The film also has some cutting things to say about the lingering anti-semitism in WASPish society; nothing much has changed since 'Auntie Mame'.It is wonderful to see Robert de Niro finally getting a decent comedy.  He has always been hilarious in 'straight' roles ('Mean Streets', 'Taxi Driver', 'Raging Bull' etc.), but his comic vehicles have spluttered to a halt.  He is genius here, his menace, his gestures, facial contortions, way of throwing out a line like he's garrotting it - bliss.  If 'Parents' finally lacks the pull of a film like 'There's Something About Mary', then it's probably the nature of the plot.  'Mary' had an active plot, it was a quest, necessitating narrative and character development, and thus more audience commitment.  'Parents' is purely destructive, as Jack tries to destroy a love that's already been built up.  Sadly, this scenario is much truer. "},{"Title":"Get Ready to Laugh!","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is one of the funniest films this decade and it is not a spoof. I was laughing so hard, soda came bursting out of my nose. Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller did such an amazing job. I was not bored of this movie at all. Gaylord Focker and his girlfriend, Pam are set to become engaged. But to do so, they must travel to Pam's parents. It turns out that Pam's father, Jack is a CIA agent and dislikes Gaylord a lot. Gaylord did many hilarious things which includes losing a rare cat. The ironic thing is that Pam's sister got engaged and will be married....when and if Gaylord can get his act together. The acting is wonderful. You usually don't see De Niro doing movies like this. He did absolutely amazing. Ben Stiller did just as good. If you want to see this movie, get ready to laugh. This movie is full of laughs! I rate this movie 10/10. "},{"Title":"Painfully funny","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most of the funny moments in 'Meet the Parents' involve painful scenes with Ben Stiller. He plays Greg Focker, a male nurse who loves Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). He wants to marry her with her father's permission. He hasn't met her parents yet. The movie shows us the weekend where Stiller meets the parents. Pam's father is Jack (Robert De Niro) and her mother is Dina (Blythe Danner). The more Greg tries to impress the parents, especially Jack who is a former CIA-agent, the more he humiliates himself. Not only with his actions, also with his words and stupid lies to look better.Stiller is perfect in this kind of role. We already saw that, especially in 'There's Something About Mary'. The more he gets in trouble, the more painful it gets, the better Stiller gets and the more we laugh. There is also a fine little part from Owen Wilson as Pam's former lover. Stiller and Wilson have made a lot of films together and for some reason their scenes always work, they at least make you smile. De Niro doesn't try very hard to be a strict person who doesn't give Greg a chance and therefore succeeds even better. The way he slowly gets harder and harder on Greg is good for a new laugh every time. 'Meet the Parents', directed by Jay Roach who also directed the 'Austin Powers' trilogy, is a fine comedy with a lot of sequences where you might feel a little uncomfortable. "},{"Title":"Worst. Movie. Ever.","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"33 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sorry, but I just don't see how anyone can find this movie funny. I put the spoiler warning on this comment since I am about to give away the biggest comedic device in the movie. As unbelievable as it sounds, the protagonist in the movie has a last name that rhymes with a naughty word. His last name is Focker! Why is this piece of information a spoiler? Because joke after joke after joke after joke is made on this simple premise. In fact, it's so hilarious that they felt the need to put it in the title of the next movie! In addition, the scenarios in this movie were so far fetched that instead of being able to enjoy it, I spent the entire time wondering why the writers were so lazy that instead of coming up with reasonable plot scenarios, they just passed off ridiculous decisions in order to force supposedly humorous scenes. Case and point - Ben Stiller's character loses his luggage while on the way to meet his fiancée's parents. The first morning he wakes up in his fiancée's family's house, he wants to change clothes but doesn't have any. His fiancée suggests that he borrow some of her brother's clothes. So far, this all seems reasonable. Stiller's character then asks her to go get some of these clothes. Instead, she tells him it would make more sense that even though he has yet to meet her brother, he should walk into his room unannounced and feel free to root through his bureau until he finds something he wants. Would any person in their right mind ever suggest such a thing? Needless to say, her brother then catches this man he doesn't know going through his underwear drawer. That's it! That's the big joke! And that is supposed to be funny! I could go on with numerous examples just as ridiculous as this that litter this movie, but I've wasted enough time. If I can convince just one person not to waste the 2 hours of his or her life on this abomination of a film, I will consider this exercise worth while.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a truly marvelous comedy","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny as well as touching, `Meet the Parents' blazes forth as one of the outstanding comedies of recent years.  Co-writers Greg Glienna and Mary Ruth Clarke, along with director Jay Roach, have managed to make a film that is often laugh-out-loud hilarious without ever becoming overbearing or obnoxious, the style of choice for far too many other comedies made in this day and age.  Although the film overflows with madcap situations and even outright slapstick at times, these comic elements are always tethered to the reality of the premise and to the emotional states of the characters involved.  The foundation for any great comedy must, first and foremost, be its ability to connect with its audience on a personal level.  `Meet the Parents' does so from the very start by tapping into the universal dilemma we all face at one time or another of desperately trying to make a good impression on someone we feel holds nothing less than the fate of our lives in their own two hands.  For some of us this person might come in the form a boss or a potential employer or, as in poor Greg Focker's case, those most dreaded figures of all &#150; the prospective in-laws.  The comedy arises from seeing the chain of ever more preposterous events and circumstances that come along to sabotage his efforts.  Greg is a goodhearted, well-meaning nebbish who wants nothing more out of life than to marry Pam, the girl he loves.  First, however, he must climb over the rather formidable barrier of her eccentric father, Jack Byrnes, played to perfection by Robert De Niro, who certainly has his own offbeat way of looking at the world.  The triumph of this film is that it never overdoes anything.  The people in Pam's family and in their coterie of friends are all twisted it's true, but twisted in sly, subtle ways that knock both Greg and us slightly off our balance.  Like Greg, we never quite know where these people are coming from and this greatly enhances the comedic quality of the film.  Tone is everything in comedy and here the tone is just right.  Byrnes can seem at one moment to be a reasonable loving father, then turn immediately around and make the most unbalanced comments about the most trivial matters.  Even when the movie is at its most outrageous in terms of plot complications and slapstick, it never veers off the scale into incredibility.  Part of the reason is that we feel so much empathy for Greg, the best Everyman character I have seen in a movie in a long time.  Ben Stiller gives a beautifully understated comic performance in the main role.  Greg's completely understandable feelings of nervousness, intimidation and growing frustration help to keep the film anchored in reality, even as the story threatens to spiral off into undisciplined absurdity.  Luckily, the filmmakers never let this happen.  They are also blessed with the genius of Mr. De Niro, who never makes a false move as the seemingly crazy ex-CIA agent who may or may not be harboring a few secrets of his own. Above all, De Niro never lets us bank on the extent of his character's eccentricity, which brilliantly enhances this `weekend from hell' scenario.   For crazy and maddening as he can be at times, we can't help loving this character.Finally, unlike in many other romantic dramas and comedies, the relationship between the young couple in this film is both believable and touching.  Greg and Pam are so likable - and the odds against them seem so staggering - that we find ourselves rooting them on from first moment to last.  Their moments together are genuinely touching at times, particularly in the film's closing stretches.Kudos go out to everyone involved for making `Meet the Parents' one of the slyest, wittiest and flat-out funniest movies to come our way in a long, long time.    "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Warning Spoilers aheadThis film was a real disappointment. It had a good premise and a good cast but, apart from one or two amusing set-pieces, mainly failed to deliver.The plot partly relied upon mistaken identity due to the main character having changed his name. His real name was Gaylord Foker (oh my aching ribs!). The name was unnecessarily vulgar bearing in mind that it's main task was to set up the confusion of identity scenario (and hey, I liked the dialogue in Goodfellas and Casino so its not a sensibility issue). The name was used at intervals throughout the film to get cheap laughs in a way that was more suited to the Carry on films. It wouldn't be worth mentioning, except that so many scenes in the film seemed to rely on it for laughs (even before his 1st name was revealed to be Gaylord).Although one or two of the set-pieces were funny, every single one of them was telegraphed way ahead. De Niro gets all emotional about his Mothers ashes - Greg breaks the urn, Greg floods the lawn with s**t - his girlfriends ex drives up in a truck and sprays them with it, the ex carves a beautiful altar for her sister's wedding -  Greg burns it down. And so on and so on - you get the picture? All we were missing was Greg leaving a rake for someone to step on and wack themselves in the eyeImagine a comedy that combines the intelligence and sophistication of Frasier or the Phil Silvers Show with the slapstick of the Marx Brothers - well you ain't imagining this film. Mixing slapstick/farce with a bit of sophistication is fine when done well (The Producers for example) but here the comedy never got sophisticated enough to provide a counterpoint to the -adequate- slapstick. The only low gag they missed was not having the Thai honeymoon destination being Phuket!This was a film that intermittently promised to develop into something good (De Niro's poem to his dead mother for instance), and the cast did their best with thin material. In the end though it couldn't build on it's few bright spots - it could have been much, much better with a bit more effort. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents is a must-see!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fresh from a lackluster summer full of sophomoric films, I was quite happy to have found myself in the theatre watching a sneak preview of the Universal/Dreamworks picture Meet the Parents.I remember the weekend that I first met my husband's parents. Joe and I were not even engaged yet. I spent the entire weekend stressed and worried that I'd offend them (they're Jewish and it was Passover weekend) or make an idiot of myself.I need not have worried. In the movie Meet the Parents, Ben Stiller's character, Greg Focker (yes, that *is* his last name) breaks all previously held records for making an ass of one's self and sets new, unattainable ones, albeit, through not much fault of his own.The premise of this movie is simple. Greg wants to marry his girlfriend Pam Byrnes (played by Teri Polo). However, he has yet to meet her family. Pam's sister Debbie is getting married and so Greg goes along, wanting to ask the father's permission since that is what Jack (Pam's father) would expect.Greg even packs a gorgeous two Carat ring in his carry-on. Unfortunately, his bag is deemed too big and it must be checked. You *know* at this point that they WILL lose his bag. What you don't know is all the ensuing comedy that will stem from this one incident.The humor in this film reminds me of the TV show Seinfeld. It all connects. Jerry loses luggage. However, in this luggage is something that Kramer put in there that will cause...yada yada yada....which has a domino effect and POW! The audience is loving it.As was the audience that saw this sneak preview. There were many times when the movie could not be heard because people were *still* laughing over the last hilarious scene. They didn't give you time to catch your breath. People were laughing like I haven't heard people laugh in a theatre in a long, long time. Big, gigantic, full body laughs. I know, because I was one of them.Greg and Pam, sans Greg's luggage (which was lost) arrive and Meet the Parents. Robert De Niro plays Jack Byrnes, Pam's ex CIA interrogator father who Greg thinks is a retired rare flower dealer. Pam's mother is played with the appropriate level of ditzy dryness by Blythe Danner.Pam hurriedly tells Greg to get rid of his cigarettes because her father thinks smoking is a sign of weakness. The cigarettes are thrown to the roof. Don't forget about those, because later, they'll be the falling domino for future scenes that you will LOVE. Our audience was losing it.The supporting characters here are well cast. Owen Wilson has a great turn as Pam's ex, Kevin. Kevin is *everything* that Greg is not, and Pam's dad doesn't hesitate to remind everyone of that fact non-stop. I haven't laughed this much in a too long of a time. I would recommend this film without hesitation. It's smart and funny and just plain FUN. And make sure you pay attention to the last scene. It had me giggling *all* the way home. "}{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this was an excellent comedy...from start to finish.  Any man or women who has had rough in-laws, or soon-to-be in-laws can probably relate to Greg's plight.....and to comments of 9/11...I suppose MASH shouldn't have been made (wars are NOT funny) and Cheers was disgusting with all the alcoholics we have roaming this planet .... sheesh.....lighten up!!!  "},{"Title":"Parental Discretion","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Movies are seldom about life, but life is often about movies. Most cultural dynamics are fueled by stereotypes and those stereotypes are manufactured for us in increasing measure by film. There's a feedback loop where filmmakers chase formula and that formula follows from previous films and the stuff of this formula in most entertainment is stereotypes.This film is pure drek. The slide of DeNiro from great actor isn't even interesting anymore. What IS interesting, at least to me, is how Stiller is reviving a certain stereotype -- the warmhearted, weak Jew the oddball anti-intellectual. When Chaplin played the tramp, it was a class thing. When Jackson plays a literate killer, its a race thing. The portrayal of Jews at this level is both it seems unhealthy to me, and somewhat cowardly, much lower than the septic tank jokes.Instead of the Jew-doctor, Stiller plays a nurse who is belittled by `real' doctors. Instead of the banker powerbroker, we have Stiller easily ridden by the CIA guy (incidentally a John Bircher to judge from his bedtime reading*). His predecessor and still competitor is a Jesus-freak. He is bested by a cat. His name is derided. Shrewdness (that mainstay) is replaced by spinelessness and incompetence. His bumbling destroys an altar.But he still aces his grad school test, and once away from the WASPs becomes aggressive, so there is some hint that underneath is a `regular' Jew. These films have lots of managers, so surely this is engineered. I can imagine the pitch, knowing they have Stiller who can play this kind of part.Think about it. Not funny is it?(* For those who don't know, the book DeNiro is reading is perhaps the most influential screed on `global Jewish conspiracies' in the postwar US. Such stuff as Eisenhower was secretly a commie Jew who gave half of Europe to Stalin.)((PS This comment was written in the same suspicious-of-everything stance.)) "},{"Title":"Oh dear lord....","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At first glance, Meet the Parents is a funny comedy....  Worth the six or seven bucks.  But, upon further reflection and intensive reviewing, this movie is a comedic classic.How about the prayer scene?  Brilliant.10 stars.  The next generations Caddyshack "},{"Title":"darqness hits it on the head","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" with his review. I don't know if it's a good or a bad thing that I wanted to tell these people to go fock themselves. I guess it's partly because I grew up being picked on. But, as he states, the characters, except for Dina - the classic 1950's mom - and Greg, are mean. Not just mean, vicious. And, I couldn't understand what he saw in Pam. As others have noted, she seems to be rooting for him to fail. Only at the end did she stand up for him (sort of). Indeed, she still seems to have feelings for Kevin (especially now that he's loaded).But Greg is no prize, either, and a rather slimy prize too boot. When he blows up, though understandable, his tantrums come out of nowhere, and when we're supposed to get an idea as to his inner feelings, Ben I'm No Bobby DeNiro Stiller gives us blank looks instead. Just as I couldn't understand what Greg saw in Pam, I was just as baffled as to what she saw in him. "},{"Title":"No pressure.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gaylord 'Greg' Focker(Ben STiller), needs to meet the parents of his girlfriend (and future fiancé)Pam Byrnes(Teri Polo).The biggest problem is Pam's father, Jack Byrnes (Robert De Niro), a complicated,neurotic,jealous and suspicious man, who doesn't help being nice to his future son in law. In 'Meet the Parents' the jokes and the cast are sooo great! I can't even imagine Jim Carrey as Gaylord Focker, or Christopher Walken as Jack Byrnes.(these two were the director's first choice) I think this film is a great choice for everybody who likes good comedies,specially with Ben Stiller.ps Who else liked Jinx,the cat? =) "},{"Title":"If you've seen the preview, don't bother with the movie.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My girlfriend and I saw Meet the Parents and both thought it was terrible. My sister saw it and walked out 10 minutes in, which is maybe a little extreme.If you've seen the preview you've already seen every joke in the movie. So basically they've managed to cram 30 seconds worth of humor into a 90 minute movie.Somehow even the jokes from the preview fell flat in the theater.  "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is an uneven mess.  It is funny for about 10-15 minutes at the beginning, and for maybe 45 seconds (possibly two minutes) at the end.  The rest of the film is a horrible monstrosity.After the initial, fifteen minutes (I'll be generous), the film suddenly falls in love with its gross-out comedy.  It began as a kinda strange, funny film about characters.  There's unspoken tension between Stiller and DeNiro, and it was very funny.  Then the film becomes a slapstick gross out mess of a film, and the jokes were seen miles away.  The tragedy is that even when they're being set up we already know they will not be funny, so when they are finally delivered, we completely hate them.At around the midpoint, you find the film too absurd to be taken seriously, and from there it only gets worse.  The characters are so uneven and poorly written that you don't even really care what they say or do. Things get more and more absurd and less and less funny as the film goes on and on (and on and on). Clueless Director Jay Roach clearly had a vision for this film, but it's a shame his crew didn't share the same vision.  It's obvious that no one knew what the hell they were doing in this atrocity besides the director.  And it's the irony of ironies that this happens to be one of the worst American directors working today.This film is much, much worse than those Austin Powers films Roach directed, and I think that's saying quite a lot. In fact-Wait, wait, what the hell am I doing writing this review?  Why am I still typing?  This film is awful-stay away!  It doesn't even deserve my time in writing a decent review.  If they didn't put that much effort into their film, why should I put that much effort into this? "},{"Title":"Meet the new generation of unfunny movie.","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film was a very lame attempt at been humorous. The jokes were poor, overcooked and could be seen at least two lines before hand. I didn't have a decent laugh during the whole movie and was sorry I wasted my time viewing it until the end. The worst thing about this type of baloney is that a new genre of film seems to have been invented by some studios i.e. unfunny funny film whose only reason for existence is to lull the viewing audience into some sort of trite twilight zone, letting them think that they go home in a jovial and entertained mood where the exact opposite is the case as the discerning viewer goes home unfulfilled, cheated and slightly disgruntled. Unfortunately, we have been exposed to a plethora of these films for too long as more and more of this type of banal movie is served up appealing to increasingly demoralized audiences as certain movie makers lose sight of the hilarious belly busters of yesteryear with their razor sharp script writers, ludicrous plots and acting beyond belief. They have become nothing more that cash cows for some actors to make a few extra dollars to keep them in the lifestyle that they have been accustomed to and are disingenuous to both, us their audience, and true comedians alike. "},{"Title":"A comedy with Stiller at his most awkwardly best","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rating-7/10 Meet the Parents is a comedy and almost kind of romance movie that boats a stellar cast and some funny lines. The humour here is spread out well and the laughs don't just all come in one scene or the other, it makes you laugh at the end and the beginning too. I think the majority of the laughs are more physical than what they say, but what I will add is that when Greg(Ben Stiller) says certain lines, they come off brilliantly. I felt it was just about good and here below is why.The cast here seem excellent and Ben Stiller as I mentioned is cast well in the lead role as Greg, his physical humour matches up to his line delivery and both combine very well. Robert De Niro as the father in law Jack is great as well, he somehow seems to mix serious but still feel funny and all credit to him on this one. Teri Polo as Pam, Greg's finance, is well cast and so even is Blythe Danner including people like Owen Wilson too to create a first rate bunch of characters. It's written well, now what I will say is that the script doesn't quite produce as memorable scenes as some of the more physical jokes do but there still funny anyway. John Hamburg and Jim Herzfeld do a good job as I say writing this and both seem to combine past experiences well, with Hamburg who worked with Stiller on Zoolander yet again bringing out the laughs and the type of humour we have come to expect.I think the director Jay Roach is probably the best thing in a way about this, yes you may say how is it not Stiller, but Roach is the master here when it comes to the most memorable parts, and a lot of the laughs. Roach seems to be able to not only get good delivery, but make things very awkward, and part of you even feels awkward watching it at times. Now Meet the Parents isn't the funniest film you will ever see, if it is then there is much else out you need to see, but it does stand tall when it comes to comedy, and laughs can be had a plenty everywhere. I think although it is a typical comedy type plot, the jokes and the cast involved+ some memorable scenes create a movie that is new when it comes to jokes and even maybe creates a new type of Rom-Com.On the jokes side again, pretty much any scene where it goes wrong for Greg is funny, whether he is hurt, hurts somebody or basically does something to destroy something, It makes not only Stiller's reactions funnier, but also how the cast react, just hilarious on that side of things. I also think how De Niro goes from actually kind of nice to angry in a matter of seconds is perfect, top class acting from the great.So overall I think this is a good movie, just scraping into being good but still a good one. I think the reason it isn't great is that it isn't smart ENOUGH, it is smart but there could have been some better jokes or maybe even this type of plot just only works to a certain point. Nevertheless I can't recommend this more, whether you like Ben Stiller, Robert De Niro or any of the cast involved, your sure to have a great time and laugh a lot along the way. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. Pretty much all aspects of it were awesome! It is a good family movie for families with kids ages 9 and up, that's my recommendation! This is an excellent movie that everyone should see. It has everything--romance, COMEDY, action, and lots of other stuff. SEE IT! "}{"Title":"VERY FUNNY! Ben Stiller is hilarious!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I went and saw Meet the Parents in the theater with some friends and  were all laughing our heads off! I've seen lots of funny movies, There's Something About Mary, Scary Movie,etc., but this is a very funny one. Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro are completely hilarious! This is a must-see smash hit! I love this movie! With There Something About Mary humor, this movie is a smash hit! I give it an A+!!!!  "},{"Title":"Neither brilliant nor timeless, but still really funny and an endless series of mishaps","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents (2000)A clash of family cultures. Ben Stiller plays a really nice guy, really normal nice guy who is about to meet the family of his fiancée (played by Teri Polo). And this family is plain old weird, especially with Robert Deniro playing an ex-CIA dad with a lot of house rules.You might not have heard of the Fockers movies (Meet he Fockers) but this is the first of them, and the best (even though it's fun to seen Dustin Hoffman show up in the second one). Already this is star-studded. Next to Deniro is Blythe Danner as the mom, and eventually Owen Wilson shows up.What do you get? A romantic comedy which ends up being a series of set up gags and one-liners. It's funny, maybe even hilarious if you're in the mood. And it is what it is, pure silly entertainment. It worked for me only so far. I think I was at first surprised at how subtle Stiller's acting was. But eventually it becomes one absurdity after another.Which is the nature of these kinds of comedies. If you like the cast, go for it! "},{"Title":"Epic failure of 'Funny because it's true' technique","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not quite sure who would find this film funny. DeNiro plays such a detestable jerk that I would really like to have seen Stiller knock his block off. But the worst of all is the girlfriend who prances blissfully unaware of her idiot father and her own inconsiderate sexual innuendos about her old boyfriend, Wilson. The moment my fiancée tells me about her mostly physical sexual relationship with an old flame - Mr. Perfect - who ridiculously ends up marrying them in the end, is the moment she's out the door.The whole movie is an illustration of how society has emasculated men - this is a tragedy, not a comedy. So I guess the only one's laughing are women. If you want to be depressed and watch a spineless lead character do absolutely everything wrong while he's being bullied by the rest of the cast, then go ahead and watch this thing; otherwise, steer clear. "},{"Title":"Spectacularly unfunny","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Stiller meets his girlfriend's parents, including former spook De Niro.  To describe the humor as broad would be an understatement, but regardless of description it's not very funny.  Question - when Hollywood identifies characters as Christians why do they always make them out to be nasty dopes?  Answer - I don't know, and I don't know why this movie is so bad either.  5/10 "},{"Title":"I Never Laughed so hard in my life","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet The Parents is a movie that must be seen with a group of friends to get the most mileage out of it. Anything that can go wrong goes wrong when Greg Fokker (Ben Stiller) meets his father in law (Robert De Niro). I thought it was really sweet the way Greg tried proposing to his fiance with the group of school children holding up signs Will you Marry Me? and it was really funny when the kids had trouble spelling it. Every time (Robert De Niro) calls greg by his last name Fokker it brought me to a whole new round of tears and laughter. This movie has something for everybody and it's about time a movie came out poking fun of things that all of must go through - to MEET THE PARENTS! If you have'nt seen it go run out and get it - you'll love it!!!  "},{"Title":"One of those rare comedies that has everything!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first heard about this film, I had my doubts Robert De Niro could do comedy. His previous work has never really embraced the art of slapstick. But I'm happy to say he pulled this particular role off in spades. Meet the Parents and Midnight Run are among his finest comedies because of the way they skillfully avoid conventional clichés. It begins with male nurse Greg Focker (Ben Stiller, and yes, Focker is his actual name) wanting to propose to his girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). But just as he's about to pop the question, he learns her sister Debbie is about to get married. But her fiancé asked her father's permission first, so Greg decides to do the same before he marries Pam.He uses Debbie's wedding as an opportunity to meet Pam's parents, where he can ask for permission. So far, so good. But things quickly take a downward spiral for Greg. Pam's father Jack Byrnes (Robert De Niro) takes an instant dislike to Greg, (being a male nurse doesn't help matters) and in his eyes, Greg can't do a thing right.Much to Greg's consternation, Jack was in the CIA for 34 years. Jack is an expert at spotting lies, and Greg's eagerness to please leads him to tell harmless white lies that balloon into an elaborate web of lies. They become so elaborate (Greg is a dab-hand at cat-milking) even Greg can't keep up with them. Because of this, every attempt he makes to please Jack backfires in a spectacular fashion.From losing the cat, Mr Jinks (who Jack is crazy about), to burning down the wedding altar, Greg is a potential accident waiting to happen. The reason I like Meet the Parents is because it's one of those rare comedies that has everything. Ben Stiller does an excellent job trying to appear like a suitable husband to be, and making a complete mess of things (the dinner table scene is a definite highlight). Not to mention how hilarious it is watching Greg back himself into corners and then trying to squirm his way out of them.Robert De Niro is also excellent, using his trademark sinister characteristics to great effect when judging Greg. They both have a terrific chemistry, and every gag in the film is tailor-made for their talents. A lot of people can relate to Greg in this film, because of meeting prospective parents to be and how to relate to them properly. A lot of their heart to hearts are hilarious, especially the way they degenerate into nightmarish situations for GregRight now look Focker. I'm a patient man. That's what 19 months in a Vietnamese prison camp will do to you. Now I will be watching you. Studying your every move. And if I find that you are trying to corrupt my first-born child, I will bring you down baby! I will bring you down to Chinatown!Mrs Byrnes is good too (Blythe Danner), who's brilliantly quirky and all the more likable for it. She's the only member of the family that likes Greg, while the others unfairly crucify him every chance they get. Although at times, it's understandable why they do.Owen Wilson puts in an excellent performance as Pam's oh-so-perfect ex-boyfriend Kevin. He stands out very well among the whole family, while some of the others fade into the background. That may be the only complaint I have. With so many family members present they're not given enough to do.Without giving too much away, the film has an ending that is very satisfying. Greg going insane at an air-hostess is one of the funniest things I've ever seen in a film, as is Greg getting a few things off his chest about being Jack's son-in-law.Overall, the jokes range from small to enormous. Some are packed away into the background for you to find. Like a rare flower Greg buys to impress Jack. To the casual observer its a flower pot filled with soil. Because the flower hasn't bloomed yet. In a later scene, the pot is put with the other flowers, where it looks really out of place. Its jokes like these that impress the most for the way the filmmakers don't draw attention to them. Subtle puns that only further illustrate how far apart Greg stands from the Byrnes clan. Which is why you feel such sympathy for Greg while you're laughing at his misfortunes. A rare thing.A magnificent film, and the best comedy I've seen since Groundhog Day. Because of it's simple theme and a stellar cast, Meet the Parents becomes something quite special. It avoids all of the obvious pitfalls, it never becomes tedious, and there's quite a bit of subtlety to the slapstick as the embarrassing humiliations escalate steadily.I can't wait for the sequel! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I noticed that some people have said that the gags in this movie are unfunny and predictable... they complained about not very many laugh-out-loud gags. I completely disagree.This movie is one of the smartest comedies of the last few years. It does not rely on gross-out gags (like Something About Mary, etc...) and still manages to be hilarious. All of the humor is contained in the intelligence of the writing and the tenseness of the situations in the movie. Yes, you feel very sorry for Greg, but it feels OK in this movie to laugh at his expense.When I initially saw the previews for this movie a few years ago I had no desire to see it, as it seemed like it would be just like any other generic comedy. I only ended up seeing it because I had nothing better to do some random Friday night. I was very pleasantly surprised!This movie is not at all a generic comedy. The gags are brilliantly crafted and completely original. I think that people who think this movie is generic do not appreciate intelligent, non-bathroom humor. The praying scene and Jack's poem at the dinner table are brilliant. Also Greg's run-in with the flight attendant is great.Maybe the thing that really did it for me in this movie is that, despite their weirdness, Pam's family is completely believable and real. I actually know people like that. There is a whole culture of upper-class people who really do behave like the Byrnes family in this movie. I thought it was hilarious that the movie was making fun of that culture (I am also reminded of the groom's family in My Big Fat Greek Wedding). That part really struck home with me and made the movie even more funny.Great movie! Not generic at all! Very original and laugh-out-loud funny. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever.","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK before i talk about this i have to say that there will be two spoilers and those two spoilers are the only two 'jokes' in this thing we call a movie. How anybody can find this torturous thing entertaining or humorous in any way shape or form baffles me.The first o so funny joke the seemingly 10 year old writers throw at us is our main characters name being GAYLORD FOCKER. I would nearly consider forgiving the movie this joke if it was never brought up again and the movie went on to even being a pretty good family comedy but sadly no. What is funny about it?, because it sounds like a curse word maybe....No still not laughing. If you have not watched this movie yet and you wonder whats the big deal about one stupid little joke well the answer is that they use it about 20 times during this 90 minute horror. It was not funny the first time, it most certainly wasn't funny the second time and guess what it isn't funny the 20th time either.Amazingly though that is not what wreaks the movie no that would be our second joke. When i say joke this time it is actually more of an scenario rather than a run of the mill scene, this is of course awkwardness (if that makes any sense). The situations that our main character gets himself into are always the same awkward situations time and time again. Of course meeting your girlfriends or wife's mother and father will feel weird at first but for god sake. There isn't one shot in this movie that doesn't involve our main character(stiller) making a complete fool of himself, it gets to the point where its almost hard to watch the rest of the movie. This makes the movie uncomfortable and boring and also makes you hate stiller or should i say Gaylord.Having the audience hate the main character in a comedy is unforgivable. The casting is pretty standard having Stiller (who is very hit and miss in a lot of his films) as our main guy with Robert De Niro who continues to destroy his once gracious career as the spiteful father. Teri Polo plays Stillers girlfriend but she seems to have forgot that people are meant to have personalities and a little acting ability. As for the rest well none really stand out except for the always unfunny Owen Wilson as the successful ex-boyfriend.Its not as if this is completely meant for kids either because there are some jokes that kids wouldn't understand this begs the question do the film makers actually think that adults will find this garbage amusing. I would almost go as far as calling the movie insulting as it is obviously meant for fools which you are if you find this good to watch. "},{"Title":"Not really suitable for grown-ups","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Perhaps this film gets better towards the end. I wouldn't know; I walked out after about forty minutes.The central premises of the film are that only a monster wouldn't find the Ben Stiller character lovable; and that the Robert de Niro character is a monster. It didn't work for me; Stiller was silly and tedious - the sort of guy any responsible father would want to keep out of the family - and de Niro was much less overbearing and unpleasant than he might have been. Perhaps he should have been played by a slimy Limey? That could have made for much more interesting (but less contrived) plot and characterisation, without necessarily changing the nature of the film. "},{"Title":"The worst movie since Moving ...","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What more can I say than this is the worst movie I have ever seen! How could this many things go wrong, with a girlfriend who is so oblivious to her father's real motives and a family that is so psycho, and this drippy character doesn't even consider leaving! Horrible! I'm so glad I only rented this movie, but then again I don't get the satisfaction of walking out of the theatre. "}{"Title":"Not one actor has a sense of comedy.  Miss this movie!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best thing about this movie is that it ended!  Don't see this movie! It is not a comedy; it is a tragedy Not one of the main characters has a sense of comedy.  In addition, the jokes are contrived and the dialogue is embarrassingly poor.Robert De Niro is not a comedian.  He plays violent parts, e.g., Goodfellas, Godfather, Cape Fear, etc.  If De Niro's next meal depended on making people laugh he would die of starvation.  So why was he cast in a main role?  The answer is simple De Niro is one of the producers!  (Always look for the role that 'filthy lucre plays in a movie.)Ben Stiller has ambitions to be a comedian.  Sorry, Ben, your talent lies elsewhere.  This movie is a continuation of another mediocre performance that Stiller gave in the comedy Keeping the Faith.  Ben, try drama; comedies are not for you.The only bright moment in the whole movie was the actress Kali Rocha who appeared as a flight attendant for a few minutes towards the end of the movie.  I hope she gets another opportunity to act in a comedy.  She seems to have that special gift of comic timing but her role was too short to tell for sure. Certainly no other actor in Meet the Parents had any sense of comic timing. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Creud,lewd and just plain unfunny. These are just three of the words I'd use to describe this film.To call it family entertainment is laughable - in fact it's probably the only laugh you'll get. Stiller and co can do better than this and yet seem quite happy to be dragged into this horrible film and its two sequels.The only people who would find this funny are immature teenagers with nothing better to do. Every joke is signposted and even then are boring.If this is what passes for entertainment then I despair. It is a very poor film. "},{"Title":"Hard to warm up to it.....","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frankly, I did not find the film to be very funny or entertaining. It seems that the measure of a film now-a-days is not how much it entertains, but how well it does at the box office. Some pretty lousy films have done well with ticket sales, while some other films have had something to say, but have fallen short of the dollar mark. This was an OK film, but not one that I would call a must see movie. And then, for it to spawn a sequel is beyond all belief. I tried to give the movie a fair watching--after all, I assumed that with De Niro on the screen there would be much there to watch--but I kept finding myself mouthing off the words of the kids in the back seat of the van ... are we there yet?? De Niro has a broad spectrum, a big range for his acting talents. But he is an extraordinary actor who, it seems, falls flat on his face when he is not cast as an extraordinary character. It was awfully big of him to take the role of the father, but it felt more like casting Humphrey Bogart as an extra. And as for Ben Stiller...he still has a ways to go to establish a screen persona. His character was somewhat nebulous...though he did well at defining how vulnerable the character was. Comparing Stiller to De Niro, or even to his father, Jerry, is something of an unfair comparison, but he has yet to come up with that defining character or characteristic. The situations are stretched somewhat out of proportion, and Jay Roach's direction works far better with Mike Myers, where reckless abandon of plot and characters are the rule and not the exception. Based on what I saw in this film, I am in no hurry to see The Fockers. I only recommend this film if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Meet The Parents Or Not?","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Meet the Parents' is a comedy that's funny enough for an evening watch. The central characters Pam and Greg are very likable but the Pam's family are portrayed to be slightly a bit of a caricature. I find it a bit far-fetched that everyone hates Greg. Even Pam's mother reacts with indifference. I mean she does 'object' but it's as if she could care less. But then again, 'Meet the Parents' is about the tension between Greg and Jack and both De Niro and Stiller do well with their comic abilities. Even though De Niro's character is less likable, it is nice to see him in a comedic role for a change. Stiller is his usual goofy on screen persona (a part he's best at doing). However, due to the director's focus on this, the romantic angle between Polo's Pam and Stiller's Greg isn't well developed, but Teri Polo does a good job. Blythe Danner is adequate (though I don't know whether it was the director's intention to present her as being indifferent towards Jack's cruelty). The toilet and sex humour could have been toned down as it is the overload use that brings the entertainment factor down for me. Also the story follows the old formula of a guy trying to impress his girlfriend's parents, therefore the freshness is lacking. Even so, there are a lot of loose ends such as what happens to Jack's son and his pot. But, in spite of the flaws there are a few genuine funny moments and I liked the 'race' scene towards the end, Greg's problems with the flight attendant, and Greg's attempt to propose to Pam at the beginning of the movie. Roach's direction isn't of the remarkable sort and 'Meet the Parents' mostly works to an extent because of the actors. This could have been more of a fun ride had it not been too over-the-top but it's hell of a lot better than the sequel. There are a lot more other comedies I can recommend over this, but 'Meet the Parents' isn't so bad that you won't want to give it a chance either. "},{"Title":"Annoying Characters - Quit watching after 30 minutes","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The characters were stereotypical enough that we were annoyed and quit watching the film.  How can we empathize with characters that are stereotypes of people we wouldn't associate with in real life?  Who cares what happens to them?Jey I like DeNiro and he did a good job in this one as Dad, but it was the type of person I'd make a point of avoiding.Also, the movie made attempts at being funny, but they were not original and the movie tended toward the negative side of situations.  This made it real dull and a waste of time.We gave it a 1. "},{"Title":"Yuk Yuk","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pretty stupid and unbelievable cinema.  Deniro lowered his personal rating on this one.  Did he need the cash this bad?  Slapstickish comedy scenes - about the painted, lost cat and the burning sculpture just too contrived...and cliched.Watching Gomer Pyle is funnier. "},{"Title":"Stiller and DeNiro make good foils for one another in 'Meet the Parents'","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents (2000) Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, Blythe Danner, Teri Polo, Nicole DeHuff, Jon Abrahams, James Rebhorn, Phyllis George, Owen Wilson, D Jay Roach. A hapless male nurse spends a weekend with her girlfriend's parents during her sister's wedding, hoping to ask her uptight father, an ex-CIA agent, for her hand in marriage . . . but he's intimidated by her dad along with being caught in many errors to ruin his chances. There's rarely a humorless moment in this entertaining comedy, where the situation leaves for plenty of funny moments and maintains a satisfying comedic momentum. With great chemistry, Stiller works well as a comic foil to De Niro, who plays it straight but still gives off a hilarious comedy performance without being too serious. Followed by a sequel. 107 min., rated PG-13. *** "},{"Title":"incredibly funny!!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my god, this movie was hilarious!!  I love Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro! This was just incredibly witty! Do they teach you THAT in the CIA?  My god this movie had me laughing my @ss off!!! The only way that I would ever let go of my bag would be if you came over here right now and tried to pry it from my dead, lifeless fingers, okay? If you can get it from my kung-fu grip, then you can come and have it, okay? Otherwise, step off, b*tch.  The whole scene on the airplane was just wonderful!! What's wrong with saying bomb on an airplane?!?  you can't say bomb on an airplane!  bomb bomb-bomb-bomb-bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb!!  Are you gonna arrest me?? I'm sorry I love the quotes in this movie!  If you have inlaws, you HAVE to watch this movie.  If you don't have inlaws, you have to watch this movie.  If you have absolutely no family what so ever and if you live in a cardboard box on the side of the road...you have to watch this movie.  I'm serious.  Go rent it right now.  Right now!  Stop reading this and go rent it.  VHS or DVD I don't care.  Just go rent it!are you going?  "},{"Title":"Cruel and Unkind","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The very first thing that irritated me about this film was the appalling gag used throughout the film. The man is named Greg (Gaylord) Focker. Although his surname sounds vaguely like a swearword, this is a very thin gag which is the basis of huge chunks of the film. This is the first cruel part of this film.The film is focused towards victimising the main character. Instead of making gags about the mistakes he makes inadvertently, he is forced to make these mistakes. It is so rigid. It seems that all acting and storylines are suspended until the next mistake happens and then the next five minutes is verbal abuse at what best can be described as accidents.It seems that the entire family, including his girlfriend are hoping and praying for him to make a mistake so that they can get rid of him. He tries to impress and help the family. They make no attempt to apologise when they are at fault.Many other reviews focus on the fact that you can identify with the main character, this enables you to laugh at this film. This is the entire problem with this film. The fact that you can identify with the character makes this film even harder to watch. If Ben Stiller hadn't done such a great job at portraying this character then maybe I could stand to laugh. His performance was too good. I put myself in his shoes once too often during this film and was disgusted with the way he is treated.The character is too nice to laugh at. He is true to himself. (His job choice) He cares about other's beliefs. (Asking her father for permission) He is desperate to please and earn the respect and acceptance of his 'new' family.The rest of the cast is exposed to be cruel and nasty at various points in the film. How can people dare to laugh at the nicest and most honest character in this film.Ben Stiller     - 8/10 (For his portrayal)Everything else - 0/10 "},{"Title":"I can't believe that DeNiro was actually in this turkey!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Basically a bad ripoff of another bad film (There's Something About Mary).  It should be retitled There's Something About The Father of the Bride.  Every joke is telegraphed and every scene is just as contrived as can be.  Stiller's performance as the unlucky suitor is ok but we've seen it before and it's getting old.  Unless you're a Police Academy fan or REALLY liked that Mary movie, avoid this one at all costs. "}{"Title":"The most over-rated movie of the decade","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be absolutely one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The jokes were obnoxious and overdone, and the editors  should have left the first two hours on the cutting room floor.  The last bit is verges on being almost entertaining but you have to wade through the rest of the movie to get there.  Definitely a must skip movie. "},{"Title":"I want my money back","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is perhaps the worst film I have seen in ten years.  It simply was not funny...the gags were predictable (His name was Focker...her middle name Martha...they marry and what's her full name???)  Awful.  Not even DeNiro can save this one.  The theater wasn't 1/3 full, and only a little red haired lady in the back would laugh now and then...I walked out it was so bad, and really would like my money back. "},{"Title":"Oh Robert, What has become of you?!?!?!?!?","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet The Parents is a comedy.Now, keep telling yourself this while you sit through the film, otherwise it can become very easy to forget that you're supposed to be laughing and not slipping in and out of consciousness.The plot could be written on the back of a postage stamp (as could the details of every successful joke), the acting quite frankly ain't upto much and the script could have been written by an 8 year old.The only positive comment I could possibly make about this film is that it was quite short.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Boring and just plain bad.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I was forced to watch this movie I had already guessed the story. Some of the gags were amusing but they just had Ben Stiller, aka Gaylord 'Greg' Focker, messing up EVERY single thing. It made the movie very tired.This movie could've been much better (but not less predictable) if they'd had half as many gags but made them more likely and deeper.Not one of Robert De Niro's better moments. Shame really.  "},{"Title":"Love it! Can watch it over and over again.","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Haha this is one of those comedies that you will always remember. Full of classic lines that my wife and I constantly use on daily bases, like if it has teat then you can milk it, puff the magical dragon, the circle of trust and so on... Meet The Parents is full of those phrases that makes me laugh every time I think about it. And that's what defines a good comedy to me. If I watch a comedy I want to laugh and with this one it's what you get. Some people might not like it but then to me they just don't have a sense of humor and that's just a pity for them. You have to like Ben Stiller though because it's basically him that is the great comedian of the movie. If you don't like him you probably not going to like the movie either. Like I don't like the movies with Adam Sandler. I think that guy is not funny and so his comedies are painful to watch for me. In Meet The Parents the whole story is basically about the relation between Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro. Robert De Niro that plays his role brilliantly as well by the way. The other actors are good as well but it's not them that carry the movie. To me it's already a classic movie when I think about the best comedies I ever saw. "},{"Title":"More Like Meet the Father.","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents (2000) Dir Jay Roach / Cast Ben Stiller, Robert De Niro, Teri Polo, Blythe Danner, Owen Wilson Comedy about every man's fear as his dating life grinds to a halt. It is about making the right impression but one of the film's problems is that it doesn't really address both parents. It regards Ben Stiller meeting Robert De Niro. Stiller plays a male nurse who proposes to Teri Polo who plays a kindergarten teacher. They plan to spend the weekend at her parents house, which is surveillance. Simple yet inviting setup predicable with numerous tasteless jokes. Interesting conclusion between De Niro and Stiller where an interesting truce is met. Directed by Jay Roach who is famous for the Austen Powers films, the original being superior to this one but obviously not the sequels. Stiller brings out the embarrassment of being viewed as a male nurse but that is the least of his problems when his future father-in-law interrogates him. We can see where this is going but De Niro counters the formula with a hilarious performance. Polo serves as a method of introduction only, and Danner is underused as De Niro's wife, which hinders the affect of the title. It certainly ties into every man's trauma when it comes time to furthering his relationship connection but perhaps if the material met with a better screenwriter then the parents might be worth meeting. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"A cute comedy!","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is a hilarious comedy film that will give you laughs and laughs and laughs for days on end. It tells the story of Greg Focker (Ben Stiller), a male nurse who goes to live with girlfriend Pam's (Teri Polo) parents for the weekend. However not all will be a calm getaway because Pam has a very strict father Jack (played by Robert De Nero). The film is absolutely hilarious and has some very funny moments.This is a remake of the 1992 film that was originally written, directed and stared Greg Glienna. I have not seen the original film, but maybe it'll become available someday.Meet the Parents spawned two sequels Meet the Fockers and Little Fockers but they are not as funny as this one.I give Meet the Parents a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A pretty funny movie...","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really like this movie. I thought it was funny, and I am very excited to see the two sequels; Meet The Fockers, and Little Fockers. This movie is about a man's worst nightmare. Meeting his girlfriend's parents. Greg Focker goes with his girlfriend, and soon-to-be (hopefully) fiancé. Whilst at the parents house, a lot of stuff goes down. Most of it being accidents, but looking like it's Greg's fault. Because of this, Pam's (the girlfriend) Father is very untrusting, and feels like Greg is hiding something. But maybe it's the Father himself hiding something from his family.Recommended for Ben Stiller fans, and Robert De Niro fans.Overall, I give this movie a 7 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Great. "},{"Title":"Delivers on Comedy Tense","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet The Parents (2000) introduces Greg (Ben Stiller) and Pam with silly quirks that come up later in the story. Pam's parents are also quite the treat; the movie does not go over the top but portrays them with serious humor and charismatic wit. It is DeNiro and Stiller who make the movie, however. The filmmakers take advantage of the phenomenal tension between Greg and Jack, and place them in one hilarious situation after another. The more Stiller gets in trouble, the more painful it gets, the better Stiller gets, the more the audience laugh. There is also a part from Owen Wilson. Stiller and Wilson have made a lot of films together as their scenes always work. The way we see DeNiro slowly gets harder and harder on Greg is timely pacing among the directors choice decision. "},{"Title":"The boyfriend's worst nightmare.","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's every man's worst nightmare meeting his girlfriend's parents for the first time. This idea is even more intimidating for Greg Focker (Stiller), a male nurse, who hopes to soon propose to his girlfriend Pam. As Pam's sister has just been proposed to, the couple is invited to the wedding, and meets Pam's parents. On first glance, Pam's father Jack is kind and loving; however, we soon see Jack calling someone for Greg's legal records and files. Even for the most innocent person, this is something that you do not want someone to be investigating into. As the two men talk more and more, Jack becomes more and more suspicious and unforgiving towards Greg. Not long after, polygraph tests are given, events become disasters, and life for Greg becomes a torment.I originally wanted to see this because it featured my favorite actor, Robert De Niro. Though he usually is in a role where he is a mobster, hit-man, etc., this is one of the roles where he tried his hand at comedic acting. After successes like Analyze This, where he made fun of his tough- guy persona, he received more lighthearted roles, and this is one of them. The plot itself is simple. A man meets his potential father-in-law, and the father-in-law makes his time miserable. Before I hit Play, I thought, Well they'll have some good jokes, Stiller will do his usually shenanigans, and it'll end soundly. Needless to say, it did not go as I thought. The basic plot's humor wears off within the first 40 minutes, and the remaining 1 hour and 8 minutes is just potty humor, distasteful sex jokes, and Ben Stiller looking stupid (as usual). I'm not sure if it was my expectations coming into the film that were too high, or the quality of the film was so low in actuality, but I did not like this film very much. I can appreciate low-brow humor when it is done correctly, but the Stiller brand of comedy is not one that I've ever found good, and I doubt that I ever will. www.sportsandcelluloid.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"A nice passable comedy","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Saw this one on a boring afternoon and I was quite entertained. The title of the movie explains itself. A guy meets his girlfriend's parents. As usual he has to prove he is the man to her father, who is not quite convinced of that. Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro both give great performances which takes just average comedy to the good level. There are many laugh out loud moments and also some silly gags here and there. I haven't seen much of Ben Stiller except in 'Night at the Museum' series, he really shines out here. The story is quite predictable but humor is there every now and then to keep you hooked. Also we all know how it is going to end,nothing new in that zone. Not much to talk about, all I would say its worth a watch.RATING 3/5 "},{"Title":"Great cast for a laugh","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like this movie; It's a comedy that depicts what happens when a man is introduced to his girlfriend's family for the first time. This guy ends up getting himself into a world of trouble that he never expected. The great actors truly make the film. First, Robert De Niro gives an great performance in this film and is absolutely funny. Ben Stiller (Greg) as the male lead is his usual funny self. Finally, Owen Wilson is also responsible for a lot of laughs throughout the film. The casting for this movie does not disappoint.The problems he faces will have you in stitches and one of the best things about this movie is that everyone can relate. We all have those awkward moments that make us cringe. Regardless of your embarrassing situation, Greg has probably gotten into something worse. You can't help but laugh hysterically at his expense.Finally, I really like how just when everything seems to finally be going right, it can turn around in an instant. So many times you think that Greg is finally going to make a good impression but he messes things like only him can, sending you into inevitable laughter. Overall, this is a great movie with a mix of a ton of laughs and a love story all rolled into one. If you're looking for a pick-me-up, this is undoubtedly the movie for you. "},{"Title":"the circle of trust or circle on the outside","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" well here is my review of a hilarious film by director Jay Roache set in New York we meet the nurse Gaylord Focker as he sees his Pamela Byrnes who looks after kids he wants to get married but has meet the future family in laws so in this funny film witch is dying for a sequel as focker as a last name is going to meet her parents cue scenes of mistrust fires circle of mistrust prayers cats septic tanks volleyball car race I am watching you teddy bears cue a hilarious scene with jacks wife with Ben stiller watching the television with the camera pointing at the mothers legs with jack mistrusting him doing a polygraph test on Gaylord fockers as he was a undercover agent so he knows what going on this film is short but brilliant film I gave it 8/10 and Owen Wilson cameo is just hilarious cant wait for the next one "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro Proves That He Is Great At Comedy","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedic film is a story of numerous unfortunate events that a good-hearted and charming but hapless nurse experiences when he visits his girlfriend's parents.Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller stars together with Teri Polo, Blythe Danner, and Owen Wilson.It was written by Jim Herzfeld and John Hamburg; and it was directed by Jay Roach.Greg Focker goes to the parents' house of his girlfriend Pam Byrnes at Long Island.Her girlfriend's sister is about to get married during their upcoming trip and Greg sees this as an opportunity to ask her and her parents' permission to marry him.As he gets introduced her parents,things go awry as Pam's father Jack has an obvious dislike for him and his occupation as a Nurse.Added to that,Jack also sees a big difference between their families as Greg happens to be grubby while Pam's family are well-mannered.It was also clear that Jack sees Greg as relatively unambitious.As the film progresses,the viewer also realizes that Jack has worked for the CIA for 34 years and implements some plans to destroy the house and the wedding in the process.Robert DeNiro gives his best comedic performance in this film.Added to that,his chemistry with Ben Stiller was so great and believable that the viewer will be instantly hooked into the film.It will definitely elicit lots of laughter from the viewer as it has a garden variety of comic relief that ranges from slapstick,offensive jokes,gags and funny lines such as Are you a pothead,Focker?.In addition to that, it takes a hilarious look at the themes of family and familial relationships which the movie tackled effectively.Overall,Meet The Parents delivers like no other comedy. "},{"Title":"Better in the small moments","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents' tries to be equal parts subtle human comedy and slapstick comedy. The first works, the second gets in the way.The movie stars Ben Stiller as a likable guy in love with his girlfriend Pam (Teri Polo) but is thwarted in almost every attempt to ask her hand in marriage (his latest proposal is interrupted when she gets a call on her cell phone). They've been dating long enough that Pam thinks that it's time for him to meet her parents in Long Island.Pam's father Jack is a nightmare of smiling intimidation from the moment he meets Greg and Greg tries mercilessly to manuver his way from one social blunder to the next. Robert De Niro has fun as the father who manages to catch Greg in little white lies in such a way that he has to tell bigger ones to get out of it. One social blunder falls into another especially when Greg tries to make small talk about 'Puff the Magic Dragon's supposed drug theme which leads Jack to think he's a pothead. I especially liked the way that Greg tries to reason out why he was looking at a breast pump ad, which leads to an explanation about cat milking.I wish that the movie would have stayed at this level with the way in which Stiller gets himself in deeper and deeper and the way that De Niro has of stepping on every sentence like a cat playing with a mouse. The problem is that while the dialogue works, the screenplay allows for a whole series of overblown slapstick scenes that don't.I can deal with the sweet verbal intimidation on De Niro's part but when Stiller sets the gutter on fire, floods the backyard with sewage, gets arrested for being a terrorist and accidentally breaks Pam's sister's nose I cover my eyes in embarrassment. For every scene that I liked, there was a scene that I didn't like.I liked the running gag about Greg's last name Focker which plays into some of the film's best lines, especially when we find out Pam's middle name. But I found it painful when De Niro reads a tearful poem about his late mother which is followed by Stiller accidentally breaking her urn.There is a wonderful scene at the end in which the two men, sitting at a table, finally just work everything out. But it's followed by a scene in which De Niro watches Stiller lash out on his home Nanny Cam. This scene is funny but why is it at the end of the movie? It seems to come too late.De Niro is an actor who can turn the most mainstream role into a brilliant performance. Here he plays a guy who loves his family but is overprotective of his daughter especially from a guy who stumbles as much as Stiller's character does.The movie was directed by Jay Roach to directed the 'Austin Powers' films and like the sequel, 'Meet the Parents' is better in it's smaller moments. "},{"Title":"Impossible not to laugh...","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is a hilarious movie which has to do with a male nurse who is getting to know the parents of his girlfriend and there his nightmare begins because her father is a very suspicious man who wants the best for his daughter. Also in this movie watch the difficulties which he has to surpass and how is going to do that.I really liked this movie because it was unpredictable, the plot and story line were equally good. I also liked it because of the interpretation of Ben Stiller who plays as Gaylord 'Greg' Focker (boyfriend of Pam) and I believe that he made one of his best interpretations. Another good interpretations made by Robert De Niro's who plays as Jack Byrnes (suspicious father) and he was simply outstanding, Teri Polo's who plays as Pam Byrnes (daughter of Jack) and of course Owen Wilson who plays as Kevin Rawley an old boyfriend of Pam.Lastly I have to tell you that Meet the Parents is one of the best comedy and romance movies which is really hilarious and I believe that everyone have to watch it because it's really worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Utterly disappointing","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have heard nothing but positive things about Meet the Parents, and I watched it, boy was that an epic waste of time. I'm not one for ranting on a movie that I think is atrocious so I'll try to be brief. Let's start with the positive of this movie....... Yea that's about it. There isn't much. There is very little that satisfied me, but it's a matter if preference with this movie. Here's why.Everyone was essentially a miss on casting, in my opinion. They did their job, but other actors could have done it better. For example, this is a comedy movie that relies on awkward comedy. It is exactly that. 100% awkward. If that's the comedy you like, this is your movie. I'm not a big fan of awkward comedies like this, so they have to be really good comedies for me to enjoy them. The cast does their job, but it could have been done better by other people. I feel like I'm starting to rant, but I'll conclude here. It's a great movie if you like this style of comedy, if you don't this movie will not win you over, or even come close. "},{"Title":"Comedy or Romance?","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie tried to be both and failed at both.Di Nero saves the movie from being a total failure. I perhaps laughed 5 times .So as a comedy it didn't hit home.The romance between the protagonists was lukewarm,no Romeo and Juliet stuff here.I fast forwarded the ending as it was getting all too predictable.American audiences are so easy to please the script writers are getting lazy.One of the characters completely disappears for the last half hour and he was the one that had the most potential as he was the main girls ex-boyfriend.The funniest moments were when the difference in jobs and status between Ben Stiller and the rest was being pointed out.No belly laughs in the mold of Airplane  in this one.The comedy was portrayed as realistic but was not really successful at the attempt. "},{"Title":"The 's' at the end of the title is useless ...","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just when I thought that fat, drunk and stupid wasn't the way to go through life, cinema provided me the perfect example of a man doomed for failure. His name? Gaylord Focker. His profession? Male nurse. How does he look? Slightly below average, but a Tom Cruise, he ain't, if you except some pretty blue eyes&#x85; no really, he looks like that poor schmuck who thought he had a chance with Cameron Diaz in There's Something About Mary &#x85; see? What else from that glorious portrait? Well, he's in love with Pam (Teri Polo), a pretty blonde from a Conservative WASP family, and being Jewish wouldn't help either. Except that she loves him, she would probably say 'yes' if he manages to propose her, granted Pam's sister doesn't steal her thunder and the ring doesn't get lost with the luggage in the airport &#x85; yes, I forgot to mention Greg (that's how they call him) is also unlucky but that was quite easy to find out. Anyway, Pam loves him and her sister's wedding seems like the perfect opportunity to introduce Greg. Except that opportunity doesn't rhyme with formality, there has to be a catch&#x85; otherwise, the film wouldn't be one of the funniest of the 2000's.The catch is a hard-nosed man in his early sixties, who loves his wife Dina (Blythe Danner), his two daughters and Jinx, his Siamese cat. He's over-protective and over-suspicious, he's a Conservative Christian, and much more than this, he's an ex-CIA Agent. His name is Jack Byrnes and he's played by Bobby De Niro, who else could? Meet the Parents all relies on the antagonism between Greg and Jack and it follows a simple yet effective pattern whatever Greg does, he'll be ridiculous. No matter how hard he'll try to make himself within the family circle, Jack's beloved concept, he'll end up displeasing him. It feels like a one-note approach to the subject, but for some miraculous reason, it never feels redundant and here's why.The credit goes to Jay Roach, the director, each scene prepares us to a funny pay-off. Secondly, there's not one single 'funny' character, they're all, within their own state of mind, normal and well-meaning persons. One might argue that a CIA agent who trained his cat to use the toilet might be a little twisted, or a name like Gaylord Focker is too funny not to belong to a goof-ball, but fact is, there's no clown in the film, the two opposite leads are straight men with clearly defined personalities. The average schmuck who wants to propose the blonde daughter and must get the approval of the father, and the conservative father who believes his baby girl deserves the best.The comedic situations result in all the interactions between Greg and Jack, and their one-sided attempts to get along. There is a family dinner scene that crystallizes whatever is funny in the film, Greg tries to make a joke, he ends up insulting Greg's mother, he start talking about a random subject such as 'milking' cat, making the gesture as if we didn't get it, and arguing that you can milk anything with nipples to which Jack's I have nipples, Greg. Could you milk me? is the perfect comeback and the film's most memorable line. There's also a jar containing Jack's mother ashes which makes us expect the worst&#x85; but the point is to laugh, not at Greg, but at his desperate attempts to accommodate with his soon-to-be family-in-law. The film is never mean-spirited, well, maybe a little but, but we never laugh in a mean-spirited way&#x85; I think so&#x85;I believe one of the reasons the film succeeds is because the recurring theme is being an outsider, which is a situation most viewers can relate to. And meeting the parents of your beloved one is probably one of the nightmares everyone must get through once in the life, the issue is undermined by Greg's differences, which are never mocked, he's proud of his job, which is all to his honor. He's Jewish but accepts to say the blessing, although it doesn't really turn out as we'd expect. The point is that there are more cultural gaps in America than anyone would believe, and at a time, where 'mixed' marriages are so common, it's also something many can relate to. And God, what can be worst than a lie detector test from your father in law? The film introduces Pam's sister and her future husband, a doctor (a real one, from Jack's perspective), the ideal man for his daughter, there's also Owen Wilson as a priest and carpenter who lived a passionate romance with Pam, 'only physical' (was that supposed to comfort him?) and Jack's son who'd be responsible for a minor drugs' subplot, not the best part of the film. Indeed, it loses its pacing at some point where Greg becomes the public enemy number one, Greg, but then it takes us to a hilarious airplane climax where Greg finally goes berserk and vent his anger out on flight attendants and a last and final confrontation with Jack.Ben Stiller has already proved his value as a character &#x96;actor for poor and well-meaning schmucks, he reprises his role from There's Something About Mary but gives it an even deeper feeling. De Niro has no comparable talent to make fun of his own intimidating presence and knows how to parody his own gangster mimics for grabbing a few laughs. He was rightfully nominated for the Golden Globe. Blythe Danner also provides a sweet touch as the understanding mother who asks Jack to go easy on Greg, but fate is that no matter what can go wrong, it all go wrong. Murphy's law indeed.And if one thing, the film proves right the idea that marrying someone, no matter what we want, is also marrying the family. "},{"Title":"If you hate cats Robert De Niro will kick your butt","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know I'm late to the party, but probably so are you if you're reading reviews at this late date. Meet the Parents is a funny flick that hearkens back to the glorious late-80s, or maybe even earlier, when comedies weren't so preoccupied with shocking the audience with gross out gags or surprise twists. Most of this movie is wonderfully predictable, and aside from a few deliberately clumsy drug references and maybe a sexual innuendo or two, it was good clean fun from start to finish.Most of all, I'd say it's a good date flick to prepare yourself for the inevitable agony of meeting your own boyfriend/girlfriend's parents. We all know it sucks. (If you don't think so, oh, just you wait. Sometimes it takes years for them to expose themselves as the hideous flesh eating monsters that they are.) De Niro manages to take us to the utter extreme of monster but without shattering our suspension of disbelief. This is a key point. If the situation were to become too absurd , we would lose focus on the story and instead hone in on the individual gags. While there are plenty of funny gags to go round, they are really just dressing on an already funny premise the story of an underdog who just cannot fit in to a judgmental bourgeois family no matter how hard (and usually because of how hard) he tries.Ben Stiller shows his acting diversity (while on a different movie set playing the terminally airheaded Zoolander) as a dorky protagonist whose best intentions are always poorly timed or received completely the wrong way.The antagonists, in this case, everybody else in the movie, tread the fine line of comedy and irritation. That is, at any time you could find yourself laughing or hating them. What's masterfully done is the filmmaker's (and of course actors') ability to turn you on a dime, take you to the edge of wanting to kill someone but then having a hearty laugh at their antics. Like I said earlier, Robert De Niro is the anchor that makes this possible, and any casting short of him (well, or maybe Christopher Walken) would have resulted in the film falling apart due to the demands it puts on our willingness to accept a complete jerk like the character he plays. Really his only redeeming quality is that he likes cats. But that's the point, I guess. No matter how rude a person may seem, there's always something redeeming in there.Well, maybe except for the hilariously loathsome airline attendant who appears in a short but pivotal role at the film's climax. To me, that scene was worth the price of admission.Don't think twice, this is a movie worth seeing. Other similar films focusing on severely dysfunctional families trying to act normally include De Niro & Billy Crystal in Analyze This, a great Andy Garcia movie called City Island and--this may be a stretch but--I think fans of Meet the Parents would really enjoy the original British Death at a Funeral (2007). Ya just gotta love comedies about trying to be normal in an utterly abnormal situation. "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, Meet The Parents is a known movie and now I can say why. It is a very American kind of comedy that makes you laugh and identify yourself with the protagonist, no matter if you are a man or a woman. Greg tries everything to fit in the family, but things don't go the way he wishes, given that his father-in-law is an inconvenient person. There are lots of funny scenes built with intelligence, such as the airport one, which shows how bureaucratic these companies usually are. Writers portrayed Robert De Niros' character as an eventual nice guys, which makes us don't hate him, otherwise we wouldn't enjoy the movie as a whole as we all do. All the cast is extremely professional, with big congratulations for Ben Stiller for being so spontaneous. In the end, despite all the good and funny scenes, we still have some beautiful messages about family and love. Great movie!!! "},{"Title":"Funny but Gaylord lacks strength","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) is a happy male nurse who has a great girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). He wants to propose to her, but have to get her father Jack's (Robert De Niro) permission. Only Jack isn't the trusting kind.This starts off pretty much as expected with awkward uncomfortable interactions. The movie goes from awkward laughs to uncomfortable silences. The lie detector scene is especially funny. What makes it problematic for me is that Focker is a bit of a weasel. He's constantly trying to lie his way out of things. It's not a likable trait.I'm not talking about the cat lie. That's a defensible move. But he's too weasely even when it makes no sense. When Kevin (Owen Wilson) is getting his goat, Greg tries to puff himself up even though Jack is right there who could easily out him. It's in his nature and that's a problem.The movie has a lot of fun, and the ending is heart warming. But I have to downgrade it a little for Greg's personality. Ben Stiller plays him a little too pathetic when it would be better to have a little confidence. It's better to have him as a reasonable nice man who's dealing with a crazy Jack. He needs to be more a straight man. "},{"Title":"Plenty Of Cringe Moments And A Terrific Cast Add For A Very Funny And Enjoyable Movie,","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet The Parents is a brilliant movie with a terrific storyline,cast,characters,plenty of cringe moments and some very funny scenes that make this such a great movie,and some of Ben Stillers finest.There where two more sequels so far,Meet The Fockers and Little Fockers,a lot of critics feel they didn't live up to the original,but I think there all great and that they continue to make more.Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) is going to meet his girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo) parents.He is prepared for her sisters wedding and just know her parents will like him,however he didn't expect her to have a father like Jack Byrnes (Robert De Niro),and things don't go exactly as planned for Greg. "},{"Title":"A So-So Comedy","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The only reason I watched this film because it has starring one of my favorite actors of all times De Niro. he wasn't the De Niro I'm use to seeing and expecting from other films. playing a retired CIA type, OK I guess and that's because I'm basing it on his past film work. I figured he could get away with it. Him playing Teri Polo's dad, don't think so. Didn't work for me. Blythe Danner did a way more believable job as her mom. They kinda look like each other also. Danner didn't have to much to do here, the whole film really revolves around De Niro vs Stiller.Ben did and still does a good job playing these geek-like/ white-bread types. I could not identify with him at all because I am more of an aggressive type and would never stoop so low as to impress my future father-in-law the way Ben does here. So the scenes where he is trying his best to impress DeNiro's uptight, conservative, anal-type ex-CIA guy just is not funny to me. It's annoying. I'm like if she loves me and I love her, then the hell with what anyone thinks, especially our parents.Teri polo did an excellent job as Ben's love. You can actually believe he is doing and taking all this BS for a girl like that. it's funny that she turns out not to be all that Ben thought she was. She was living a very care-free almost purely sexual relationship with Owen Wilson's character!! In which Ben knew nothing at all of it! she saved all explanation though by saying, she loves Ben and that she never ever really loved' Owen! Ka-Ching! Hooked! Owen Wilson did a good job also as the former love of Teri. Owen was just being Owen-Obnoxious, basically himself. He still carries a torch for Teri. (He still has all the pictures of he and her doing all kinds of adventures like Sky-diving, skiing, bungee-jumping, etc..) All things Ben has not done with her yet! Yet he still stays because why? ....She loves him. Awww... Give me a break! Yeah right.Character actor James Rebhorn does very little here except basically be set background. He plays Teri's sister future father-in-law since his son is actually marrying Teri's sister.The cat scenes and the weird airport lady scenes which includes the on the plane scene which Adam Sandler also used for his Anger Management movie, in which Sandler has a similar scene, is almost a bit way funnier than anything else in the film. But if I wanted to watch cute pets, I could have easily seen any America's funniest video's. BUT ANYWAYS, The film was good enough to make a sequel. And in the end it's not half bad considering all the talent that really was involved. A first time pairing for some. now that's always a treat to any film-watcher. "},{"Title":"Not painfully funny to me, just painful","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Five out of ten isn't a horrible review, and I'm giving it because everyone looks at these kinds of things differently and the theme of the movie was simply the opposite of what I find enjoyable to watch. The movie was well-produced, well-paced, and well-acted, so I'm not faulting it on its technical merits. It's all perspective, and I know that. Some fool on here said the thing was all about power and control and anti- Semitism among WASPS, which simply doesn't scan at all to me and seems to indicate that some people really want to see things how they always see them anyway. The problem that I have with the movie is that pretty much the entire thing revolves around 'embarrassment humor'. Quite simply, I empathized with Greg's character enough that I didn't like watching him get beat on for nearly two hours, watching him make things worse for himself by being both stupid and pathetic, and then have a five minute resolution at the end that makes it all 'worth it'. It's just not funny to me. Rather, it's about the last thing I want to subject myself to, especially in the guise of a comedy. Some people enjoy this kind of thing, I guess because they're glad it isn't them or can think back to a time it WAS them and be glad it's over. Don't get me wrong, there needs to be some tension in any film and the risk of embarrassment works very well, even for me, in moderate doses. But this wasn't moderate. Watching 'The Passion of the Christ' is less painful for me, because as I see it, physical pain happens. This kind of social pain is more unjust.Good scenes? The cat milking discussion was hilarious. The lie detector scene was fun. The resolution at the end was far from adequate, but still a good scene. DeNiro is a far better comic actor than he's given credit for, and Stiller has made much of his career by being victimized by various forces on screen, so of course he does it well. It was just overload as far as I'm concerned. "},{"Title":"Good for a few chuckles, not laugh out loud funny though.","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a decent comedy which provides quite a few laughs and entertainment throughout. The spoken humor is not very funny except for the constant use of the very unique surname focker; but the screw up jobs that Greg keeps employing in an effort to impress Pam's father were enjoyable. I would have rated this movie higher, but there are some points which are very boring and uninteresting, but the few exciting moments cover up nicely to save this film from being a complete bore. Overall this is a fairly enjoyable romantic comedy which effectively uses play on words to keep its audience amused when the plot does not have much going for it. "},{"Title":"Kinda unusual role for Robert De Niro","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film was great but I needed some time to get use to idea that Robert De Niro is playing in comedy. I've seen many his movies and in most of them he's playing gangster I've never seen him playing in comedy before but he was actually very suitable for this role. All other actors did a great job too, especially Ben Stiller. There were many funny and memorable moments. The idea of this film itself was very good for a comedy. I heard that this movie is a remake and I really would like to see an original bu it's kinda hard to find. I haven't see the sequel yet but I definitely gonna do it because Meet the Parents is one of the best comedies I've seen. "},{"Title":"Decent film","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I enjoy this film & it's follow up Meet the Fockers. Certainly NOT the best film ever made-far from it. Enjoyable. I am NOT a fan of Ben Stiller's. This is 1 of the 4 films I like where he is in a starring role. The other 2 Night at the Museum & There's Something About Mary HE BASICALLY PLAYED THE SAME ROLE IN ALL 3 FILMS. A nobody reacting to things going on around him & overreacting.I actually like the follow up film more than the original. Another negative of the original Owen Wilson Only got to see him briefly in the 2cd film.Randy Newman's same old music-we've heard in films over the years & they all sound the same.Good NOT GREAT extras on the DVD package.Hard to feel for Stiller's character in either film when his character lies all the time.The speeding to get back to Jack's (DeNiro's) house because of the Jinx? the cat lost bit. WHERE WAS THE NEEDED REACTION FROM THE OTHER CHARACTERS ABOUT GREG SPEEDING & BEING UNSAFE? "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is the original of the two movies that deal with the relationship of Gaylord 'Greg' Focker (Ben Stiller) and Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). So basically this movie mostly consists on Focker traveling with his girlfriend for a wedding to also meet her parents. From start to finish this movie entertains and definitely delivers the laughs. Robert De Niro is normally known as a serious actor and even though he may come off as a little serious in this movie, he definitely is funny as hell when he plays Jack Byrnes. So definitely check out Meet the Parents if you get the chance, because it will definitely entertain you from the opening to end credits when you put it in the DVD player.10/10 "},{"Title":"Stiller Strikes Again","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's not entirely clear why Ben Stiller continues to get work and acclaim for his performances, since he really doesn't do much at all. His main role in any given film is to stand there and look dumbfounded as the world falls apart around him. He played one of his most successful versions of this when he played Gaylord Focker. The first time was in Meet the Parents, which was a remake of a little seen independent film. Stiller plays a male nurse, a detail that punctuates several of the running jokes. He goes home with his fiancée for a wedding, at which point Murphy's Law strikes, his patience is tested, and all of that.Robert DeNiro is here too, fresh off his uncharacteristic comic turn in Analyze This. He plays the fiancée's overbearing, ultra-critical, highly suspicious father. It's a role that was originally slated for Christopher Walken, who would have ruined it with an added sense of creepiness. The main meat of the film comes from the tug-of-war between DeNiro's psychological testing and Stiller's struggle to be heard and accepted. This is a classic formula that works surprisingly well as a modern-day screwball comedy, given the weaknesses in Stiller and his irritating and frequent co-star Owen Wilson.Meet the Parents is a formulaic comedy with a bit of a dark streak. It's a decent movie with some memorable bits, but it's more of a trial to get through than enjoyable which is something ironed out in time for the sequel. "}{"Title":"DeNiro and Stiller make a surprisingly effective comic duo...","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" MEET THE PARENTS was the surprise hit of 2000 that firmly established comic credentials for dramatic actor Robert DeNiro and put Ben Stiller on the map. Ben plays Greg Focker, a male nurse who after becoming engaged to a schoolteacher (Teri Polo) nervously agrees to accompany her to her sister's wedding in order to meet his future father-in-law (DeNiro). Greg is naturally freaking out and try as he may, once he and Dad meet, everything that can go wrong for Greg does and it just gets worse for him as the story progresses. Stiller is wonderful as the hassled and harried everyman whose intentions are always good but the end results are never what he planned. But the real surprise here is two-time Oscar winner DeNiro in a deft comic turn as Jack Burns, the father-in-law from hell who turns out to be a former CIA agent. DeNiro proves to be equally adept at comedy here, instinctively knowing when to take center stage and when to let young Stiller shine. Polo is attractive as Pam, the woman caught between these two guys and Blythe Danner is lovely as Jack's wife and Pam's mother. Owen Wilson also provides some grins as Pam's ex-fiancée who Jack adores. Though the misery that gets heaped on Greg throughout the length of the film seems to be a bit much, the smart screenplay and attractive cast make for an entertaining comic romp. Followed by a sequel called MEET THE FOCKERS. "},{"Title":"DeNiro as himself using the Jewish Kabbalh and Hasidism in art.","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DeNiro plays the part of a retired intelligence about to marry his daughter to the character Gaylord Focker. They claim in the movie that the character Jack used to be in the Central Intelligence Agency. But if anyone knows about the intelligence community this could be any organization authorized to operate with U.S. intelligence data.From my point of view I like to think of the actor DeNiro using and wearing his yamaka in some film to express his hidden heritage as being Jewish. As in the movie Analyze That when DeNiro ties up customers in a diamond shop. So in this movie Meet The Parents I think DeNiro again is playing the the concept of religion with the Jewish Kabbalh and Hasidism. This religious concept has the religious concept written from my research that it is common to pass on the family secrets to a son-in-law.Of course throughout the movie Jack is cautious and skeptical, which is probably common for a retired intelligence agent with world culture. The acting is pretty good creating a relaxed environment for entertainment with good setups for the short exciting action sequences. Camera lighting and film quality are also top noch. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is one of the funniest films that i have seen, the film stars Academy Award winner Robert DeNiro, Ben Stiller, Teri Polo, Blythe Danner and Owen Wilson. The film starts of with male nurse Gaylord Greg Focker (Stiller) wanting to marry Pam (Polo)but to do this he must first ask Pam's ex CIA agent father Jack (DeNiro) for her hand in marriage. Gaylord's quest for approval gets sidetracked as Murphey's law takes over and a whole string of mishaps begin to happen. The jokes about Gaylord's name never get tiring in this film and both Stiller and DeNiro give great performances, from the director of the Austin Powers Trillogy Jay Roach comes another hilarious film, I recommend to anyone who hasn't seen this movie to go out and find a copy. I give Meet the Parents 7/10 "},{"Title":"Solid comedy in which the comic timing of De Niro and Stiller masks the predictable plot and gags.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet The Parents is a predictable but fairly funny story about a guy whose attempts to impress his potential future in-laws go disastrously wrong. There's a lot of talk on the IMDb about it being the funniest comedy ever and the best film of its decade to date, but in all honesty such talk is rather naïve. Instead, Meet The Parents comes across as a solid, enjoyable comedy of errors. Anyone who watches a lot of comedies will see some of the punch-lines a mile off, but the performers demonstrate a nice sense of comic timing that raises a smile from even the more obvious gags.Male nurse Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) plans to propose marriage to his steady girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). However, she mentions during a conversation that her father is a very traditionally-minded man who believes that potential suitors should ask his permission before proposing to his daughters. Greg decides to accompany Pam on a weekend visit to her parents' place, hoping to make a good impression in their eyes before asking for their approval in his plans. Pam's father Jack (Robert De Niro) turns out to be a pretty intimidating guy, and things only get more and more awkward for Greg when he learns that his future father-in-law is an ex-CIA interrogator. Trying too hard to make a good impression, Greg almost always invariably does just the opposite&#133;. an attempt to shower everyone with champagne results in a vase containing Jack's mum's ashes getting smashed; a game of water volleyball ends with Jack's other daughter getting her face wounded; an innocent cigarette causes some pretty disastrous fire damage to the Byrnes' house; etc, etc. Ultimately, Greg causes so much unintentional havoc that he virtually shatters his chances of being accepted by the Byrnes.The film is actually based on a rarely seen low-budget 1992 film of the same title. Here it gets a more polished makeover, though is not necessarily the better of the two films. Stiller is likable in his accident-prone role while De Niro shows a nice flair for comedy as the terrifying father. Polo doesn't have a great deal to do as the girlfriend, since her role mostly consists of hugging the insecure Greg and assuring him that he's doing great, and Blythe Danner is similarly under-used as De Niro's sweet-natured wife. Of the lead actors, the other one who has the best of things is Owen Wilson, in a small but amusing part as Pam's ex boyfriend. In essence this is a situation comedy of the kind seen on TV virtually every day, but scaled-up with A-list stars and an expensive, cinematic sheen. The script contains some funny one-liners which the actors seize upon with plenty of verve, and Jay Roach directs it with the pace and confidence he invested in his Austin Powers movies. Meet The Parents is plenty of fun, especially when treated on its merits, but you shouldn't be hoodwinked into expecting the comedy-to-end-all-comedies. If that's what you expect and demand of the film, you may come away feeling a little let down. "},{"Title":"What can a guy in love do when all are against him?","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" **My name is Phantom. I'm from Europe (Hellas) Sorry for my English** This movie has something special without knowing. Ben Stiller wants to marry his girlfriend but before the proposal he thinks best to meet her parents. However, he chooses the most inappropriate time as the DeNiro house - the bride's parents - are busy with the wedding of their other daughter. Stiller tries to win DeNiro's sympathy by paying attention to his rules (he cuts smoking and having sex - just for a while of course). However, the groom's family - including Polo's ex-boyfriend - seem to snob Stiller's name and job by their way. They think Stiller is a stranger and they ignore him by the first moment. However, he turns to a hero when he finds DeNiro's cat but he turns to a jerk again a little later when the real cat is found. As a result, he becomes nervous and his bad luck leads to a series of goofs he loses his suitcase at the airport, turns the garden into a swamp, sets on fire the wedding place and breaks the vase with what-is-left by DeNiro's mother. And that's where the people laugh. By watching this bad luck. Stiller tries to prove that he values more than what they think and at last he manage to marry his beloved girlfriend... but there is something else in the air. DeNiro wants to meet Stiller's parents... You will understand my thoughts if you watch this film by Stiller's eyes, which I believe was the ideal choice for the role. DeNiro remains in our minds as the old-CIA agent, not that this matters a lot in the movie. Many trivia will appear however in Meet the Fockers where this unique surname is used. This is a famous movie, a great comedy, there is nothing more to say... Just watch it! And you will not lose. "},{"Title":"A Good Comedy by Jay Roach","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about Greg, or Gaylord, Focker who decides to spend a week to meet his Pam's (girlfriend) father because Pam thinks it would be nice for Greg to see if her father accepts him before they get engage. He soon finds out that her father is very strict and that he is very protective of his daughter and wants what is the best for her.This film is sweet and funny. Some of the jokes could be laugh out loud and some could be overrated. Greg does many things to hide all of the bad things he's done like make Jinxy, the family's cat, to run away and lit the alter, for Pam's sister's wedding, on fire. Many films have targeted this plot but it's so amazing how I like films with the same basic plot. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents extremely funny","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Meet the Parents' is a brilliant take on a young man who goes to visit his girlfriend's parents for the first time. He is wanting to make an impression, but they just do not accept him and even make things difficult for him. They are strange themselves - the overbearing secret agent father, the druggie brother, the cat that can flush the toilet, and so on. The intentions of the young man are good, but he keeps getting himself into messes and more messes by attempting to do the right thing. This film is funny on many different levels, and I think that it can appeal to a wide audience because of the different types of humour shown. I do not care much for romantic comedy films, but this one had me laughing. Also, I would not bother with the sequel 'Meet the Fockers' at all because it is a totally different film and not at all consistent with the humour and feel of this film. Now, go watch 'Meet the Parents'! "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller rules!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is SO funny. It follows couple Greg(Stiller) and Pam(Polo) who go and spend a weekend at Pam's parents for her sister's wedding. This also happens to be the first time Greg has met Pams parents, hence the title-'Meet the Parents'. Pam's father isn't the most laid back of people in fact he's rather scary and they couldn't have chosen anyone better to play Jack Byrnes than Robert DeNiro. This is a different role for DeNiro from his other films but you can still see his character hold some of his old roles. Poor Greg is taken on a roller-coaster with only himself to blame. You can't help but feel sorry for him as he seems like an outcast especially when they all go and party at Kevin's mansion (Wilson) who's Pam's ex fiancée-I mean can you actually imagine that happening to you, it's so cruel. Ben Stiller is great in this film and I love his acting. He's great at playing the vulnerable, clumsy guy who only wants to keep everyone happy. I mean this guy was never given a chance even from birth when his parents named him Gaylord'Greg' Focker. This film made him one of my favourite comedy actors. He doesn't need to pull faces, and go OTT like the Jim Carreys of the acting world. Instead you feel as though Stiller is a lot like Gaylord 'Greg' Focker in real life which makes him even more likable. The film is great and full of funny moments and no worries, Greg finally ends up in the 'Circle of Trust'.Poor Greg! "},{"Title":"A less wacky side of Ben Stiller is also funny.","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ben Stiller, Robert DeNiro, Teri Polo, Blythe Danner, Owen Wilson, Nicole Dehuff and Jon Abrahams.This has to be Ben Stiller's funniest film, even though it's a less wacky movie than most of his. Anyway, Gaylord Greg Focker(Stiller) is a nurse that wants to propose to his girlfriend Pam Byrnes(Polo) but first must meet her parents. When he gets there, her father Jack(DeNiro) obviously doesn't like him, which is basically the entire movie. Blythe Danner plays DeNiro's wife and is normal acting, but very good in her role. After Greg already makes Pam's family hate him, her ex-boyfriend Kevin Rawley(Wilson) comes over and tells intimate secrets to Greg. Nicole Dehuff plays Pam's newlywed sister and in real life died recently of pneumonia(she was in her early 30's).my rating-A-94%. rated PG-13 for sexual humor, drug content and language. 111 minutes. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents... from hell.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Repeat Review. Reviews #1-97 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur3825387/comments Reviews #98-#100 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5060215/comments Reviews #101-#104 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5339193/comments ---------- (Original Date of Review - August 25, 2004) (Old Review Record - 5 out of 7) I figured since today's poll is Your favorite Ben Stiller movie? and Meet the Fockers is coming out this December, I'd write a review for my favorite Ben Stiller movie.Directed by Jay Roach, the director of the Austin Powers movies, and staring Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro.Ben Stiller plays a male nurse from Chicago named Greg Focker, who has spent the last 10 months with his girlfriend, going to places, spending time together, and all that corny stuff. When he is about to propose to his girlfriend, she gets a call from her sister telling that she's going to get married. This means, they have to exit the state and go to his girlfriend's house. Time to meet the parents. Robert DeNiro plays Jack Byrnes, the father of Greg's girlfriend, who he immediately takes a dislike of him. One bad thing leads to another, such as Greg losing his luggage from the airline, and soon enough, Greg leads himself into hell and deeper and deeper into it.This is a good comedy. Some laughs but I watched it more for seeing how the story ends up. This is now my favorite Ben Stiller movie after Fockers. At the end, if you were to watch this 4 years ago, you could predict a sequel because the ending keeps that option open. The sequel, Meet the Fockers will be released this winter and it should be a very interesting story. The teaser trailer mostly shows the events of Meet the Parents but gives you a small peek of Meet the Fockers, with Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand added to the cast.Overall, a decent comedy. It's great to see the how Stiller and DeNiro are both on the screen and them having the direction of Jay Roach. Good movie.My Rating 8/10 Here's my Top 3 of Ben Stiller 1. Meet the Fockers - 8.5/10 2. Meet the Parents - 8/10 3. Dodgeball A True Underdog Story - 8/10Eliason A. "}{"Title":"NOT A CLASSIC OF COMEDIES BUT STILL FUNNY","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I too an a Robert De Niro fan who is plays the father parent (Jack Byrnes) of  daughter (Pam Byrnes) Teri Polo. While Blythe Danner, a fine complement wifeparent (Dina Byrnes). Ben Stiller as (secret Jewish) boyfriend (Greg Focker) to  WASP daughter, wind up staying at her parents home. Like Father of the Bride  to some degree, but variety of oddball events between the father Jack ByrnesDe Niro (ex-CIA employee) critical of boyfriend Greg Focker's moves ishilarious. Stiller fine acting stands out, rest of cast fairs well too. Must See! Not bad movie made in year 2000 relaxed morality of the new century. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Just as funny as I expected it to be","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am a huge Robert DeNiro fan, so I knew I just had to see this, I had heard so much about this movie and how funny it was. So I watched it the other day and I have to admit that this was so much fun to watch. I admit that it had it's predictable moments, but over all, I think the jokes worked very well and the cast was just so wonderful to watch. Robert and Ben click very well, they were so great in making the scenes just so intense, like that first dinner they have together, Ben describing how he grew up on the farm and had to milk a cat in order to save a runt kitten, was just so funny because we've all been there where we got caught up in a lie trying to figure a way out of it. The story is very funny and something everyone has to go through in their time of meeting the parents.Greg is a nurse who is about to purpose to his girlfriend, Pam, but when she tells him first of how her sister got proposed to and how her fiancée asked her father first, Greg feels obligated to ask him first before asking Pam. They go to meet her parents, Jack and Dina. Jack is a former CIA agent who is not ready to let his baby go to Greg. He's gonna make sure that this is a trip that Greg will never forget and is gonna torment him the whole way.The only problem I have is that it seems like all the good parts that my friends told me about, well, that was it. So it wasn't as surprising, but I still admit that I laughed. I loved that scene where they're playing volleyball with Pam's ex and how the team just won't give Greg a break how how he's playing and then he... well, you'll have to trust me, it gets better. Meet the Parents is a fun comedy that I'm sure will have you laughing. Robert and Ben are terrific together, I hope they do another comedy soon.9/10 "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was non-stop funny. Many people expected more from this movie but you really have to pay attention to what the actors say and there is a lot of little things that turn out to be hilarious. I thought Robert De Niro acted great in a surprising role that I did not think he was going to do good  in because he is good in so many different roles but he did this one greatly. I thought the story was excellent because there is so much you can do with this type of story. Meeting the parents is not an easy thing to do and a lot of things can go wrong during that visit. I thought this movie was great and I recommend this movie to all viewers who like Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller and like to laugh through out the whole movie. I give this one TWO THUMBS UP!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was non-stop funny. Many people expected more from this movie but you really have to pay attention to what the actors say and there is a lot of little things that turn out to be hilarious. I thought Robert De Niro acted great in a surprising role that I did not think he was going to do good  in because he is good in so many different roles but he did this one greatly. I thought the story was excellent because there is so much you can do with this type of story. Meeting the parents is not an easy thing to do and a lot of things can go wrong during that visit. I thought this movie was great and I recommend this movie to all viewers who like Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller and like to laugh through out the whole movie. I give this one TWO THUMBS UP!!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is simply hilarious, one of Stiller's best films. This is the kind of movie that you have a habit of watching if you are a fan of comedies. However, there is one thing I failed to understand, and it was why Jack's character didn't realise that Greg's coat was actually his son's, I mean, didn't he see it before? I figure that would have put aside the whole 'drug' issue. But having the 'drug' issue gave the movie some more humor. Overall, a really good movie.*** / ****  stars. "},{"Title":"Such a great comedy","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie works on every level and it is so funny.  Beautifully timed with just the right mood, every performance is great.  Even DeNiro, whose comedy can be hit or miss sometimes, is perfect.  Stiller is hilarious as he brews through the whole film.  And Terry Polo is the bee's knees.  Just great, rent or own it! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A humorous and witty movie.  The chemistry between Stiller and Deniro is amazing.  All I have heard is that this movie isn't as GOOD as it looks.  This movie is great because of how serious Deniro's character is and how different Deniro and Stiller are.  Some people may not like this movie but I think that this is one of the most witty and funny movies I have ever seen, true parts of the movie are kind've DUMB but other then that the movie is hilarous. "},{"Title":"some real funny stuf !!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  im not a comedymovie-fan at all but this movie had some really funny stuf in it. The way Ben Stiller and de Niro interact to eachother is briljant. The scenes are sometimes so real that i sometimes really p***ed my pants. (and im not a comedy-fan at all)If you like movies like analyse this im sure you will like this one too ! Have fun watching it !Rico  "},{"Title":"How unlucky can one man be?","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet Gaylord Focker (Ben Stiller), a very genuine but unfortunate guy.  Gaylord, better known as Greg, is madly in love with his girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo) and wants to marry her.  But before he can win her hand in marriage, he has to win her parents approval; a task which proves to be extremely difficult.Greg and Pam go on their way to meet the parents.  Greg doesn't exactly get off to a very good start when he manages to break the urn that holds the remains of a late relative.  Pam's father Jack (Robert Di Niro) takes an instant dislike to Greg and makes it his business to push Greg to the limit and see just how far he can go to get him as far away from his daughter as possible.The film is full of exceptionally funny moments.  The unfortunate events that unfold and the stupid ways in which Greg tries to cover them up, make this film worth a shot.  Granted, it's not the funniest film out there but it is very good for a laugh and I thoroughly enjoyed watching it.Robert Di Niro proves that he is still one of the most talented actors around, taking on the role of the control freak father and Ben Stiller settles in nicely to yet another role as the geek, trying to win his girl (Something About Mary).    "},{"Title":"I just watched it for the second time","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and I think I laughed even harder than I did the first one. I totallyunderstand that this movie might not be everybody's cup of tea, I'mnot saying is masterpiece or anything, but to me is hilarious. I thinkthe director did a very good job, and the casting is brilliant. Robertde Niro's facial expressions during the Greg saying grace and theurn breaking scenes are priceless! What I liked about Ben Stiller'sperformance is that he doesn't overdo it. Subtlety worked betterhere. A special mention to Blythe Danner who's perfect as thebride's mom. Just relax when you watch it and I'm sure you'll enjoyit as well. Can't wait to see Meet the Fockers! "}{"Title":"very good","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I was in a bad mood and didn't like it.  That goes to show how significant moods can be when seeing a movie.  This really is a smart, funny movie.  Maybe it needs to be seen twice.  Anyway, I was certainly wrong the first time I saw it.  Focker's plight does get a little frustrating, but that is called dramatic tension--Three's Company  lived off the same kind of stuff for years.  It is done much better here.  I do think it stole from 1979's The In-Laws with Peter Falk and Alan Arkin, and I do think the earlier movie was better, but it's like an 8.5 or 9 versus a 10. "},{"Title":"One of the top 10 funniest movies of 2000","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To those who havent seen it, dont miss out on this movie.  This spawned crappy TV shows like The In Laws and Meet My Folks, so you can definitly say this is a modern trendsetter.  Robert DeNiro and Ben Stlller were perfectly casted for these roles.  This movie promised laughs and garuntees enjoyment, and maybe an addition to your list of favorite movies. "},{"Title":"funny!!!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had me on the floor laughing when i first saw it, i loved it! and Ben Stiller and Robert DeNeiro did such a good job in acting for it, if you havent seen it yet, go rent it, it was so funny!!!!! so go out n get it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw Meet The Parents on holiday in France when I visited some relatives and I have to say it was worth the entrance fee. It is one of the funniest films I've seen for a while, most of the seens where very humorous although a bit over the top. Ben Stiller for me the king of the comedian actors proves it again as the likeable, calamity Greg, and if you liked him in this try 'Theres Something About Mary' just looking at this guy makes me laugh. Robert De Niro also shows the lengths of his acting range as the over-protective ex CIA spy hunter dad Jack, I love the way he calls Greg by his surname FOCKER.  There is also satisfactory supporting roles from Teri Polo, Blythe Danner and John Abrahams. So overall Meet The Parents is a great comedy to watch with the family.Mark 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Circle of Trust","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a hilarious comedy. The juxtaposing of old money with New York Jewish culture is a treat.  No matter how everyone tries to get along,the differences are just too great. The subtleties are wonderful, my favorite is the potted plant, a metaphor for the deeply buried potential of Pam and Gaylord's match.From Grandma's litter box to Greg's Motown cat milking days, Meet the Parents is a pick me up for anyone who thinks he has had a bad day. "},{"Title":"fantastic comedy!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Contains Spoilers! The plot?  Ben Stiller is a nurse, very much in love with Teri Polo. Just as he is about to propose, he comes to know about Teri's sister's engagement to some doctor &#150; guy who was courteous enough to ask Teri's father before asking her sister! Obviously Ben wants to be in the good books of Teri. As a result, he decides to spend the weekend with Teri's parents (and propose to her parents, before he proposes to Teri). Of course, he screws up the weekend, with the aid of my man &#150; Robert De Nero, who is Teri's father (surprise!) and is, in not in a mood to have a nurse as his son &#150; in &#150; law. A slew of idiosyncrasies exhibited by Ben soon follow, till the movie ends. The end? (Take a guess.) The movie is a war between a nurse (Ben) and an ex &#150; C.I.A. interrogator (De Nero) &#150; the former trying to win the heart of the latter, and the latter finding it hard to accept the former because of a lot of things, such as the former's name, profession, hatred towards cats, and a whole lot of other goofy things, which make up the movie. Ben can be looked upon with pity, considering the things he has to go through, throughout the weekend, but the movie is, by no means, a warm hearted  comedy. So, laugh your heart out on Ben, as he makes a total ass of himself (very seriously), with no sense of pathos. The humor is not merely slapstick and is, in a lot of parts, very subtle. Apart from Ben, falling off the roof of the house, making a fruitless attempt to catch De Nero's pet cat and almost setting the house on fire and making a healthy contribution to overflowing the septic tank (and blaming the cat for doing it, on top of that) the funny bits are well contained within formal conversation between Di Nero & Ben, with a stoic expression on the faces of both which makes the comedy more mordant and funny. The exchange of words between Ben & Robert which appear seething on the surface, is what gives a high to the movie. Even as Ben breaks up before the flight attendant, towards the end of the movie, while returning home after a terrible weekend, makes us laugh rather than feel sorry for him. The end is as sweet as it can get, with things, somehow patched up between Di Nero and Ben, of course. All is well that ends well&#133;. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller, Robert DeNiro, and Teri Polo are the ultimate funny team in this film! Meet the Parents is a great movie that i can watch over and over again and yet still laugh at! Robert DeNiro was good in A Bronx Tale, etc., but this is one of his first funny films without the Mafia in it, and i give him credit for that. See this movie, or miss all the laughs with greg focker!! "},{"Title":"De Niro and Stiller are Hilarious Together!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS           Greg Focker is a male nurse. Yes, his last name is pronounced just like it's spelled. He's going to upstate New York with his fianceé Pam for her sister's wedding. Greg has never met her parents before and is nervous. Upon their meeting, Jack is smiling on the outside, but detests Greg on the inside. Jack Byrnes is also cat lover. He even trained his cat to use the toilet; Greg accompanies Jack to the drug store. It seems that Jack was up tosomething. Greg endlessly tries to impress Jack, but doesn't work.            One night, Greg accidentally stumbles into Jack's secret office. Jack notices and introduces Greg to his polygraph machine, so he gives Greg a lie detector test; Jack forbids Greg and Pam to sleep together while under his roof. It was that, or the Long Island expressway, quotes Jack. Next morning, Pam's sister Debbie and her fianceé Bob come over with Bob's parents Linda and Larry. They go to Best Man Kevin's house later. Kevin is an aficianado in wood working. He carved an altar for the bride and groom. He's also got a big swimming pool where the families play volley ball, which ends in disaster. More disasters to follow! Jack's cat escapes and Greg disguises a similar looking cat as Jack's in order to impress him.          But Jack soon discovers the cat is fake. Greg knows he knows so they have a drag race home. Greg is kicked out.  But later, Jack decides to give Greg a chance. It took much convincing from Pam and wife Dina; Funny movie! I hear there's going to me a sequel Meet the Fockers where Greg and Pam will get married, so the Byrnes' meet Greg's parents. They gotta be decent people to name their son Gaylord Focker. Gaylord is Greg's real name. It opens next year. But until then, we can all enjoy this movie. Robert De Niro is good as Jack. Jack seems very unfair to Greg at times. It seems like his one ambition in life is to make Greg's miserable. Ben Stiller is good as Greg. The tantrum Greg throws on the plane because his bag is too big for carry-on is timeless! So was his performance during the time he was on candid camera without knowing it. Also you'll find out what Puff the Magic Dragon means, according to Greg. Owen Wilson is good too. He always plays a positive kind of guy. This film comes recommended by me! See it ASAP!-- "},{"Title":"No pressure. on you in this amicable flick","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In this movie Ben Still plays the childish named Greg Focker. Focker is dating one Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). Pam is off to her brother's wedding and invites Greg along - giving a chance for Greg to meet the parents (ohh. like the title). Unfortunately for him he never expected the paranoid father, Jack (Robert de Niro) and it quickly becomes clear that meeting the demands and expectations of this parent is not going to be very easy..I've always found Ben Stiller enjoyable to watch. He has a decent sense of balancing both elements of comedy and drama, generally with decent delivery. There's no exception here and his character Greg, while somewhat similar to other roles, is a nice guy whom you can't help but like. Robert de Niro, as the paranoid parent, shows a great talent for comedic timing that he first evidenced in `Analyze This'. He's able to put a touch of both menace and heart into the role and the chemistry between him and Stiller is quite strong.Thankfully the comedy is never sacrificed to the big star's prowess. The humour may have some farcical slapstick moments, but generally the set-up is credible enough (and at the expense of Greg) that it makes you smile, rather than wince. There's a great desperation by Greg that wins laughter and heart.Overall this is a decent comedy. It's script is sharper than most, and the performances that bit better. There's good characterisation with people you wish to succeed. There's enough here to make me see the forthcoming sequel and, with that, the team here have done their job. Try it out. 6.9/10. "},{"Title":"Funny movie with Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know this movie was found very funny by most audiences, and I thought it was somewhat funny as well, but definitely not as good as Keeping the Faith, by far Stiller's best movie. Still a movie to see, but see it with many people, not alone because it is funnier with an audience. "}{"Title":"An above-average yet imperfect comedy.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is definitely better than your everyday slap-stick comedy that never delivers a punchline, but Jay Roach (the director responsible for the popular Austin Powers franchise) is still far from perfection. Let's take a look at the pros of Meet the Parents first, though. I enjoyed the quirky characters and appreciated Roach's avertion from common cliches. The pairing of a naive mother with a paranoid husband was a nice touch, and Pam's pothead brother, Danny, adds another degree of hilarity. I'm not a huge fan of Ben Stiller's (the word Zoolander still gives me nightmares) but I must admit that his performance as Greg Focker -- say it out loud -- was extremely funny. He truly captures the desperation of Focker's desire for the approval of Pam's parents, and his reactions to every incident and misunderstanding are believable yet comical. Robert DeNiro reminds us that he is an excellent actor (I think we all lost hope in him when we saw Rocky and Bullwinkle) by stealing the show as Jack Byrnes, an ex-CIA agent that thinks Greg puffs the magic dragon. Owen Wilson has an unexpected cameo as Pam's ex-fiance, Kevin, and Blythe Danner (Neil Simon's Brighton Beach Memoirs) plays Jack's wife. The screenplay (adapted from the original 1992 film by James Herzfeld and John Hamburg) has some fantastic moments, but the two screenwriters seem to have no sense of pace. There are many points in the film consisting of plain, unfunny dialogue (i.e. the conversation between Greg and the parents in the living room) that stretch out for way too long. I am hoping, however, that this amateur script will serve as a lesson in writing to Herzfeld and Hamburg and prepare them to draft a superior screenplay for the up-coming sequel, Meet the Fockers. Is Meet the Parents worth watching? Of course. And if you're a DVD buff, it might even be worth owning (the Collector's Edition contains some hilarious out-takes and deleted scenes).Overall rating 8/10  "},{"Title":"Whatever can go wrong, will go wrong!!!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is Murphy's Law run-amok and, high comedy for Ben Stiller's character, Gaylord Greg Focker, as he tries unsuccessfully to negotiate the all important first meeting with his girlfriend's parents, Jack and Diana Burns, played by Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner.Contretemps and slapstick collide in an entertaining and amusing story of all that can go wrong and, does, for an average guy dripping in solecisms.Once in a great while an actor with Mr. Stillers's abilities to underplay with hilarious effect comes along to entertain and, though supported well, this vehicle was reliant on a likeable and polished lead who is hands-down funny, can do physical comedy and, carry the load.  Mr. Stiller succeeds adroitly. Mr. De Niro is also a pleasant comedic surprise as the subtly overbearing father and, ex-CIA guy, who is nice but seemingly impossible to please and, an all-around know-it-all, while Blythe Danner remains poised, fettered and still foxy.  Ubiquitous James Rebhorn is excellent as Dr. Larry Banks, the along-for-the-ride needler, providing well-timed and irritating barbs.This all proves to much for our diminutive and narrow shouldered Gaylord Focker, a male-nurse, with nowhere to go but side-ways and then down, down, down into the abyss of underachievment.Meet the Parents is good fun with some hilariously well-timed and original comedy bits that entertain and, is freshly-paced; the viewer increasingly empathizing with Stiller's character, the hapless Focker.Mr. Stiller's panache to play with animals continues and, provides great laughs with the cat, Mr. Jinx and, will hopefully continue in the sequel, Meet the Fockers, due in 2003, "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 2000","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on Christmas Eve of 2000 and it was the perfect start toChristmas. Not only is this one of the best scripts of the lastdecade, but it contains brilliant directing by Jay Roach(AustinPowers 1, 2 and 3) and excellent acting performances by BenStiller(There's Something About Mary, Zoolander) and Robert DeNiro(The Godfather 2, The Untouchables). The film follows GregFocker(Ben Stiller), a male nurse who wants to propose to hisgirlfriend Pam(Teri Pole) but finds out that he needs to meet herfather(Robert DeNiro) and ask for his permission beforeproposing. That's when everything starts to go wrong... One of thethings that's brilliant about this film is that it takes a real-lifeconcept(Meeting your future In-Laws for the first time) andmultiplies it by ten. The father is a former CIA guy who is spying onyou at any moment which is enough for anyone but then theydiscover the last name(Focker), the middle name(Gay-Lord) andyou also happen to be a clumsy fool.I can safely say that'll neverregret seeing Meet the Parents and i'm highly excited to see theupcoming Meet the Fockers(Written by Chris and Paul Weitz,directors of American Pie and About A Boy) "},{"Title":"Amusing...somewhat","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller stars in director Jay Roach's MEET THE PARENTS, a somewhat amusing farce about a male nurse named (yes) Greg Focker, who travels with his girlfriend Pam (Teri Polo) to her family home, not only because of Pam's sister's impending nuptials, but also because it will give Greg a chance to meet her parents and ask her father for Pam's hand in marriage. Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner, an onscreen couple you thought you'd never see, are absolutely believable as Pam's folks, especially in their first scene with the younger couple. Unfortunately, this is perhaps the film that has made De Niro into a comedic rather than dramatic actor (THE KING OF COMEDY wasn't meant to be completely amusing), and you'll begin to miss the Bobby of old (TAXI DRIVER, GOODFELLAS, even the action-packed RONIN).I'll admit that I enjoyed this film, but only in a few scenes. Greg's scene with the female ticket agent on the airplane was memorable, as were the scenes where Jack (De Niro), apparently ex-CIA, hooks Greg up to the lie detector, and where Greg does too much to impress the others during a game of water volleyball.What I did love about the film were its subtle touches, especially in the way Greg is treated, because it's happened to me--it's happened to a lot of us. Ever say something that causes other people to look at you and go, What the heck are you talking about? It's happened to me several times, and it happens to Greg. A lot. That's where the amusement in MEET THE PARENTS lies, and I hope that MEET THE FOCKERS, a sequel due out next year, keeps some of that. 7/10Side issue the film is apparently based on an earlier (independent) film by screenwriters Greg Glienna and Mary Ruth Clarke. I just hope this film (the 2000 version) wasn't made just to make more $$$ on an older, funnier film. It'd sound too much like a remake that way. Personally, I wouldn't want to see CLERKS remade with hot young stars instead of the New Jersey slackers we grew to love. "},{"Title":"The best comedy in the last five years","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is brilliant, so funny with at least three or four classic scenes, which include the car race, the vase, and the pool scene. What makes this movie is the presence of Rob De Niro, he is  a comedy genius. Anyone who says they do not like this great light hearted movie, ignore them, their miserable bores, who need to enjoy life more. WATCH IT.       "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very enjoyable.  But it's not exactly just a comedy, it's a drama about how things can easily go wrong.  I actually was mad at Pam's unwillingness to help Greg stand up against her father.  I didn't like that part.  But I couldn't help laugh at the mishaps Greg went through! Pleasantly surprised at Robert De Niro's comic acting.Gave this a 8. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stiller stars in this enjoyable comedy as an awkward male nurse who can't seem to do anything right as he hopes to propose to his longtime girlfriend (Polo). Everything that can go wrong eventually does when he goes to meet her parents for the weekend, and unexpectedly finds himself engaged in a battle of wits with her menacing, overprotective, ex-CIA operative father (De Niro). A couple of the film's gags grow tiresome or fall flat, but it's well-cast, enthusiastically performed, and provides a lot of genuine laughs. Director Roach makes good use of actor De Niro, who provides both an intimidating and amusing presence at the same time. *** "},{"Title":"This is quality comedy","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love a good comedy, and loath a bad one &#150; this one I love - its a comedy classic. Probably the best comedy I have seen since `Tommy Boy'. The story is simple, a guy, the unfortunately named Greg Focker  (Ben Stiller &#150; in top form), goes out with a girl (Teri Polo) and then has the inevitable misfortune to have to meet, and stay over at the in-laws house (Robert DeNiro and Gwyneth Paltrows real life mum, Blythe Danner). His stay at their house is, lets say, unconventional, as however hard Greg tries to impress it always backfires making him look worse and worse after each sorry event. Just sit back, relax and enjoy as the laughs flood in just like the contents of a septic tank over a lawn (just one of many funny scenes!!). A must see.  "},{"Title":"Good Vehicle for Stiller","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Satisfying 'forget your troubles' comedy that is loosely based on the funny French farce titled WHAT A SHITTY DAY.  Americanized to a stretched out TV sitcom with all the standardized mechanisms in place. Here Stiller plays your thirtysomething 'average Joe' off to meet his girlfriends parents whose father is especially picky, conservative, opinionated, and abrasive. This of course opens the floodgates for what is just one embarrassing (and uncomfortable) situation after another. As everything that can go wrong in meeting your girlfriends parents does.Runs so close to form that there's really no use to describe it further. Though there are a few 'laugh out loud' scenes.  They include a funny family water polo game and a inadvertent DeNiro/Stiller drag race.Stiller does well in what is obviously a tailored made vehicle.  He is this generations Bob Newhart/John Ritter.  Charmingly underplaying all the wackiness around him while still having just the right amount of pratfalls.DeNiro is good (of course) in a role where he finally gets to show his true age.  Danner though, as the mother, is completely wasted. Outside of jumping into a pool with all her clothes on, she has nothing funny to say or do. In fact the pet cat (named Jinx) comes off with a more interesting personality.Generally solid non-think entertainment with a quick chance to see that Phyllis George is still alive.  The former NFL TODAY/CBS MORNING NEWS hostess appears very briefly as a mother of another fiancee. "},{"Title":"Good, not great.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 103 minThere's a touch of the slapstick about this better then average comedy, De Neros' character (ex CIA black ops) is interesting and at times very funny. If you like action comedy then this will appeal and while it fails to provoke a hearty belly laugh it's still good for a giggle.6/10 worth watching. "}{"Title":"Very nice comedy; spoilers","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents plays pretty much like one of these Chevy Chase Vacation-movies, in which the comedian plays a lovely father who just tries to darn hard to create the mother of all vacations. Planning everything, even the fun, he removes every chance at spontaneity, and eventually manages to accomplish quite the opposite of what he originally had in might. Everything he didn't goof up himself, will be done for him by the numerous crazies he meets along the way.In Meet the Parents, likeable nurse Gay is about to propose to his lovely fiancée Pam Martha in a rather cute way, when she gets a call (blast those infernal cellular phones!) from her sister, who announces she'll be getting married within two weeks. Not wanting to ruin the momentum, Gay postpones his proposal and joins Pam for her sister's wedding, seeing it as a chance to meet -and impress- his future parents-in-law. The Father-in-law is played by Robert deNiro, who has played a friendly character on one or two occasions, but is best known for his psycho's. Along with the equally semi-sane looking Jack Nicholson, he is the manifestation of all sons-in-law fears. You do NOT want to see either one of those popping up behind the door.Meet the father would have be a better title as this is Ben Stiller's and Robert DeNiro's film from the start. Mom is just there to gasp and shriek once in a while.It is almost impossible to get off on the right foot here, as Gay's last name happens to be Focker, and since Pam's middle name is Martha, her parents quickly realize her name will be Martha Focker (don't read it, say it!).The best scene is obviously the diner scene, because it is fairly recognizable and painful. Guy manages to say and do all the wrong things and mock up beyond your own worst disaster scenario's. The moment when he verbally corners himself with the 'if it has nipples, you can milk it' story, is a great laugh-out-loud moment.But then, a whole bunch of relatives show up and the movie went somewhat downhill from there. Up to this point, it was just Stiller and deNiro one-on-one, but now there's distraction from a bunch of quite unnecessary and shallow characters, like Pam's little brother who is only there to give the impression that Guy is a 'smoker'.Will there be a happy end? Would it be a spoiler if I said yes? But, fortunately, the ending stays in tone with the rest of the film, so at least we don't have people falling into each others arm, stating how much they love each other.Really good fun.***  "},{"Title":"Meet The Parents (***/****)","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's everyone's worst nightmare - you're meeting your girlfriend's parents for the first time, when you accidentally set fire to your future in-laws backyard, set the prize family cat free, break an antique vase containing some very personal material, and accidentally admit to her father that you are a pothead.Yet, that is the crisis that male nurse Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) faces in this hilarious, farcial movie when he meets his girlfriend Pam (Teri Polo)'s parents. And I'm not even scratching the surface of everything that goes wrong for poor Greg. There's also the stuttering dinner time conversation about how you can milk anything with nipples. And literally dozens more that I'm not going to tell you about. I'll let you see the movie for yourself and find out.As well you should. This film combines the humor of a show like Seinfeld, with the domino-effect situation humor of the Farrelly Brothers and mixes it together into a wonderful assortment of humor. Oddly though, Ben Stiller does not steal the show like he has in past films. The real star here is Robert DeNiro as Jack Brynes, Pam's father, who was a CIA agent and now has his entire house wired with hidden cameras. He is the epitome of scary father-in-laws. And as usual, Ben Stiller works his way through his role with the straight-faced sincerity that makes him one of the best comic actors of our day.Meet The Parents is rated PG-13 for sexual humor, language and drug references.  "},{"Title":"meet the comedians","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller was already known to be funny, but Robert De Niro was the one who really impressed me. I didn't see Analyze That so I had no idea he was so funny. His facial expressions cracked me up every time. Meet the Parents turns a weekend from hell into a comical masterpiece, although the finale seems to be stretched out a bit. Looking forward to the sequel. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents is THE funniest movie of 2000!","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must have to say that Meet the parents had me giggling for the rest of the night after i saw it. This film had so many rememberable moments (like the car chase between DeNiro and Stiller; All he times the family calls Stiller 'Focker'; ad the volleyball match at kevin, the 'old boyfriend's' house.) and it had me laughing from beginning to end. I think that this movie should have gotten more than it desevred, like many some Oscar nominees or something. I really adored this film because it had not a lot of crude jokes in it, mostly funny ones that doesn't hurt anybody, unlie some movies that have jokes like that today. it suprised me because i really thought that this film wasn't going to be great, but i was wrong, it was wonderful and hilarious and i think that if anyone wants to go have a good time by watching a good movie, rent Meet the Parents, because it is worth it. It's defintely a MUST SEE. I give this film ***** stars out of ***** stars.  "},{"Title":"Painfully funny","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The description I got of this movie before I saw it was think the answering machine scene from swingers (possibly the most painful scene to watch in movie history) and imagine watching it for 2 hours. Well, he was right, I've never cringed my way through a movie quite like I did with this, Ben Stiller is hilarious as he screws up everything imaginable and Robert Diniro is excellent. 8/10 for comedy, 10/10 for pain "},{"Title":"The simple every-dayembarrassments of life","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The ideal cast for the part of Gaylord Focker was Ben Stiller. We can imagine a girl wanting to marry him but we can't imagine a father wanting him to be his son-in-law. I think Ben Stiller just had to play himself. The characters in this movie are not exaggerated. They exist, believe me. And that's what I find so great about it it discovers the simple every-day embarrassments of life. Life is not like in the movies things do not simply work!I didn't laugh very often during the movie, but I grinned without interruption from &#132;MARRY ME MAP` right until the end. For me, &#132;Meet the Parents` is one of the most perfect romantic comedies since let's say &#132;Four Weddings and a Funeral`.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seeing this film was a a pleasant surprise. I don't remember laughing so hard since *There's Something About Mary*. Not that I'm usually fond of outrageous comedies, but sometimes I am.The only cast member I knew when I got in the cinema was DeNiro. I didn't know about Teri Polo or Ben Stiller, and sure this was a good way to get to know them. I think she is very cute and not yet the spaghetti-like figure Hollywood seems to be obsessed with.   I enjoyed Robert DeNiro's comic side, something he hasn't showed too often, unfortunately, being Midnight Run the only exception as far as I know.Some detractors of Meet The Parents have come down really hard on it, saying the comic situations are too exaggerated, but that's what makes the movie so hilarious ok? I will not spoil it because wouldn't be fair to those who haven't seen the movie.It may be not perfect, but who cares? To me, it turned out to be better and funnier than expected. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEET THE PARENTS, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller. You go, guys! My favorite parts were when Greg (Ben Stiller) accidentally hit Debbie (Nicole DeHuff) in the eye and nose with a volleyball and when he verbally abused the flight attendant (Kali Rocha), which resulted in an interrogation from Norm (Bernie Sheredy) and then Jack (Robert De Niro), and when he imitated a bugler playing a fanfare right before saying, People, people, people, come get your revised itineraries. Even though I though that Robert De Niro gave a good performance as Jack, I thought that he was totally psychotic. This was because he couldn't seem to stop messing things up for Greg. Plus, he expected his daughters' (Nicole DeHuff and Teri Polo) boyfriends (Thomas McCarthy and Ben Stiller) to meet him and Dina (Blythe Danner) and then ask his permission before proposing to them. Also, I thought that Pam (Teri Polo) looked absolutely beautiful in all the fancy clothing that she wore -- Especially the maid of honor dress she wore at Bob (Thomas McCarthy) and Debbie's wedding. I especially liked Jack's tuxedo -- Especially with the top hat. If you ask me, that gave it a nice touch. The ending, however, made no sense to me. It's hard for me to explain why. In conclusion, I recommend this smash hit to all you Robert De Niro or Ben Stiller fans out there who have not seen it. You're in for a real treat and lots of laughs, so, go out there, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"A comedy for everyone","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is a movie about a male nurse Greg Focker, played by Ben Stiller, who is meeting his girlfriend's parents before proposing to her. His girlfriend, Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo,) has an over protective father Jack Byrnes, who is a former CIA agent (Robert De Niro.)  From the moment that Jack and Greg meet, Jack feels that he is not good enough for his daughter. So when Jack discovers that Greg is a male nurse, he never lets him forget it by bringing it up in conversation every time that he can. Many hilarious parts of the movie come when Greg is caught in a situation where he has to lie or break the `circle of trust,' which happens quite often.  Greg goes from breaking Debbie Byrnes' nose days before she was getting married to losing the dear family cat, Jinxies, to catching the house on fire as well as flooding the backyard with fluids from the septic tank, nearly ruining the wedding.  But the funniest part of movie is when you discover that Greg's real name was Gaylord, which meant that his full name was Gaylord Focker.  Greg's name was an effective form of a cheep laugh because it was somewhat vulgar but not overly done, and you could always get out at least a giggle when you heard De Niro yell out `Focker!' Even the music couldn't save Greg, when asked about the song `Puff the magic dragon', Greg explained to Jack about its drug meaning, literally `puffing a marijuana cigarette.'  This gave the illusion that Greg was a pothead. But the audience sympathized with Greg when he was kicked out of Jack's house.  Most of the things that Greg did wrong were because he loved Pam. He was just trying to gain Jack's approval so that he could marry Pam. Only after Greg left did Jack realize that Greg was the one for Pam.  Thus the perfect ending happens when Greg is allowed to propose to Pam. Overall, I feel that De Niro was magnificent in portraying the overprotective father because he was quick to jump on the character of Greg at any instant and he gave the impression of the overpowering head of the family.  This movie had an excellent supporting cast with Ben Stiller and Teri Polo.  Stiller, who also starred in There's Something About Mary, kept up to his usual self, providing plenty of comedy. Director, Jay Roach, who also directed the Austin Powers movies, didn't try anything fancy to overwhelm us, but showed a more sophisticated comedy. On a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being a masterpiece and 1 being not worthy for the space on the bottom of my garbage can, I give Meet the Parents a 7.  The movie has a good cast, good directing and a good story line with plenty of laughs.  The only problem is it isn't one of those movies that you see and you are like `wow,' and it changes the way you look certain aspects in life. Overall, it is one of the funniest, if not the funniest movie that I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Meet The Parents","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie! There are some really funny parts in it. It's a movie for people who just need a good laugh. My favorite part is about the cat! It's hilarious! I just hope that will never happen to me. The whole trip was a complete disaster. I really hope you go and watch this movie! "}{"Title":"Stiller's back talk","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Alright there are 200+ comments here and I'll keep this one brief. This was incredibly funny. Stiller and DeNiro make a great team. The cat was a little scene stealer. It's was great to see yummy Owen Wilson make a few scenes. Most of all the funniest parts are when Stiller's character is by himself and mimmics Jack's put downs such as I have n's can you milk me? when he's alone in the kitchen and while out driving looking for Mr. Jinx he mutters He's out there without food water or toilet. Very, very funny. I'm looking forward to Meet the Fockers. Peace. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of 2000","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You will not regret seeing this movie. It is so funny. From the opening scene at the hospital to when Robert DeNiro watches the video tape at the end to see if Jinx can flush the toilet it doesn't let up for a second.Ben Stiller plays a male-nurse by the name of Gregg falls in love with A school teacher Pam. When he wants to ask the question to marry him he finds out he has to ask Pam's father played by Robert DeNiro, Jack. When Gregg and Pam get an invite to stay at her parents house while her sister is having her wedding there that is Gregg's chance.  This is a comedy you won't want to miss. From getting spit on from a baby to hitting Pam's sister with a volleyball right in the nose to chasing Jynx on the house, losing him and bringing in a whole new cat Ben Stiller is in his best role since Happy Gilmore. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than I'd Expected","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My expectations for Meet the Parents weren't very high going into it, but I was pleasantly surprised by the time it was over.  Its one of those great disaster comedies, like What About Bob? (1991), when the protagonist arrives to a new place hoping for the best, but problem after problem arrives beyond his control, making our protagonist's life a living hell. There are several differences between the two films, but in Meet the Parents, the protagonist is being thwarted in every way by his girlfriend's father (Robert DeNiro, perfectly cast), an intimidating former CIA agent who is determined to prove that he (Greg, played by Ben Stiller) isn't good enough for her.  Many of the jokes in this film don't go bang, which is probably why mainstream audiences were somewhat disappointed by it.  The key to many of the jokes is in how predictable each is.  Such as an innocent little volleyball game in a pool, or a situation with a missing dog.  We discover how each little conflict will backfire against Greg before it happens, leaving us laughing before the actual event and laughing harder when it strikes.  DeNiro and Stiller have impeccable comic timing here.  DeNiro plays a character we love to hate, and his character gets the best of Greg in every situation.  Watching his reactions to Greg's goof-ups are as funny as it gets.I recommend you don't enter this film with high expectations.  It's a film that is simply fun and nothing more.O  O  O  O  O  O  O 1/2  "},{"Title":"Funny, but forgettable.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny, but forgettable comedy. The laughs are there, but there's not much else to fall back on, and maybe not as quite as funny as it could've been. Overall, Meet the Parents is a pretty good, but forgettable comedy. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEET THE PARENTS, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller. You go, guys! My favorite parts were when Greg (Ben Stiller) accidentally hit Debbie (Nicole DeHuff) in the eye and nose with a volleyball and when he verbally abused the flight attendant (Kali Rocha), which resulted in an interrogation from Norm (Bernie Sheredy) and then Jack (Robert De Niro), and when he imitated a bugle trumpeting a fanfare right before saying, People, people, people, come get your revised itineraries. I thought that he was REALLY psychotic. This was because he couldn't seem to stop messing things up for Greg. Plus, he expected his daughters' (Nicole DeHuff and Teri Polo) boyfriends (Thomas McCarthy and Ben Stiller) to meet him and Dina (Blythe Danner) and then ask his permission before proposing to them. Also, I thought that Pam (Teri Polo) looked VERY beautiful in all the fancy clothing that she wore -- Especially the maid of honor dress she wore at Bob (Thomas McCarthy) and Debbie's wedding. I especially liked Jack's tuxedo -- Especially with the top hat. If you ask me, that gave it a nice touch. The ending, however, made no sense to me. It's hard for me to explain why. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this smash hit to all you Robert De Niro or Ben Stiller fans out there who have not seen it. You're in for a real treat and a LOT of laughs, so, go out there, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.  "},{"Title":"Not As Funny As You Think","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never gave a second thought about seeing this movie until I caved in a bought a copy of it for the heck of it. I thought of it as a curiosity, but I had to know if it was as funny as everyone said it was (which it isn't, the one reason why I will never see Something About Mary). I just don't think it's funny to watch Ben Stiller struggle through a weekend trying to get along with his parents as the movie and the script have already made it impossible for him to do so. Robert DeNiro is one of my favorite actors. He is a very likeable guy even playing a hard-nosed father-in-law. He does a very good job doing comedy, I'd like to see him do it a lot more, but the movie just isn't as funny as everyone thinks it is. DeNiro and the cat steal all the best scenes, and Stiller almost comes off as a comedy partner, but this movie doesn't really live up to its hype.  "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents, finds comedy in the anxiety-filled experiences of its central character when he meets his girlfriend's demanding parents.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not having chosen the best time to propose to his beloved Pam (Teri Polo), Greg Focker, a modest and sensible male-nurse with an unfortunate last name, soon discovers that the surest path to pleasing Pam and honoring her family starts by earning the trust of her conservative father. When Pam invites Greg to spend the next few days with her parents in New York, where they will attend her sister's wedding rehearsal, Greg realizes this is the best opportunity to meet the parents and ask for Pam's hand in marriage. Soon after their arrival at the Byrnes' mansion, while trying to dismiss the ill-experience of having lost his suitcase in transit, Greg greets Jack (Robert De Niro) and his wife (Blythe Danner) with optimism. Yet Greg 's efforts to be liked and respected aim in all the wrong directions to either disappoint or offend Jack, a retired horticulturist who lacks a sense of humor and who decides to become Greg's most adverse judge.Meet the Parents follows Greg Focker along a comical series of misadventures aimed at testing the character's composure as he struggles to disprove his faultfinding father-in-law. Never abandoning its central character's good intentions yet emphasizing its antagonist's unattainable consent, Meet the Parents also creates a few bittersweet moments as it questions the future of the character's plans to wed his increasingly distant girlfriend. Meet the Parents successfully exploits the viewer's familiarity with such stressful situations as proposing, meeting a loved one's parents or planning a wedding, and creates its comedy by pushing to the extreme its subject's numerous embarrassing and compromising positions.  "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly the funniest movie ever made.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so we have our hero, Greg Focker(Ben Stiller), who is taking his girlfriend Pam to her parents' home over the weekend.  Her father (Robert De Niro) and Mother (Blythe Danner), are a happily-married couple who are the most peculiar people in the world because they've actually lost their sense of humor.  Greg, walking in his girlfriend's parents' home, gets disaproval immediatly, which starts his brilliant and hilarious adventure to honesty. Ben Stiller couldn't be funnier and Robert De Niro(in his you talking to me role again), couldn't either.  Together, they make the worst enemies between father-in-law and son-in-law that I have ever seen.  It's 90 minutes of non-stop laughs, and makes my top-ten.  Thank you Meet the Parents. Meet the Parents has a brilliant script, so brilliant that is worth watching over 100 time. It is also worth watching with the family, I can't count how many times MY parents broke into laughs, probably reminded of their first encounter with their parents-in-law. All the characters are brilliant and hilarious, exactly like the movie. That's why I say it's the funniest movie ever. "},{"Title":"Maybe very funny","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This could well be a pretty good comedy, I definitely giggled at a few moments, but sadly saw it seven hours into a long haul flight and wasn't really in the best mood to enjoy it. De Niro's so-called self parody role wears a little thin, mostly composed of him gurning every now and then, and Ben Stiller repeats his useless tit act from Something About Mary and Flirting with Disaster, while the rest of the cast mostly dither around in the background (apart from ..Owen Wilson.. as Stiller's rival, his girl's ex, who tears up some scenery with a good over-the-top camp act), but basically it's situation and slapstick, with a fair old whack of toilet humour thrown in. Seemed to be well-paced and well thought out the, with a pretty high ratio of decent gags, shame I wasn't gagging for a fag or I might have been more in the mood for it.   "},{"Title":"A Modern Comedy Classic","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Few films can make laugh out loud. This film had me rolling! Ben Stiller is hilarious. His mannerisms, his wit, and his timing are impeccable as he turns in another great comedic performance.  Stiller is Greg Fokker, a man in love. Fokker wants to ask his girl to marry him, but first he must get her father's permission. The film is about his trip to meet the parents...with hilarious results!The plot isn't new or original, but its presentation is very very good and very very funny. Stiller sets a new standard for screwup boyfriends everywhere. De Niro is perfect as intimidating and overprotective father. A great supporting cast. Great direction with almost flawless comedic timing make this one a true winner. FINAL RATING 8/10 A modern comedic classic. Movie fans of all genres can find something to enjoy. Highly recommended!Noob Aalox "}{"Title":"Definitely a classic","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie today and I loved it.  When I saw the previews for it on TV, I thought it looked quite stupid.  That just proves that you can't make a proper judgment on a movie just by seeing its previews.   Male Nurse, Greg(or Gaylord)Focker is engaged to teacher Pamela Martha Byrnes.  I liked the scene at the beginning of the film where the children at Pam's school keep screwing up on the letters that they use trying to spell out MARRY ME PAM (on one try, they spell out MARRY ME MAP).  After Pam agrees, Greg has to meet the parents.  The mother is just fine and likes Greg, but Jack(played by Danny DeVito)the father is a real jerk.  I didn't like him too much.  One part I found funny was where Greg was eating dinner with Pam and her parents.  He brought out a bottle of wine for them to drink.  He popped the cork, which hit  a vase that contained the ashes of Jack's mother.  The vase breaks and Jinks the Himalyan cat rushes over to the ashes and urinates in them.  The acting in this film was wonderful.  So if you're a fan of comedy such as this, you should watch this movie.  It's definitely a classic.        "},{"Title":"Another funny one by Ben Stiller","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first thing I thought when I saw the previews for this was Ben Stiller is in another There's Something About Mary type movie. My second thought was I HAVE to see it!Now although Meet the Parents does not quite match up to Mary, it is still pretty funny. The whole key to this film is Ben Stiller being type cast as another clumsy, bumbling fool in love, meaning well, but screwing up at just about everything. Noone else can play that kind of role like he can and if anyone else was cast as Greg Focker, this movie would have been stupid and boring. It is almost a one-man show with Ben stealing all the scenes. The way he tries to talk to his future father-in-law Jack (Robert DeNiro) is hilairious. The scenes with the cat had me rolling with laughter, but that could be just me since I really appreciate cat humor.Very much of the plot (especially the next funny incident)is incredibly predictable, but it's still a lot of fun to sit through. It's a good movie if you want to kick back and relax and forget a bad day. It will leave you smiling. "},{"Title":"*** Routine but hilarious","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the most successful comedies of the year is this charming little romance about a quirky nurse (Ben Stiller) who is brought to his girlfriend's up-state, upper-class, uptight house in New England to meet her parents. Things seem fine at first, but soon Stiller realizes that the menacing father of the house (Robert DeNiro) really is after his hide. Blythe Danner is lovely as the girl's mother, and Teri Polo (who remembers her from The House of the Spirits as the dead Rosa? I do!) is appropriately luminous as the lucky young lady. Features a hilarious cameo by Owen Wilson as a millionaire who does carpentry on the side to follow in the footsteps of Jesus Christ.   "},{"Title":"Good, bad and ok.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well. At first, it was fun. Real laugh and all are quiet reasonable and plausible. Meaning, it does happen in real life. But then it gets stupid. Unrealistic. Yeah, well, that is comedy, it is NOT supposed to realistic.At the end it is fine. So I would say it is ok to watch it.For me, comedy either has to start ridiculously impossible or close to reality and possible. Somewhere in between will just spoil the fun. Either you are totally into the fantasy land or you are a little off the realty but still possible.Going cross and back and forth, narhhhhh.. I don't think so.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At first I thought it just be a gimmick type movie but I was pleasantly surprised. It had a lot of good ideas and it reaches its goals. It goes a little overboard in some parts but generally its a real funny movie. DeNiro is hilarious in this one. He's just so over the top unbelieveably cruel. Gaylord Focker is the funniest most outrageous name for a character I have ever heard. The racing scene between Deniro and Focker was my favourite moment, just the looks on their faces made me laugh. It wasn't the best funny movie I ever seen thats for sure and that certainly is not what i am trying to imply but it is undeniably good. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the best and funniest comedies","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the parents is one of the best and funniest comedies I have ever seen. When I saw the movie for the first time, I had tears in my eyes from laughing the whole time. Robert DeNiro is just brilliant in the role of the father, even though this role is different from those he usually plays. His excellent performance is definitely what makes this movie so special. But also Ben Stiller deserve a lot of credit. He is perfectly chosen for the role of &#145;Greg Focker'. He has just gotten the right face for it.  And don't forget the dialogue. The whole movie is full of memorable quotes. If you like the film and don't have it on DVD yet, then get it soon. The DVD offers a lot of special features like deleted scenes and, what's most amusing, outtakes. My rating is definitely 10/10. "},{"Title":"I bet you would, Panama Red.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard during this movie... Yeah, yeah, yeah.  The critcs loved it and whatnot.  But, to me, this one ties with High Fidelity (almost).  I'm not going to go into anything about how great the actors were, but EVERYONE did a good job.  What I will praise, is the script.  I could totally relate to the whole situation of meeting that significant other's parents.  I can't begin to imagine the humilitation.....  Man,  some of the things that happen to this poor guy,  you almost feel sorry for him.  But, you're too busy laughing to really think about it.  Check this movie out.  It IS worth your time and you WILL enjoy it.  Deniro is outstanding, as always, and Ben Stiller delivers his best performance so far.  This movie is PHat.  (LOL)  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movie I've ever seen.  Ben Stiller plays Gregg Focker, the male nurse who only want to impress his girlfriends parents before he proposes.  As he gets himself into series of humiliating hard to watch yet funny  events.  Ben and Robert make a great team.  Its a fun movie for everyone.  Over all I give it a A+. "},{"Title":"Hahaha..what?..hahaha... ;-)","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even reading the title makes me laugh again. How could I criticize a movie while laughing about it ??? Well, I'll try.A guy wants to marry his love - but just one moment before he wants to ask her for it she notes in a subsentence that her father is of the old style and prefers it to be asked for the hands of his daugthers. Oh, no problem, the man thinks, and tries just to do exactly that.And then - oh my god, how can I describe this ? Its just too funny.  Well, in short, the two meet the parents of the woman at a weekend, and its becoming a really horrible one, with one catastrophe just directly following the other.Aaarg, my stomach starts to hurt from all the laughing. Ben Stiller is excellent, Robert DeNiro is of course again an acting god, and the movie is just too good to be true.Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Somewhat above average, lukewarm","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There were moments in this film when I was moved to laugh or feel genuine empathy for the characters. I think that's the most positive remark I can make. I felt a lot of the humor was of the tedious unfortunate-misunderstanding-or-miscommunication variety.Also, I don't think Robert DeNiro turns in the performance he usually does. For the most part, though, he and the rest of the cast make it work. I never really felt everything come together here the way it has in other movies involving Ben Stiller or DeNiro.Having said that, I'm glad I saw it, and it's probably better than a lot of what is out there. "}{"Title":"Funny, plausible comedy.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay Roach is the acclaimed director of movies such as the so-so Austin Powers and the dreadful Mystery, Alaska. In Meet The Parents, Roach takes on the more flexible and less contrived setting of meeting one's in-laws (as opposed to 60's spy-mania and trying to make Russell Crowe Canadian).Ben Stiller plays Greg Fokker (yes...) a male nurse in love with Pam, a sweet kindergarten teacher (played by Helen Hunt-dah, Teri Polo...). One day, coming home from work, Greg decides to pop Pam the big question. However, Pam gets a phone call from her sister who just got engaged. So Pam and Greg head out to Pam's parents' place. Greg loses his baggage on the plane, with the wedding ring safely stowed in it. Once they get to Pam's parents' place, Greg is soon to notice that Pam's dad is a little weird. Jack Byrnes (Robert DeNiro) is a cat-loving retiree who has put cameras everywhere in his house. Jack doesn't like Greg, and wants that to be known. To Greg, to Pam, to pretty much everyone.Meet The Parents explores a situation that all of us, to some extent, have faced meeting someone's family for the first time. You're not really sure what to say because there's always someone you may (and will) offend. Meet The Parents succeeds into putting these feelings to film. The uncomfortable silences, the stutterings, the I'm-screwed-now looks. Meet The Parents is a plausible comedy about real life (that is, until some things happen that I can't reveal here).Ben Stiller is playing the role he always plays, that of the normal, hard-working guy who is being mistreated by life. Since this is normal fare for Stiller, he is good in the role. Robert DeNiro, however, takes a fresh turn. He isn't a complete buffoon like he was in Analyze This. He uses the aforementioned silences and characteristics from his previous movies. The characters of Travis Bickle, Rupert Pupkin, Jake LaMotta and a few cops he played are all found in some traits of Jack Byrnes. Teri Polo is good as is Blythe Danner as Pam's mother, but they have lesser roles with less meat. Owen Wilson shows up in a small, unimportant role.The very first joke in Meet The Parents is about a catheter. Never a good thing. But then, about ten minutes after, they go to Jack's house. And then the jokes are good. It's a non-stop barrage of memorable scenes. I was surprised about how they strayed from the usual gross-out jokes. The only ones I thought were gross-out were when the cat was using the toilet and when the septic tank busts. Meet The Parents is pretty smart and highly watchable for a comedy by Jay Roach. I'd recommend it. 8/10  "},{"Title":"too too funny","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       I originally saw the trailer of this film and I didn't think it was going to be that good. Good thing that a friend of mine took me to see it (***Note NOT the same friend who took me to see Super Star).                 I never realized you could milk a cat-)   "},{"Title":"Good Comedy","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie would be an unbearable tragedy if it were a true story; but since it's not, it's hilarious.  Laugh-out-loud funny.  Many of the physical gags are along the line of National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation.The ending is a little unbelievable, but still one of the funniest movies I've seen in quite a while. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although this movie was full of wit and comedy, it still had room for a story-line, which made it all the better. There were a couple unbelievable things in the movie, but for the most part, it was very clever, and something definitely worth renting. "},{"Title":"A funny movie, some of the time.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has wide appeal to everyone from children to the elderly.  But from the start I thought it was trying too hard and ended up like Ben Stiller's character in the flick, just embarrassing itself.  There are a lot of funny moments in the movie, many of them seen in the trailor mind you, but there are a lot of moments when it's just taking things past the point of funny.  It has a slow start, a friend 20 minutes into the film asked me, when does it get funny  It does get funny eventually but has a few dynamite moments with a lot of filler. Robert DeNiro is excellent in anything I've seen him in and as the overbearing father/former FBI spy he's perfect, Ben Stiller who I think is not funny, isn't that bad, but then he's not great, and not even that funny except when the script writes it out for him. Overall I'd say this film is worth a few laughs but not a solid 100 minutes of comedy.  A few standout scenes are the airport and the dinner scene, if they could carry that out through the whole movie it'd be a 10. "},{"Title":"Right Movie for the Wrong Reason.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was set out to be a hysterical, even the Grossout film. However I didn't get that impression when I saw this. I think it is a excellent romance movie, and a ok comedy.Despite the physical humor and impossibly bad circumstances surrounding Greg (aka Gay Lord) Focker (BEN STILLER) his trip is not completely out of this world. Almost everyone has a nightmare story when meeting your boy/girl-friends' parents. I for one can relate the story depicted in this movie. Although not as bad, but certainly memorable.Even if it's rated Comedy, the film does present a drama of relationships, how the Daughter Loves Greg; how the farther-in-law from Hell (ROBERT DeNIRO) leans to accept Greg for what he is. It proves Love is inseparable. Even it's a CIA agent in between.it's laughs were all funny and good. But it does not bring it self above the bunch with that. (in fact Jim Carrey does it much better) What really sets MEET THE PARENTS apart is the fact that, beneath the laughingstock surface, there is a serious human story of love to be told.I give it an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"For Fathers with Kids - You'll Relate to it!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents was thoroughly entertaining.The story provides an easy-to-follow and perhaps a little predictable plot which was always going to have a happy ending - the kind of feel good film which movie-goers enjoy and perfect for the hopeless romantics amongst us.As a Father with three daughters, I could relate to many of the Father's antics very well.The casting of Robert DeNiro as the over-protective father was perfect and he really makes the film.  Strong performances from the other actors make this movie a must-see, even if only on video/DVD. "},{"Title":"Familiarize Yourself With Laughs!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems that all of America has gone to see `Meet The Parents.' I do have to admit that it did take me awhile to `Meet The Parents.' Which explains why I always tend to break the romantic law once I meet some potential in-laws. But that is another story. I just recently saw `Meet The Parents' and did think it was a funny film, but not as funny as I though it was going to be. That was probably because of the hoopla. I guess I should have familiarized myself with `Meet The Parents' when it first came out in the theatre. But that is what happens for being a lazy `focker.' Oh `god!' I just thought Robert Deniro was so funny as the overprotective `father', and there is something about Ben Stiller that is making him the acting king of the bad luck characters in cinema today. By the way- even though most of you know, this film is about the hilarious bad luck situations that happen to Stiller's character when he stays in at his girlfriend's parents house for the first time. So go and `Meet Those Parents.' You will be a true `focker' if you miss this funny flick. **** Good  "},{"Title":"Good comedy, like it very much","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't have a chance to see it at the cinema, then get it at home video. This movie is one of the most enjoyable and comical comedy i have ever seen. The story is excellent, goes as plan and the casts are well picked too. They all act perfectly.Haven't seen much of Mr DeNiro movie on comedy, he obviously did a very good job in this one, like him much in his character.The part in the airport is also one of the best. The acts seem pure and original.Worth it and excellent movie, well done. "},{"Title":"Light hearted comedy for everybody.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS IN THE THIRD PARAGRAPH.Leave it to Ben Stiller to return to basics when any other movie he makes does not do well. After ho hum success with KEEPING THE FAITH and MYSTERY MEN, Ben tackles love again for the first time since THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY and produces a tremendous hit. And bravo to not only Ben, but every actor involved too. The acting effort from everyone is perfectly done to create a well done comedy. So well done you might even miss some of the flaws. MEET THE PARENTS is far more subtler than MARY in dumb gross out gags, but that is what makes this movie far more appealing. MEET THE PARENTS is shorter, doesn't require you to check your brain on the shelf and uses some of the basic comedy gags perfectly. Mind you some of them don't work well (to be discussed later), but to keep the story moving, MEET THE PARENTS wins deservedly the praise people give it.Greg is ready to propose to his girl friend Pam. A badly timed phone call reveals though that it is better for Greg to get the approval of her parents first, especially her father, Jack (played extremely well by Robert De Niro). Can Greg win Jack 's approval and get in 'the circle of trust?'Some comedy moments are a little too predictable and will have plenty of the film buffs' eyes roll. The perfect example is the fate of the altar, even the fate of the cat seemed a bit too obvious. Why it succeeds is how it happens. Poor Greg tries a bit too hard in every category and the fate of our favorite loser is what makes this movie great. When he is around, something bad will happen! During the 'car chase' scene, nothing was more hilarious than the look of Greg's eyes while looking at Jack. It seemed as if they were bulging out of his face! After tragedy strikes the altar and everyone comes outside to look, Greg's lunge into the house is too comical but perfect timing. The one character who seemed out of place though was Kevin, Pam's ex boyfriend. Whether he was really necessary or not is the main question. Not that Owen Wilson played the role badly, he was great too, but you could have put any single, rich neighbor that is about Pam 's age and Greg would still be jealous. It would have saved the movie from dumb lines like, Oh, our relationship was just, you know, physical. Save from some of the predictable scenes and the dragging, unnecessary at times dialogue, MEET THE PARENTS is a great light hearted comedy that everyone will enjoy at least a couple amusing laughs. Two thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Silly but lots of laughs","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In need of some light comedy? MEET THE PARENTS with DiNiro, Stiller, Danner and Polo is a delightful, sophisticated slapstick of a film. Sooner or later, every prospective husband must meet the bride's folks on her territory. Every dread one might have harbored is realized in an incredible series of pratfalls. Recommend it for those in need of a little laughter.  "},{"Title":"Very, Very Funny!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was even funnier than I had expected it to be. Yes, at first it started off dry, but it got really good the second that they arrived at the Parents House. This is when all of the good comedy happens. Ben Stiller is very funny as the nice-guy boyfriend that at sometimes it seems that he can do nothing right. The reason it is funny is, because most guys can relate to this. All boyfriends get nervous and screw-up when they are meeting the parents. They will either say something that is totally wrong for the occasion, or they will make a fool of themselves. Also, Robert DeNiro was suprisingly funny too. I highly recommend this movie. I really think that you will enjoy it. After all, it was directed by Jay Roach, the guy who directed both Austin Powers, so you know that it will be amusing. I give it a 10/10! Great Movie! "},{"Title":"Straightjackets should be handed out to keep you dying from laughter !","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently saw this film and it was even funnier than I had imagined ! All my face muscles were worn out from laughing ! The way James Rebhorn pronounces the word  Focker  is just something else ! How does he do it ? The laughing muscles  zigomatics  are kept in constant use throughout this film and I would recommend it to anyone who's feeling down in the dumps. Robert de Niro gives a commanding performance as the ever so serious father-in-law. The only question I have is  the future fiancée must have known how things would turn out, especially as she lied to her betrothed about her own father's profession, and she seems rather ill at ease to deal with the embarrassing situations that occur ! One of the best comedies of recent years ! "},{"Title":"Roll in the aisles funny!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Went to rent this movie Saturday night at Blockbuster and it was sold out.  Got the free rain check and saw it yesterday.  It was hysterical.  Additionally, when Stiller first meets DeNiro, I felt as uncomfortable as Stiller did.  DeNiro and Stiller play so well off each other.  I was literally rolling on the floor laughing.  This is a funny movie.  Stiller's dead pan looks and DeNiro's sly smirk work perfectly.  Yes, the situations are a bit far fetched, but it's a comedy! I don't normally comment about other comments, but in general, there were some comments that talk about lack of surprise or lack of story or lack of interest.  I am wondering what makes people interested in a comedy in the first place, laughing.  If you can't just sit back and enjoy the laughs in this movie, that is so sad.  Of course it's not a thinking movie, just let the good times roll over you!  "},{"Title":"A *Good* movie","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having seen the previews for this movie, I was ready for belly-laughs by the score.  This was a very funny movie but I was disappointed when I found myself chuckling instead of guffawing throughout it.  It was very predictable. (You just KNEW his luggage was going to get lost)  I just love Robert DeNiro and Ben Stiller.  But I felt they didn't hit it off as well as DeNiro and Billy Crystal in Analyze This.I'd recommend this movie if you're in the mood for a good comedy.  But definitely not for belly laughs. "},{"Title":"A funny movie, not a deep one","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was extremely funny. I usually am not a fan of films with cheesy plotlines like this one, but I must admit that in this movie, the funny parts far over shadowed the slightly shallow plot. Ben Stiller was great as usual in here, and Robert De'Niro gave a great performance as a nosy, but loviing dad. This movie is one movie that lived up to the hype. "},{"Title":"Good comedy, some ribald humor, I rate it a solid 7 of 10.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CAUTION -- THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS --I put this film in the general category that What About Mary and Analyze This fall into. Ben Stiller is in one, Robert De Niro in the other.  These two stars, plus Terri Polo, make the film, Meet the Parents.  Make no mistake, this is over-the-top humor.  It starts with the name, Focker, of Stiller's character. At one point the parents say, If they get married and have children, she'll be known as 'mother Focker.' In another, since his real name is 'Gaylord', the characters observe, he is a 'Gay Focker'. In one scene, trying to retrieve the family cat on the roof, Focker sets the leaves on fire in the gutter, dislodges an electrical line, and ends up burning up the backyard perparations for the wedding. Later he finds a different cat, paints its tail black, and the cat later tears up the inside of the house.They all take turns making fun of the fact that he is a nurse instead of a doctor.  They refer to him as the male nurse. The father, De Niro, is a former CIA and has hidden cameras all over, and late in the film proves that Focker flushed the toilet that flooded the back yard.  A truck gets stuck and throws feces all over the bystanders. The father doesn't believe any man is good enough for his favorite daughter (Polo) and that is really the root of the story anyway. The boyfriend (Stiller) is dead set on proving himself, and only gets accepted after he totally screws everything up, then finally becomes comfortable being truthful after he has lost, he thinks, everything (Polo). In the hands of lesser actors and director this could have easily been a 3 film.  But I rate it 7 because it is well done and isn't intended to be taken too seriously. Like Mary and Analyze This.  Terri Polo became one of my favorites in her role in Northern Exposure. There are few women more attractive, and she is also a decent actor. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious!!!!!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard about this film, I thought that sounds a right laugh and thats what it turned out to be. It had me and my mate in tears. Robert De Niro was really spectacular as the over-protective father. My favourite bits were when Gay Lord Focker was on the lying machine and confessed to his father in law he had watched hardcore porn. "},{"Title":"Don't expect Mary","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At $165 Million, this film was number seven at the box office for 2000.  Though it is funny in parts, as is often the case with blockbusters I am left scratching my head at its runaway popularity.  Comparisons with `There's Something About Mary' are unavoidable.  Ben Stiller plays the same kind of sincere but hapless character in each film and they both have a wry and offbeat presentation.  However, the humor in this film is far more lowbrow than `Mary'.  It is also highly predictable.  The least perceptive of viewers can see the outcome of each gag a mile away.I suppose there is an element of identification with the premise, since most people remember their own consternation at the big meeting with the parents of their beloved.  Perhaps the appeal of the film is that we love to laugh at people who are more luckless than we are, and Greg (Ben Stiller) clearly has no equal when it comes to the bad luck he has in this film.Ben Stiller is fast establishing himself as one of the most accomplished Sad Sacks in film today.  He portrays characters with such sincerity and misfortune that you can't help but love him.  In this film, he continues that tradition with an outstanding performance as Greg.  Robert De Niro, who is a great dramatic actor, continues his recent trend away from serious drama and toward offbeat comedy roles (`Flawless', `Analyze This', `Rocky and Bullwinkle').  Although his very presence in films like this is comical due to its incongruity, he is not a particularly good comedian.  I'm looking forward to seeing him in his latest film `Fifteen Minutes' which is a more serious dramatic role better suited to his enormous talent.  I was very impressed with Teri Polo, who played Pam.  She has genuineness and an affable nature that is well suited for romantic comedy.This is a good comedy, but nowhere near as good as the box office would lead us to believe.  I rated it a 7/10.  It is a fun flick with absurdly exaggerated humor and numerous belly laughs, but don't expect it to be as good as `Mary'.  "},{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its no secret that Ben Stiller is funny as hell but it came as a shock to find that Robert Denero also has a lighter side as well, yes Mr. Leg breaker himself is funny I found myself laughing more at what Denero was doing than Stiller (One of the funniest actors in my opinon) I highly recommend this movie to people who are sick and tired of seeing movies that are potentialy entertaining but fall short and those in the mood for a good laugh. "}{"Title":"I've seen this before...","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In real life. There is something about Meet the Parents that usually leaves you thinking I've lived through this before. Everyone I saw this with could relate at one point or another with Greg, which made the humor so effective. You get to care so much about the main character because you actually feel you could have been at one time or another him.I? Well, a parent of an ex-girlfriend of mine was a criminologist. You can imagine how hard I laughed during the interrogation scene.If you have ever dated someone, you owe to yourself to watch this movie. It's hilarious, and Robert de Niro and Ben Stiller won't disappoint you. What a chemistry! "},{"Title":"The funniest Gay Focker i have ever seen!","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro come up trumps with this very funny movie about a male nurse who wants to marry his girlfriend but finds out he needs to get her fathers permission. They go to her parents house and that is where the fun starts. Robert De Nero is definately getting a lot better at comedy and in this he is very funny as an ex CIA over protective father. There are many funny scenes in this film including the Cat and the Urn sketch and the airport scenes and Ben Stiller carries them off to perfection. Very enjoyable. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I met them twice!!!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie my sister and I walked out thinking it was just okay...but then I would see something that reminded me of it, like the preview on TV or a cat, and I would crack up.  The more I thought about it the more I liked it.  So much that when my husband and I finally got a night out without our kids I took him to see it too.  The good thing is, it was even funnier the second time around!  Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller work well off/with each other and Owen Wilson is quickly becoming a favorite actor of mine. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There was nothing really good in the movies, some movies that sounded good were coming out the next weekend but I didn't really know what to go see. So my friends and I decided to go see Meet The Parents. It looked okay, but not really too great.When it started I got really interested in it. Then it started getting really funny! I laughed the whole time! This movie is GREAT! I don't think I laughed so hard since Austin Powers. This movie was so funny. I don't think they advertised it as well as they should have because I had no clue it was going to be so funny. It was the number one movie that weekend and I don't know how many more weekends after that it was, but if you like comedy movies I really suggest you going to see this! "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is a very funny film, I saw it not really knowing what to expect. I was pleasantly surprised, De niro and Stiller work together well and the story is definately believable. I mean, meeting your potentially future inlaws can be pretty...let's say, uncomfortable. So I'm sure a lot of us guys can relate to some of Mr. Fokkers feelings about meeting the parents. Meet the Parents Is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatres & boy, was it ever funny!  I love comedies, Ben Stiller would do so many things -- so stupid, but hilariously!  He doesn't seem like the type of guy a father would want his daughter to marry..but he tries so hard to try to impress her family that he just makes thing worse! Great video for the whole family to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Way better than Analyze This","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well I'm not going to make this another neverending comment, but I'll make it short. This is a god comedy and to those expecting very idiotic scenes because of Ben Stiller, you are right, there are some, but not enough to spoil the film, which is almost everything a love comedy should be. This is a good one, so go and see it. Oh yes, do not make the same mistake I did. I really laughed my ass off watching this one and I actually forgot it in the theater (very funny, I know (this is how stupid this film is sometimes)).8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Farelli brothers could have done it better","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot say it was a disappointment that I felt after this movie, but I really felt sorry for Robert De Niro, who falls lower and lower after his recent attempts as a comedy star. Remember Flawless, Analyze it? I also recall his last performance in Men of Honour.. A question Mr. De Niro, are you going to show us the level of performance you had 10 years ago or so, or should I put the film out of my agenda when I see your name in the cast?Anyway, other cast members were not any better. Ben Stiller still tries to get dividend from his once-winning role in There's something about Mary. But this material was too raw, and it did not have the level of Farelli's movie.In total, I think the toilet-jokes already make the public yawning. I am sure next summer we will see something like You, yourself and Irene, Meet my grand-parents or There's nothing about Cameron Diaz. But isn't it a time to find something new in comedy genre?I heard that the studio was already preparing the Meet the Parents - 2..Goshh! I wouldn't survive the sequel.In one sentence Go and see it if there's no other good comedies in your local theater.   "},{"Title":"De Niro does it again","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is very difficult to think of any other actor than De Niro being able to provoke genuine emotions and laughter at the same time as he does in the urn scene in this movie and as he did in his monologue  during the shooting in Analyze this. Only great actors can accomplish such degree of truth in absolutely ridiculous situations. He's so great that he can make any scene memorable. I believe his work is one of the great assets of this comedy that starts at a pace it can not always keep.Ben Stiller proves the most adequate match and the whole cast is perfect.  "},{"Title":"An Outrageous Movie...","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       Meet the Parents has a great cast; Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro. This makes it a watchable film already.  Stiller wants to propose to his girlfriend but decides to get the permission of her father first- a big mistake!  From then on it's on going laughs and it never stops!         There are quite a few rather very outrageous bits but apart from that it's really good.         In this film you cannot predict the funny parts so it just makes it even better! "}{"Title":"Very Pleased With This Movie","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is a wonderful movie, especially if you feel like laughing and laughing and then laughing some more.  The main characters are great, but I believe one of the funniest scenes is the one that involves the flight attendant, played by Kali Rocha.  When it's released in video format, check it out at your local video store.  You'll love it. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller in trouble again...","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A comedy, not brighter than a sitcom, starring Ben Stiller and Robert deNiro. Not many things to comment on, except that the script seems like written by a team again, because there are tiny bits missing I believe.Well Ben Stiller is again in trouble, except that he has no hair gel to meddle with, instead the father of his fiancee, who is almost paranoidly obsessed with his daughter, and the family cat. Not a bit of improvement on acting skills in Stiller's compartment, De Niro is the same, shining and leaving the audience in sheer curiosity why does he act in these ludicrous movies? If there are no movies to go and see other than this, OK; but if you have time and an alternative to Meet The Parents, just wait until they release it on tape, rent it, just laugh through it, and forget about it in an hour. "},{"Title":"One of, if not, the funniest movies of 2000!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Meet the Parents was a hilarious movie.  One of the reasons is because it was well casted.  Ben Stiller, everything bad happens to him, he's intimidated and insulted constantly is that not what you think of when you think of Ben Stiller, in movies like There's Something About Mary.  Robert Deniro, mysterious, seemingly conniving, an over-all sense of intimidation and violence is that also not what you think of when you hear his name.      If you like movies where bad things constantly happen to someone, like in The Big Lebowski, you'll like this movie.  This movie is full of great scenes as well as great lines.  Greg Focker has to be the most unlucky character in movie history.  All this bad stuff happens to him although he's completely innocent.  And the movies not just a bunch of situations with bad stuff happening to Ben Stiller, it has a good ending that ties together the whole movie and makes all the bad stuff worth while.    This is a great date movie if you're sick of all that genuine romance stuff!  Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"The best comedy of the year 2000","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet The Parents is a revelation. A great script, superb cast and very solid direction from Jay Roach (director of Austin Powers 1 & 2) are all redeeming factors. Ben Stiller stars as Greg Focker (what a surname) who has plans to marry his beautiful girlfriend Pam, played by Teri Polo. However once he's met the parents (Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner) he begins to have second thoughts.    Full of comedy moments and sharp one-liners, Meet The Parents is by far the best comedy of 2000, because it does not need gross-out moments to provide laughs, whereas flicks like Road Trip and Scary Movie do.    If you don't see this film and like it, you need your head examined. A fun movie recommended for almost anyone.  "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a very nice comedy. It made me laugh from beginning to end. I like comedies, because they make me happy and relaxed. However, in this film some parts are too absurd. Although they are funny (e.g. the name of the main character is `Greg Fokker'). Personally I don't think anyone's parents would give them a name like this.  The actor Ben stiller suits the role perfectly.  I enjoyed watching this film. I would recommend this film to anyone who wants to have a good laugh as this film is the funniest movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Right, that's it, the wedding's off","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This highly enjoyable comedy is based on a simple premise that we can all easily relate too, the first efforts of someone to introduce their partner to the prospective in-laws. Even if you haven't had this problem directly, it's easy to empathise, and surely everyone has been in the awkward situation of being a guest in someone's house and being petrified of putting a foot wrong. There is plenty of scope for humour with this situation and there are also several great set pieces as the weekend takes a turn for the disastrous. Even when they seem fairly predictable, each one hits home and gives a great payoff.Ben Stiller plays pretty much the same kind of role here as he did in 'There's Something About Mary', but that's no problem as his everyman likeability means you root for him throughout his tribulations. As Greg Fokker, he is desperate to impress his girlfriend's dad with a view to asking him for his blessing for her hand in marriage. Robert De Niro is great as the father who is not everything he first seems, and shows a knack for comic timing which you wouldn't expect of such a heavyweight actor.Even if the ending is slightly contrived, it's great fun getting there with laughs aplenty. One for those who can reminisce and those who will be filled with dread anticipation alike. "},{"Title":"A hilarious, ingenious comedy, with many laugh out loud moments!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see Meet the Parents a few days ago, with high hopes for the film. I had heard only good reviews from friends, and I am a big fan of both De Niro and Stiller.  I was not disappointed. The film is about Greg Focker(Stiller) and his planned marriage proposal to Pam(Polo).  But before he can propose to Pam , he first needs to meet her father Jack(De Niro), and gain his approval, and his permission to propose. Things, however, do not go quite as Greg would have planned. De Niro is superb as the over protective, suspicious father.  He showed in Analyse This that he has a talent for comedy, and there is further evidence of this in Meet the Parents.  His comic timing is spot on, and there are very few actors around, who I believe could have played this character with more style. How was Ben Stiller as Greg Focker(this name was the catalyst of many an amusing scene)?  I have been a fan of Stiller since There's Something About Mary, and his performance in this film has only enhanced my opinion of him.My only criticism of this film, is that I feel they could have given Owen Wilson a slightly bigger role.  He showed how funny he can be in Shanghi Noon, but was not really given the opportunity to shine in this film. On the whole, this is an immensely  enjoyable movie, that will leave everybody with a sense of humour, thoroughly entertained! "},{"Title":"Nothing bad to say","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed the film very much,and I didn't noticed how fast the time flew because of my enjoyment.I laughed,a lot.The performances are good especially Stiller and De Niro(who's approach to comedy is as serious as one can expect from him). The only thing I didn't like is the happy ending but that's what you get in a romantic comedy.Go and see what happen when a comedy is good and make you laugh as a comedy should "},{"Title":"2 fabulous actors","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you mix 2 great actors like Robert de Niro and Ben Stiller, and a good well written script, the result could only be a good movie.Meet the Parents is the story of a guy, Ben Stiller, who wants to marry his girlfriend, Teri Polo, but before that has to meet her parents. And when the girl's dad, Robert de Niro, is an ex-CIA agent, the things can only get complicated.Robert de Niro is absolutely great, and after the funny Analyze This, he shows again that he can be a great comedian. Ben Stiller is the same really funny guy, playing a character with a name that needs no further explaining Gaylord Focker. The movie is good, full of interesting scenes, funny gags and smart dialogue. Still it's a simple comedy with a normal ending. Vote 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, clever, excellent comedy!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It has been a while since a worthwhile comedy has graced us for the past year and this is certainly one good one! Meet the Parents is one which every person who has had jitters over meeting their loved one's parents at some point of time should watch! PArents of those loved ones are especially encouraged to watch - they may be surprised of what some of their potential son or daughter inlaws had to go through!!The story unfolds very well - with laughter at every turn and corner. Ben Stiller and Robert's characters are so well developed by the first 25 minutes,.. that the rest of the movie just becomes absolutely hillarous because you know that Greg (Ben) is so preditably going to muck up again! Interestingly, the third most well-developed and captivating character is the cat Jinx.. and she is definitely a wonder - a true co-conspirator to Greg's downfall.I give this movie an 8 out of 10 for comedic value.... Very well-directed, well-paced, exceptionally entertaining and the script is excellent! The write has certainly given a lot of thought to the story. Ben Stiller is a classic - an innocent screw up who always gets the girl (in the end). Robert De Niro gave a super performance... (as he mostly does). The cat deserves a 10!Watch it and enjoy it. It's every couple's romantic movie, every parent's realisation that some inlaws no matter how bad, thankfully have not caused so much havoc in 3 days!!  "}{"Title":"Just a good old-fashioned comedy","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once upon a time, comedy writers sought to create humor through plot and character development, rather than merely packing the script with crude sight gags and one-liners.  Meet the Parents is a long-overdue renaissance of this lost art form.  While most modern comedy films are all punch lines and no joke, this one earns its laughs the old-fashioned way--building comedic situations and using its one-liners as mere icing on the cake.  As a result, Meet the Parents bears more resemblance to Some Like it Hot than it does to There's Something About Mary.Having recently been married myself, (inheriting a stern set of in-laws) I found myself identifying strongly with the ill-fated Ben Stiller character.  The increasingly complicated situations in which he becomes ensnared were physically stressful to watch.  The father (Robert DeNiro) is demanding and intrusive.  The girlfriend (Teri Polo) is too self-absorbed to notice how badly things are going.  The hapless suitor makes increasingly boneheaded decisions in a desperate effort to curry favor.  We've all been there.  We see ourselves in the characters, and we're forced to laugh at the sheer absurdity of it all. The acting is solid, the script is as tightly wound as a good episode of Seinfeld, and the laughs are abundant.  You can't ask much more than that from a comedy.         "},{"Title":"Meet(ing) the Parents has never been more amusing","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I crawled into the cinema after a particularly hot Melbourne day looking for something light and entertaining (i.e. not too taxing on the grey matter) and Meet the Parents certainly fit the bill.Robert de Niro's role, Jack Burns, is played convincingly and uncomfortably well.  He manages to play Jack with that evil glint that de Niro fans are all too aware of.  Ben Stiller also does well as the nervous soon to be son-in-law and Blythe Danner's Dina (the mother) is played with an almost Marilyn Munroe daffy blonde with biting insights to situations.The film itself doesn't really go anywhere, gets ridiculously silly in parts and the ending is inevitable.  Flashes of brilliant comedy save what could have a meandering film end, in particular the Airport scene, which is a riot!All in all not a bad film. "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Since I didn't expect much before I saw this film, I was quite surprised when Meet the Parents turned out to be very entertaining and funny from the beginning to the end. Most comedies are very funny the first thirty minutes or so and then keeps going and going with about one joke per 15 minutes. That's not the case with this movie. Sure, one can discuss whether Ben Stiller can play more than one character or not, but his acting style suits this film perfectly. Of course, De Niro is brilliant as the father-in-law from hell. Meet the Parents is a genuinely funny and entertaining comedy. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Best comedy in years","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I like comedies as much as the next guy, but I think that comedy as a genre tends to produce mediocre films more often than any other genre, and even the best of comedies aren't as likely as other genres to produce a film worth more than one viewing.  It could be worse for comedy, though, as I think horror and action produce more outright bad movies than other genres.Anyway, I think the mediocre tendency in comedy has been even more prevalent then normal in the past few years, as most of the major comedies releases have been, well, average efforts in my opinion, and I'm speaking of films such as There's Something About Mary, both the Austin Powers movies, and Analyze This.  You might notice I haven't included any of the teen comedies, but that's because I consider teen to be a genre onto itself.  And, now that I think about it, teen is even worse than horror and action because it produces almost nothing other than terrible films, particularly if teen and horror combine without the word scream in the title.  Comedy's looking better all the time.But, alas, I digress.  The point of the matter is that, with Meet the Parents, I've finally found a comedy that beats this mediocre trend.  And, if you're anal about movie knowledge like I am, you're probably noticed that Meet the Parents includes, in its stars and director, people involved in each of the average films I mention above.  In fact, that bit of trivia had made me somewhat wary of seeing this film.Luckily for me, I crumbled.  Meet the Parents is not only funnier that any other strict comedy in years, but it is also smarter.  Part of my problem with a lot of comedies these days is the overuse of sight gags and toilet humor.  Not that I have a problem with either, but I feel like movies insult my intelligence when they use either too often.  Meet the Parents has its share of both, but most of the really funny stuff is verbal or situational.  There's even an instance or two of choice satire near the film's end.What surprised my the most about Meet the Parents, however, is how many of the laughs come from De Niro.  He's definitely the straight man, but he's got some good lines.  He's also well cast, and he has essentially taken a lot of his more prominent roles and toned them down into an overprotective father.  At the same time, he's likeable, and that impresses me.  His is the best performance in the movie and also his best in years.True, Meet the Parents is a little over-the-top, but so what?  It's also highly entertaining, and the fact that I would willfully watch it again, knowing the jokes, says a lot for it in my book.  9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best of the year 2000!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got told by my parents that Meet the Parents was 9.5/10 film. I was really looking forward to seeing this, and from the first minute of the film, I could tell I was going to like it...and I loved it in the end!On the verge of proposing to his lovely girlfriend Pam (Teri Polo), Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) is faced with one final hurdle meeting her parents. And when it transpires that daddy, Jack Byrnes (Robert DeNiro), is a retired CIA spycatcher masquerading as a florist, the weekend from hell commences as Greg's every attempt to impress his prospective father-in-law goes hopelessly awry.Meet the Parents is a real winner. All the jokes are successful and funny, I was laughing so hard I barely breathed. Sometimes there are downright sad and emotional scenes, though, but it is the comic writing that wins the day - if the script does not get some sort of award there will be no justice, it is an endlessly creative, mercilessly entertaining piece of writing to be truly cherished. The performances are excellent - Ben Stiller is immaculate once again, he is becoming one of my favourite actors, many of the jokes relate to his other characters (especially about his Jewish Rabbi character in Keeping the Faith) and Robert DeNiro, who is already one of my favourite actor's, puts in a clean-cut performance, he hasn't done a film this good in God knows how long. Jay Roach is also a star, this is even funnier than his previous project, Austin Powers! And that is a big achievement all on it's own!Easily one of the best of 2000, Meet the Parents is comedic brilliance in filmmaking. A must-see for everyone.I rate Meet the Parents 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good - despite the Ben Stiller handicap!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't like Ben Stiller, so De Niro is again what attracted me to want to see this film, and again he doesn't disappoint as the greatest character actor of the modern time.As the ex-CIA agent father of the bride to be, he is superb in his overbearing role - particularly enjoyable is him giving Stiller a lie detector test! - and the remainder of the cast operates well around him.Well written and directed, the acting of De Niro did make this a great little film that you have to see! "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN YOU'D THINK","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  De Niro isn't a comedian lets face it. However he puts in a decent performance here. The film's strength, is the fact that we've all been there. I didn't really see the need for some of the over-the-top gags, and the FOCKER gag is playground stuff. There's enough material there for a good, tense black comedy. Something Hollywood could never do. Okay, but I'd catch it on rental or cable if I were you. "},{"Title":"Trailers spoiled it for me...","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie could have been entertaining had not all (and I mean practically ALL) the gags and jokes had not been in the trailers!  I was really looking forward to this movie because I really like DeNiro and Stiller as actors...I'd just wait and rent the movie... "},{"Title":"I groaned with pain, but laughed my way out of it...","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       And I thought MY father-in-law was scary, (whew).  I must admit that watching this movie was extremely painful, like being kicked in-between the legs, because the frustration Greg Focker (hee-hee, I like saying that name), dealt with is SO REALISTIC.  I groaned with pain every time he fell into another misfortune, but I LAUGHED my way out of it.      This movie was a VERY FUNNY film, and they used the PERFECT actor to play the SCARY father-in-law, Robert DeNero (he even makes ME squirm). Ben Stiller plays his ussual 'poor unfortunate soul' because he does it so well.  Sure, there are some predictable moments, but when it happens, the results are funnier than expected.  I LOVED this movie, and I'm taking my dad to see it.  (Ugh, the pain). "},{"Title":"Funny movie, but overdoing it in some areas.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is funny in the Murphy's Law kind of sense. Greg is a guy who desperately wants to ask his girlfriend to marry him, but first her parents (especially her dad) have to approve of him. Starting with his luggage (and the engagement ring...) getting lost in-flight, Greg starts on a bad-luck streak that'll last the entire weekend.Although, having a cat named jinx around doesn't seem to help either.The bad-luck part gets a bit predictable towards the middle of the movie and in my opinion they start to overdo this quite a bit. Towards the end the movie does take a turn for the better, although the end is not very surprising. It is the way the cliche-ending is handled that is especially funny.Good movie to see. DeNiro is, of course, the best and plays the part of the somewhat grumpy father-in-law down very well. "}{"Title":"DeNiro and Stiller are a great team","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller has become the poster boy for neuroses, and here he is very good as the horribly-named Greg Focker (there are other name issues).  Meet The Parents is the story of his trip to the parents of his girlfriend (Teri Polo), and her parents (Robert DeNiro and Blythe Danner).  Jack takes a particular interest in Greg's background, and as the lies grow, so does the comedy.  Meet The Parents is very funny and features great performances from DeNiro, Stiller, and Owen Wilson as Polo's ex, and is ably directed by Jay Roach.Vote 7 "},{"Title":"Why I can't watch Gomer Pyle","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First things first I WANTED to see this film. I think Ben Stiller is a hoot and De Niro is an excellent actor who is perfect for this material. De Niro did not disappoint and Stiller was exactly right for his role. Everyone was well-cast.So, then, why did this movie stink?I'll start by saying, I can't watch Gomer Pyle, USMC. It's not that I don't like Jim Nabors; it's just that the show is about how Gomer always does things that are painfully and blatantly obviously STUPID and WRONG. Gomer asks out Sgt. Carter's girlfriend because the Sarge has to work in town and Gomer doesn't want her to feel lonely; then Sarge sees Gomer and goes on the rampage. Well, DUH. Nobody would do anything so stupid unless they really wanted to pursue the girlfriend. It's painful because I see it coming a mile away.Ben Stiller plays the Gomer Pyle role in this film. DeNiro is superb as the suspicious and unapproachable father in the Sergeant Carter mold. Stiller's character does so many things that are so STUPID and WRONG that you wonder how he could have survived to adulthood. I don't want to give anything away, but you and I and everyone else in the world knows that you don't try to replace a highly trained animal with one you found at the pound! Well, DUH! You see everything in this movie coming - a mile away.At least Gomer Pyle was only a half hour long. I kept wanting to get up and leave but several members of my family were along and I couldn't very well leave them there. At least I was treated, at the very end of the film, to a fantastically hilarious airline subplot that really made my wait mostly worthwhile. Every time I am in a situation with obvious airline morons in the future, you know that I'll be thinking, Step Off!4/10 stars, only because the acting was terrific. "},{"Title":"Gaylord Focker gets a visit from the hair-fairy!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have no clue of what the title of this comment is all about, you've obviously haven't seen 'Meet the parents'... I can only say 'YOUR LOSS!!!' cuz this is by far one of the funniest movies of the year! I saw it as a sneak preview and didn't expect much. (I mean, come on, Robert DeNiro being funny????? Directed by the director of AUSTIN POWERS for crying out loud????????????) But it was a fantastic film, I think. I laughed all the way trough... "},{"Title":"Once Is Not Enough","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is a scene in Meet the Parents that is almost perfect.  The main character, played by Ben Stiller, is waiting to board an airplane.  He is forced to wait until his row is called, although it is obvious that there is no one else waiting to get on the plane. The one scene perfectly conveys the anger that has been building in Stiller's character throughout the film while winking knowingly at the frustration all of us feel in similar situations.  Unfortunately, the scene takes place at the end of the film, and it's the only one of its type.  If you've seen the previews for Meet the Parents you've seen the film.  Stiller's fiance, played by Teri Polo, takes him home to meet her parents, played by Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner.  This turns into a trip from hell.  There are some funny scenes, but most of the characters are not fleshed out and much of what takes place is predictable.  My guess is a director such as Harold Ramis would have done a better job than Jay Roach.Much has been said about De Niro's comic performance as the father, but he's not nearly as good as he was in Analyze This, perhaps because he was playing against type in the latter.  Blythe Danner is still beautiful, but is given little to do as De Niro's wife.  Polo barely registers as the fiance.What makes the film passable is Stiller.  He wants to please De Niro, but senses that things are rapidly deteriorating.  But he comes across as so sincere we almost ignore the fact that he has brought much of the trouble upon himself by exaggering his background.One final complaint  The flim ends with a type of flashback.  Bad move.  It should have ended with a preview of the obvious plot for the sequel--De Niro must now meet Stiller's parents. "},{"Title":"Half HORRID ... half decent","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I NEVER walk out of a movie.  However the first half of this one made me very tempted to break that string.  BORING, not funny, the only thing it had going for it is Teri Polo is very cute.  However, the second half had some funny moments.  My wife and I see about 60 movies a year and this is the worst movie we've seen in a number of years!  My rating  First half ZERO, Second half = 6 ... overall 3 (out of 10). "},{"Title":"A great comedy!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEET THE PARENTS is one of the best mainstream comedies of the year. It is utterly hilarious from start to finish and features two wonderful comic performances- one from Ben Stiller and the other from Robert DeNiro. DeNiro is the best actor the screen has ever seen, and this is one of his best comic performances. He plays it cool and lets the laughes come to him. He glowers, or makes sarcastic remarks to Stiller and is constantly hilarious. Stiller, have perfected the nervous guy routine in THERE' SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, brings this character to a new level. Nothing goes right for him, but damn it all he'll keep trying. MEET THE PARENTS is a must-see. "},{"Title":"One of the funnies movies I've seen in a while.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's been a while since I've seen a movie that had me laughing through almost the entire thing.  Me, Myself, and Irene was close, but this movie was just hilarious.  Everything that could've been funny in the movie was done just right to make it believable and therefore that much better.   "},{"Title":"Half of it was LOUSY","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As I mentioned in my summary line, half of Meet the Parents was lousy. And then my husband and I walked out and didn't see the second half.I expected wonderful things from this film considering the cast. But I couldn't help but feel that my intelligence and sense of humor were being insulted. Not that I'm Albert Einstein or the funniest person on the planet, but the characters and dialogue were so cliché and boring that I took it as a personal affront. (I have some issues don't you think?) The movie basically had one joke and the screenwriter obviously came up with 200 ways to tell it. I feel sorry for Blythe Danner who is a wonderful actress and was reduced to acting like a blathering fool. I hope she at least got paid well. And DeNiro, a brilliant actor, needs to develop some original ticks and facial expressions. He's been using the same ones for 20 years.Here's my rating system for movies**** - See it in the theaters*** - Rent it** - Wait for HBO* - Wait for broadcast tvzero stars - try to forget it was ever madeI give Meet the Parents a zero. "},{"Title":"--Hilarious, a must see--","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Talk about a great way of getting people to see a great movie. This movie has great comedy and the whole idea of it is terrific. Its like There's Something about Mary and Father of the Bride. I can totally see why this has gotten such great reviews and done so great at the box office. Ben and Robert are very funny in this. The only bad thing about it is that in the previews they gave away too much of the funniest scenes, but its still great..So if you want to see a movie that is very funny, see this! "},{"Title":"Oivay! This is one funny movie folks!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A kind of screwball comedy for the new millennium! We all know Ben Stiller is a fantastic comedian, and Robert DeNiro would be good reciting a shopping list, ad to this director Jay Roach and bingo- a funny night at the movies.Story goes...Greg Focker (Ben pearly whites Stiller) is meeting his girlfriend Pam's (Teri Polo) parents at her sister's wedding this weekend. He's hoping they'll accept and like him- he's a likable guy...Hey, if they have kids will Pam be known as Mother Focker? That's all I'm asking.Off they go for a fun filled stress free weekend at the old folk's house. Scary huh?The mother is milk toast. The father, one Jack Byrnes however, well, he's played by Bob DeNiro- what do you think he's like? Three men boyfriend's don't want to hear your related to; Tommy Lee Jones, James Caan, and Robert DeNiro.DeNiro plays his Jack Byrnes as he always does- intelligent, believable and-if you were to cross him- wicked scary . Which of course poor Greg is bound to do. It's a comedy.Byrnes' ways are mean and gruff. He's highly suspicious of Greg's motives in general. So much so he makes him; under go a lie detector test (though in itself not too odd-doesn't everyone have one of those hanging around?), has his friends do a background check on dear Greg and let's the lad know he's got his eye on him. That should make Greg feel right at home...Well, it doesn't, and one thingy after another starts to turn this weekend into a kind of surreal Rosie O'Donnell- eating crackers- naked -on your couch nightmare for poor Greg.This is one hell of a funny movie folks. Stiller who you may recall from Your Friends and Neighbors as being a hirsute little chap, shaved his chest and sported a Speedo for one scene. I laughed so hard, about the Speedos, not him shaving.DeNiro is acting perfection. Isn't he always? We're used to his humorous side after that wonderful Analyze This. Talent to the tenth power.Owen Wilson from that suc-o-rama Shanghai Noon is in here too. I haven't enjoyed anything he's done till now. His acting is fine but his career choices are, well, stinky poo-poo. Poor guy. I mean he went from second fiddle to bit part. Not good. He's talented if a bit homely. Maybe this will put him back on casting lists.Get out and see this. You can bring the whole family-it's offensive free. For a comedy that is funny, That's something. Enjoy.Starring Robert DeNiro, Ben Stiller, Nicole DeHuff , Blythe Danner,Teri Polo, Jon Abrahams and Owen WilsonSnack recommendation Bacon and english muffins. "}{"Title":"Trad comedy","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert De Niro is more or less a Walther Matthau-character is this comedy and it is surprising, even refreshing that he - as an actor and a co-producer of this film - wants to do a classic screwball-film. Even taxidrivers get older, one must realize. And when they do, they want to entertain on the good old family playground. It is in many ways an old-fashioned film, well acted and nice to relax to. One may not be wiser on the mysteries of neither life nor love after watching it, but some time has been killed in a very humane way.   "},{"Title":"A few good laughs, mostly due to the good actors; but an uneven effort at times","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, this movie should be watched with disbelief fully suspended, since it is essentially a farce mixed with a heavy dose of slapstick.  It was pretty stupid and unoriginal at times, and often elicited groans from me (more stupid pet tricks.)  But it was also delightful and funny at times, mostly in the smaller moments that were a little less over the top, but also in some of the setup and payoff in some of the writing.  For instance, I thought the outcome of the pool volleyball game was funny and kind of shocking at the same time -- but in a very good way. ;)Most of what made the film mildly entertaining for me was simply the performances by Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro.  Neither role was that much of a stretch for either of them, as they both were firmly planted in self-parody territory, doing what we've seen them do many times before.  Still, even though Stiller and DeNiro are doing little more than selling their dog and pony act, they are really good at it, and I still enjoyed what they did most of the time anyway.All in all, if you go in with the right attitude (not expecting too much), you'll surely get a few good laughs before you get back in the car and go home.  But it probably won't stick to your ribs like the best comedies do.I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Much ado about very little.","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After all the hype and great box office I was really expecting to be wowed by this movie &#150; I was not.There are some funny lines and good acting by a good cast but over all it felt like a much longer movie than its 107 minute runtime&#133;  Frankly, I was bored through most of it.Probably because, even though Ben Stiller did a good job of playing Greg (Gaylord) Focker, I just couldn't relate to him &#150; and it is important for you (the audience) to be able to relate to his situation in order to laugh at the predicament(s) he gets himself into.At one point Jack Byrnes (Robert De Niro) asks Greg if he trusts people and then makes the assertion that you &#145;can't trust any one.' So basically, Greg should have taken his cue from what Jack said and simply not trusted anyone or the situations that presented themselves to him.The only real message here is that lying doesn't work and compounding your lies with even more lies will only dig you deeper into a hole.This is a lesson that Greg doesn't learn until the very end of the movie &#150; and even then you aren't sure he has really learned the lesson.Blythe Danner is her usual beautiful self and does a good job of playing the &#145;too-good-to-be-true' wife of the neurotic Jack.Owen Wilson, who just did a stellar turn in `Shanghai Noon,' is pretty much unbelievable as the goody-two-shoes that was Pam Byrnes' (Teri Polo) former fiancé. No one is that white-bread.Teri Polo is not an actress I am familiar with &#150; but I want to see more of her.  She was very appealing as the daughter of a wildly dysfunctional family.This is a movie that you should wait to see at home on video so you can fast forward through the slow parts &#150; you won't miss a thing.  "},{"Title":"MY GOOD LORD...  Laughed all the way home","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... literally...  My girlfriend and I walked the 7 blocks home from the local theatre and could not stop laughing.  I haven't had so much fun at the movies in years.  DeNiro is absolutely fabulous.  Ben Stiller may be the saviour of the good name of young comic actors. "},{"Title":"A funny look at one of life's rites of passage","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As far as life's stressful moments go, meeting the immediate family of a significant other for the first time can be like going for a bungy-jump or a skydive -- in all likelihood you'll escape unscathed, but there still is a chance that something could go horribly awry.In the tradition of horribly awry, Meet the Parents takes that rite of passage and turns everything up a few notches.   On one side we have Ben Stiller playing a male nurse with the unfortunate name of Greg Focker who wants to marry Pam Byrnes, played by Teri Polo. And on the other, we have Robert DeNiro as Jack Byrnes, Pam's father, a straight-laced ex-CIA operative who is more than just naturally protective.It's tough enough as it is to come to terms with a man who spent 19 months in a Vietnamese prisoner of war camp, makes everyone synchronize their watches, and uses hidden cameras to keep virtually every the entire house under surveillance.But the father of Greg's sweetheart is not the only hurdle to overcome.There's an ex-boyfriend of Pam's, played by Owen Wilson (who starred opposite Jackie Chan in Shanghai Noon) who is everything that Greg is not, namely rich and one of her father's buddies.There's the soon-to-be husband of Pam's sister, played by Nicole DeHuff, and the family she's marrying into. Collectively, James Redborn, Thomas McCarthy, and Phyllis George play the Banks family, in which the men have become successful doctors and mercilessly remind Greg of this fact at every opportunity.There's also Atlantic American Airlines, which lost the luggage that not only contains the engagement ring that Greg intends to present to Pam but all of his clothes. Thusly, Greg is forced to borrow some duds from Pam's dope-smoking teenage brother, played by Jon Abrahams, which leads to an unpleasant situation.Finally, there's Greg himself. His judgment impaired by vows to do without cigarettes and sex for 72 hours, he resorts to deception and deceit to find a place within Jack's `ring of trust' only to see his spur-of-the-moment plans turn against him.Throw in some bad plumbing, the power of electricity, and Jinx, Jack's prized pet cat and what follows is a near-natural procession of laughs.Some drawn to the show by the trailers may be in for a bit of a disappointment as the effect of the gags is more that of a pleasant chuckle than the side-splittingly outrageous, in sharp contrast to Something About Marry, which also starred Stiller.But for others, the mild brand of humour may be refreshing, and there was an underlying dramatic to keep movie-goes in their seats. Will Greg Focker win the hand of Pam? Or more to the point, exactly how is he going to pull himself out of a very deep hole?Meet the Parents is no comedic landmark, but it's a fun, well-casted movie about an experience that we must all endure to some degree at some time or other. "},{"Title":"No surprises after the trailer, but still worth seeing","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The trailer for this film was on TV incessantly and also, of course, in the theaters, and I laughed.  I laughed at Robert DeNiro and his I'm watching you.  I laughed at Ben Stiller's kung fu chops recorded on one of DeNiro's covert cameras.  I especially laughed at the sister being bopped in the eye with the volleyball scene.  But wait a minute, are there any big yocks that aren't in the trailer?  Answer  Very few.That said, let me say that I think that this is pleasant movie well worth seeing.  Waiting for it to come out in video may not be a bad idea, though.  Meet the Parents is a good old-fashioned American comedy in the mode of Father of the Bride and many of the other movies of the '50's with Spencer Tracy, Jimmy Stewart, etc.  That is, good clean fun with the emphasis on family and an ending that you know is going to be happy.  Excellent performances from all, but especially DeNiro and Stiller and special mention must go to the unique acting ability of Mr Jinx.All in all, a great movie to see with your family....the kids and Grandma, too...I think they'll all have smiles on their faces at the end even if they're not rolling on the floor.  "},{"Title":"Fits-and-Starts","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The shock value Farrelly Brothers filmmaking that spawned There's Something About Mary is in abundance here, even going so far as to have Ben Stiller essentially reprise his role as a put-upon nebbish who can never seem to catch a break and winds up in the middle of disasters. There's Something About Mary was funny in spots but when it hit, it hit the gags were so outrageous they compensated for the slow spots. Meet The Parents has the same fits-and-starts rhythm but the gags are merely pleasant and don't make up for the dead air that comprises most of the film. Stiller is an entertaining performer but he's beginning to typecast himself and is beginning to wear thin. Robert DeNiro, as the former CIA man whose daughter Stiller intends to wed, is enjoyable but he never manages to convey his intensity to the audience so they never feel completely, deliciously enthralled by him. Jay Roach directed, in a style typically subservient to Hollywood dictates. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Not real funny","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hoped I was going to see a funny movie, but it wasn't really. In fact, it was rather boring. There were a few funny scenes in it, about three or four maybe. Robert De Niro was good, though, as always. Maybe it's because I'm European (I saw this movie in Canada, it's not out yet in the Netherlands. Always so late *sigh*), although I did see some very funny American movies. But not this one. A waste of money. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Does funny mean stupid?","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. DeNiro, Stiller, Danner, all were quite funny in working with the screenplay. I just had to wonder, though, during that really slow part near the end, why American comedies tend toward making their characters seem incredibly shallow and stupid. The more shallow and stupid these characters seemed, the less funny the film became. Direct correlation in my opinion.   "},{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought the movie was funny, but not hilarious, by any means.  I really don't expect much when I go to movies, but I definitely expected more of a comedic masterpiece.  I didn't get it.  I thought a lot of the humor was dry.  There were a few times that I laughed hard...but I found myself looking at my watch often.  It's a decent movie.  A good rent...not worth the 7 bucks per ticket at the theater...with popcorn, nachos and reeses pieces adding up to 30 dollars.  Save your money and rent it in a few months for 3. "}{"Title":"What a great movie....","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents was a surprisingly hilarious movie.  I saw it at the movies twice and both times, I laughed equally hard at the sight gags and script. I'm sure any one would agree.  Director Jay Roach really made this movie extraordinary.  It rises above todays standards of what a good movie is. Oh, also, everything had something to do with the plot of the story.  If there was a joke about Puff the Magic Dragon, then there was a good reason for it to be mixed into the dialouge.  Please see Meet the Parents more than once.  De Niro is classic, Stiller plays his character perfectly and all the others are great too.  So, go ahead, take a group, that's really fun.  Meet the Parents is one of the funniest movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Overrated Movie","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think I have to agree with the reviewer saying that the critics were desperate to give something the thumbs up. After hearing how good it was I expected a laugh a minute and honestly after an hour(I looked at my watch) I really had not one. All the actors are great it is just that some of this just was not that funny. I just bought Office Space and have been watching all weekend on DVD. It is a funny movie like Caddyshack is a funny movie. This one however not have funny way.  "},{"Title":"Mildly Amusing Comedy","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A mildly amusing comedy with Ben Stiller as a young man who is brought home to meet his girlfriends family before asking her to marry him. Robert DeNiro as her slightly paranoid father is a real hoot here and the film, though rather predictable, does have several funny moments. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is a sometimes silly, but very funny comedy from the director of the Austin Powers comedies. Robert DeNiro shows once again that he can be a great comedic actor. He plays the father of a young woman who brings her boyfriend home with her to meet her parents. Ben Stiller plays the boyfriend with a most unusual name who becomes very uncomfortable in getting to know his girlfriend's father. There are many goofy moments in Meet the Parents that I didn't believe, but the fact is I laughed alot while watching it. Only DeNiro and Stiller could pull it off and make it so funny. Blythe Danner (the mother), Teri Polo (the girlfriend), and Owen Wilson (the girlfriend's ex-boyfriend) join in on the fun. Meet the Parents is not the best comedy ever made, but it'll do until the next very funny comedy comes along.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"I haven't laughed this hard since American Pie","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think that I would like this movie, but I was wrong. A boring summer at the theater gave this movie some freshness and great laughs. Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro have some great scenes together, and for those of you who didn't think that DeNiro is funny, just watch Analyze This. A guaranteed laugh every 3-4 minutes.  "},{"Title":"I think its Great!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was too funny!  I usually dont like Ben Stiller movies but this one is worth seeing.  Robert DeNiro is hilarious as the over the top dad.  The thing I most enjoyed about the movie is that it was easy to see these things happening in a real relationship.  Its not over the top like Something about Mary.The laughs are genuine.  Well worth the price of a ticket! "},{"Title":"A little over the top","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had its moments, but is all-in-all rather pedestrian.  I'd rate it decent matinee seeing.  If you are not into slapstick humor, you may want to pass on this one.  Ben Stiller's character never gets a break...emphasis on never...and every new situation keeps upping the stakes to the point of being ridiculous.  My two friends enjoyed it, but I found it to be a bit trying. "},{"Title":"READ THIS!!!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll keep this review short and sweet.These days, the only funny scenes in most comedy films are all shown in the film's trailer. And I would be lying if I said that I didn't go to this movie under protest. I mean I saw the previews, I snickered a little, and I didn't think any more about it.You've got your innocent and charming funny guy (Stiller) who meets Yo taukin' to me? (DeNiro). I thought to myself, Ya, I liked this movie the first time I saw it when it was called 'Analyze This'.BUT, I would also be lying if I said that I never laughed so hard and loud in a movie in a long, long time. This movie was, hands down, one of the funniest movies I've seen all year long. It was what Analyze This should have been.I'll tell you right now, don't go into this movie expecting a really in-depth well thought out plot. It's a comedy - its purpose is to make you laugh. Instead, go into this movie expecting to laugh and you will.So if you haven't had a really good laugh in a long time, I'm talking about the kind of laugh that makes your sides hurt and make you wish you didn't drink that large coke, you need to go out and see, or rent, this movie. "},{"Title":"Tedious","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Went to the theater expecting something special.It has been #1 at the box office for 3 weeks WRONG!!! It was a long ,tedious movie with a cast of annoying,not particularly likeable characters and situations that I've seen before and they weren't funny then either.All I could think of was the critics must have been desperate to find a movie they could give a favorable review to.  "},{"Title":"Go see this movie!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest comedies to come out this year.  Ben Stiller has a knack for making you feel his pain and discomfort, and this situation is one that most of us go through with a feeling of discomfort anyway.  I couldn't believe how funny this movie was.  I was expecting some laughs, and then mostly stupidity, but instead I was given a really enjoyable time. "}{"Title":"A Bullseye for the Target Audience","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this movie, the situational and self-humiliating style of humor that Ben Stiller has perfected told me that it had potential. But the premise of the film is what convinced me to fork out $15 to see it with my girlfriend.I think I must be the target audience for this film 24 years old, in a serious long-term relationship, and still uncomfortable around my girlfriend's parents.  That said, this movie hit home harder than any comedy in years.My biggest concern going into the film was that all of the funny scenes were 'spoiled' by the preview.  This was certainly not the case.  Meet the Parents had my girlfriend and I guffawing unabashedly.  The rest of the audience seemed a bit slow to pick up on the sense of humor of the film, but soon caught on.  I think everyone left with smiles on their faces and nothing but good reviews to pass on.Meet the Parents provided my girlfriend and I with a weekends worth of memorable quotes, and recycled laughs.  "},{"Title":"An insult","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You people laughing at this movie are only hurting yourselves, and forcing the industry to pump out more similar garbage.  This movie is not funny just like Deuce Bigalow is not funny.  I suppose it is to people that still think Saturday Night Live is hilarious, but obviously they need some help with their sense of humor.  If you want funny, watch the Big Lebowski over and over. .of course if you are the type of person that found Meet the Parents a comedy classic, you won't understand it anyway.Meet the Parents made Howard the Duck look like a comedic masterpiece.  I felt like I was in the middle of another horrible movie, The Faculty, and everyone laughing had been brainwashed.What's the deal with all the lame comedies these days. . where are the Caddy Shacks and Fast Times at Ridgemont High?  No, instead we get pieces of doo doo such as American Pie and Meet the Parents, and YOU PEOPLE provoke them to make more of it! What a shame.  Oh, by the way. . Ben Stiller, yep. . he's not funny either.  He and David Spade should collaborate and make the largest comedy flop in history. "},{"Title":"poor Focker","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Throughout the film, even at the end, I felt like imploring the guy, 'run for your life! She's not the one!' Pam's neglect of Greg's feelings and most of all her blindness toward her father's obsessiveness demonstrates how we never see our own family the same way other people do. You know your family is weird--but just how weird is only found through throwing a stranger at its mercy.Parents begins as an overprotective-father-versus-boyfriend story, moves toward the ridiculous, but always remains believable. After a while it becomes clear that the real problem between Greg and Jack (Robert DiNiro), Pam's dad, is simple they just don't get along. We've all come across people we know we don't like from the moment we meet them. Greg's tough luck is that his father-in-law to-be is one of these people.Meet The Parents is good because it gives each character enough of a life that each has something to learn. It's also got a lot of humanity at its core. Most everyone who sees this film will be able to relate to Greg's predicament. Most everyone will recall a time when they were in Greg's shoes--or they'll come to the shocking realization that they were torturing someone and didn't know it at the time.This is a rare story in which there really is one main character around which everything else revolves. Everything that happens is connected with Greg Focker (Ben Stiller plays it perfectly; he's never been funnier). There are no unnecessary subplots that enhance supporting characters. They don't even bother giving Pam her own life. All she is, from first frame to last, is Greg's girlfriend. Jack is Greg's girlfriend's dad and so on. This puts you inside the main character's world in a way few films do.While the writers show great control over their material by doing this, they fall short in other areas. Greg's last name, Focker, and the various ways people pronounce it, is a running gag that isn't nearly as funny as the film's creators seem to think it is. Whenever things start getting dull, they pull out the old Focker joke so at least the small-minded people in the audience can get a giggle. There are moments of agony, such as truck tires spraying sewage all over Pam's family, that are so gross you can't believe what you're watching. The goal is to set this lewdness against a backdrop of suburban normalness, which makes it funnier.Supposedly anyway. More times than not, though, it works. The film does what all good entertainment does holds a warped mirror up to real life, so we can laugh at ourselves a little.Grade C+  "},{"Title":"This was a really fun movie!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I very rarely find myself going to comedies. Most are either geared for teenie boppers or as dumb as a bag of hammers. This film was somewhat refreshing. It had a neat story and great performances. DeNiro and Stiller are perfect together and I am glad to hear that they are considering a sequel to this film. If only Ben could talk his father (Jerry Stiller) into signing up for it, that would be a heck of a good time. This movie is not rocket science and I think some critics have dogged it as a result. However, that is silly. If you want to see two great actors battle each other for 90 minutes, you cannot do better than this film. Just think, a major studio release that is actually a good movie, how rare. "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro's Funniest Movie Since Midnight Run","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A funny, good movie. I was pleased to see Robert De Niro star in a well done comedy, the best since Midnight Run. Definitely funnier than the overblown, overhyped, Analyze This. Not as good as Midnight Run, but definitely comes in second. Would have been nice for the plot to have tied up a few twists at the end, such as Robert De Niro's pot-smoking son, but still worth the laughs. It was also good to see Ben Stiller in a funny movie after the pitifull Mystery Men. "},{"Title":"Trailer Overload","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  This is a cute movie with some great comedy, ruined for me by the Hollywood brass that decided to spend 2 months promoting the movie by blowing every punch line and sight gag in the movie, save one (the drag racing scene).  I do think there should be a law or rule, that only allows ONE Ben Stiller movie per year.  He is good in small doses.  DeNiro is his usual scene-chewing greatness as the over-bearing dad, Gwyneth's mom (Blythe Danner) is wasted (and looks out of sync) as the too-quiet mom.  Owen Wilson has a nice turn and should consider specializing in the character actor role.  If you have not seen more than 3 previews to this movie, you should go.  I BEG you Hollywood, give us credit ... we will go see your movie if it is well written and well acted.  Don't ruin it for us before we arrive!  My special note on this one is that one of the producers is the former goofy stand-up comedian, Emo Phillips.  Also, kudos to Jay Roach for his direction.  This is a giant step from the underrated Blown Away. "},{"Title":"Three wordsFunny,Funny,Funny!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night with my wife and I must tell you guys,it was hilarious! Ben Stiller and the reliable Robert DeNiro are excellent. A good story and solid acting. Haven't had this much fun in a movie since,Austin Powersthe spy who shagged Me.Of course,it was Jay Roach who directed this instant treasure. A definite must see!!!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable from beggining to end.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be very enjoyable. The acting of Deniro as an authoritarian father was impecable. Ben Stiller's acting also was top notch. The story was interesting and engaging. The comedy and gags came at a frequent pace. I will rate this movie a perfect 10. A movie well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Sorry, I just don't see it.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie ... really I did.  I mean, who doesn't like DeNiro, right?  And Ben Stiller has to be one of the best tragedy-prone comic actors in years.  So I was really prepared for a couple hours of great laughs. But, sorry, I just don't get it.  I read all the rave reviews and I'm amazed at the manner in which everyone seems to be falling over themselves in an attempt to praise this tired, predictable and entirely too lengthy movie. I still like DeNiro and Stiller, but not this movie. "},{"Title":"A bit tedious in areas, but overall good fun","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Finally, a Jay Roach film I can tolerate!  Meet The Parents is a very funny, almost laugh a minute riot.  Storyline is pretty basic slapstick stuff, daughter brings boyfriend home to meet the parents, boyfriend finds himself in one bizarre predicament after another.  What makes this idea so good is the good performances delivered by the two main characters Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) and Jack Byrnes (Robert DeNiro).  Greg is a well intentioned young man who makes an admirable living as a male nurse.  One day he decides to propose to his girlfriend Pam (Teri Polo).  While in the midst of the proposal, Pam gets a call from her sister.....she has just gotten engaged and in the course of that call Greg finds out he is expected to gain Jack's approval before proposing to Pam.  With sister's wedding day just a couple weeks off, they head to the Byrnes' residence to not only be at the blessed event, but to get dad's permission as well.Ben Stiller performs admirably in the role, handling every single crisis that comes along.  Greg is a too close to his Something About Mary character than is comfortable, but it works well and Stiller makes the guy likeable.  Robert DeNiro is Jack Byrnes.  A CIA operative, Jack is a master at reading human emotion and can make a person nervous by a simple glance.  A decent enough character but a bit dry.  He loves Pam's cat though, treating him like a son rather than a household pet.  Teri Polo as Pam, Blythe Danner as Dina Byrnes (Pam's mother), Jon Abrahams (Outside Providence)as Pam's druggy brother Denny are all good characters but don't add much to the story.Owen Wilson chimes in as Kevin Rawley, Pam's ex-fiance.  I have no idea why this character was there.  Nicely done by Owen, but the segments involving him are basically throw-away and inserted strictly to allow Greg to have another disaster.Meet The Parents is funny enough to carry what little dead-weight the script has (mainly Greg's disasters reach the point where you wonder what could possibly happen next).  If Jay Roach can smooth out the rough edges as mentioned above that have plagued all his movies, the next one could be pretty sharp.2 1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  De Niro's acting was good but sometimes wooden.  The cat in the ashes scene was hilarious.  Stiller played his part well but it reminded me too much of There's Something About Mary (1998)  (it's time to grow)  Overall, an entertaining film. "},{"Title":"It's one Looooong joke people","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everyone seems to love this film for some reason. I liked the first half hour myself. It seems after that this movie simply repeats the same joke over and over until I began to watch an ant on the floor eat some of my spilt popcorn. The ending is pretty lame too. "},{"Title":"Hands down, the funniest movie this year!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw every preview, I'd think I've seen every joke there. But am I wrong! It had me laughing all the way, from beginning, the hospital practice marriage all the way to the end! This story directed By Jay Roach (Who directed Austin powers 1 & 2) is original and hilarious. It revolves around Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) who wants to marry Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo). To make Pam fall in love with Greg was easy. Before Greg could propose, he figures he needs to get the parents' approval. So he goes to Pam's parents' house in long island. I know it's Long island because a certain scene was filmed in Manhasset.Greg tries to impress Pam's father (Robert DeNiro)and mother (Blythe Danner),but each step he tries to make,is one bad step he messes up. Then, Greg finds out he can't be with his future wife. He must sleep in the basement. He finds out Pam's father, jack Byrnes, is with the CIA, resulting in a very great game of.. Lie Detector. That's basically the plot, I don't want to spoil it for you.DeNiro gives a great as protective father with a cat,Ben Stiller in his best role ever, so far. Blythe Danner is marvelous, reminding me of Sissy Spacek from Blast From The past.DeNiro and Stiller have the funniest roles, and always give a good hearty laugh. I have never heard an audience laugh this hard. I watched the movie 5 times and I can't get enough of it! The audience roared with laughter at Stiller's funny antics, and DeNiro's comeback to shine.This movie is pure genius. Even better than Happy Gilmore. I can't help but laugh. My sides burst out as well! I recommend it to anyone. So if you haven't seen it on the big screen, see it NOW. Better than Scary movie. Scary Movie is nothing compared to Stiller and DeNiro. Two BIG stars, one great movie you have to see. "},{"Title":"why do they insist on spoiling movies?","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I actually really liked this movie, but I felt very cheated by the idiot promoters who insisted on showing 8 different versions of trailers showing at least 3/4 of the movies' funniest bits. This means instead of laughing out loud, you only chuckle because you've already seen it. Sure there were some more good ones, but the trailers stole most of the thunder for me. That was disappointing.Don't get me wrong, I still really like the movie.  "},{"Title":"Be afraid, be very afraid","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I tell ya, if Robert Deniro was a my future father-in-law, I would be so afraid to meet him.  I just saw this movie a few days ago, and was amazed by it.  the film was fantastic. Ben Stiller never ceases to amaze me.  I have seen some of Stiller's films, including Flirting with Disaster, There's something about Mary (my fave), and even the ones he directed, including Reality Bites and The Cable Guy, which in my opinion wasn't a great film.The movie, about a man named Greg Focker (Stiller) and his girlfriend (Terri Polo) who return to NY to meet her parents, is nothing short of spectacular.  the scene with the cat on the toilet almost made my cry.  There was another great scene with Mr. Jinx relieving himself, but I won't give it away.Robert Deniro was also excellent as the father, who usually freaks me out.  I have seen an impression of DeNiro (and I even do one) which he goes Little bit, and I heard things.  De Niro made me laugh hysterical in this wonderful film.If you like to laugh hysterical and leave the theatre feeling good, then by all means see this film.  You'll never want to meet your in-laws!! "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I voted I clicked an 8. Although it was a mistake, it could have been an 8. In fact, it definitely was between a 7 and an 8. I just believe it failed to meet the standard that should be met to qualify for an 8.I suspect the audience I saw it with would, by and large, give it an 8 or better. There was a lot of laughing - and some by me. The movie had enjoyable characters and some entertaining circumstances.However, it had a couple serious flaws. In the first place the beginning and end were good - very easily 8 caliber. The middle 45 minutes or so, however were difficult to watch. The torture that Matt Damon had to go through was actually painful - not funny.Also, the biases that the other characters had against his character were unreasonable and unbelievable. But, worst of all was how quickly they came around to befriend him near the end of the movie based on very little reason.I found the movie somewhat disjointed and I'm barely able to recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Finally a funny comedy.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After movies like the Klumps and Scary Movie, a movie with a great cast and laugh out loud humor that doesnt insult my intelligent. If you've read any of my other reviews you'll know how fed up I am with the stuff Hollywood cranks out. Deniro is great as usual and I havent seen him this funny since Midnight Run;a hilarious movie you should check out if you havent seen it yet. Ben has always been one of my favorite comedians since he has his own show on Fox show a few years ago that no one watched because it disappeared after half a season. Anyway he is great as usual and a little more subtle than in Something About Mary. Good to see Blythe Danner( Gweneths Mother ) again. Shes one of my favorite actresses and loved her in The Great Santini. I'd definitely say, check it out. I just wish Hollywood would get the picture too instead of making gross out c**p. Time for a change guys.  "},{"Title":"A good laugh","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a good time at the movies!  I have not laughed so much for ages.  Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro are excellent, as is most of the cast.  The story line is very simple, and there are some wonderful moments at the beginning of the movie, but in the middle it is a little weak. The director seems to have got a little carried away.  The last half is excellent.  Even with the weakness of the middle part, it truly is a fun time at the movies! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With a cast including Ben Stiller, Bobby Deniro and Blythe Danner, perhaps my expectations were set a bit high. I found this movie to be utterly dull and predictable. Unlike some of the commenters on this site, I enjoyed not one full, belly laugh. My husband was equally bored and, for only the second time in either of our lives, we left the movie before it was over. The other movie was a Nightmare on Elm street (5?) to give you a point of reference. We both are huge comedy movie fans and were grossly disappointed with this formula flick. Don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Laughed my A** OFF!!!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Going into seeing this movie, I had high expectations.  I've always been a person that just likes to sit back and watch a nice funny Comedy.  But, Meet The Parents, did more than just make me laugh, I was rolling in the aisles.  The dynamic between Stiller and De Niro is one of the most hilarious and refreshing things that I have seen on the big screen in quite awhile.  After a summer of going to see comedies that just made me giggle, It was time to see a comedy which combined great actors, with hysterical lines, and didn't use all of its most hysterical scenes in the previews. A must see!!! "}{"Title":"Real Life Much More Exciting","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Years ago, movies USED to be funny. No more. Now they're just tasteless and painful, thrown together by Hollywood insiders who haven't had dinner in a normal middle class home in years and have no idea what life is like for most of us. Nowadays, the characters in movies are not inspired by real life flesh and blood people but by other characters in other movies (in this case I believe the moviemakers are mining Stiller's role in Something About Mary). In this picture, the main character is a nurse who has a smoking problem. Huh? I am sure there are a few nurses who smoke, but the vast majority of the ones I know don't, but hey, who cares about accuracy, this is a movie. And besides, a nurse who smokes is really funny, right? The father, played in his best scenery-chewing fashion by erstwhile Hollywood screen icon Robert DeNiro (is anyone besides me tired of seeing his grimacing face up on the big screen in every other movie?), is so over the top mean that it's hard to guess what's at all funny about him. He has pictures up in his den of himself with world leaders even though was actually a CIA agent with a cover. Whatever.And then there's the lame attempts at humor and comic timing in the plot. Caught in a lie about living on a farm, the Stiller character makes up a story that he once milked a cat (the bride-to-be's family has a beloved cat). Ho ho. The slow pacing of the movie only amplifies the staleness of the many bad jokes like this one.I would love to tell you what I thought of how the movie turned out, but I got tired of watching a bunch of actors in obnoxious, unfunny situations portraying people you would only see in a movie so I left early and went home to talk to some real characters. It wasn't a movie but it was much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"I haven't laughed this hard at the movies in a long time","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood should make more movies like this.  Movies that don't count on toilet humor, or a group of unfunny, try to be hip people, talking about unfunny, try to be hip, topics that just aren't funny or hip to get a laugh.    They should relies on smart, funny writing, and a great cast that seems to enjoy the material they are given.  The plot is simple, Ben Stiller's character is trying to impress his girlfriend's father enough to give him permission to marry her. Robert De Niro plays the father from hell who grills Stiller every chance he gets.  Every lie, ever statement, every action is under De Niro's scrutiny, and believe me, Stiller does more than enough to alienate himself from the father.  It starts out badly and gets worst as the movie progresses.     This is Stiller's best work since Something about Mary.  He plays basically the same type of persona, but lets face it, it's a funny persona.  The nice guy who is just caught up in events that start out innocently , but quickly spiral out of his control, and every attempt to right things just brings up more problems.  I also think this is De Niro's best comic performance since Analyze This.  A simple sneer at the rambling prayer Stiller gives at the diner table brought a huge laugh from the audience I saw the movie with.  So many funny lines, so many funny moments, I could never list them all.   See this movie and you'll see, this is the best comedy to come along in years. "},{"Title":"De Niro and Stiller are hilarious!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents was the funniest movie I've seen this year. Jokes were hilarious, especially Stiller's name jokes and cat milking joke, and the plot sure was superior to other comedy movies. Especially, I enjoyed the pair up of Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller, my two favorite drama and comedy actors. After Analyze This, De Niro once again proves that he can play a funny character as well as mafia. Ben Stiller's character was similar to There's something about Mary, goofy but likable.   I heard that Jim Carey was offered to do Ben Stiller's part at first but I think Stiller was perfect for the role. "},{"Title":"Fully Enjoyed This Movie.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I read the comments here before I saw the movie. (Not the spoilers). But the commercials made me laugh enough to see it. I was NOT disappointed.Yeah.. let's be honest... You CAN see the jokes coming sometimes before they come. But even with that fact, when they DID come.. I would laugh anyway.I don't take movies seriously. I go to be entertained and enjoy 90 or so minutes of fun. This film did that for me.It's far fetched, and it's sometimes predictible, but in spite of all that, I laughed at what I knew was coming anyway.I saw one poster write that no one in the theater laughed when they went. This surprises me because EVERYONE in the theater I was in laughed so much, that I missed dialog after the jokes because of the laughter.It's worth the price of admission if you don't obver analyze it like some people do.Take it from Jane and Joe Q Public... It was worth it! "},{"Title":"Best Comedy in 2000","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is simply the best movie comedy I have seen this year.  If it had a point to it, some deeper meaning, it would be in my running for best movie of the year.Put simply, this movie is one giant situation comedy without much anything more to say.  The gags are logical, but in no way truly predictable (i.e. you know *exactly* what's going to happen, to the very detail).  Granted, if you're really looking that far in advance for it, you're going to find it -- though you're not really enjoying the movie.  Overall, no cheap laughs, everyone is hard earned and set up nicely and logically.MTP generates a lot of laughs without being crude (unless you consider the play on last names).  It truly blew my expectations away.  The preview does not do this movie justice.  Even when I recognized some of the bits from the preview, they were funnier in the movie (except maybe the polygraph test, which is about the same).  There was no sap, no cheesey moments, save for the end, which tidies things up nicely.  Normally, I have no place in movie for those types of scenes, but this movie makes no attempts to say anything more anyway, so it is excusable.Watch this movie.  It destroys Scary Movie (vulgar and crude, so stupid it has to be funny) in terms of sheer hilarity.  I also rate MTP above There's Something About Mary, and American Pie because, again, it does not have to lower its standards to get cheap laughs.  Also, the pace is much better than these other movies.  The timing is excellent, with plenty of logical humor as well as physical hilarity. "},{"Title":"Simply a hilarious comedy...","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Really this is a very enjoyable film, especially for anyone who can empathize with Gaylord Greg Focker's predicament (love that name). I found myself whincing in agony at times as I found myself vicariously reliving those awkward moments when you first meet the parents. And for those very few who find themselves watching a less than the hilarious comedy, try counting how many times Robert DeNiro's voice is dubbed over when saying Focker. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It had been a long time since I have seen a comedy; however, Meet the Parents was well-worth the wait.  Robert DeNiro, who is one of my all-time favorite actors, is brilliant as Jack Byrnes.  I felt that his performance for a comedy was even better than his role in Midnight Run.  Ben Stiller was also excellent as the guy who has everything possibly bad happen to him.  Terri Polo, Blythe Danner, and James Rebhorn are solid in supporting roles, but it is Owen Wilson that really shines.  Keep an eye on him--because he will be a star.  A lot of people have been badmouthing this movie, but I feel that it was a really well-written and acted movie.  I think some people were expecting too much or are hard to please.  If you are a big fan of Stiller and/or DeNiro you must see this movie.  I feel that this movie is a must-see anyway.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny moments, inconsistent tone and poor acting","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller just does not come across well as an earnestgood guy. At least the way he portrays himself in this movie.De Niro is good except when he drops out of character  towards the end.Some solid chuckles though. "},{"Title":"Love does NOT make you this stupid","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood seems obsessed with the character type played by Ben Stiller. Supposedly intelligent but displays amazing levels of stupidity, but in the end proves that he does have a brain. I thought things were looking up with the early scene with the kids. I thought it was clever, funny and romantic, but due to the overheard comment he backs down on this planned event. His intelligence went down from there. The gags are all predictable as were the characters. De Niro & Danner give solid performances. What is it with Stiller and animals? The bit with the volleyball...one minute he's a dork, the next he's Michael Jordon...lame. Other reviewers have said it better than I, in summary, wait for the video. P.S. The trailer bits would have been SO much more funny if the cat DID flush... "},{"Title":"Meet this movie","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I had a good time at this movie.  Ben Stiller is Greg Focker, It's pronounced like it's spelled...Focker  who is getting ready to engage to his girlfriend (Teri Polo).  But first he must meet her parents.  His girlfriend's father, (Robert De Niro) is a flower expert who is well known for not liking some of his daughter's choices in boyfriends.  First off, Focker is warned not to smoke in the house, because the father finds smoking as a sign of weakness, and his girlfriend throws his pack of cigarettes on the roof (which come in later).  To help his craving, Focker purchases some Nicarette gum, in which he chews several pieces at a time.  The big laughs start with an urn containing a dead grandma's ashes and the family cat, who has an unusual talent of using the toilet.  Ben Stiller's character is similar to his character in There's Something About Mary, he's a clumsy, shy guy just trying to impress his girl and her parents, but everything seems to go wrong for him.  For anyone who has tried to impress a date's parents, or has had bad experiences at airports will be able to simpify with Stiller's character.  There are many big laughs in this movie, and most of the jokes all join together perfectly (ex, Focker is trying to catch the family cat on the roof, but ends up just causing more trouble in a hilarious sequence I won't ruin for you.) Meet the parents is one of the better quality comedies recently, and I recommend that you give it a chance.   "}{"Title":"The absolute funniest movie of 2000!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely THE movie highlight of 2000. I have not laughed to hard in a theater probably since There's Something About Mary or The Naked Gun. This movie has none of the gross-out humor found in TSAM, so I was able to recommend it to my parents who loved it as well. This is the kind of movie that brings everyone in the theater together through laughter. Everyone knows what it's like when they try to impress someone and fails totally. Ben Stiller's character is easy to relate to and the chaos that ensues will keep you laughing throughout the entire film. I won't give anything away about the film, but I will tell you that I laughed to tears all throughout the dinner scene. It's a great movie even the second time around and I'm anticipating the DVD release! "},{"Title":"The power of Bob compels you","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Imprisoned in crew-neck sweaters, grinning a homeowner's grin, Robert DeNiro gives the kind of performance Marlon Brando gave in movies like BEDTIME STORY and CANDY genius stooping low and larking it up. If you doubt that he's still the World's Greatest Living Actor, this movie will probably make a better case than MEN OF HONOR; everything he does here as the most overprotective living dad can send you into tittering fits. As the son-in-law trapped in a Kafkaesque in-law joke, Ben Stiller has an amazing freakout monologue on a grounded airplane; as in the climax of James Toback's BLACK AND WHITE, this seems to be Stiller's forte. (The rest of the performance is closer to the smug and smarmy Stiller of REALITY BITES than the high-flying and inspired Stiller of MYSTERY MEN and Toback's unsung classic.) The script, which once upon a time was to be directed by Steven Spielberg, is all about three things structure, structure, structure. You can practically hear screenwriting teachers sighing gaily in anticipation of using it as an ur-text. It all fits together tidily, and the director, Jay Roach, of the AUSTIN POWERS movies, hasn't enough style or personality to fill a flea's ear, but he gets the job done; he seems to know how to pick material that forms a platform for funny actors to be funny. Blythe Danner, with some rather exaggerated cute-little-mom noises, plays the mom. This leads to the natural suggestion that Gwyneth should have played the shikse, which seems to have been the author's intentions--not many other blond girls out there that inspire the kind of sighing devotion that powers this sort of story. The replacement, Teri Polo, has the pleasant blandness of a kindergarten teacher, but seems, much like the movie itself, really to belong on TV. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and painful at the same time","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At one time I didn't like Ben Stiller... silly me! His performance makes this movie painful to watch-it's almost as if you were there!Similar over the top tasteless humor as found in Something About Mary -- just not quite as vulgar or extreme. A great unwind-after-the-work-week flick.  "},{"Title":"Lots of funny moments","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had a couple of hours to kill today and this more than did that.  It was a very pleasant way to spend the time - I laughed out loud more than a few times.  Stiller's best performance yet. De Niro continues to show that he can be very comfortable in comedy roles.  A couple of old-timers (Danner and George) put in good performances.   "},{"Title":"Future in-laws, beware of the cat !","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once upon a time there was a fun couple living in Chicago, so much in love how could they have a problem in the world ? The answer is, take a trip to New York and visit your future in-laws whom you have never met. The antics and revelations that unfold in this wonderful comedy will make you laugh hysterically, and feel compassion during each and every scene.  Ben Stiller portrays Greg Focker the lovable all to easy target of Jack Byrnes a former CIA agent played by Robert DeNiro. The cast of characters are more fun than you can ever imagine. Teri Polo as Pam Byrnes turns in a very nice performance as Stiller's love interest who tries to protect him from the interrogations he receives throughout the movie. This is a fun well made feel good movie that I would recommend highly. "},{"Title":"Does not live up to the hype and buzz","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny film, but not a non-stop journey into motion picture hilarity, as Scary Movie earlier this year was.  The hype, buzz and advertising made me believe this was one of the funniest movies in the past decade.  Not so.  It's funny enough, but, after a while, the father's nuttyness gets to be a little too much and, frankly, quite annoying.  I did not hate it, but after seeing and reading everything, was diappointed.  Teri Polo is beautiful and finally gets her rightful place in a big-time flick. Should make her a star, just as Almost Famous did for Kate Hudson.  Owen Wilson is also effective as Kevin.  Blythe Danner seems to phone-in her role as Mother.  And Bobby D, is well, okay in the role, but my qualm is not with him but with the writer.  Funny, but not great. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although occasionally awkward, Meet the Parents really is a time well spent at the movies. DeNiro was a real winner. The film was well worth watching if only for his sake. Meet the Parents takes every nightmare of meeting your future in-laws, and sticks it together for some hilarious situations. I recommend it to all parents, in-laws, and brides and grooms to be. ;) "},{"Title":"An excellent movie offering lots of laughs","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed the humor in this movie. Robert De' Nero always gives a good performance. Not as good as Pay it Forward or Remember the Titans but worthwhile entertainment.  It is a more enjoyable type of slapstick than we saw in Austin Powers. "},{"Title":"Must See!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had me cracking up from start to finish. If you want to see a completely entertaining movie, then this is one movie you cannot afford to miss. Take a friend while you're at it. "},{"Title":"A great believable comedy!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller really surprised me as he was able to hold his own quite well with Robert De Niro.  This believable and well relating comedy of real life moves well and as a date movie people can laugh at the inevitable.  Ben Stiller's personality in this movie is a lot like his character in 'There's Something About Mary'.  A nervous little guy with a streak of bad luck at almost every turn.  De Niro is grand as a seasoned veteran of the CIA and De Niro leads a cast in his usual towering fashion.  A nice movie with quirky jokes and some interesting slapstick.  It may also make lonely people feel happy that they don't have to deal with big families. "}{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had read such great reviews and was anxious to have a good time watching a hilarious movie.  What happened was I sat there squirming waiting for it to be over.  Ben Stiller is great and he is wasted on this movie.  He comes off as a big schmuck because anyone with an ounce of dignity or intelligence would have left the house when the rich people started insulting him about everything from his job to his hair and back to his name.  Very tired scenario.  The only time I really laughed was at the end when he was talking to the camera... "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents (2000) **** stars","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      Meet the Parents is a hilarious ride through horrible situations. Ben Stiller is great, as always, playing the poor victim of Teri Polo's father. As the movie opens, you know that the movie will be funny. It keeps getting funnier up until the end. DeNiro has tha certain twinkle in his eye that makes him look like a normal father. But underneath he's paranoid. Through the movie was have situations like Stiller taking a lie-detecter test, Stiller losing DeNiro's loved cat, catching Nicole DeHuff's altar on fire and so on. I don't want to spoil the end. Meet the Parents is the funniest mover of the year. It's right up there with Airplane! and The Naked Gun.**Note If you look closely in the beginning when Teri Polo is teaching her class, you can see Spencer Breslin from this summer's Disney's The Kid.   "},{"Title":"If you saw the trailer - You saw the whole movie","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet The Parents might have been a much more  enjoyable movie experience, had I not already seen thetrailer which gave away all the punch lines.If you've already seen the trailer, then I would suggestwaiting until the movie comes to video/DVD. It will make agood rental then I am sure.Meet the Parents is the type of movie that is all setup anddelivery. It needs surprise to work, otherwise the gags fallflat and the viewer is cheated. At least that's how I felt whilesitting in the audience - cheated!There are probably 10 good belly laughs scripted into themovie, but 8 of them already had their punchlines  punctured and revealed by the trailer. What a let down.Every major joke in the movie was displayed in the trailerand nothing was leftover to reward the ticket holder. I am angry at the marketing folks at Dreamworks for caringmore about filling the seats in the theatre, than about whatthe viewer experience would be once inside for those thatpaid for a ticket.Your mileage may vary.This movie would have gotten an 8 if the trailer wasn'tcomposed of so many spoilers, as a cinema experience Iam generous by giving it a 6. That's how cheated I feel. "},{"Title":"Tried too hard","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I found Meet the Parents to be an overall enjoyable experience, I didn't think it was a great movie.  The movie tried too hard to include as many gags as possible, forsaking believability in return for a few forced laughs.  If it had been toned down a little bit it would have been much more enjoyable.Actually in many regards it has the same foibles as Something about Mary. There premise is good, but too many of the jokes rely on everything that can happen does happen. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Funny!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies where you will laugh nonstop.  I haven't laughed so hard at a movie since I went to see Liar Liar a few years back.  A must see for those that love to laugh.  Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro's characters interact extremely well setting the atmosphere for the entire catastrophic weekend to follow.  Following the nonstop disaster of a boyfriend meeting the parents for the first time left the whole audience within the theatre laughing. "},{"Title":"My favorite part was when he lit the altar on fire .......","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents was a lot funnier than I had expected it to be.  Ben Stiller was hilarious.  If you haven't already, go see it.  This might be the best movie this fall.  I would definitely see this movie again. hahaha! "},{"Title":"Bottomline Hilarious!!!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just got out of Meet the Parents and simply put it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  Maybe I'm biased because I love Bobby De Niro and Ben Stiller, but this combination on screen is the best I have seen in a while.  Why is this such a great movie????  Every piece of comedic action is right on the money, DeNiro who is a great actor once again takes a comedic role and has so much fun with it... Ben Stiller who is probably one of the most underappreciated comedic talents around is hilarious as well.  Every comedic segment is a great belly laugh.  As the dad, DeNiro has this psychotic presence surrounding him with traits from some of his best roles (Goodfellas, Cape Fear) and in this context it is funny.  If you liked him in Analyze This, you will really love him here because he is about 5 times better in this.  Overall the story is simple but very very humourous. We have all been in a situation where we had to meet our significant other's parents.  Here it turns into a nightmare and Ben Stiller as the common man boyfriend is you or me having probably the worst weekend of our lives.  It is impossible not to like Stiller and you immediately feel bad for the idiot as his weekend and relationship go awry.  Go run and see this it is so worth the admission. "},{"Title":"First meetings can leave lasting impressions...","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just ask Debbie what happened to her eye.Ben Stiller has turned out a wonderful performance. There was not the same sadistic level of humor as in There's Something About Mary, but it was very realistic..not too overdone as in some movies. It was refreshing to see a simple story line develop into such a humorous snowball effect. And let's not forget Mr. Jinx.The supporting cast is excellent! Robert Deniro can play ANYONE and pull it off. Blythe Danner does a great job playing the doting mother and wife. Debbie, Denny, Dr. Bob and his parents, and...oh, yes...Kevin (Owen Wilson)was a scream.If you can hear them above the laughter, pay very special attention to the innuendo and the just-off-camera comments (i.e. Pam's new name and every other word being the new F word.) The final scene with Burns (Deniro) and Focker (Stiller) nearly made me pee in my pants! "},{"Title":"Focking riot!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Saw this movie this weekend and I couldn't stop laughing!  One of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time.  Good acting, hilarious situations, and Stiller's last name made this a flic worth seeing twice! (which you will want to do if you missed some of the movie like I did from so much laughter from the audience!)  Very funny movie!  Well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Hilarious! I haven't laughed this hard in a while.","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert De Niro proves he is as great a comic actor as a dramatic one. Ben Stiller is at his best. Their interaction is terrific. Everyone in the theater I saw this in was probably of the same mind, as we were one in laughter. A must see. "}{"Title":"Absolutely a Riot!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is the funniest movie of the year, no questions asked! Robert DeNiro and Ben Stiller are absolutely HILARIOUS! I knew I would love this movie from the very beginning.This movie works on so many levels. Not only is the movie absolutely hilarious from start to finish, it also has a lot of sad and touching elements. Ben Stiller is great as the unfortunately named Greg Focker (who does resemble his character in There's Something About Mary a little too much) and Robert DeNiro is fantastic as Jack Byrnes, a would-be father-in-law from Hell. DeNiro is much better in this movie than his terrible role in the atrocious Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle simply because he is more relaxed and has much more fun with this character. Stiller and DeNiro make such a good team in this movie, also. Both of them make the perfect reactions to all the absolutely humiliating mishaps Greg does in the movie. All the horrible things Greg does, from losing DeNiro's dear cat to breaking a girl's nose to setting the house on fire, none of them would have been as funny as they were if DeNiro didn't do such a good job reacting to the accidents when he would find out about them. And some of the scenes (Greg saying grace at the dinner table and the fabulous interrogation scenes) are absolutely IMPOSSIBLE not to scream out laughing.And although the movie does have a little too much in common with There's Something About Mary, it still has all new laughs that are very fresh and are absolutely a riot! "},{"Title":"Dinero Time, Comedy at Best!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hilarious, I recommend to everyone, all ages, young and old, who can appreciate humor in good taste.  Dinero is awesome, perhaps his best (non-typical role) in a comedy and he and Stiller play off each other well.  10 out of 10. Go see it... "},{"Title":"Laughed so hard I cried, best movie I have seen in a while.","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My husband and I saw the movie together and we both thought it was great. The airport scenes were the best, the entire theater was laughing.  Ben Stiller was excellent and as always I am a big DeNiro fan.  I will be telling all my friends it is a must see. "},{"Title":"A delightful movie filled with killer jokes that will leave you with giggles after the movie.","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  robert de niro and ben stiller are cool in this movie, the jokes really work and the movie was funny throughout. This movie makes it to my top 10 comedy list at no. 5, i mainly liked it because of robert de niro. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a very funny film.  If not one that had many drop dead funny jokes, it was a film that kept a smile on my face from the opening song to the very last shot. Most of the gags took time to develop and you could see them coming from a mile away but it didn't matter, it was still funny.  The two main actors made this whole movie.  I do not think I would have liked this movie at all if it were not for them. They were great.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone of any age.     "},{"Title":"The funniest film I've seen in ages","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this film was great. It doesn't show all it's funny parts in the trailer, it was hysterical from beginning to end..... go and see it!!And Ben Stiller's monologue to the stewardess at the end of the film is worth the price of the ticket alone!!!!! "},{"Title":"A first rate comedy","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wonderfully hilarious comedy has DeNiro arguably in better form than he was in 'Analyze this', playing the anxious father of Pam Byrnes but also understating his role, and the subtlety makes his performance even better. A great film on all facets, it really is hilarious, and a great movie. Definitely one of the best comedies of 2000, and one of the best movies. "},{"Title":"Good Clean Fun","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This just proves that movies can be great as well as good earners without having violence and vulgarity. This movie is straight up clean fun from start to finish. What a great script. I was laughing the whole way through. DeNiro as the tough guy/comedy character is great, even better than it was in Analyze This. I wonder if he's going to revert to those types of roles now. It's great to see such diversity in what he can play. He didn't even need to say anything, just holding up a cat called Mr. Jinx and puckering at it is enough to make any grown man cry from laughter. Stiller is at his best here as well, combining his Jewishness with a clutzy attitude makes for a hysterical combination. I'm glad he stayed away from all those Jewish family/mother jokes because they seem to be getting old. Great showing from the girl who played Stiller's fiance (can't remember her name right now). She's the one who added a touch of drama and romance to finish up the package. All in all, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Comedy fans will be satisfied, De Niro fans won't.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny film.  It puts Ben Stiller back into the same role he had in there's Something about Mary.  He plays the unassuming, honest, likeable guy, for whom everything goes wrong.De Niro plays the stern, over protective father and does a great job.  The scenes between he and Stiller are the best, especially the puff the magic dragon scene.De Niro was good in this movie, but hard-core fans won't be satisfied.  Go for a good laugh and Ben Stiller's bad-luck. 8.3/10 "},{"Title":"First Best in Show, and now this. Comedy Returns Big.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie that provoked uncontrolled laughter in the theater, though people standing outside in line for their tickets were generally unamused.Finally, De Niro does a great job in a movie where he isn't a mob boss or a cop. Stiller and everybody else are also quite good in this.I like the way the De Niro character is revealed bit by bit. We think we know him, and then we see something new. This continues throughout the movie, so things stay interesting. I'll never look at a lie detector again without thinking of this film.One of the most amusing moments is when Ben Stiller has to say grace. The movie telegraphs his prayer, though. Pay attention to the music playing when Stiller and De Niro visit the drugstore, and you'll know what his prayer becomes. It's a pleasure to see what Hollywood can do when talent prevails over pubesence.  "}{"Title":"De Niro much better than in Analyze This, and Ben Stiller at his best. All in all, an amusing and enjoyable film.e","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is an interesting and amusing insight into in-laws and marriage. Though a little heavy handed in its direction at times, the pleasure derived from this film far outweighs any of its faults. The cast was well chosen, and Robert DeNiro and Ben Stiller have never been better playing comedy.  "},{"Title":"DeNiro and Stiller in grand style","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Take a cute, fluffy romance and make nuclear winter of it with plenty of broad comedy from both DeNiro and Stiller working together like Abbott and Costello. That's the best way to sum up this film.The plot is a delicious mixture of FATHER OF THE BRIDE and THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY with a big dose of the Three Stooges and the Marx Brothers. Some of the props include a trained cat, an ash urn, and a lie detector.This movie is funny -- not just in the style of other modern comedies, but in the great tradition of screwball comedies like IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT and BRINGING UP BABY. It's hard to tell who steals more scenes -- DeNiro doing all his classic schtick or Stiller with his straight-faced lunacy. MEET THE PARENTS is, quite simply, a gem. Since laughter is good therapy, this is a dumptruck-full of sugar to make the medicine go down. See it! "},{"Title":"Maybe the funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not too much to say except see this movie! Not at all crude or disgusting like some recent popular movies yet so much better. Ben Stiller is a comic genius and this is just further proof. Robert D. is great as the father of the girlfriend...the whole ensemble seemed perfectly cast right down to the cat. No need to say what it's about since the tag line does that but I must say again, see this movie! "},{"Title":"Not as funny as it was long","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was anxiously awaiting this movie, especially having seen Robert DeNiro in Analyze This.  Boy, was I disappointed. If you like movies where stupid people do really dumb  things repeatedly, you will like this.  But I felt this movie was either too long, or simply not that funny. The idea sounded good, and I sort of wish I'd seen the original first, or perhaps, instead of Meet the Parents. I have no problems with the casting or the acting, but it's just that this movie never seems to come to a conclusion. Oh it does, but it seems a bit contrived, more like an afterthought. I know some people are calling it the funniest movie of the year. In my  opinion, if that's true then the year 2000 didn't provide a lot of laughs. "},{"Title":"A poor man's There's Something About Mary","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has its moments, but it underutilizes most of its cast (particularly Owen Wilson, Stiller and DeNiro) and as farcical plot device is heaped upon farcical plot device it drives towards a particularly boring and empty dramatic crisis, necessitated by the dictates of its formulaic and manipulative narrative.  Fortunately that crisis lasts only 10 minutes, but while it's going on you really wish you were somewhere else.  Stiller is excellent as always, and his performance, basically a reprise of his Something About Mary role of comical downtrodden everyman, is what really holds the movie together.  The scene on the airplane, the car racing scene, and the final scene of the movie made me laugh pretty damn hard.  It was definitely a good date movie--lots to laugh about afterward and lots to complain about. "},{"Title":"Focking Hilarious!!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEET THE PARENTS is a comedy like STRIPES, ANIMAL HOUSE, and TOOTSIE. It's a film that you'll still be laughing after watching it five times, as much as you did the first time.  As for director Jay Roach, I find this film to be his best personal achievement, far better than both AUTSIN POWERS films and MYSTERY, ALASKA.  And after watching this film, you'll more than likely agree with me. Ben Stiller stars as Greg Focker (that's F-O-C-K-E-R), a Chicago male nurse who is in love with school teacher Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo).  Just when Greg is about to propose to marriage to Pam, Pam gets a call on her cellular that her younger sister, Debbie (Nicole DeHuff) is getting married in a week after knowing the guy for a few months.  But what is all right with this marriage is that they got permission from Pam and Debbie's parents, Jack Byrnes (Robert DeNiro) and Dian Byrnes (Blythe Danner).  But it's Jack who calls the shots for the family. So as Greg and Pam head over to Long Island for Debbie's wedding, Greg figures that this is the perfect opportunity to get approval from Pam's father to marry her.  But Jack Byrnes is very protective of his first born child and doesn't really care much for Greg.  Greg is very nervous and worried around Jack, and who can blame him, Jack has got to be the most intimidating father of all time.  As Greg keeps making accidental blunders around Jack, it makes Greg even more worried when Pam tells Greg that her father worked as a interrogation agent for the C.I.A.  Also, Jack favors and adores Pam's former fiance Kevin Rawley (Owen Wilson), who is a multimillionare who is a carpenter for a hobby.  So one mistake happens after another builds on top of each other making this a weekend of hell for poor Greg. Where director Jay Roach crashed with his last two comedies (AUSTIN POWERS 2, & MYSTERY, ALASKA) Roach scores again, if not his best score with this film.  I found this along with CHICKEN RUN to be the funniest film of this year.  I was laughing on and on again throughout this entire film that I nearly lost my voice.  And what makes it better is that like AIRPLANE and A FISH CALLED WANDA the jokes keep on coming to by the end you're tired from laughing so much. Both DeNiro and Stiller do very great jobs in this film. Stiller is fun as the poor fella Greg, similar to his Ted character in THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, Greg tries his hardest to make things right, but they turn out to be the opposite.  And Robert DeNiro is proving that his comedic work is just as excellent as his serious work.  With, ANALYZE THIS, WAG THE DOG, and my favorite film of all time MIDNIGHT RUN, DeNiro is a natural with the comedy genre.  And with this film, it shows that DeNiro still has his talent, after almost losing it in ADVENTURES OF ROCKY & BULLWINKLE.  The rest of the cast are also good, but Owen Wilson stands out as the very impressive Kevin. Before Jay Roach was making this movie, he said that the script was the funniest thing he has ever read.  And by watching this film, you too can see on why this movie is so hysterical.  If Roach continues to make more movies like this one, he'll be a stand out in Hollywood. It's a shame that the American Film Institute has already picked the most funniest films of all time.  Since if they picked the films out later next year, PARENTS would have been at least on the top twenty as the top comeides of all time.  Even when I sit and write reviews, I still get chuckles from thinking about scenes from this movie.  This is quite a impressive fall season, after experiencing one of the most disappoining summers in film history.   With PARENTS, along with TITANS, NURSE BETTY, and ALMOST FAMOUS it seems that this fall there needed to be a funny and witty comedy, and MEET THE PARENTS is it! Don't miss it!!!!!!!!!!!!! ***** (out of five)   "},{"Title":"There's Something About Mary Part II","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Beware! In order to critique this film I may have to reveal some key plot points!! Turn back if you don't want me to spoil it for you!!! OK, you were warned... I had high hopes for this movie. The trailer looked quite fresh and amusing. The first act started out cute and light, establishing the characters quite nicely. Ben Stiller (Greg) plays basically the same mensch he played in 'Mary,' a likable schlub who only wants to marry his sweet, loving girlfriend and live happily ever after. But first he has to 'Meet the Parents.' Actually he has to meet her father, Jack, played by Robert DeNiro. Here he's basically playing the same jerk he played in 'This Boy's Life,' but now it's for laughs, I suppose. Me? I was squirming in my seat whenever Jack was on screen. He would make any possible suitor nervous. But how can you root for Greg, who is the main central character, when the script stacks the deck so clearly against him from the outset?From the moment he arrives with his soon-to-be-fiancé at her parents' house, every single thing goes wrong. He says the wrong thing at every instance. He inadvertently lies because he is so nervous. Things get broken (and of course they are irreplaceable) and the cat goes to the bathroom on the debris. The cat! This cat named Mr. Jinx should have had second billing right under DeNiro's name. Jack is so in love with this cat, he immediately dislikes Greg when it is revealed he is more of a 'dog person.' And who tells Jack that Greg hates cats? His girlfriend Pamela! Oops, but what are you gonna do? Of course, Mr. Jinks gets lost. But how can we believe that Greg would be so naive as to think he could pass off a lookalike cat to Jack, its owner of fifteen years? Especially when the cat knows a myriad of tricks that no other cat could possibly know? Suddenly Greg is an idiot! According to the plot, Jack can read people. This means he can spot a liar a mile away. How can a man like Jack be so suspicious of everyone around him and yet not know his own son sneaks out at night, presumably to buy pot? This wasn't even played for laughs. It's simply an inconsistency in the plot. Later a bong is found in Jack's son's coat pocket. But since Greg was wearing the coat at the time, Jack thinks it's Greg's. Ha ha, it never stops. There are so many marijuana references, it's no wonder this movie was directed by a guy named Jay Roach. Seemingly insignificant plot developments are scattered throughout the dialogue to come back and bite Greg on the butt later on in the story. More truths are revealed between Greg and Pamela that only come out when Greg is on the spot with her dad. For instance, Greg buys a special gift for Jack upon his first introduction to him. It is believed that Pamela helped him select this gift (It's a rare flower that will bloom in six months.) on the condition that Jack used to be a florist. After Greg embarrasses himself thinking that Jack would loooove this little reference to his past profession, it's revealed he was never a florist at all. But who reveals this? Pamela! Why would she set him up for a fall like that? Some girlfriend! The writers of this thing even give Greg a silly last name to add insult to injury. You'd think with a last name like Focker, that every kid Greg ever knew growing up would have mocked him so mercilessly, he would have changed it or gotten used to it by now. By the end of this movie I was p***ed off because I felt cheated. I got more agitated by everything that went wrong for poor Greg. I just wanted him to get back at Jack somehow; yell at him or something. But, no. What does this script make him do? He takes his anger out on a dopey flight attendant whose only crime was making him wait until his row was called before he boarded his plane the hell out of there. Some comeuppance.And the ending is from out of nowhere. Booooo! Liked the cat, though, and I'm not a 'cat person.' Take that, Jack. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy will keep you in stitches.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Robert DeNiro is developing into quite an entertaining comedic actor. In his latest comic opus, which he also produced, he is the future father-in-law of Greg Focker (Ben Stiller).  Greg's girlfriend, Pam (Teri Polo) has brought him home to `Meet the Parents'. From the moment he drives up to the front door nothing goes right. Jay Roach (Austin Powers) has ably directed his actors getting just the right combination of humor and character without being too slapsticky.Unfortunately, the trailer gives away many of the film's best gags. However, the characters are likeable so that you sympathize with their plight. Blythe Danner is the future mother-in-law and isn't given much to do. Of course, the end of the story seems to lead to the possible sequel, `Meet the Fockers,' Greg's parents. Who would be better to play them than Ben Stiller's own folks, Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara. Hire them, quick!  "},{"Title":"A fresh new comedy from Jay Roach","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the wake of a lackluster summer at the movies comes a fresh new comedy from Jay Roach.The film is laugh out loud funny. Go see this picture. I'm sure if you're reading this review you know the story.The acting is splendid. De Niro proves he is the greatest actor of his generation and maybe of all time. Stiller continues to impress. He has perfected the awkward everyman schtick. The supporting players are all fine with a special note for Blythe Danner and the underused Owen Wilson.Aesthetically the film is simple, but Roach keeps the film moving at a pleasant pace. It is obvious that he let his actors improv and it was a wise decision. The chemistry is remarkable.I truly think this is a wonderful film and I definitely will be seeing it again. So, I'll make myself sound like a studio plant and say, go see this movie as soon as possible, it is well worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"There's Nothing About Mary","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The trailers for Meet The Parents had me ready for a Something About Mary kind of laugh fest, but all the laughs were in the trailer.  There were no unexpected laughs!  Robert Deniro can make you laugh with just a look, but it's becoming cliche'.  It's not a bad movie, but I expected more. "}{"Title":"The funniest movie since Something About Mary and American Pie","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I attended the Dallas premiere of Meet the Parents on May 21, 2000.  This is the funniest movie since Something About Mary and American Pie.  If you liked those movies, you will love this film just as much.  See this movie in a theater where the whole audience will be laughing with you. This film is hysterical and I gave it a 9.. "},{"Title":"For anyone who is married...","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got to watch an advance screening of this movie and I was expecting a so-so picture.  What I got was the best comedy I've seen in the theatre since I saw Bowfinger!  More recently, Nurse Betty was also very good, but Meet The Parents is just plain hilarious.I guess it was extra special to me because I saw it with a couple one year away from a wedding and when i saw it, I was about one week away from being the best man in another friend's wedding.With Mystery Men and now Meet The Parents, I think Ben Stiller has legitimized his comic acting.  DeNiro was also brilliant playing a somewhat eccentric father.The movie starts out slow, but in no time when the ball got rolling, the laughs kept on coming!Definitely the best comedy this year and probably the late 90's.  "},{"Title":"Great Comedy that Hits Home","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greg (Ben Stiller) is having a horrible day.  The airline loses his luggage and he has to meet his girlfriend's parents.  He tried proposing to her and that didn't work out either. He flies to NY to meet his soon-to-be in-laws and finds out that her father is a force to be reckoned with. As we watch Greg's downfall, we can't help but laugh and feel sympathy for him. Every thing he does goes wrong while he's only trying to impress his girlfriend's parents.  The scene with Greg in the airport is classic! If you're looking for a great comedy without being overly grossed out and a toilet trained cat, check out Meet the Parents...you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10!","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw the sneak preview last night and I don't want to spoil anything but this was the FUNNIEST movie I have seen in years!  Ben and Bobby were AWESOME!  The whole theatre was rolling with laughter ...  one laugh after another!  I recommend seeing it the first couple days it is open so as not to have any of the laughs spoiled. "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is kind of what you would expect from the man who helped bring the Austin Powers series to life.  The same type of over the top humor and sometimes gross scenes are here along with the play on names you have come to expect from Mr. Roach and company.  I will not lie, at times I laughed my a** off.  Other times I found myself shaking my head at the stupidity of it. Robert DeNiro seems a bit out of place but does a worthy job.  It is definitely worth seeing if for no other reason then the scene on the airplane and airport.    "},{"Title":"Best Comedy in a LONG time","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the funniest my boyfriend and I can both agree on.  Some of the facial expressions were just priceless.  This movie is worth seeing more than once, as you may miss the next line because you laughed right through it. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Great Disaster Flick","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny movie, awkward at times, but only because it's true! I laughed entirely through out it all. Try to pick up on Ben Stiller's ('Greg') subtle facial expressions, they are very funny. Finally a date movie that both parties will enjoy! 8/10 "},{"Title":"There's Something About Bobby","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With this and ANALYZE THIS and MIDNIGHT RUN, De Niro proves that he's one of our best comic actors.  And MEET THE PARENTS is one of the best comedies ever made.  Ben Stiller is great, too, but he's on familiar ground here. It's good to see a funny movie that's character-centered rather than one that relies on dumb and gross sight-gags.  The airport scene alone at the end of the movie is worth the price of admission.      "},{"Title":"A perfect 10! for your entertainment dollar.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller has established himself as a super star. He is so good and so funny and is quickly becoming the sane more likeable version of Jim Carrey (whom I despise). His comedic talent is fantastic. DeNiro is always super and I believe he has launched a new career in his comedic roles. His facial expressions are wonderful, his timing and everything about him is great. We saw a preview of the movie last night and it was sold out and the house roared all the way through the entire movie. It is a must see movie. One of the funniest of the year. Ben continues his great work after keeping the faith and Mary..I can't wait for Meet the Parents II or for those in the know, meet the Maath-a-toon-em! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  God Damn ! It's the funniest movie of the year !(that includes scary movie, kings of comedy and road trip). It's light and not to pretentious. De Niro is as funny as he is menacing and Stiller does a other good job as a Something...Mary kind of gut. Great casting, no dull moments and Owen Wilson as the ex-boyfriend, it should have been a summer blockbuster... "}{"Title":"Needed a good laugh - got it!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lots of good laughs.  Some really good pot shots taken at airlines and airline passengers.  Physical comedy that may remind some of the 3 Stooges - without the charm!  Just go with the story and avoid trying to make everything fit.  I couldn't believe Ben Stiller and Teri Polo as a couple but that doesn't detract all that much.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen! No exaggeration!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was by far the funniest movie I have ever seen. It was extremely well-acted and absolutely hilarious. Robert DeNiro and Ben Stiller had such a good chemistry and both of them know how to portray a vast amount of characters. Watch for scenes with the cat. Newcomer Nicole DeHuff does a good job in her role also. Go see Meet The Parents! And if you already have, go see it again! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Best comedy ever","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This might be the best comedy I have ever seen until now! It's all the awful events one after the other that makes you laugh so much and at the same time, feel sorry for poor Greg (Stiller)... (He is almost becoming a modern Chaplin here!) DeNiro is also great! Watch this movie, no matter how, but watch it... your ribs might hurt the next day for laughing so much, and so hysterically. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended...","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just caught a sneak-preview of Meet the Parents with my girlfriend.  I was laughing through the whole movie and my girlfriend enjoyed it too.  The humor was tasteful for the most part and consisted of alot of awkwardness about meeting in-laws.  I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"WHAT A PLEASANT SURPRISE","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have not laughed so much in a long time.  This film is a winner and DeNero and Stiller are outstanding in their parts. It is a cute movie with very little sex, but just good acting.It you want to see a movie that is very funny and well acted go see MEET MY PARENTS. "},{"Title":"De Niro and Stiller make it work","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents. Something that any couple does not like doing. We've all had our experiences of bad first impressions, failed conversations, and overall just embarrassing moments the first time we meet the parents. Meet the Parents (the film) takes all these to the next level showing how bad a first impression may get. Doesn't seem like something that can make a story but it holds its own. Just look at the two leads and you'll know why the film works.Greg is a male nurse with a lovely girlfriend named Pam. Greg is considering asking her to marry him. Greg, however, must meet the parents first. He hopes to make a good first impression then do an old school move and ask Pam's father for his daughters hand in marriage. Greg sees this as polite while everyone else sees it as a waste of time. Fate seems to have other plans for Greg as everything that could go wrong does go wrong and he tries to impress the hard nosed father bent on not letting anyone take his daughter away from him.The film follows Greg for the most part as he struggles to impress Pam's stern father, Jack, and caring mother, Dina. Stiller really does a good job as the struggling Greg. He has some great spurts of humor and the pool scene is one of his funniest moments to date. I couldn't have seen anyone else in the role of Greg other then Ben Stiller. He is just too good in these kind of roles. I really do think this was one of his best roles of his career.Robert De Niro is one of Hollywood's top actors. He's one of your greatest actors in history. To see him in a comedy did not make much sense to me after seeing him in films such as The Godfather and The Deer Hunter. However, I underestimated De Niro. He has a great sense of humor and a great comedy style. His seriousness makes it all the funnier when something wrong happens and his constant saying of Greg's last name Focker brings a laugh every time.Meet the Parents is well written, well acted, and well directed. There are a few slow parts and a few unnecessary parts. Somethings you know could just never happen but this is why it is a comedy film. The impossible happens. De Niro and Stiller propel the film to being a decent film. I enjoyed it and like seeing it every once and a while. There is nothing bad in the film. No heavy language, no nudity, no violence. Just good old fun for a family audience. 3/5 stars "},{"Title":"Great and occasionally cringe-worthy comedy...","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet The Parents is far better in terms of genuine comedy than most of the cr*p we get in cinemas nowadays. It has its cringe-worthy moments, it has its hilarious happenings and it has its occasional disgusting humour (especially when Focker flushes the toilet and covers the back garden in poo), but it actually manages to fit in a real plot and real character, rather than just feeling like some sort of overlong sketch show. A lot of the humour relies heavily on Focker getting himself into very sticky situations - and some of the more serious things will have you cringing to death. As the movie continues, luck gets worse for Focker and the cringe factor gets higher, until the end in which everything is resolved. From cats to shrines, Focker finds himself having trouble with everything he encounters. The ending sets the scene for the sequel - which was just as good, if not better. Sometimes the emotions become painful in the film - especially at the dinner table when Jack reads the poem in memory of his mother - which only helps to make Focker get into even more trouble. There's nothing better than building up the tension... 9/10 "},{"Title":"enjoyable comedy","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My View on the narrative.Not being a fan of the slapstick comedy drama as such I had my doubts over this film, however I'm glad to say I was surprised when sitting down to watch a completely daft unrealistic comedy but that is simply good entertainment. Ben Stiller (There's something about Mary) stars as Greg Focker, a simple nervous soul put in a vulnerable position when his girlfriend takes him to meet her parents. The simple idea spells disaster and although it's a very ambitious plot, the nature behind it is there with physical humour (watch for the garden scene) which although not laugh out loud is easy to smile to. I often felt embarrassed for the characters as this film has plenty of those 'awkward' silence moments none of us want to be involved in when meeting the parents but the fact that this conforms to every person's nightmare by the central character Stiller making a complete hash of everything is comic genius. Robert De Niro.Surprised to see him in such a role, I was very intrigued. Gone are the days when we would see him pull on the boxing gloves to fight powerfully in Oscar winning Raging Bull and the days when he would mutter 'are you talking to me?' Saying this, I am very happy to say that for me he made this film great. His observation tough guy image is reflecting in his dominance of his household over his children and guests. The comic humour De Niro presents is obviously a contrast to his tough guys days but the 'bitchy' hard hitting lines he mutters simply made me smile throughout and he was the star of this film for me. Synopsis.Meet the parents conforms to the comedy genre brilliantly and through the sensationally stereotyped Robert De Niro as the dominant intimidating father the film is a joy to watch. Although certain scenes were too ambitious for my liking but there's no question its an enjoyable watch from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Best Film Of The Decade So Far","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This so far is the greatest film of the decade, it is great.Robert De Niro I personally would of thought he would have been too serious an actor for this film but was a great person to have as Jack Byrnes.Ben Stiller also was a great asset to the film although the name Gay Lord Focker is a bit over the top because i assume very few people would in their right mind would call their child Gay Lord and those few have a very small chance of being blessed with the surname Focker that was the only thing i could find wrong with the movie.The supporting cast did a very good job as well Teri Polo as Pamela Martha Byrnes soon to be Focker(ha ha) Blythe Danner as Dina Byrnes, Owen Wilson as Kevin(Pam's ex but what seems to be like Jacks best pal)and many more make up a good cast for an even better film!!! "},{"Title":"Unoriginal waste of talent","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gaylord Focker. There, now you've seen (or read) just about the only original joke in the whole movie. It looks like a compilation of old Brady Bunch, Three's Company or maybe Who's the Boss? rejected scripts. Marsha's going to the Prom so Greg, Peter, or Bobby breaks her nose with a football, cleverly changed to a wedding and volleyball in this, Greg's fiancée's old boyfriend, Owen Wilson, in a thankless role, (Actually all of the roles are thankless or maybe worthless) builds a beautiful hand made wood gazebo, gee, you don't think Greg's stupid careless smoking will burn it to the ground, do you? Flushing the basement commode will flood the yard with sewage and ruin the wedding. Gosh, that'll never happen! The shame of this film is the total waste of talent and time, the best that can be said for it is, it's better than the sequel, which wastes Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand too. "}{"Title":"A decent comedy from Roach","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Roach's comedy about a man (stiller) trying to gain his girlfriends father(deniro)'s approval is not always original but still effective. Meet the parents is a decent comedy, has its moments, probably one of the best slapstick Hollywood works. Stiller is decent, its a perfect role for him (probably written especially for him), he shines. Meanwhile DeNiro's performance, although having its very funny moments (highlights of the film), is still only mediocre. The rest of the cast is decent for a simple comedy. I don't know about the high rating on IMDb (7.0 average is very good), i didn't think this film was any more special than most comedies, although it was funny. Its worth a look, but nothing great. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pure  entertainment - what movies are made for","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" (very, very minor spoilers)I am usually the type who doesn't enjoy this sort of comedy. Name my least favorite movies and at least three of them include Ben Stiller. I've never been a huge fan of Ben Stiller for some reason. It wasn't that he was a bad actor, it was just his choices in roles. I just wasn't a fan of his. Period. But I do like Robert De Niro. I think he's a spectacular actor. One day Meet the Parents popped up on television and I decided to watch it. To much of my surprise, this film was really good.Ben Stiller stars as Greg Focker (Ben Stiller), a male nurse. Before he asks Pam (Teri Polo) to marry him, he would ask for her father's approval. The father, Jack (Robert De Niro) is sort of this suspicious and overprotective father that just wants the best for his daughter. He would give disapproving glances at Greg, which causes Greg to have numbers of flops and seem to be nervous ... all the time, which causes Jack to hate Greg more and more. We then find out Jack is a former CIA agent that has been to different countries and has a lie detector in his private office downstairs.Comedies are pretty predictable. Especially recent ones. We know about 100% that Greg and Jack are going to be happy in the end, approve of each other, and not try to kill each other. And that is what happens. What I liked about this movie is that it's not predictable-predictable, it's more like - you just enjoy it. You have a mindless head on top of you and you just want pure entertainment. Not some serious dialogue with Oscar-worthy performances, but just have a good time like what movies are made for. There are a few hilarious scenes between Stiller and De Niro. They just seem to be having fun, which is a good thing because it's always nice to watch actors have fun on screen. Stiller seems happy that he gets to work with De Niro and De Niro seems happy that he is in a light comedy and doesn't really need to put a single effort in it because he is almost considered legendary in modern Hollywood.So, it's worth your time. I saw this film two times and I won't be afraid to make it three. It's totally harmless. You're not going to really think about this movie after you seen it, but you're satisfied because you like it. It has very, very funny dialogue between characters and nice physical comedy. Ben Stiller is probably not a bad actor after all - just needs some motivation. And Robert De Niro steals almost every single scene in the movie. They're a good duo. Very, very enjoyable to watch. Watch this film when you just need a light-hearted comedy that doesn't require great use of intelligence. "},{"Title":"Who watches this crap?","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the most unfunny comedies I have ever seen. Each scene in the film appears tailor made to dig the main character (played by Ben Stiller) into a deeper and deeper hole that anyone with two functioning brain cells can see coming a mile away.Ben Stiller can act. I have seen it. I have seen him handle very funny roles, and even dramatic ones with skill and flair. He appears to be asleep through most of this film, just saying his lines when it is time to say them, without real emotion or concern for how bad this film really is.Robert DeNiro can act. Most people have seen that. He is one of the greatest actors ever. But his most recent roles have been... well... less than wonderful. He needs a new agent -- today -- before his legacy is destroyed.The film has a decent premise -- we have all had that awkward moment when we need to meet the parents of our significant other. And this film had some real potential to shine. But the writing is so formula-based and lack-luster that one has to wonder if any of the main cast members bothered to read the script before they accepted these roles.Just skip this. "},{"Title":"What drivel!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Don't bother if you haven't seen it. What a predictable, Hollywood piece of crap. I can't believe De Niro would have seen the script and still done this movie. I think someone must have blackmailed him or he was really desperate for money. The script should have been written on toilet paper. Why did this movie have the success that it did? Who would ever be mean enough to recommend it to an even slightly educated movie goer? Absolute junk! Seems it was written for the second-grade mentality of today's average American cinema viewer. I think I snickered twice throughout the whole endless barrage of embarrassing, meant to be funny, scenes. "},{"Title":"Light Hearted Comedy Flick","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was really good, Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller have unbelievable chemistry. This movie is very funny, almost every scene has a piece of comedy in it. The race to the house was my favorite scenes, the stop lights just added such good comedy. Great casting in this movie, poor Nicole DeHuff, her career shortened earlier this year, but this movie will allow us to remember her and she will be missed. Her scene with her getting hit by the volleyball was a hit scene for Meet The Parents.The only downside to this film is from the middle of the film, it seems to get dumber and dumber, but the introduction of the name Gaylord Focker made almost everyone laugh. Who would of thought one name would be a hit line.Overall, 8 stars, very good, and 5 years later, would be joined by an even bigger sequel. "},{"Title":"I just loved this movie and I'm normally not a Ben Stiller fan","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know it's a bit weird, but I saw Meet the Fockers before I saw this movie. The reason for that is because I hadn't had the chance yet to see this one, when I went with some friends to the cinema and they all wanted to see the sequel. They all loved the first one, so I didn't mind giving Meet the Fockers a try. And all I can say about it is that I was rather disappointed by it. The only thing that made me believe this one was better, was because my friends didn't like the sequel all that much either.In this movie we see Gaylord 'Greg' Focker (Ben Stiller) who wants to ask his girlfriend (Teri Polo) to marry him. But first he'll have to meet her parents, because her strict father (Robert DeNiro) expects to be asked for his daughter's hand before she can accept. Normally meeting the parents of your fiancée shouldn't be too bad, but Jack Byrnes is a former CIA agent who never has liked any of his daughter's boyfriends and Greg Focker won't be an exception to that rule. He makes Greg's life miserable, while Murphy's Law does the rest by turning Greg into a master of disaster...I have to admit that I didn't have too high expectation about this movie after seeing the sequel, but now I know one thing for sure they should have stopped with the first one, because this is an excellent comedy. I was laughing all the time and really liked it enormously. Even though I'm not a big Ben Stiller fan (I hated Zoolander and wasn't all too keen on Duplex and Meet the Fockers), I must say that he did a great job in this movie. Together with Robert De Niro he's the main reason why you should watch this movie. I give it at least a 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Jay Roach has taken his Austin Powers cartoonism too far.","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those films that was advertised so heavily, I felt like I'd seen it before I actually saw it. They used all the best gags in the ads (which isn't saying much) and the presence of De Niro dominated. Maybe it's just me, for I know this was a big hit, but I couldn't stand seeing a highly regarded actor like Robert De Niro mugging his way through this lowbrow flick like it were a 108-minute Saturday Night Live sketch--which is what it should have been. It is staggeringly annoying watching Ben Stiller endure thinly veiled threat after threat, and it's not even rewarding when he finally stands up for himself.Judging by this films box-office take, I guess I'm not in the majority when I say I am sick of the whole you're not good enough for my daughter schtick in movies and TV (the dreck known as 8 Simple Rules is another example). However, I would like to thank IMDb for this website which allows me to vent my extreme displeasure at this totally unoriginal and irritating trend. I found this comedy utterly awful.P.S. If you agree with me, you might want to check out the Roach's previous film, Mystery Alaska. I wish it had been a hit, and Roach were making more subtle comedies like it today rather than succumbing to using easy gags and pandering to mainstream taste. "},{"Title":"Not entirely successful","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Unusual but not entirely successful feel-bad comedy. At first glance, Meet the Parents seems to be a hybrid of Blake-Edwards-style farce and uninspired mainstream movie comedy (sort of like every movie Steve Martin has made in the past 15 years). But before long we realize it's actually much crueler than that &#150; unlike those essentially safe entertainments, which are always rather boringly humane in their treatment of their characters, this film isn't afraid to get ugly. Its poor protagonist may not be particularly likable (and Ben Stiller's performance doesn't help a lot where that's concerned), but he nevertheless gains our sympathies because of the incessant, unreasonable series of tortures it rains down on him. It parades ugly character after ugly character in front of him, but unlike ridiculous farce figures such as Martin Short's Franck in the Father of the Bride series, these people are all too believable, the kinds of smug hypocrites we encounter all too often in life (and that includes Focker's fiancée, actually). That's sort of where the problem comes in - the glitzy Hollywood veneer never really jells with the elements of real pain, and we never particularly want to see Stiller accepted into this family. Worse than that, the film's not consistently funny, though of course it is frequently appalling, and to some that's going to be close enough. 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really expected a lot more from Ben Stiller. I am surprised because I can find the humor in even the worst comedies on TV or at the movies. It seemed bland and pointless. The only thing I laughed at in the whole movie was the fact that their house looked Exactly like my girlfriend's on the outside. In fact my girlfriends dad was in some ways like the guy played by Robert DeNiro. I found it even more strange that even though I related to the character in the story in some strange way, I found it to be one of the most boring movies I have seen in years. Oh well, I hope the next one is better.  "},{"Title":"Man with funny name tries to impress demonic father-in-law to be everything goes wrong.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greg (Ben Stiller) is a regular joe trying to impress a psychotic manipulative trouble-making father-in-law to be. It seems to make matters worse, however, that he's also a male nurse, jewish, and his legal name is Gaylord Focker, in this movie which is about as pleasant as taking a visit to a tooth-pulling dentist who is against using anaesthetics.The riffing on Greg's name is primary-school grade humour, and has that feeling of a cheap joke, kind of that i can feel a song coming on feeling in bad musicals, just as bad is the we're throwing in a funny line feeling.This is one of those movies where everything you could imagine might go wrong - does - and always to the detriment of poor Ben Stiller. By the time the resolution started happening, it was too late. There were just too many bad things that happened to Greg Focker.All this is not to say that its bad quality. Stiller hits the uncomfortable fiance thing perfectly. And the script is good - there are many moments, especially within the first half hour, that anyone who's ever met the parents before can associate with. Is it enjoyable, though? No, i didn't think so. Ironically, its because they draw you in so much that its so upsetting. You simply can't accept these tragic situations as comedy - you feel too sorry for Greg Focker.The resolution is fairly forced and implausible.6/10. But not for me. Too sadistic.Highlight the airline hostess at the end. "}{"Title":"Yeah it is a comedy but it's hard to root for a wimp.","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As several other reviewers stated this film while it has its funny moments it is not a comedy classic but still it is not bad at all.  Any normal male would have been `outa there' after the first few encounters with the parents and certainly after the pool volleyball game. That is perhaps the most interesting element of the film is that the Ben Stiller character continues to put up with all of it and makes the viewer want to shout out TELL EM OFF YOU WIMP. However any guy with any self-respect would inform their girl friend that if they do in fact end up getting married it is with the understanding that he is going to have nothing to do with her family.   The Greg character putting up with so much made him hard to root for or feel sorry for and it was impossible to side with her parents' side/clan.  Again it's comedy so should be viewed that way however even in a comedy nobody can side with a total wimp.  A great scene for the viewer would have been to have had the Stiller character go off on the parents' etc the way Stiller goes off on the airline rep. "},{"Title":"don't watch the last 20 minutes.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  very edge of your seat, squirm-fest. lots of laughs as you cower in embarrassment. could have utilized Owen Wilson more. i loved it... but the ending was so straight forward and devoid of any comedic relief. it becomes one big sappy cliche. why? "},{"Title":"No comedy classic, but definitely has its moments","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not going to appraise this movie in the same way most people have, but as a whole it is funny.  It has its flaws, but the laughs outweigh those flaws.  First of all, I have to give most of the credit to Robert DeNiro.  Many compliment this movie because of Ben Stiller, but I feel DeNiro added more of the laughs.  His reactions to Stiller's foolish antics are what made me laugh the loudest.  It shows that comedy is best when you play it out seriously.  Certain gags, some of which the film is best known for, simply fall flat.  The dinner table scene where Stiller talks about milking a cat and DeNiro gets choked up reading a poem drags out and is badly paced.  In the volleyball scene, when Stiller spikes the ball on that girl's face, I wasn't laughing either.  I don't think I'm being a stickler when I say that you can't show someone bleeding and in pain in a gag and expect a laugh.  But there are other gags that work with flying colors.  I liked the bomb-bomb-bomb joke, and many of the latter scenes when Stiller's at the airport and running into problems with dumb employees. All in all, it's an uneven comedy that's way too silly at times, but there are enough laughs for it to deserve a recommendation.  As I said before, much kudos to DeNiro for a priceless comic performance. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"This was supposed to be funny?????????","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I heard a lot about this movie.  I heard it was really funny.  That was not the case.  Even the genius of Robert De Niro couldn't save this waste of a film.  It's the only performance of his I've seen that wasn't stellar.  I probably laughed twice during the entire picture, and those were only light chuckles.  I found myself feeling sorry for Ben Stiller, more than laughing at him.  His antics through the film were cliched and generally not funny. It was more like the director was going, Let's see how many times he can get everyone to hate his guts in an hour and a half, and then we'll make it all better!  My advice to those who have not seen it is SKIP IT!!!!!! Go rent Airplane! or Dumb and Dumber if you want a good laugh, because you're not going to find many here. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! It's just a riot watching this and this is one of those movies that can be watched over and over. Ben Stiller plays Greg Focker or shall i say Gaylord. Anyways Greg goes to visit Teri Polo's parents for the weekend as Greg is trying to propose and get the circle of trust. Robert DeNiro who plays the dad of Teri Polo. The expressions on DeNiro's face were histarical especially at the dinner table! Owen Wilson has a cameo apperence as Teri Polo's ex-boyfriend who also starred in Behind Enemy Lines and the Cable Guy as the guy who got beat up in the bathroom. There are so many funny scenes in this movie....from the pool scene where Greg bangs Pam's sister in the face with the vollyball and then the dinner table scene i loved it where DeNiro says i bet you have had better vegetables then that growing up on a farm...when DeNiro says that it hilarious cuz Greg(Ben Stiller) is eating the vegetables and it's so hilarious from his expressions. The ending was pretty funny also with the checking of the bags situation and the whole Bomb thing! Overall i give this movie 4 stars ****!!!! "},{"Title":"pretty sad","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This kind of lame-brained comedy that is so cherished by the mass market must fill some kind of masochistic social need, but I personally don't get it.  I loved and admired such dark comedies as After Hours, The Out of Towners and even Something About Mary, but they had something that this one lacked intelligence and a sense of the unexpected.  This script seemed to be written around Stiller & DeNiro, a series of gags and sketches that add up to a big rollicking nothing.  This is very much in the Home Alone vein, written for adolescents who revel in unsubtle physical humor, much of it based in cruelty (S&M all the way) with a sickly sweet ending that was a foregone conclusion from the beginning.   "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents 8/10","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember wanting to see this ever since the first trailer came out. I eagerly went to the movie theater on the evening with a friend who had come from Washington, and I was so disappointed when the showing, and the next one, was sold out. When I saw it about a couple weeks later, I understood why it had.Meet the Parents starts off with Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) saying a love-speech to a patient in the hospital where he nurses, to see how it sounds for his pop of the question later in the day. When a funny turn of events make him not say the speech, his girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo) is taking him to meet her parents before proposing.Greg obviously is nervous, and meeting Jack (Robert De Nero), Pam's dad, doesn't do anything to help. Robert De Nero has a knack for comedy, which seems to be his main thing nowadays. He's very good as the perceptive and yet naive father of teacher Pam.Blythe Danner, who is underused in the movie, plays Jack's loving wife, Dina, who likes Greg and doesn't like Jack digging so deep into Pam's boyfriend's lives. Greg gives the Byrnes a gift-a rare plant. Pam had told Greg that Jack was a retired florist; what Greg doesn't know is that Jack is actually a retired CIA agent, which makes sense, since Jack is less than thrilled at the gift. It's obvoius that Jack doesn't approve of Greg, but Dina and Pam tell him to take it easy on Greg. Yeah, right.Pam's sister, Deborah (Nicole DeHuff), is getting married to Dr. Bob Banks (Thomas McCarthy) in the Byrnes homestead while Jack is living there. Do you think the wedding will go flawless? One of the only things I don't like about Meet the Parents is that it has too many seconday characters, like Dr. Bob's father, Dr. Larry (James Rebhorn) and Bob's mother, Linda (Phyllis George). But if you don't really pay attention to those people (although they're needed later in the movie), it works better.As more and more mishaps happen by Greg, Jack more and more dislikes him. He pains to like, or at least tolerate, Greg for the women's sakes, but it's tough. Luckily he's got hidden cameras around the house to look at him 24-7. Why is it so funny? Because it's by the director of the Austin Powers series, Jay Roach. Although Meet the Parents doesn't have the randiness of Austin Powers, it still holds some laughs.Overall, Meet the Parents is a very funny movie that doesn't lack on plot and doesn't stoop to the Austin Powers level. The supporting characters leave something to be desired, but that doesn't even dent the otherwise wonderful and comedic movie that we have here.My rating 8/10Rated PG-13 for language, sexual humor, and drug refrences/content.  "},{"Title":"Hotel Terminus has more laughs","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Boy, is this movie unfunny. Just about every gag is from another film, and its one of those annoying movies where bad stuff keeps happening, and happening to the point that you want to be put out of your misery (the out of towners) is like this. I can't believe people think this movie is hysterical. there's maybe one decent laugh in the movie - there are more good laughs in Fight Club, and that film ain't billed as a side-splitting comedy. "},{"Title":"Funny the first time, but second viewing upsets the viewer.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw MEET THE PARENTS, I thought it was a riot, I kept on laughing at the continuous comedy of errors. But, when I watched it for a second time, hoping I would laugh as hard as the first time, I was kind of p*ssed off the way Ben Stiller's character is blamed for everything, especially when you know how the film turns out. It is a little annoying.So, the first time I saw this, I loved it, the second time, I grew to dislike it a little bit. The cast is great, starring Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller of THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, Teri Polo, Blythe Danner, James Rebhorn, Jon Abrahams, and Owen Wilson.But, I can also relate to the film in many ways, since I know a lot of people that compare to those in the film.I think the film is a major riot, but also a way to majorly upset someone. If you are the kind of person who finds it funny to blame stuff on innocent people, then you will love this movie. I did the first time and I still enjoy watching it from time to time. Just not for a way to spend free-time. See it when you have nothing better to do. MEET THE PARENTS gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"A Terrible Movie","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is almost painful to watch. You just feel sorry for Ben Stiller's character. He basically spends a couple days being tormented and humiliated by his girlfriend's family. There is no way anyone would put up with this crap in real life. I would have left the first night. He is intimidated and nervous around his girlfriend's father, and desperate for approval, so he screws up over and over, each time worse than the last. The father doesn't help matters, as he belittles and embarrasses the poor guy at every opportunity. (Sorry, I forget the characters names.) The girlfriend hardly does a damn thing to stick up for him. Then Dad's friends show up and join in on the fun. One scene in particular has them playing volleyball in the pool and they are ridiculing him for missing the ball. So then he overcompensates and ends up smashing his girlfriend's sister in the face with the ball. They all criticize him, telling him it's just a game, Focker! and act as if he meant to hurt the girl. Another is when he finally has enough and is leaving and the whole bunch stands on the porch and laughs at his given name, which we find out is Gaylord. The girlfriend says nothing, just letting the poor guy take another kick in the teeth after all the other humiliation he's been through for her sake. The entire family is totally unlikable, Focker is the only one I cared about, and that's only because I was forced to care by watching this poor guy get put through the ringer over and over. Then comes the contrived ending where everything is made good in about five minutes and he forgives all. If I were this guy, I would never speak to these psychos again. Sorry to run on so much, but this movie really affected me and I couldn't see how someone could laugh at this guy's misfortunes. Maybe it's just me... "}{"Title":"Mainstream dross","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pretending like the last 10 years didn't happen, Meet the Parents is a disappointing by-the-numbers straight down the line comedy.  I'm shocked that people rate this film is anything other than Tv movie fodder - no imagination is present whatsoever.  Finally, between this performance and that in The Score, the presence of Robert DeNiro might actually put me off future films - he's *boring* to watch in this.  How things change. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't spend 5 minutes with this creepy crew","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most excellent, offbeat comedy. DeNiro played Jack Byrnes, a controlling father making life miserable for his daughter's new boyfriend Greg Focker, played perfectly by Ben Stiller. He applied so much pressure to the young man that he wound up being unable to do anything to please Mr. Byrnes. In fact, Byrnes caused many of Focker's mistakes with his belligerent attitude. One of the best comedies I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Or as you would call it, a HOOpah!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie actually exceeded my expectations by a couple yards (but not by a mile).Having seen There's Something About Mary (also starring Stiller as another hapless patsy trying to win the girl of his dreams), I am beginning to notice a trend in modern comedy.  Why do modern-day directors feel they have depend on set-pieces for humor--especially ones having to do primarily with embarrassment?  That's what this film is, actually--a whole string of wince-inducing vignettes with only a couple of actually-pretty-decent performances to smooth out the gaps.  At times it strives earnestly for sophistication and emotional depth, but after all, this is the 21st century.  Now that the Master of Running Gags, Double Entendres, and Other Comic Gems (Billy Wilder) is gone forever, we all have to lower our standards a little. Wilder also could have come up with a much more satisfying ending, by the way.Two standout performances made up for these inconsistencies  De Niro was an utterly convincing perspective father-in-law with farcically high standards for his daughter's boyfriends.  His comic performance in this movie edges out his tough-but-sensitive gangster in Analyze This and makes his role in the crappy Showtime seem like a distant memory.But that's De Niro for you--I was expecting him to be good.  On the other hand, Owen Wilson, as the unbelievably pretentious ex-boyfriend, knocked me for a loop.  When he uttered the line mentioned above, mangling the pronunciation of an obscure Hebrew word (meaning wedding canopy) with a straight face, I broke into hysterical laughter for several minutes, much to the chagrin of my non-Jewish friend, who didn't get it. "},{"Title":"Derivative","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Derivative! Meet the Parents is quite boring, there's nothing knew here to enjoy. The story is, obviously, very predictable!The film never attempts to go that one step further with the jokes, they sort of fall flat.De Niro does his job as does everyone else, but don't expect anything special.The direction is safe, the screenplay is boring and the music is forgettable.Overall, a derivative and boring picture - I expected much more! "},{"Title":"Why is this movie being billed as a comedy?","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An extremely disturbing movie almost totally devoid of any humor. The moral of the story is that it doesn't matter how big a liar or a screw-up you are so long as you aren't a pothead.My recommendation Don't bother. Rent Mystery Men instead. "},{"Title":"surprisingly stupid.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i'm very surprised by all the good reviews this movie got.  this is not just a bad movie, it's a very stupid movie.i was actually very much looking forward to seeing it because the trailers (when it came out) made it look like a funny movie.it isn't.the premise is simple enough.  it's the same formula as animal house and any number of other such movies one wacky circumstance after another.  a string of funny schticks.but whereas animal house was indeed funny, this film was notably unfunny. in fact, it was tediously so.it looks to me like it was put together to take advantage of all the good hype something about mary and analyze this got.  those were also not particularly funny or well-made movies, but certainly not as bad or boring as this one.  at least those films gave the impression that somebody cared about them (and the audience watching them).this film showed its shortcomings early on and completely failed to hold my interest throughout. i'm still waiting for that promised belly laugh.still, with all the good reviews it got here, there clearly is an audience for films such as this.  which is why it got made, i suppose.i'd rather not think about what that means. .5/10(that's POINT 5 out of 10)(a particularly low rating because this film actually insults the intelligence)note  if you find this review in any way offensive, you will probably enjoy meet the parents and should probably rent and enjoy it.  if you do not find this review offensive, don't bother with this turkey and rent something like being john malkovich instead. "},{"Title":"This movie will make you mad!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poor Ben Stiller is the victim of an overprotective father (DeNiro) in this movie.  Everyone picks on him as he is put in a very tight situation to make a good impression, but he just gets the losing end of the stick.  It will make you mad as you want him to get justice.  Like all Hollywood flicks, there is a happy ending.  Nonetheless, I don't think he got the revenge or justice he deserved for all the crap he had to endure.  The movie really isn't even that funny as it will just make your blood boil instead.  Worth a watch, but not a keeper. "},{"Title":"Better Yet, Don't","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another one of those dreary nightmare comedies Hollywood dishes out virtually every year, usually with a mob theme like The Freshman with Matthew Broderick and the wretched Marlon Brando, who really needs to retire.  This time it's the once-great DeNiro as an ex-CIA agent doing his best to humiliate and destroy his daughter (Teri Polo)'s latest beloved (Ben Stiller).  Who comes up with this kind of unpleasant junk?  Stiller was also wasted in that other dreadful pop-culture hit, There's Something About Mary, which also featured a pretty blonde leading lady (Cameron Diaz), though Polo's Pam seems a bit more on-the-ball about things. "},{"Title":"Not Very Funny","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents marries two actors, Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller, fresh off hysterical comic films, Analyze This and There's Something About Mary respectfully. Each is reprising the type of role they had in the previous film. One would think that Meet the Parents should be a sidesplitting romp. Right? Wrong. Unlike their previous two films, Meet the Parents seems forced and contrived. Sure there are some laughs, but there is little humanity in this outing, it's more a cold fish. I found I didn't like either Stiller's or De Niro's characters. And the chemistry between any of the characters is missing. Therefore, for me, the jokes weren't funny, and were often disturbing. Yeah, I know most critics liked Meet the Parents and it made tons of money, it's just that I don't understand why.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as people say it is.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the parents isn't a bad movie, but it's not a good movie neither.  Robert De Niro is taking dumb roles in his movies, such as this one.  Back when he was young, he characterized serious characters, now he's just trying to get money.  Al Pacino and Mel Gibson are doing the same things also.  I'm never watching their movies again.  Don't rent this title because although it might be fun to watch, it's not worth two hours of watching. The characters aren't developed and the storyline's dumb.  The acting is also ridiculous.  Don't rent this title because you'll be giving money to Robert De Niro, and what's the last time he gave you anything?  Not even a good performance since The Godfather, Part 2 and Raging Bull. "}{"Title":"Meet the cliches","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To be brief, a lightweight, unengaging attempt at zany comedy without any zany involved. If the biggest comedic hook is constantly playing on a characters rude sounding surname, you know you're in trouble. If not for the starname pull of DeNiro this film would disappear without trace. "},{"Title":"funny??","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i might be the only person who didnt like this movie. it was long and boring.  there were a few funny scenes, but not enough.  i dont see what the big deal with this movie was. it was alright, but nothing special. i think that if you liked theres something about mary you would like this movie. i didnt like theres something about mary either. "},{"Title":"Pretty lousy","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film wasn't awful, but it was far from being good.  I love Robert DeNiro, but I find it embarrassing and stupid to see him in these idiotic comedy roles he now seems to be taking up all the time.  'Analyze This' was rubbish, and he has such good presence in serious films. I don't know why he bothers with these stupid films.  Watch something wonderful, like 'Taxi Driver' instead. "},{"Title":"predictable","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a waste of a good actor. The humor is -very- predictable. I'm sure I have been more surprised at the morning coffee finding out that we ran out of sugar. Too much stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Turkey Alert!!!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, hands down, the worst movie Robert DeNiro has ever made.  The characters were uniformly cartoonish and unbelievable, the situations utterly predictable, and the humor (what little there is of it!) embarrassingly forced and juvenile.This is a movie that should have starred Pauly Shore and/or Adam Sandler.  It's that bad!Towards the end of his career, Richard Burton let it be known that for a million-dollar fee, he'd appear in any movie without even reviewing the script...and that's how we got abominations like Exorcist II and The Klansman.After suffering through Meet The Parents, one has to wonder if DeNiro hasn't done something similar. "},{"Title":"Expecting laughs... where were they?","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was really hoping to see a good movie, but it was just painful to watch.  Oh, there were a few chuckles here and there but for the most part those were sight gags.And while I had no problems with the acting, the characters lacked humor -- in the case of the parents, literally, since we were warned about that.  But why are we supposed to laugh at people who don't get a joke?  And who are rude?  (Aside from being completely disinterested in Greg's gift, they don't even feign appreciation or say thank you.)The fiance is extremely thoughtless in having her ex-fiance an integral part of the weekend without telling Greg.The ex-fiance and the other associated family are rich, pretentious snobs who get their laughs making fun of Greg's real name.To top it all off, with the weekend off to such a bad start from the beginning, Greg sinks to embarrassing stupidity in some of his actions, namely regarding the imposter cat.Pass on this one.  Unless you're a masochist. "},{"Title":"No Fun To Watch","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really could have done with a good comedy, but this movie was just painful to sit through.  To give you an idea, a good deal of the gags is built around the lead character´s name, Gaylord Focker (the rest of the jokes deal with a potty - trained cat).  This could have been a classic comedy, with a good cast (including one of my favourite comedy actors, Ben Stiller) great plot idea, big budget, experienced director, etc., but the script was obviously written by a retarded 3 year old undergoing toilet training.  Wait for it on TV, or rent Keeping The Faith instead.  "},{"Title":"Strictly for teen-agers!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film just doesn't make it. It starts off fine, and Ben Stiller is  a delight throughout, but here isn't enough story so we end up with a bunch of silly gags. DeNiro is disappointing and spends half the movie making grimaces. This film is strictly for the under twenty set. If you're over 40 skip the movie and go for a walk.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing comedy.....","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I guess I'm in the minority when I say that I found Meet the Parents to be very disappointing. In spite of all the hype and advertising, I just didn't think the film was funny. I mean when the running joke of the movie is the hero's surname (Focker) you know the producers are going to be hard up for laughs. And yes, we are again exposed to yet another typical American family living in an upscale neighborhood with riches and privileges only few outside the movie colony can afford.Ben Stiller as the hero does the best that he can with limited material. Robert DeNiro as the prospective father-in-law is again parodying his tough guy image, but it doesn't come off this time as well as it did in Analyze This (1999). DeNiro's performance, I thought, was a bit over the top, and was for the first time a performance of his that I didn't thoroughly enjoy. The performance of Teri Polo as Stiller's love interest didn't impress me. Blythe Danner is wasted as DeNiro's scatterbrained wife. Owen Wilson's character is a bit of a mystery. How are we to believe that a hugely successful businessman such as he seems to be, can't even get a date for dinner at the Club. My god, even ex-beauty queen Phyllis George is in the cast, but if you blink you'll miss her.I was not impressed with the be-belittling of the nursing profession or the continuous insults heaped upon the Stiller character. If fact, I was rooting for him to turn around and walk out right from the beginning. Both Stiller and DeNiro have done and will do better. Extremely disappointing. "},{"Title":"scraping the bottom of the crap barrel","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can barely describe how bad this movie is.  There are movies that are bad, but are still fun.  Then there are films like this-shining examples of mediocrity and crushing banality that make you root for a plague to wipe out a good portion of the world's population, just so the lowest common denominator is represented by a smaller number of people. This is one of those situations where I am forced to believe that someone must have had compromising pictures of Robert DeNiro with an underaged goat to get him to appear in  this picture.  You know the basic plot, so I will, instead, list a number of details (that in an actually funny film, would not have distracted me)  that annoyed me to no end, and exemplify just how little thought went into this movie1)DeNiro's character has supposedly spent his entire life undercover as a trader in rare plants, but can't recognize an orchid (might this astounding lack of knowledge ever have compromised his secrecy?); 2)He also seems to have collected tourist photos of himself standing beside very influential foreign leaders (again, would a real secret agent do this?);3)and anyway, does the CIA, or FBI just let you take home their equipment?  Ben Stiller, on the other hand, seems to be singlehandedly leading the crusade to destroy the stereotype that the Jewish culture has a uniquely funny, and intelligent take on life (Mel Brooks, Woody Allen, Gene Wilder, etc.).  Here, he is just grating.  Not a single line of dialogue exists in this film for any reason other to set up another lame joke.  And since the upcoming joke is painfully obvious, it's never funny. It's just painful.  This is the sort of film, that if it were an animal, you would beat to death with a shovel just to put it out of its misery, and not feel too broken up about it afterwards.  This is the stinking sludge of our strip-mall, brain-dead culture, written by your drunken frat-brother who thinks that septic-tank overflows and guys named Focker are the height of edgy.  It's worse than bad-it's a bad film convinced that it's hilarious.  Avoid it like crap-on-a-stick. "}{"Title":"Stupid characters, inexplicable actions, a few laughs","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm one of those people who have to see a sort of logic in a movie character's behavior to fully enjoy any resulting comedy. If a character takes a wrong turn somewhere and tries to get back on course but in the process takes an even more wrong turn and fun ensues, that's fine. But if a character gets lost and instead of trying to turn back decides to set his pants on fire or run over someone sitting on a park bench for no apparent reason, that is not funny to me. That's why I rated Meet the Parents a 5.The main character, played by Ben Stiller, lies for no reason and then gets caught in his lies and makes them worse. He takes actions that he isn't supposed to and has been warned not to do then lies when he is asked if he did so and blames something (a cat) else. And when Greg tries to find the missing cat, he quickly stoops low enough to paint a different cat's tail and try to pass it off as the missing feline (why no one notices the paint smell until later that night, and then they do, is a mystery).  The guy isn't especially likeable and you keep wanting to slap him and say, Just tell the truth! It works!Meanwhile, his girlfriend expects Ben (called Greg in the movie) to instantaneously act like he is a member of a family he has never met. When Greg needs clothes, his girlfriend tells him to wake up her brother -- whom Greg has never met and whose bedroom door is closed while the brother is apparently asleep -- and borrow some of his. Uh, not a good idea. Later, his girlfriend drops little bomblets on Greg, such as the fact that the best man at a family wedding is her ex-finacee (by the way, Greg never even knew that his girlfriend had been engaged), or that the dad had a different career than what she had told Greg earlier.All in all this group of characters spends a lot of time cleaning up messes that would have been easily avoided if a little truthful communication had taken place beforehand. It is that fact that kept me from enjoying any of the contrived situations that ensued. In fact, to me the funniest part of this movie was an airline gate agent who acts like, well, an airline gate agent, regardless of the actual situation around her. *That* was not contrived at all and was laugh out loud funny. "},{"Title":"Waste Of DeNiro's Talents","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I anticipated a very funny movie given all the hype I'd heard.  What a let down!Ben Stiller can be hilarious, as can DeNiro, but not in this movie. Better to see them, respectively, in Something About Mary and Analyze This.  Now those are good comedies.Blythe Danner's role was the best thing about this movie, but DeNiro's role was WRONG, WRONG, WRONG for this talented actor.  His character didn't convince me at all.Conclusion  don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Over-hyped disappointment","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hello all,Well I must say Meet the Parents was a disappointment. Not very many laughs. Not nearly as funny as There's Something About Mary (Ben Stiller), or Analyze This (Di Niro). I'm a huge Di Niro fan, but even he couldn't save this one. Di Nero is funniest when he is doing a parody of himself, this material just wasn't right for him.  Stiller was ok, but once again a script that tries too hard for laughs just isn't funny.Forget this one and go rent the zero-budget Clerks with an unknown cast - a much more ingenious comedy.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only have two words - bad and stupid. This movie was not that funny (Lake Placid was funnier) and I would not recommend this movie, unless you found Something About Mary or Night at the Roxbury funny. I give this a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Some of it is funny","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some of this movie is very funny, but most of it is just plain cruel and doesn't deserve a chuckle.  Ben Stiller plays Greg, the soon-to-be fiance of Pam (Teri Polo), who's just meeting her parents for the first time.  Her parents, especially her father (Robert De Niro), not only reject him, they treat him like a piece of unwanted garbage.  Personally, I would have just walked out after the first five minutes with the parents and never would have seen her again.  I wouldn't WANT to marry into a family as arrogant as that.  But anyway, Greg spends an entire weekend with the in-laws where NOTHING goes right for him.  This is an obvious take on the the first sequence of There's Something About Mary.  It's wasn't remotely funny in Mary, and it doesn't work here either.  If you have the mentality of a 12 to 16-year-old, you may enjoy it.  But for the rest of us, it just tries too hard to be funny.  It doesn't flow very well, and most of the situations don't make a lot of sense.  They just sort of happen for no reason, hopelessly trying to get a few laughs. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller in a good movie?! There's a first time for everything.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet The Parents is an excellent comedy, despite the fact that the casting director was not the most brilliant person in the world. A lot of the material in the film was clichéd or simply not creative, such as the fact that Greg's (Stiller) luggage obviously got lost, but the film as a whole is an excellent and very entertaining comedy. Robert DeNiro is horribly miscast as the overprotective father, but he is such a good actor that he makes his performance in the role work very effectively. He didn't get to really be the startlingly effective tough guy that he is so famous for, but at least he was introduced in a domineering low angle shot, as he looks down at Greg and Pam from his bedroom window (a very smart move by the film's director).Ben Stiller plays the part of the charmingly named Greg Focker, who wants to marry his girlfriend but has to earn the approval of her parents first. His name is bad enough, but he has to constantly explain his job as a nurse, a profession which provides him little to no respect from Pam's family. The majority of the film relates the events of the weekend spent at Pam's parents house, and everything imaginable goes wrong for him. The thing that makes this movie so funny is the well-written script and the way that some of the actors deliver their lines, particularly Robert DeNiro. The casting director deserves little to no credit for DeNiro's quality performance, but he just did such a good job in an uncharacteristic performance that he really steals the show. Some of the situations and especially the dialogue in this movie are destined to become classic lines &#150; `Not many men in your profession, are there, Greg?' `I have nipples, could you milk me?' And, of course, there is the hilarious way that DeNiro constantly calls Greg `Focker' or, in at least one instance, `Greg R.N.' Meet The Parents is a film that a surprisingly wide variety of people can enjoy. Meeting the parents is a part of relationships that the vast majority of men go through, and this can either be a smooth or devastating experience, so they can relate to what goes on in this film. Also, the point of view of the woman whose parents are being met is thoroughly presented, so the female audience will not feel left out at all. Even parents can enjoy this movie, because what parents don't worry about their kids and their dating experiences? Some of the situations may go a little too far, I mean, it's not very often that an eligible bachelor meets his girlfriend's parents and nearly burns their house to the ground, and it's a little excessive that EVERYthing goes wrong, not just a lot of things, but the comedy is so good that these excessive things are okay.Ben Stiller is actually a good choice to play the role of Greg Focker, because he is such an annoying actor that it is very effective in the way that he gets all of Pam's family and friends to hate him. He makes a good scapegoat, and his unfortunate luck produces a good portion of the comedy in this film. But it is DeNiro, above all, who makes this such a good movie. He is cast strongly against type, but Meet The Parents is still a very well-made comedy that is just a lot of fun.    "},{"Title":"Dissapointing","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The one line summary sums it up.  People just over-hyped this movie.  At first, I thought a story about some guy meeting his girlfriend's parents and everything going wrong would be hilarious.  I was wrong.There must be something I didn't understand.  Everybody was talking about this movie and how funny it was.  So, I went there with one of my friends, and I must have audibly laughed about all of 3 times.  To tell the truth, I just felt bad for the guy. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents Joyless, Stressful and Irritating (just like real life)","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I STILL don't know what Meet the Parents was trying to tell me. Was it a comedy? I don't think so, for I found myself more and more irritated as the film progressed---this is another of those sophomoric flicks in which the characters bungle greatly, and then endeavor to SURPASS each bungle with a greater one, until the plot dissolves into pure chaos. In Meet the Parents, I'm strongly reminded of Blind Date (with Bruce Willis and Kim Bassinger)---same sort of uncomfortable, unfulfilling character exchanges, totally predictable storyline, and enough half-baked, poorly directed physical comedy to make you urp your granola.  If the intent of Meet the Parents was to fill the audience with the same sense of loathing as ACTUALLY MEETING your future in-laws, then the film succeeded.  But it wasn't funny--just obnoxious. Hi-Velocity "},{"Title":"Could do better","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a based on a great concept, that should have spawned some really funny moments, but despite its quality cast I felt that many opportunities were wasted. That said, there are moments where you will laugh, just not enough. Meet The Parents is an enjoyable film that is worth watching and could have been much better if just a little more time had been spent on improving the script. "},{"Title":"Total Disappointment","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The tension between Stiller and De Niro was too much to take. It was actually a relief when the movie was over. The cat stole the show. A friend recommended the movie because he thought it was funny. My wife and I just stared at the screen. "}{"Title":"Peeeuwww!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a god-forsaken piece of manure.  Cliché in the extreme, predictable, boring, laughless, trite, not an original joke or thought in the film.Easily the worst performance I've ever seen by DeNiro (though I haven't seen Rocky & Bullwinkle).  Stiller continues to show off his one-character acting skills as the bumbling idiot.If you liked The Wedding Singer, you'll probably like this.  If not, steer clear! "},{"Title":"I want two hours of my life back!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well an hour and forty-five minutes at least.  This movie was not fun to watch.  Unless of course you like watching small spineless creatures being tortured.  I am talking about Ben Stiller here in case you missed it.  The last 15 minutes of this movie is nothing like the first 90, it moves along, there are some laughs, it just doesn't suck.  The same can't be said for what comes before it.  Stiller is a looser.  A male nurse you just can't like.  There is nothing redeeming about this character, he's sneaky, he lies, he doesn't seem to know anything about respect, he tries to manipulate those around him, he is just a horrible, unlike able person.  And he is the 'hero'.  At the end he grows a spine (as you would expect from a typical Hollywood formula) and over comes, conquers, changes and we all love him, blah, blah, blah.Save some money, see something else, wait for this to come out on TV (shouldn't be long), at least the commercials might keep things interesting. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch; uncomfortable not funny","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller fumbles unrealistically through two hours of discomfort.  I couldn't hold a wince for two hours straight.  Robert De Niro is great of course, and there are a couple of good supporting performances.  But Stiller's character doesn't say what a real human would say in any particular situation, leading to not caring about the character, so why join him (mentally) in his struggle?  Not caring leads to boredom, which is why Meet The Parents gets a 3. "},{"Title":"Mediocre - like one long prank phone call...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I bought this movie on strong recommendations from friends and couldn't wait to see it.  I wish that I had rented it instead.The entire movie was about this poor guy lying all the time to impress his girlfriend's father (Jack) but all he does is fumble, tell stupid lies and either get caught lying or make the lie is so ridiculous that EVERYONE knows he is lying.  I was actually uncomfortable watching some scenes because they were so tense (all you could do was wait for the foot to go deeper in his mouth, or maybe watch him change feet).  He would lie about ANYTHING if he thought that it would score points with Jack.  It was a celebration of idiocy and bad judgement.  I wanted wit and I got none from this movie.In all fairness, there were some funny scenes but they did not leave me laughing as hard as the first reviewer said she did.  They showed the funniest scene on the preview so we've all seen it.  If you are expecting another Something About Mary, you will be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"This movie was pathetic.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot see why a movie like this was so popular.  I think that most of the people who go to see movies now are getting very stupid and have no idea of what funny is anymore.There are some funny scenes in the movie, yes, but they are way too predictable, and that does not make them funny.  Most of the funny scenes were shown on the previews, and that totally wrecked it for me.The plotline was ok, but it was dragged out so much I couldn't wait for the movie to get over.All in all, out of a 4 star rating, this goes to a 1 and 1/2 star rating. On a 10 scale, about a 3.  "},{"Title":"Why is this movie so popular? It's hard to understand.","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All I have to say, is frankly, this movie could have been funnier. It could have been paced faster. It could have been less frustrating. But instead, it was a slow, frustration, long movie. When I saw the movie, I wasn't hoping for too much, and I just wanted to see what the hype was about. I was still let down. There is a 20 minute stretch where I swear, there wasn't even a snicker from the audience. If you're gullible enough, and think There's Something About Mary was one of the greatest comedies of all time, you can waste your time on this.If you're a Ben Stiller fan, you can waste your time on this.If you aren't either, like me, then don't bother with the mind numbing waste of time. "},{"Title":"Could have been wonderful, but was ineptly directed","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked the story, I liked the actors (even Ben Stiller, who I had thought would be weak playing against DeNiro), but through most of the film I was wondering why I was still sitting there.  It got pretty good in its serious moments, but the humor was all thoroughly botched--most gags were telegraphed, delivered without buildup, and then diffused by other business as soon as they arrived.  I think the only things I laughed at in the whole film were sight gags involving the cat. "},{"Title":"What a let down","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Meet the Parents' turned out to be. The basis for my disappointment was the few recommendations from friends had led me to believe this was going to be the funniest experience I'd ever had in the cinema. Well, Duck Soup it was not!On the whole I tend to like slow studied movies that leave things unsaid so as to make the viewer do some work. It certainly is slow, and studied, overly so. In fact, for the most part you can see the 'jokes' coming a mile off. The Art of Humour works when the unexpected occurs. Most of hilarity surrounding De Niro's plodding, sceptical overprotective nature as a prospective father-in-law gave a one paced, one dimensional feel to what ought to have been very funny. A good attempt all the same. The film kept itself above the level of pure slapstick. One or two moments generated sighs of sympathy rather than laughs. Still, as humour goes this was infinitely better than 'Police Academy' slapstick. There was a plot. The young man was on a mission, to win the consent of the de Niro for his daughter's hand, only it might have faired better with a little more complexity and depth.The one really bright spark to emerge from this film was Terri Polo who, while being new to me, is someone I shall look out for in future movies. She brought a believable air to the proceedings, and the fact she is breathtakingly beautiful was not lost on me either! Had she been the girl who lived next door to me I've a funny feeling I'd actually be the one prancing around on Robert de Niro's roof instead!! "},{"Title":"OTT more = less","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The premise was so promising - diffident Jewish male nurse meets hisgirl friend's WASP family and has a disastrous weekend. Ben Stillerexcels as Greg/ Gaylord, and De Niro is formidable as Jack, the futurefather-in-law, but his character doesn't add up mother- / cat-loving /daughter-fixated psychological profiler for the CIA who seems far moreout-of-place in his neighbourhood than Greg? There are funny scenes,like Greg's attempt at saying grace and his accidentally smashing hisgirl-friend's sister in the face with a ball, but everything isludicrously overdone till the sentimental (the curse of Hollywood)rapprochemont between Jack & Greg made me cr "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion, this movie simply is not what it was hyped up to be. People had said it was really funny, thus making my expectations quite high. However, Meet The Parents didn't quite match them. Too long, not enough jokes. I rest my case. "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was given hundreds of hours of commercialism, and like many movies, it gave away the funniest parts.  I laughed while watching it, sure. However, given the reccomendations and the critics love for it, I was expecting better.  They seemed to try and over-do the comedy.  The zipper gag in Mary was over the top, but it was less expected and a lot funnier. I think they tried to do that with this movie (i.e. the cat, the fire, the ladder, the urn, etc.)  I'd see it again, but I'd probably wait until it was a 5 day rental for a buck. "},{"Title":"Just About Watchable","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, this is definitely not a bad movie, but somehow it's never as romantic as it wants to be or as funny as it should be. There is absolutely no chemistry between Stiller's character (Focker, what a joke...) and his soon to be wife. The comedy is quite allright, but once the romantic aspect of this movie is being used as a turning point in the direction of a happy end, this movie really falls flat. And although I did enjoy this film, I still can't help thinking it's the second comedy involving Ben Stiller that would have worked better as a straight thriller, and that can't be a good thing...***(out of five)  "},{"Title":"Stay in Chicago","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      No one looks comfortable in this because the script is appalling. Its targets are deliberately politically incorrect, which is okay, but the jokes are repetitive and feeble. The movie is arrogant, soft, complacent and lazy. De Niro, probably my favourite actor, flounders.     But I liked his hair.  "},{"Title":"If you've seen the trailer, you've seen the best jokes!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Arghh.. yet another movie, whose trailer gives away all the best jokes. If you haven't seen the trailer, see the movie ) If you have seen the trailer, don't expect much more from the whole movie (Reasonable movie, usual good acting from the good actors in the cast, nothing new from this movie though. Already been there, seen that. "},{"Title":"A seen-it-before","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nothing new here, except that it's de Niro who plays the hard-ass father, and that, it seems, would make it enough for this film to be better than others of exactly the same kind. No, it's not. It's just a way to get to retell some old jokes and some stupid situations, and in the end it sorts itself out (and don't insult your own intelligence and call that a spoiler).It's funny, of course. Some things are actually quite clever (I like it when he spray-paints a cat to make it look like the family cat), but there's nothing new to the basic idea. Even de Niro was a bit dull to watch. The worst part of it is that Stiller seems to be in so many of those movies... "},{"Title":"Such a disappointment","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Meet The Parents'It was the idea of my son's partner that we see this comedy as a family (perhaps she's trying to tell me something?), but it was a real disappointment to us all. It may have done brilliantly in the United States, but I found the plot slight and the humour forced.  We know from `Analyze This' that Robert De Niro can do comedy and we know from `There's Something About Mary' that Ben Stiller has a wicked way with domestic animals, but neither De Niro as the anally-retentive potential father-in-law nor Stiller as the earnest but unfortunate suitor of de Niro's daughter can overcome an inadequate script with too few real laughs. The humour around the name of the Stiller character (Greg Focker) is both contrived and repetitive and that concerning his ethnicity (Jewish) almost offensive. "},{"Title":"Three's Company meets Insensitive Parents(tm)","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I dunno, apparently I'm the only one out here who didn't like this movie. I left the movie feeling cheated and upset. It felt like a bad episode of Three's Company, with a big budget.The humor was weak and thin, most of the funny moments were shown in the previews, and the especially sad part was, over and over there were WONDERFULLY funny situations and setups, that would just fall flat. Most of the humor was the kind of disparaging how embarrassed can we make the poor little Jewish boy junk that Three's Company and it's ilk made famous.Apparently the rest of the world loves this movie, but I was embarrassed walking out of the theatre, and wouldn't recommend this movie to my worst enemy (well, maybe him, since he has no taste anyway). "},{"Title":"Am I missing something?","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been waiting for a long time for a comedy that would get me laughing, I mean really laughing, and after waiting 4 weeks and reading all the reviews it seemed like Meet the Parents would be a winner.Unfortunately I was mislead.  I haven't felt this cheated out of my $11 admission since the Blair Witch Project.I figured that since I hadn't seen the trailers for the movie, that at least I wouldn't have seen all the funny scenes in advance.  However, since all the comic scenes were so heavily foreshadowed, you knew what was going to happen before you got there anyway, and the effect was ruined.  I'll admit to a few chuckles, but nothing that even resembled a true laugh.The humour was dry, the characters awkward and by the time you got to the end, I really didn't care what happened to any of them.I really wasn't a fan of Something about Mary either, but it was a piece of comedic genius compared to this one.  If you really want to see true comedy, rent a Robin Williams, John Cleese or Jim Carrey flick (just to name a few).  Now THERE's comedy! "},{"Title":"A must miss!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barf. Similar to What about Bob, you have a likeable good guy who hits a spell of bad luck and ends up with everybody hating him. Considering it was a comedy, there were some rather long parts of the film during which no laughter was heard throughout the audience. In particular, the last five minutes, and the stop-and-go car race home. Yawn.There were several pee-pee and poo-poo jokes which left the toddlers in the audience giggling all the way home. Overall, however, not very many memorable lines, nor a very original premise. I give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Not a funny movie.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand how this movie received such a high rating from IMDb viewers, who are normal a pretty intelligent bunch.  It was both silly and predictable, and not particularly funny. I started looking at my watch almost as soon as they got to Oyster Bay.  By the way, I grew up in Oyster Bay, and I didn't recognize a single scene.   "}{"Title":"I still don't know what to say.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to comment about this movie.  It wasn't really funny.  It seems everyone seems to think it is.  I thought it had some funny moments, but many others were just so-so.  The full house audience in the theatre I was in didn't laugh as much as I did, so I figure it didn't go over really well with them either.The Movie might be more funny if I had never seen another one, but I have.  So when a movie beats you to a bloody pulp with the jokes before they even happen, it loses the laugh.  The dialogue in place was good, but I just kept knowing that certain things were going to happen.EXAMPLES ( SPOILERS )  We know from the moment they get there that the CAT is going to be a MAJOR joke prop.  What is it with Ben Stiller and evil animals?  I KNEW from the moment the urn was mentioned it would be broken, I KNEW the cat would not use the toilet the whole movie.  I KNEW Ben Stiller would end up on the roof smoking.  I KNEW it would probably result in something bad happening.  I KNEW the stupid wooden alter would end up defamed in some way.  I could go on all day.  These things were set-up with such bluntness that Helen Keller could see the sight gags coming.While I did laugh at some points, overall I was really disappointed.  The only way to make something funny is to catch the audience off guard with a new twist.  There were none in this film.P.S. Deniro is VERY Funny.  Maybe one of the top five comedians in Hollywood.  HE did make me laugh.4 of 10. "},{"Title":"Could Be The Perfect Comedy","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	How do you make a good first impression on and win over your prospective father-in-law on the very weekend you intend to ask for his first-born daughter's hand in marriage?  A tricky, touchy, very delicate and serious situation that must be faced and addressed by a young man in `Meet The Parents,' a hilarious comedy directed by Jay Roach and starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller.  Greg (Stiller) is in love; he knows Pam (Teri Polo) is the one he wants to spend the rest of his life with, and is ready to propose.  But certain circumstances clue him in to the fact that he should meet her parents first, approach her father, Jack (De Niro), and make the formal request, thereby extending him the respect he has come to understand Jack demands.  Plans are made, and the weekend begins with the flight from Chicago to New York.  And when a slight problem arises even before they board their plane, Greg should have seen it as an omen, because after that, absolutely nothing seems to go as planned. He finds Pam's mom, Dina (Blythe Danner), fairly accessible, but Jack turns out to be quite the formidable opponent, and from the minute they meet it becomes one long dance and spar of witticisms and revelations that make this one weekend Greg (and the audience) will never forget. 	What makes this movie so funny (and this IS one funny movie) is that the humor is character driven, situational and all very real; the laughs (and there are plenty) are all earned and are derived from inherently comical events and circumstances.  The ongoing banter between Greg and Jack is clever, the dialogue is superb and delivered with such sly and subtle shadings that it rings true at every turn.  And De Niro and Stiller play off of one another so perfectly and with such impeccable timing that it's like watching art come to life.  Stiller is a master at playing comedy dead-pan straight, and De Niro proves to be his equal here.  They never go after cheap laughs, and what little broad humor Roach employs evolves directly from the story and is never gratuitous or overdone; Roach and his cast let it all flow naturally and play it with a seriousness that makes it all the more hilarious.  You can literally feel Greg's pain and discomfort as he tries in vain to stand tall and impress this intimidating figure of a man he hopes will soon be his own father-in-law.  And De Niro makes Jack everything a suitor dreads in a prospective in-law; he doesn't merely scratch the surface of this character, but goes deep to make him a multi-layered personality, enigmatic and hard to read.  You know instinctively that there's more to this guy than meets the eye, and given the fact that nobody is good enough in his eyes for his little girl, he is a nightmare waiting for any and all `Gregs' that may come a-calling.   	Polo is charming as Pam; she's charismatic, has great screen presence and a winning personality that makes her character likable and totally believable.  In a supporting role, Owen Wilson gives a stand-out performance as Pam's ex-boyfriend, Kevin; he so wryly underplays him, and what he does contrasts so well with what De Niro and Stiller are doing that it makes him one of the most memorable characters in the film.  Rounding out the excellent supporting cast are Nicole DeHuff (Debbie), Jon Abrahams (Denny), James Rebhorn (Larry) and Phyllis George (Linda).  With `Meet The Parents,' Roach leaves no doubt as to what he can do with a comedy; this film is filled with truly funny, memorable scenes and has an endless number of quotable lines, the best of which belongs to Jack (spoken to Greg )  `If I find that you are trying to corrupt my first born child, I will bring you down, baby, I will bring you down to Chinatown&#150;'  In the final analysis, it's all a lot of fun, and there are many things here with which many viewers will readily identify.  This movie, in fact, may well be the perfect comedy; certainly it is nothing less than a modern-day classic that you do not want to miss.  I rate this one 10/10.           "},{"Title":"My former in-laws-oye","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to be the most uncomfortably hilarious comedy I have seen or I should say felt involved with in years. The whole family and their friends VS Mr.Gaylord Focker (Ben Stiller). A father-in-law to be is not just an overly literal and abundantly-overbearing wall in the way of the progress of asking with the best intentions for the man's daughters hand in marriage. Every time he turns around someone in that family of Pam's is verbally being cold blooded or condescending toward Greg Focker aka Gaylord, and then laughing about it. Or even accusing him of doing things that he hasn't done. With a case of nerves as it is it doesn't help to be even more nervous and doing something by mistake that will be under a finer micro-scope by the parents and friend of the wedding party. From the supposed pot smoking that they accused him of to lying about his taking the 'M Cats' test to anything else that they feel like saying to him, or about him. This reminded me of my past in-laws. What a freaking mess.The breakfast scene where he enters their kitchen in pjs and the grooms mother quips, looks like someone had a visit from the hair fairy. Then on Greg's way out of the kitchen to go shower, he jokes and sez, Well I guess it's time for me to visit the shower fairy. And everyone just looks at him as if to say 'Oh Greg grow up'. I can identify with most of this whole feature. The director was brilliant in making an awkwardly close to the bone for me, movie about unwed bliss. DeNiro is masterful in this role. He is simply the one that fits it to a tee. Well scripted and maintained through out the entire story, this one with Owen Wilson was a spectacle to look and laugh and cringe at all at the same time while feeling awkward and gawky and nervously smiling with the rest of the nervous fiancée's out there.This was a one of a kind fun-filled slightly bend out of shape picture with an original feel, that makes it not equal to all the other cinema fare out there that 'comes and goes' with little staying power.Jay Roach is a cool and talented director. Keep up the great work. Recommended (****) See it with a buddy. "},{"Title":"Predictable waste of talent","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you've ever watched a TV sitcom of the last thirty years or so, you can see just about every punch line for a mile. Robert DeNiro should have made his comedic debut in something original or at least funnier. He has a couple of good lines and has good chemistry with Blythe Danner. Ben Stiller is given pointless and stupid stuff throughout the movie and really makes no connection with Teri Polo, Owen Wilson would go much better with her. The usual drug references and literal potty humor are uninspired, it's as if the writers gathered around some inane sitcom scripts and padded them with this stuff that wouldn't be allowed on TV. A really weak effort, but at least it's better than the sequel, which manages to misuse Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand. If you want to see an intelligent, actually funny comedy, watch Analyse This, My Cousin Vinny, Runaway Bride or Legally Blonde, better yet the best comedy ever, Some Like It Hot. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie by funny actors.","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is a good movie.Directed by Jay Roach.And the actors for the movie are perfectly picked.Everybody fits in his own character.It is a story about the love but this love is a tough job.The main character is Greg Focker.He is a nurse in the literally meaning of the word.His girlfriend is Pam who is a teacher of little children.They are both in love.The problem is that Greg has to live in Pam's family's house.And her family is not that good.Actually her mother is very nice woman who just want to help for the happiness of her daughter.The problem is Jack.Her father.He is a man of his word.He loves his daughter and he can kill if somebody hurt her.The meeting begins good but the first mistake that Greg makes is that he says,he doesn't like cats and then a fluffy little cat goes in the hands of Jack.There are many jokes and fun.Even some intensive moments.The movie is one great big fun.Robert De Niro himself is the strict father and Ben Stiller is Greg.I give this movie 8 cause it is really a classic in the comedy genre.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A well executed comedy!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie might very well be one of the best executed comedies I've ever seen! Most of the jokes and situations are predictable but they are executed so well that it's funny nevertheless.The key element of the movie are the two male lead characters played by Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro. Robert De Niro basicaly plays 'Robert De Niro the guy who played dozens of gangster roles' which because of that makes all off his scene's fun to watch at. Just the way he looks through his eyes at times is enough to make you laugh. He perfectly knows how to make fun of his image. Owen Wilson also shows up, in a fun role.The timing in this movie is spot on. The movie is filled with jokes and good comical situations. Director Jay Roach shows that he also can handle other comedies beside the Austin Powers movies. I can't wait to see what he has made of the sequel Meet the Fockers.One of the best comedies I've seen in years!9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Sinister Comedy","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller is quite a funny guy. He has one of those rubber faces that you can instantly crack up looking at. He plays Greg Focker, a male nurse in love with Meg Byrnes. The two are blissfully happy...all until it comes to meeting her parents. There's the charming, helpful mom and the ex CIA (psychotic???) dad (Robert DiNiro). I won't blabber on too much about the story except to say that you can tell just what's going to happen...one disaster after another. It's funny stuff...sometimes, with the slapstick of Stiller, but DeNiro's character may be hard to swallow and leave a bad taste as he interrogates and sometimes cooly humiliates Greg. DeNiro does play a good part; the naive father wanting the best for his daughter and no man is good enough for her. Good performances all round, but don't expect to be laughing your heart out as this film has a quite uneven balance of slapstick and sinister dryness. *** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Rent The In-laws instead","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some funny parts--better after the beginning--but vastly inferior to the movie it ripped off--1980's The In-Laws.  The In-Laws, starring Peter Falk (Columbo) and Alan Arkin, may be the funniest movie of all time.  I am not some old codger who saw The In-Laws in a theatre and is waxing about old times.  I am thirty, meaning I was eight when The In-Laws came out.  I saw it for the first time on cable.  But I know greatness when I see it, wherever I see it.  Meet The Parents aint great.  The In-Laws is. It will make you laugh as much or more than practically any movie you have ever seen. See that, not this.  (In case you haven't figured it out, the plots of the two movies are very similar.)    "},{"Title":"Funny &#150; but it gets difficult to laugh at Greg's misfortune","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greg Focker is ready to propose to his girlfriend Pam but before he does he finds out that she would expect him to ask her father first.  On the visit to meet her parents however nothing goes to plan and Pam's father Jack dislikes Greg immediately.  Matters are only made worse when Greg begins to realise what Jack used to do for a living.I first saw this in a cinema and recently watched it again on video.  In the cinema I roared and on video I laughed but not as much &#150; the crowd helped the first time.  However it is still very funny &#150; Focker is the most put-upon man I've ever seen!  However with this comes the main problem &#150; I almost felt too sorry for him to be able to laugh at his misfortunes.  This isn't help by the fact that most of Jack's doctor friends are really unpleasant obnoxious people who I wanted to slap.  However much of it is still funny but the final act is difficult because he is so downcast you can't help but feel sympathetic rather than amused.Stiller does a good character but really is almost too realistic &#150; like I said, I felt a bit guilty laughing.  De Niro and comedy are not always best friends (he has some good ones and some real bad ones), happily here he is really good sending up his tough guy image spot on.  Of the rest of the cast I have nothing to say, except that Owen Wilson has a great cameo playing up his laid back character really well.Overall this is really funny even if it lacks subtlety.  However it is really a bad point that, once the misfortunes begin getting worse and more severe we do begin to feel for Greg and dislike those who mock him.  However when we laugh we also mock him and therefore I found the second half a little harder to laugh at &#150; mind you it was still funny for the majority. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  De Niro, my favorite actor of all time, finally disappointed me here. I don't see the real point of all the movie. Make you laugh? Maybe it's not one the Ben Stiller performance that we would like to remember. Nevertheless, the fun made about airport check in & boarding made me laugh really loud. Anywhere else it was not clear where to laugh. "}{"Title":"predictable trash","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i could predict every part of this movie.  none of it is actually funny. it's all ridiculously stupid and pointless humour. i can't believe it did so well. it's not funny at all and ben stiller is so annoying in it...come on i can't believe people actually liked this movie. *1/2. "},{"Title":"poor movie, wooden acting","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Many films on this database seem to attract mostly either 'loved it' or 'hated it' comments.  Maybe people don't comment on films that they neither loved nor hated?Anyhow, I hated this one.I think the worst aspect was the forced, wooden acting by Pamela's parents.  The saccharine displays of family emotion by actors who were clearly not comfortable with their roles or the script.  I have never seen Robert de Niro stoop so low, or perform so badly.As for the scriptwriter ...2/10 (would have been 1/10 but the cinematography was OK) "},{"Title":"PREDICTABLE MOVIE! YOU CAN SEE THE GAGS COMING!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I've seen a couple of movies starring Ben Stiller and I quite enjoyed them, so naturally I rented MEET THE PARENTS out from the local video store. My first impression was that it wasn't funny! If you're looking for anything new in a comedy, look elsewhere! Fair enough it's a nice, clean family comedy that doesn't rely on foul toilet humour and crude gags (not too much anyway! lol), but the jokes are so predictable and not funny at all. I think I laughed ONCE during the movie! Rob Deniro is OK in this movie as the mean and strict father, but there's NOTHING NEW to be had here! 6/10 "},{"Title":"Meet the parents aims to high and fires too low, the most overrated movie in recent years.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Magazine reviews, word of mouth and trailers had me expecting to see the next all American comedy hit since 'There's something about Mary'.  What i experienced when i sat down to watch this film was a film that aims to achieve such accalaids as its '...Mary' but instead offers a flat, dull comedy that does offer some very funny set pieces, (most of which had been used in the trailer).Stiller is consistant as the likable romantic lead who cannot please his future father in-law, played by DeNiro, who although is fully competent in a comedic role, is let down by a very dull character.The principle for the film is very good and the set piece ideas are all potential comedy classics, but the script (which excells in new levels of dullness) and the direction, hinder these scenes form fulfilling there potential.If any of you have ever seen 'The Bachelor party' with Tom Hanks, the 10 minute scene where he goes to his future in-laws house, you will see the potential this plot had.  The characters are all superior to Meet the Parents, which at the end of the day is the reason why Meet the Parents is a big let down.Don't get me wrong, its no disaster, I've seen worse movies, but for a film that promised so much and aimed so high, it misses the target by far too big a margin for it to ever sustain its place in 'comedy-classic' territory.... 5/10. "},{"Title":"Not very funny...What was all the fuss about??","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's been a few days since I saw this movie, and I still can't understand why this movie made so much money.  After watching the previews, I was convinced that this would be a BOMB. Lo and behold, it makes a ton of cash. There were very few clever moments; every joke could be seen coming a mile away. The plot was something out of a bad Dennis the Menace show (let's see what other shenanigans Focker can get into now!!) I gave the movie a chance after hearing all these good things about it...what a waste of time "},{"Title":"Save the money (even video rental money)","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the most over-rated movies going. Stiller is annoying, De Niro did this on auto-pilot, the rest of the cast suck, even the cat is a loser..How bad was it? It was as bad as Autumn in New York..and that's really bad. "},{"Title":"annoying","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I dislike movies where the main character gets into trouble by lying. Especially stupid, pointless lies that will obviously be found out eventually.  There have been some bad offenders, but this movie takes it to ridiculous extremes.  Ben Stiller's character is weak, stupid, dishonest, unsympathetic, and way beyond the threshold of believability. And even if those things don't bother you, the movie just isn't funny.The people responsible for this dud should take some lessons from There's Something About Mary.  That had much riskier humour, which could have blown up in their face, but worked.  One of the reasons was because under the gruff exterior, it had a good heart.  It had *charm*.  Under this contrived mess of insecurity and deception was nothing but a lump of coal.  I felt the stupid Focker deserved every bad thing that happened, and more.  The sappy Hollywood ending rang hollow as a result.  Pheh.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie.See It More Than Once!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the parents is a brilliant film. I'm not surprised it's doing SO well everywhere it's released. From the moment the film starts, you know you'll be laughing all the way. I liked everything about this movie. Jay Roach is a great director and Ben Stiller is god. Such a funny actor - he was the man of the movie. If you haven't seen this movie yet, you must. It was very enjoyable and well worth seeing more then once, I can tell you. "},{"Title":"funny alright but overkill perhaps","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  meet the parents is a good comedy, in comparison to some of the recent releases this year. it's about a male nurse (!) trying to get approval from his 10-month girlfriends parents. ben stiller did an excellent job. robert de niro, however, stole the show.the movie has some really funny ones (especially the scene with the stewardess at the end) but a big chunk of the movie revolves around ben stiller's clumsy antics, which gets *dragging* after a point. the vase followed by the cat followed by the flush and the fire... the list goes on with clumsiness almost tending to slapstick. it's a case of too many goofs spoiling the spoof.a good movie on the whole though. i would give it a 7 on 10 "},{"Title":"Funny and pretty realistic too!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I usually don't laugh as many times as I did while watching Meet the Parents. This comedy was hilarious and I enjoyed watching the relationship between Robert DeNiro and Ben Stiller on the screen. One of the things I liked most about this movie was that it stayed focused on the plot. It didn't go off in different directions and it maintained a sense of reality that a lot of comedies lack. At the same time, it was funny from beginning to end. I'd have to say that another thing that makes this movie work well is that the relationship between Gaylord (Greg) and Pam is already in progress from the start of the movie so the viewer is immediately able to get to know the two of them and the relationship they have with each other. I have no complaints about this movie. "}{"Title":"If it has Ben Stiller, it must be bad!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Has Ben Stiller made a good movie yet? Not so far as I can tell. He is living proof that nepotism works. Even though his dad has never been that funny either. How he continues to make movies is beyond me, all he does is string together a series of events that have shock value but no real humor. Plus teaming him up with Owen Wilson is a double negative. Let's see he's not a good actor, he's not a funny comedian, he's not cute enough to get by on his looks... Explain why people continue to waste money on any film he pollutes. Somebody told me that dodgeball was funny, it had it's moments and it was one of Stiller's best--which ain't saying much... It stills sucked! And so does he! "},{"Title":"Non-funny farce","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very weak farce, which doesn't have a plot so much as a serious of gags. With no real characters, the film is just an excuse to show embarrassing scenes of complete destruction. Lots of the scenes and situations are contrived, and it's full of throw-away one-liners (who on earth names their son 'gaylord focker'?). The ending is sickly sweet and unrealistic (if I was him I'd have run a mile, with or without her, a lot lot earlier, and never return).Don't watch it. No, don't! "},{"Title":"A Complete Disappointment","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pam's family is supposed to be a loving, caring group, but apparently don't see that they are psychologically torturing Greg. He was the only one who had his life in order and was attempting to relate to others. The recurring theme was that every tragedy that the family faced was somehow Greg's fault.I was amazed at how disappointed I was in the movie. I am a great fan of both Mr. De Niro and Mr. Stiller. Still, I could not bear to finish the film. This is one of the few movies I have ever stopped watching while in progress. I returned it to the video store to get the thing out of my sight. "},{"Title":"poorly edited film loses alot of funny moments","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You'd think with Emo Philips as Producer that the film would be laugh-tested or have good comedic timing but the film was like flat champagne. Or maybe it was the almost empty movie theater I watched it in. Scenes like the marriage proposal at the beginning, or the car race in the middle... they just didn't hit the mark. Many of us guys have had weird meetings with the parents - this is one more I would avoid, even if you like Ben Stiller or Robert Dinero (who's character is a retired CIA agent - another Hollywood cliche like the Mafia).  "},{"Title":"Meet the boredom","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Apart from Ben Stiller, this film is really stupid and boring. The gags are all predictable. The plot has no consistence, and we always know what will happen in a few moments. As a comedy, it is the celebration of the already seen and banal even in a TV sitcom dialogues and gags are better. A real waste of time. "},{"Title":"Uneven Movie, Unlikeable Characters","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, I fell for the hype about how funny this was and my friend's recommendation.  Since I had a little time, I went to check this out.  I honestly laughed more and harder during the trailer for Emperor's New Groove.The only fun or interesting characters were DeNiro, Blythe Danner and Ben Stiller.  Almost everyone else was a major irritation.  Especially, Teri Polo's character, Pam.  She turned me off from the second she took the cell phone call over the guy on his knee saying he loved her.There were so many long, painful periods between the few laughs, I felt in agony.Anyway, if you insist on seeing this, I recommend waiting til it's in the bargain area of the video store. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got this movie along with DVD -player that I bought, and after we watched it(with my girlfriend), I nearly send the player and film back to the store. From film that is supposed to be a comedy, I expect some laughs etc. But no, it was a torture all the way with this film......  "},{"Title":"Superb Story","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although this is actually a remake of a 1992 film of the same name (which I didn't see), Meet the Parents is a very original movie.Ben Stiller plays Greg, a Jewish nurse who wants to marry his girlfriend, Pam (Teri Polo), but has to deal with her nitpicky CIA agent dad (Robert DeNiro) while meeting her family for the weekend. This whole set up is filled with laugh-out-loud scenes, with a little suspense and drama sprinkled in for spice. One would think that the original screenplay was based from a true experience from one of the writers.All of the characters are likeable, even the uptightness of Jack can be forgiven. Most of the jokes were pretty funny too. However, based from several previous reviews, some believe that since 9/11, the bomb-on-an-airplane jokes are now unfunny. This just goes to show how some people take life too seriously. Not to be unpatriotic, but not EVERY terrorist joke as of 9/11 should be taken as an insult. In fact, Meet the Parents was released 11 months before 9/11. Even with such hard times at hand, we should still be entitled to a few laughs once in a while.Back to the subject, Meet the Parents is a great movie that must be seen. I just hope that with the upcoming sequel, Meet the Fockers (although I think the name might be changed eventually), Ben Stiller can make it just as good as the first movie. "},{"Title":"Was that supposed to be funny?","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing a comedy that would make me laugh and make me feel cheerful, but I was devastatingly disappointed. Though a very few scenes captured the clumsiness and embarassment of such a weekend quite nicely, they were completely overshadowed by all those exaggerated, contrived, and unfunny mishaps. What's so funny about spraying s**t at people? None of Greg Focker's misfortunes made me laugh; they were just annoying. It also doesn't help that all characters in this movie are not likeable at all; I didn't care what happens to them.Do yourself a favour and avoid this overrated wannabe-comedy. It would only be a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this film so intolerable that I can not recommend it, even as punishment. The situations were uncomfortable to watch, and it wasn't even amusing. This was a terrible movie. I don't believe I even laughed once, which is to say, assuming this to be a comedy, Meet the Parents fails miserably to entertain. "}{"Title":"Stupid movie","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a truly stupid movie.  Predictable, stale, overdone gags one after another.  The only redeeming point in Meet The Parents was towards the end, a brief parody of the frustrations involved in buying an airline ticket. "},{"Title":"Had a few funny moments","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But I want to know, what is supposed to be funny about being a male nurse?  The whole movie seemed to rely on that, as well as the many puns that could be made on the last name, for the humor.  Every time a mention of Greg's (Ben Stiller) profession was made, there was a pause as if everyone expected the audience to roll down the aisles laughing.  It just didn't tickle my funnybone.  Because he's a man.... get it?  just does not work for me.That said, I think DeNiro did a good job with the script he was given, and Ben Stiller did well as the nervous fiance to be.  "},{"Title":"Only laugh came when Pepsi shot from my friend's nostrils","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What's up with the American public? No doubt we're starving for something, anything that smacks of entertainment. But this movie's lame premise, a male nurse meeting his 8-month girlfriend's parents, shouldn't warrant a No. 1 movie for many weeks. All the jokes in it are recycled from another better movie. EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM! S*** being splattered onto an unwary family? Come on, Trainspotting did that four years ago and to a better comedic effect. MTP is a waste of time and money. Go see Best in Show again if you want new comedy. "},{"Title":"Fun that any man can relate to","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is off and on very funny, and overall it is a good time. Mainly due to Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller's performances as the father and the guy who wants to marry his daughter. Stiller meets the parents (De Niro and Blythe Danner) in one very chaotic weekend in Long Island where anything that can go wrong for Stiller does (a spray-painted and potty trained cat, burning down by accident the alter, overflowing the septic tank, being caught with a dragon that he likes to puff and telling a story about a cat that is a show-stopper) and enhances the comedy. A feel-good comedy, even if it may hit close to home for many a lot of men. Directed by Jay Roach (or Austin Powers and Mystery Alaska fame). "},{"Title":"I dedicate my next bowel movement to this film","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well let's start off by saying that comedy cinema has been in troubling decline for about 10 years. It's all political correct, contrived, formulaic and worst of all, unfunny.In all my IMDb reviews, I have not rated one Ben Stiller film. All of them are pathetic (and guess what, there's something about mary was just as bad as the rest). Some fellow actors say he's so serious when he works and so many people think he's side-splitting. If you ask me, he is the most unfunny actor in the history of comedy and has a clear ability to pick the most pathetic scripts circling Hollywood.Him aside, this film is dreadful. It isn't funny and if you think it is, then I wonder what would happen if i put a flash light to your left ear. Would I see light coming out the right side? Let's look at some of the pathetic attempt at comedy used in this one. The character's surname is Focker. Gee that's funny (not). The screenwriters must have agonized for months before coming up with the idea of giving the main character a surname that they can milk about 1000 unfunny one-liners and jokes from. Then, after you think they milked that one for everything it's worth, a sequel emerges titled Meet the Fockers, where the surname is giving rise to more material. Suffice to say that the sequel was worse than this, but I won't review it since I can't set the IMDb star rating into negative territory.Then they set up stupid and deeply contrived scenarios like Mr. Focker going through the brother's underwear draw. Gee, that one was funny and original..... NOT. After this, the writers obviously had to apply their intelligence as they must have realized that it was seriously lacking. So they ever so slightly raised the bar and tried to come up with the father-in-law from hell, even though that in itself is deeply clichéd. So they made him some sort of ex-CIA something or rather, with a lie detector in his basement so that the future son-in-law's sexual past can be probed.At this point, I actually felt embarrassed for Robert De Niro. Someone certainly must have called in a big favor to get him on-board this rubbish. Another pathetic protuberance along the downwardly-inclined road that is Hollywood comedy.And.... I've said it before so I'll say it again - I'm still waiting for a Ben Stiller film that I actually like. "},{"Title":"A very serious, relatable story squandered","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Is there anything more nerve-wracking or heart-racing than meeting your significant others parents for the first time? This seems to be more of an obvious fear for the male in a heterosexual relationship than it is a woman's; the desire to make a presence that's simultaneously meaningful and respectful, but not too brazen, is a tricky dance to accomplish and the anxiety that accompanies such an event is usually too much to even begin to adequately articulate. One winds up overthinking everything to the point of either saying something they didn't mean to say or feeling like they have just made a complete fool of themselves in front of the person they love and her own family.I suppose I can rest easy knowing that writers Jim Herzfeld and John Hamburg have made a worst case scenario film about the subject, which effectively makes almost any evening spent with the parents of your significant other seem desirable and successful in comparison. Jay Roach's Meet the Parents is the kind of film that takes those fears and persistent worries and etches them into a film that ups the stakes so high that, after a while, it becomes difficult to laugh given how far the film has fallen from its own sense of realism. it takes a realistic and common fear and repeatedly throws so many incredulous situations towards it, turning it into a farce, that, by the end, it's not only hard to take the film seriously, but the characters as well.We meet Gregory Focker (Ben Stiller), a male nurse who has been in a relationship with Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo) and is working to execute the perfect marriage proposal as soon as he gets off work. Just before he's about to pop the big question, Pam gets a call from her sister that she is now engaged, right after her fiancée asked Pam's father for her hand in marriage. While Pam claims it isn't necessary to do such a thing, it's a sweet, traditionalist gesture. As a result, Greg keeps his plans under the wraps and agrees to go to Pam's family's home in Long Island for the wedding.Upon losing his luggage on the flight, Greg meets Pam's father Jack (Robert De Niro) and her mother Dina (Blythe Danner). Right off the bat, Jack is cold and offputting to Greg, emphasizing Greg's less-than-positive view of cats and his own career choice of being a nurse. This sets the tone for what will be the next few days - awkward, uncomfortable interactions that will revolve around Greg trying to please Jack, but, in the end, only resulting in frustration or anger on Jack's behalf. Things only get intensified when Greg winds up meeting Kevin (Owen Wilson), Pam's ex-fiancée who is helping organize her sister's wedding.Meet the Parents has a committed cast of greats, starting with De Niro and Stiller, the two obvious, and even making strong uses of Polo and Danner, who transcend supporting roles and have a few of their own moments to shine. Consider Polo's character consistently trying to tow the lines of loyalty to her father and express her love for Greg, while Danner's character's cheeriness is usually diminished by the sternness of her husband. The glaring effects of the male characters on the female characters is an interesting dichotomy, especially seeing as the female characters are the whole reason everyone is brought together.Other than that, and some surface relatability based on the basic premise of the film rather than the actual details, Meet the Parents is one long sitcom. The film houses a barrage of overblown sight gags, caricatures instead of characters, and a case of maximum antics, minimum laughter, where the writers continue to dogpile awkward scenarios on the characters while forgetting to humanize the characters in order for the gags to actually work. This is less a film and more an assortment of asinine events that work to beat the audience down with slapstick and a great deal of comedy that is almost too desperate to be funny.Meet the Parents will get empathy points from many, but the points it receives from its obvious brand of comedy should be relatively minimal. There's an appalling lack of human interest here outside of the film's concept, which is a big problem when you have a film that has the ability to resonate very deeply with people. Many of us have been in Greg's situation and many of us have found ourselves to be the worst enemy at times, but these elements, while substantial and ripe for exploration, can even be taken in a haphazard manner.Starring Ben Stiller, Teri Polo, Robert De Niro, Blythe Danner, and Owen Wilson. Directed by Jay Roach. "},{"Title":"Meet The Cliché","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have watched this movie a few times now, just because it's always on TV. Ben Stiller isn't epic with the love interest scenes, but him and Robert DiNero kill their scenes for what they're given. It perfectly sums up the terrifying feelings men go through when they meet the in-laws for the first time. It's my nightmare, down to the cat, who the hell prefers a cat over a dog? The breakfast scene is the worst. Owen Wilson's character is the most punchable guy on the planet. I would have dropped that fool the second I met him, like we were on the yard and I needed to establish the fact that I'm top dog now. I think the second installment with Greg's parents is one of the few cases where the sequel may surpass the original, even though the original is nothing to write home about, it does have that comfortable feeling of familiarity. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, Teri Polo, Blythe Danner and Owen Wilson star in this 2000 comedy. Gaylord 'Greg' Focker (Stiller) is a male nurse who wants to marry his longtime girlfriend, Pam Byrnes (Polo). He decides to go with her to meet her parents, Jack (De Niro) and Dina (Danner) for the weekend in honor of her sister's wedding. Things start to go very wrong for Gaylord when he tries to get Jack's approval, but eventually wins his support and proposes to Pam. Wilson plays Pam's ex-boyfriend, Kevin who is into carpentry and carves an altar that accidentally gets burned. De Niro is terrific as the father-in-law from hell and he and Stiller are great together. I recommend this good comedy. "},{"Title":"Deniro And Stiller Worked Well Together","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What made this movie work so well was the combination of Robert Deniro and Ben Stiller. Both very good actors, put together they did a wonderful job of making this a very funny movie, largely by playing their roles so seriously. Stiller's character of Greg Focker was one any man can relate to - if you've ever been in the position of having to meet your girlfriend's father for the first time. In this case, the pressure was really on. Greg wants to marry Pam (Teri Polo) but finds out that her father would expect to give his permission before he even asks. So he accompanies Pam home for her sister's wedding, and discovers that Jack (Deniro) isn't your average, everyday potential father in law. Instead, he turns out to be an ex CIA agent who's extremely protective of his daughters and has more than a few quirks of his own - not the least of which is an obsession with his cat, Mr. Jinks. Desperately trying to impress Jack (or at least trying not to get on his bad side) Greg ends up unintentionally causing chaos in the home. He breaks the urn holding Jack's mother's ashes; he lets Mr. Jinks outside and loses him; he accidentally breaks Pam's sister's nose while playing volleyball; he sets fire to the backyard; he causes the septic tank to overflow. If that sounds like it might be going a bit overboard, it really doesn't go overboard. It never falls into mere slapstick humour. Greg's misadventures all seem very natural and believable. It's simply that nothing goes right on this weekend with his potential in-laws, and the end result is that Jack becomes convinced that this guy isn't good enough for his beloved first born daughter - a feeling compounded by the fact that her sister is marrying a doctor who's also the son of a doctor, while Greg is a nurse. Deniro and Stiller played off each other perfectly and produced a number of very funny scenes together.The movie was weakened a bit, in my opinion, by supporting performances that weren't as strong. Polo was very much in the background. She was likable enough, but added really very little to the movie (except that her character was necessary to push forward the tension between Jack and Greg.) Blythe Danner was underused as Pam's mother, and I found Owen Wilson's character of Kevin (Pam's ex-fiancé) to be irritating more than anything, and maybe a little too much for the story.Overall, though, this is an enjoyable movie; one of the better comedies of recent years. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Just Wonderful","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" well i will keep my review simple as i am not very good in written English.Meet the parents is a wonderful movie and it can be regarded as a classic as i have watched it in 2011 after 11 years of release.the cast is beautiful especially Ben Stiller,Robert De Niro and Teri Polo.Teri Polo is a beautiful actress and i am surprised that i haven't seen much of her in other movies.it was really great to see Robert De Niro in a comedy and it has been proved that he can act in a any role and will produce a masterpiece.Owen Wilson has a very short role but as always he was a wonderful addition to the movie.it's really difficult to express your exact thoughts in words but Meet the Parents is a kind of movie which you will enjoy every time you want to see a comedy with a beautiful touch of romance. "}{"Title":"A laugh out loud comedy, but the ultimate test of resolution","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a film that takes misunderstandings and awkwardness to new levels with a Jewish male nurse named Greg Focker (Stiller) visiting his girlfriend's parents' house during a wedding about to take place for her sister. He attempts to fit in to the social circle of this traditional family, who has their own set of rules and specific ways of living that keeps him thinking on his toes and attempting to fake it till he makes it.Greg tries to make an impression with the overly protective father, Jack Byrnes, played by Robert De Niro, who has a clandestine past and is growing suspicious due to mix-ups that put Greg in a negative light for being the right man for his prized daughter. He has to drop a few habits and pick up new ones to keep up. If it could get any more worse the ex, Kevin, played by Owen Wilson, is on top of everything without evening trying, not to mention close to the father and on good terms with Greg's girlfriend. You could say he's got a lot on his plate, as he's the extreme of polite and can't say what's really on his mind out loud in order to save face in front of others.Meet the Parents was fresh for its time and still holds up as a situational comedy with some relating points about meeting others for the first time or just trying to be one of the gang. It can make you cringe for the main character as he fumbles to do things right by these new people with hilarious trial and error. Just in time, some of the zany pile ups begin to get far-fetched but is saved by seeing Greg in the cross between imploding and running away from everything going wrong by his own hands. This is a Hollywood film, so some sentiment is going to be offered in order to give it that finishing touch. This was a well-done film as it steadily paced the timing of its jokes instead of trying too hard to completely shock the audience. That's what gives it its replay value to this day as the scenarios are memorable, not to mention identifiable if still exaggerated for comic relief. "},{"Title":"Lies do not pay...","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This awkward comedy of errors has gone on to spawn a whole franchise, with the latest installment, Meet The Parents Little Fockers just wrapping up its run in theatres as I write. Ben Stiller is Gaylord (Greg) Focker, who is trying to impress his prospective father in law, Robert De Niro on top form, as he plans to propose to his daughter.The couple 'meet the parents' as they stay the weekend for his future sister in law's wedding and things obviously go down hill from there, with the inevitable comic effect. He meets the rest of her family and several friends, all of whom seem not to care a jot that Stiller's Focker is given little consideration.On top of all this, De Niro's father character is an Ex-CIA agent, which further compounds the problems, but when all is said and done, I find it hard to completely sympathise with Stiller's protagonist, as whilst some of the problems and situations are beyond his control, many of them are caused by his constant lying.The film seems to be a little confused as whether it supports Stiller as he lies his way through the film, to everyone, including his hosts, or De Niro who correctly points out towards the film's conclusion that things might have gone better if he had only told the truth.I personally agree with De Niro. The hero of this film is a liar and he pays for those lies, but that is turn makes it difficult for me to sympathise or empathise too much with him. Having said that, this is well-played cringe-worthy comedy, and it does a great job of conveying that sense and drawing us into the discomfort of the characters. Owen Wilson's lengthy cameo as the perfect, divine ex-fiancé was pitched perfectly, truly capturing the ideas that we have over matching up to the past, though over-played, on a metaphorical level, it was brilliant.Overall, it made me laugh throughout, but I wouldn't say that it was hysterical, though it was entertaining, moderately thoughtful but promotes a brand of humour that isn't what I would consider to be number one for me. "},{"Title":"Great Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro Comedy","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Greg Gaylord Focker played by Ben Stiller is a male nurse who is invited to meet is fiancé to be Pam's parents so that he can get their permission. However, former CIA Agent Jack Byrnes played by Robert De Niro puts Greg through a living hell before anything happens. While staying at the house he finds out that his luggage is misplace by the airport and later gets the third degree from Jack. With Jack, being a former CIA agent he uses tactics he learned to make sure that Greg is the right man for his little girl. The motif based around Greg's struggles thought the whole movie. From the struggles with his luggage, the male nurse insults, to the invasive questioning from Jack. Yet being a heavy struggle for him the comedy is flowing like all movies that star Ben Stiller. Furthermore, although Jack does play sarcastic, aggressive parents there are many comic scenes that make the movie funny as well. Next, Kevin played by Owen Wilson is trying to get back Pam the girl he had lost in his past. During time that Kevin had met Greg, Kevin keeps telling Greg about the good times that him and Pam had in their past. This puts a little frustration as well as comical competition between them. Since her family is completely overwhelmed with Kevin, Greg has to go out of his way to show Pam's family he is the right man her. Another one of the more comic parts of the movie is when the cat goes to the next-door neighbors but Greg thinks he is lost and tries to replace it with a stray. When the stray gets into the house the wedding dress of Pam's sisters shredded by the cat, yet everyone else is at dinner. While Greg is placing calls to find out about his luggage, Jack is finding about the cat and also finding out more about Greg's past. The final draw is when her family is insulting him about not becoming a doctor and his name, which is Gaylord. Whenever Jack gets the rest of the information back about Greg, after Jack finds out that everything that he said was true he feels that Greg should be placed back into his family's inner circle once again. But by that time Greg is getting on the plane to head back and gets arrested by security for attacking a flight attendant and Jack has to use his CIA Agent security to get him out of trouble. Throughout this movie, there have always been struggles against Greg but the audience will laugh through every one of them. "},{"Title":"Great Laughs and Love Story","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A great laugh at a series situations one would never dream of and it even has a little love story. Ben Stiller has a well-known name for making his audience laugh. In the film Meet the Parents he does just that. Ben Stiller as Greg (Gaylord) Focker has staring in this film with him Academy Award winning Robert De Niro as Jack Byrnes, sure does make Greg's life a little more difficult than it already is. The film's theme displays how love can cause one to do crazy things and to accept people for who they are. Another film that can be compared is American Wedding 2003. The film begins when Greg a male nurse decides his girlfriend Teri Polo as Pam is the one he wants to marry. The couple flies to Pam's parents' house for her sister's wedding at the Byrnes, along the way Greg starts his line of bad luck. As they drive up Pam's father Jack is staring out the window, he is already judging Greg. Jack calls for Pam's cat Mr. Jinx and she tells her parents that Greg hates cats. This puts Greg in an awkward situation and he lies saying he does not. Jack questions him on why he likes dogs over cats. Greg is trying to win Jacks approval so Jack will allow Greg to ask Pam to marry him. Jack has already developed assumptions about Greg. He judges him for being a male nurse and even makes fun of him. Jack wants to investigate Greg. He tries to find any information he can on him. Greg see's Jack talking to a man outside a store and tries to act like he did not see him there. Greg somehow gets nervous and makes up some lies about milking a cat. Jack wants to know about this story. Soon Greg realizes that Jack is testing him. Greg is asked to sleep the den where he continues on his line of back luck. He finds a unique room with a light on and enters. Jack then comes in and tells Greg he should do a lie detector test. Greg freaks out about this and is extremely nervous. Greg then is told some interesting information, that Jack is a former CIA investigator. He then is told he has entered the Burn's circle of trust. The next day is the day before Pam's sister's wedding. There are various fast passed introductions of different characters. Greg is introduced to Owen Wilson as Kevin Pam's ex fiancée. He develops a judgment of him and jealousy. During this time Greg is questioned by Jack about many different things. Greg continues to have various things happen to him that keeps the audience laughing at each situation. Greg faces many difficulties when trying to follow all the rules of Jack Byrnes. He has many problems occur, that make it really difficult for Jack to like Greg. Jack feels that Greg is lying about many different things. Then Greg is taken out of the circle of trust. Pam even questions Greg about things he is lying about. Greg gets a flight back to Chicago. Greg feels like he was trying to be someone he was not. He is fine with who he is. He did all the crazy things because he loves Pam. "},{"Title":"Meet The Parents","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This review includes a spoiler. Meet the Parents is about a man, Gaylord Focker, who goes by the name of Greg (Ben Stiller). He is living with his girlfriend, Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo), who he going to ask to marry him. He is not able to ask her yet because Pam invites him to parent's house to attend her sister's, Debbie (Nicole Dehuff), wedding. Pam's father, Jack Byrnes (Robert De Niro), is a retired CIA member who does not trust anyone and he still acts as if he is in the CIA. Jack and Greg do not get off on the right foot because Jack does not act like he likes Greg. So, the movie continues with Greg trying really hard to get Jack's approval while Jack does not make it very easy. Jack thinks that Greg is someone else because Jack could not find evidence of Greg taking a test to become a doctor. Jack tries to convince Pam that he has been lying to her. Greg tries to be helpful, but he ends up almost ruining Debbie's wedding so he gets ready to leave and his luggage arrives. The guy asks if he is Gaylord Focker, and he agrees. Jack realizes that Greg's true name is Gaylord and he made a mistake. So Jack goes to the airport to convince Greg to come back. So, Greg returns and asks Pam to marry him and she says yes. The movie ends with Jack stating that they have to meet Greg's parents. The theme of this movie is that people are always what they seem on the surface. Jack thought that Greg was a liar because Jack thought his first name was Greg except Gaylord is his first name. So, Jack was completely wrong which does not happen very often. Throughout the movie the viewer really roots for Greg because he is a good guy who is trying to impress his girlfriend's parents. He becomes the underdog of the film who can't catch a break. Greg has good intentions that usually end badly in this movie. The angle technique that is used in this movie is great. The viewers really feel like that could be Greg's character. Everyone has been there when they are trying to impress someone and it turns into a disaster. Another great technique that was used was the lighting. It was very natural and the viewers will feel like they are really in the movie. If you like the Family Stone, then you will love Meet the Parents. Robert De Niro does a great job as a bored retired CIA member, and Ben Stiller plays Greg's role very well. Enjoy this film as it unravels that things are not always what they seem. "},{"Title":"Awkward Meeting","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Jewish male nurse plans to ask his live-in girl friend to marry him. However, he learns that her strict father expects to be asked for his daughter's hand before she can accept. Thus begins the visit from Hell as the two travel to meet Mom and Dad, who turns out to be former CIA with a lie detector in the basement. Coincidentally, a sister also has announced her wedding to a young doctor. Of course everything that can go wrong, does, including the disappearance of Dad's beloved Himalayan cat, Jinxie. Is This Worthy Of An Oscar? No(Ironic Isn't It), Is This Going To Be Remembered As A Classic In 50 Years Time? No, Is This The Funniest Way To Put Awkward Moments & Utter Cock-Ups Into A Movie? Yes. Robert DeNeiro Does A Good Performance But This Still Doesn't Mean I Like Him.I Liked The Awkward Names Patricia Martha Focker & Gaylord Focker Which Are Pretty Embarrassing Names (Wouldn't You Change Your Name) & The Milking Cat Story I Was Sitting There Saying No, Please Don't Go On They'll Hate You & They Did. I Honestly Thought This Movie Could've Been A Lot Better...I Laughed A Lot But Not As Much As You Would Expect From Something Like This. All In All Its Okay. "},{"Title":"Everything, and more, that could go wrong with meeting your girlfriends parents for the first time does go wrong for Gaylord Focker","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everything, and more, that could possibly go wrong with meeting your girlfriend's parents for the first time goes wrong in this movie for Gaylord 'Greg' Focker. Greg has nothing but the best intentions, and he wants to marry his girlfriend Pam, but first he has to meet her parents. Pam's father, Jack, is the stereotypical 'no one is good enough for my daughter' father, and he is set to make Greg's weekend a living hell, and it doesn't help matters either that Greg is the kind of person who no matter what he does with the best of intentions, it always backfires on him with terrible results. Think about the worst thing that could happen when you're making first impressions with who could possibly be your future in-laws... and you probably won't even come close to what happens to poor Mr. Focker.In the opening scene of the movie, we gather that Greg is about to propose to Pam. But the second after he gets down on his knee, Pam gets a phone call from her sister, saying that she has just gotten engaged. So this ruins the moment, and upon hearing that Pam's sister's fiancé asked their father's permission before asking his daughter to marry him, Greg decides that to get in his good books, he'll ask for permission too when they meet over the weekend. Everything begins to go wrong immediately when they get to the house. Pam's father, Jack, wastes no time in showing who's in charge around here, and blatantly insults Greg before he even gets in the door. Greg has no luggage, as he lost his bag at the airport, so he is going to have to wear some of Jack's clothes over the weekend. Jack immediately shows off Mr. Jinx, a cat that he has trained to use the toilet, and it's this cat that will serve to be the cause of the disaster that this weekend will inevitably succumb to.Directed by Jay Roach, the man behind the camera of Austin Powers International Man of Mystery and it's sequel, Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me, from a screenplay written by Jim Herzfeld and John Hamburg, the man who would go on to direct Along Came Polly and the brilliant I Love You, Man.Meet the Parents is a remake of a 1992 film of the same name, and it was sold to the studio and remade with the hope that with a bigger budget, it could be a better and more successful movie. Anything (Apart from the terrible Stardust) starring Robert De Niro is usually a superb movie, and Meet the Parents would be no exception. De Niro showed us a year earlier that he has just as good a talent in playing a funny role in films with Analyze That as he does in serious, tough roles such as in Taxi Driver, The Deer Hunter and Raging Bull. He is superb as Jack Byrne and really funny. The film is essential revolving around Jack's - the father's - relationship with Greg - the daughter's boyfriend, so De Niro and Ben Stiller have great chemistry together, and that chemistry would go on for ten years at least, as a sequel, Meet the Fockers was made and a second sequel is due to be released soon.Alongside De Niro and Stiller in the lead roles is Teri Polo (Mystery Date - with Ethan Hawke) as Pam, and Blythe Danner as her mother Dina. Danner is hardly a memorable face from the movie, as she never does make much of an impression on the screen and her performance is really overshadowed by De Niro's; she pretty much fades into the background with the mess of supporting actors, which includes James Rebhorn (Remember him from the Pacino flicks Scent of a Woman and Carlito's Way?). The most recognisable face amongst the supporting cast is Owen Wilson, who is very dominating when he's on screen with his charm and wit; funny enough, he and Stiller are rivals in this (Wilson's character is an ex-boyfriend/ex-fiancé of Pam's) and they would be rivals again a year later in Zoolander (Don't get me started on that).Meet the Parents is an excellent and funny comedy with plenty of nail-biting moments and scenes that will have you shaking your head in disbelief and thinking, how unlucky can someone get? It's gags and humour are all playing off one character's mishaps and misfortunes, and I'd say it's up there as one of the best comedies of the last ten years, albeit in saying that, it's not a movie that I'd say I find memorable or something that I'd be putting into a list of 'The movies you should see before you... whatever. It's still too bad a lot of films afterwards couldn't take it as an example on how simple things are normally what we find the most amusing and funny. "},{"Title":"More realistic than its sequel this Ben Stiller/Robert DeNiro film full of laughs.","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I enjoyed this film quite a bit as it was a nice look at what the male of the species has to go through when meeting his girlfriend's parents. This one plays a bit more realistically than does the sequel which only enhances this film a bit above that one. Greg wants to ask his girlfriend to marry him and is about to do so when he learns that she wants him to meet her parents so he prepares to meet them and get her father's approval before he asks her. What occurs is the old adage if something can go wrong it will. From making a poor first impression to accidentally uncorking a champagne bottle so that it hits the urn of someone's final resting place, one really has to feel for poor Greg. He not only has to get passed these sort of self inflicted wounds, but also must deal with the fact her dad is also an ex-CIA agent or something to that effect and poor Greg is in for a very troubling stay. Throw in the super smart cat capable of using the toilet, the only one on his side seems to be his beloved. Though the mother is not quite as bad as the father, in fact she is no where near as bad. Throw in an ex-boyfriend and a pool party that starts out very embarrassingly and turns ultra competitive and nothing is going right for poor Greg. Very funny movie and great performances all around. I liked that Owen Wilson was in it as he is always good in movies such as these. DeNiro and Stiller were very funny as well as both played their parts well. An all around good comedy, which me liking a comedy made after like 1999 is a rarity. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched Meet the Fockers about a year ago. I liked it so much I bought the DVD. But I saw this on TV last night.....yeah.It's not really a bad movie. It has some good laughs. But all together, the film is a disaster. First of all, why would Robert De Niro and his family want Ben Stiller in their house after he broke his dead mothers earn, flushed the toilet, set all the wedding stuff on fire, let the cat out, found another random cat and spray painted it to make it look like the one he lost. If I was Robert De Niro I wouldn't kicked him out after the earn.Second, the film is totally unrealistic, none of this would ever happen. Maybe a few parts of it, but really none of it.If you want a good, fun, comedy with most of the same cast - watch Meet the Fockers. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents, You'll be Glad You Did","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have this movie on DVD, so I recommend to anyone who loves it, buy a copy if you don't already have one. Although if you watch it too many times, it may not be as good as it was the first time, because then you didn't know what was going to happen. After repeated viewings, you'll still enjoy it, even though you won't laugh as much or often. This fact applies not just to this movie, but comedies in general. I still get a kick out of the part where Ben Stiller is laughed at by two of the relatives because they don't believe he's a nurse. Not a big part, but funny nonetheless. I didn't see the movie just on DVD. I saw it years ago on the big screen, and on pay-per-view.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Meet The Parents proves Stiller and DeNiro can live in the same film","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As it were ... complications ensue through this comedy of errors, especially when our male nurse, Greg Focker, learns of Jack's peculiar behaviors and suspicious gadgets, such as a polygraph and hidden cameras placed in every room of the house. Cue, hey I was with the CIA. Then we meet the well placed pot head brother who nobody but Greg seems to know is smoking. Denny (Jon Abrahams), does not make it back for the sequel. Then it is time to meet the in laws, Larry (James Rebhorn who is in every film west of the Pecos), and Linda Banks (Phillis George), and Pam's wealthy ex-fiancée, Kevin Rawley (Owen Wilson). Owen and Stiller mesh together best when they are both not the star of the film. Soon, Greg's chances of receiving Jack's permission to wed his daughter become less and less probable as his bad luck only manages to increase.Outrageously funny, certainly you'd never expect DeNiro to be this funny. Stiller is pure genius in virtually every scene. He basically reprises his role from There's Something About Mary and you can almost see that character enter fully into some of the Parents scenes. One of the best comedies of 2000. ***/****. "},{"Title":"a sometimes funny,often amusing, generally  entertaining movie","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is not generally funny in a hysterical way(though there are a few of those elements.the movie is more about the funny little things that occur when meeting the parents for the first time.anybody who has ever brought their Boyfriend/girlfriend or possible fiancé to meet their parents for the first time can attest to this.of course the same goes for the person meeting the parents.this is generally what the movie is about.there are some very funny moments in the movie,to be sure.and there are very amusing moments all through the film. the movie is not funny all the time,but is always entertaining.the movie stars Ben Stiller(The boyfriend),Terri Polo,(the daughter)Robert Deniro(the Father)and Blythe Danner(the Mother) "},{"Title":"Why i didn't like this film","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I generally like these type of silly comedies. But I didn't like this one.What makes this movie different from other movies of this genre, is that our main character Greg Focker isn't the typical stupid guy with a good heart that we see in comedies of this sort. Instead, Greg is a real jerk, who takes every chance he can to do something nasty. He displays himself as a coward and a liar -- a rather spine-less person. Incidentally, he is revealed to be Jewish, and perhaps one could say that he fits a stereotypical Jewish movie depiction whining and full of self-pity.However, there were actually some surprisingly comical moments in the movie that made me laugh out loud. But the plot was just too stupid. Greg doesn't miss a single opportunity to blow something. In fact, he must have done damage for around 1,000,000 $. But will the father, Jack Byrnes, forgive him at the end? That was what I asked myself during the film how will they stitch this all together. I won't reveal the end, but I did find it uplifting compared to the previous hour.I feel a little sorry for Robert De Niro who had to act in such a silly film. However, he does his part very convincingly, of course. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the millennium","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first heard about this pairing coming together for this movie, I was pretty excited. Even though he's starting to bug me now, Ben Stiler is one of the best comedy actors of the last 15 years. Put him together with in my opinion the best actor ever in DeNiro, and give them a half decent script, and hilarity should follow. DeNiro has done some terrible comedies, most notably the Analyse This series, two movies based around a emotionally fragile mafia boss. C'mon! Meet the Parents focuses on Greg (Stiller) and girlfriend Pam going to see Pam's parents in the hope of softening them up for a marriage proposal. Greg is understandably nervous and when a few things start going wrong, he begins to break. The movie is full of brilliant one liners, sight gags, tragedy gags and lots more. Most of it is based around some dark or unlikely events which nonetheless have you in stitches. There's also a fine cameo by Owen Wilson, playing Pam's ex.The teaming of DeNiro and Stiller works brilliantly and this has to be one of the great comedies of the 2000's.WARNING Do not see the sequel to this Meet The Parents 2 under any circumstances. It is a pure cash in on the first and very little effort went into the script. One of the worst sequels ever. I think I laughed twice. "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" MEET THE PARENTS, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller. You go, guys! My favorite parts were when Greg (Ben Stiller) accidentally hit Debbie (Nicole DeHuff) in the eye and nose with a volleyball, verbally abused the flight attendant (Kali Rocha), which resulted in an interrogation from Norm (Bernie Sheredy), and whenever he goofed off. I also laughed when Jack (Robert De Niro), and when he imitated a bugle trumpeting a fanfare right before saying, People, people, people, come get your revised itineraries. I thought that he was really psychotic. This was because he couldn't seem to stop messing things up for Greg. Plus, he expected his daughters' (Nicole DeHuff and Teri Polo) boyfriends (Thomas McCarthy and Ben Stiller) to meet him and Dina (Blythe Danner) and then ask his permission before proposing to them. Also, I thought that Pam (Teri Polo) looked very beautiful in all the fancy clothing that she wore, especially the maid of honor dress she wore at Bob (Thomas McCarthy) and Debbie's wedding. I especially liked Jack's tuxedo, especially with the top hat. If you ask me, that gave it a nice touch. The ending, however, made no sense to me. It's hard for me to explain why. In conclusion, I highly recommend this smash hit to all you Robert De Niro or Ben Stiller fans out there who have not seen it. You're in for a real treat and a lot of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"The funniest Ben Stiller film ever!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" WARNING! Spoilers Ahead!!! Ben Stiller and Robert DeNero star in this side-splitting comedy about a male nurse who has to postpone his proposal to his long-term girlfriend.Greg 'Gaylord' Focker (Stiller)is a male nurse who has to postpone his proposal of marriage to his long-term girlfriend, Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo) to meet her parents, Dina (Blythe Danner) and Jack Byrnes (DeNero). Focker's weekend of meeting the parents turns into a weekend of horrors as Greg manages to destroy Jack and Dina's daughter wedding twice, once by accidentally setting fire to the altar and twice by bring back the wrong Jinxy the cat who manages to rip up the wedding dress and cause havoc ahead. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie by funny actors","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is a good movie.Directed by Jay Roach.And the actors for the movie are perfectly picked.Everybody fits in his own character.It is a story about the love but this love is a tough job.The main character is Greg Focker.He is a nurse in the literally meaning of the word.His girlfriend is Pam who is a teacher of little children.They are both in love.The problem is that Greg has to live in Pam's family's house.And her family is not that good.Actually her mother is very nice woman who just want to help for the happiness of her daughter.The problem is Jack.Her father.He is a man of his word.He loves his daughter and he can kill if somebody hurt her.The meeting begins good but the first mistake that Greg makes is that he says,he doesn't like cats and then a fluffy little cat goes in the hands of Jack.There are many jokes and fun.Even some intensive moments.The movie is one great big fun.Robert De Niro himself is the strict father and Ben Stiller is Greg.I give this movie 8 cause it is really a classic in the comedy genre.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"This movie sounds stupid and looks stupid at first, but it's NOT stupid","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Man, every time I watch black comedies, it makes me feel evil.... Anyway, this movie was my most favorite black comedy (and my first one, too), and this movie does have meaning in it. The humor in this movie was a bit stupid, but once again, it did have meaning in it. I was surprised when a person mentioned that Greg's last name is Focker, which is surprising when I saw this movie. And there was another part when you realize that Greg's real name is Gaylord Focker. I was also surprised by this, too, because who would name their son, Gaylord? I hope to see the reason why the Fockers decided to name their son Gaylord, because I've seen Meet the Parents, and now I want to see Meet the Fockers. I've seen the trailers in the official site, and I thought it was hilarious. Since I can't write spoilers for this movie, I have to tell you guys this This movie actually has meaning! So, watch it! "},{"Title":"Fearing Papa De Niro","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For a man, there is nothing worse than meeting your woman's father. Fear and trepidation do not even begin to describe what it's like to meet the father. And nothing can prepare any man for meeting your girlfriend's father when he is Robert de Niro. This is the main problem Ben Stiller's character faces in the 2000 surprise comedy Meet The Parents. Stiller plays a male nurse with the unfortunate name of Greg Focker, dating pre-school teacher Pam Byrnes played by Teri Polo. Pam's sister is getting married back in her native Long Island, so a weekend trip is in store for the happy couple. After losing his luggage and being spit up on my a baby, Greg meets the man of the house Jack Byrnes (de Niro). Through various misunderstandings and lying to cover up the misunderstandings, Greg begins to fall out of favor with Jack. Stiller has a wonderful knack of displaying insecurity, and that severs him well in Meet the Parents. He knows he is not living up to the standards of Jack, especially when he meets Pam's former fiancé, played by Owen Wilson. The more uncomfortable Greg is, the more he squirms, the more he lies, and the deeper he gets. The final scenes are great, especially the one dealing with the airline workers who are on autopilot, and poor Greg almost causes an international incident. The movie is cute, has plenty of laughs, and puts most men into a situation they can relate to, and fear more than an all-day Oprah marathon. "},{"Title":"The second movie is better.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, I'm one of those weirdos who saw the second movie first and then rented the first movie afterward. This film isn't as funny as its' successor but it's cleaner. However, my only complaint is that Owen Wilson overplays his character, Kevin. The character of Kevin himself is quite unrealistic.Still, that doesn't mean the movie is bad. It's quite good actually. It's just that Meet the Fockers is a lot funnier than this one. Robert DeNiro is fitting as his role as Jack Byrnes, Greg's future (psycho) father-in-law.And it's also worth the rental price, too. "}{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents has to be one of the best movies ever created in the history of the cinema. It got me laughing in the first 10 minutes of the movie and I always die laughing when that cat pees in the grandma's ashes. The whole movie and every character in it was hilarious and Robert de Niro was an excellent father in that he was always overprotective of his daughter and would always nitpick everything Greg did like most father-in-laws-to-be would. Greg was funny in that he was very loving toward Pam and was EXTREMELY jealous of her old boyfriend Kevin. That stewardess lady was hilarious because she was such a pain to Greg and the sticks and the BOMB BOMB BOMB was funny until 9/11 but still is sort of funny. All in all I give this movie a 10 but I wish to give it more but regrettably I cannot! EXCELLENTE! "},{"Title":"funny movie","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie. This movie introduced me to Ben Stiller's work. Him and Robert Deniro were a perfect match. The cast was wonderful and worked well together. I can relate to the plot, it seems like any time one is trying to impress another something is bound to go wrong. Poor Greg (Ben Stiller) just seems to have the worst luck. It puts a different perspective on how airlines deal with people. The airline doesn't handle baggage very well and so I can understand why he would not want to check his bag again. The fact that he said Its not like I have a bomb does not make it less funny just because 9/11 happened. If airlines actually took things this seriously then they might have prevented 9/11 from happening. So those who don't like this scene should lighten up and not take it out on funny movies made before the horrible event occurred. I enjoyed this movie very much. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Entertaining Comedy Hit","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet The Parents succeeds marvelously at the hands of two brilliant, engaging comic actors, Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro, period. Their amusing collaboration as would-be in-laws is nothing short of absolutely convincing and flat out hilarious! From the moment Greg is introduced to the intimidating Byrnes family, he is enthralled by every snare, every ridicule, and every miserable catastrophe that is inevitable to befriend this critical acquaintance. Talk about the desire to impress your fiancé's family going horribly, miserably wrong! It seems that every possible mistake, every possible gotcha, and every possible slip of the tongue conceived by man befalls the hapless Greg, and all he set out to do was leave a good impression to his future in-laws. This is such a hilarious premise to begin with, but the execution is bounds and beyond what you might expect in a comedy such as this. The acrimony and uneasiness between Stiller and DeNiro is so convincing, so apparent, and so amusing that they work as a team to virtually steal the show! You just couldn't imagine any other pair of actors collaborating so effectively and so hilariously in a comedy such as this, and Stiller and DeNiro are the real reasons to watch this film. All I can say is, I can't wait until their next outrageous outing in the upcoming Meet the Fockers; I can't see how the sequel can surpass such a hilarious and amusing film as this. From the polygraph tests, to the catastrophe with DeNiro's mother's ashes, to the striping of the cat, to the mishap with Stiller's name Gaylord Focker, this is one classic comedy of misadventures, brilliant comic collaboration, and an ingenious barrel of genuine laughs! **** out of **** "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, I finally rented Meet the Parents and know why everyone loved it and can't wait for the sequel to come out which i understand will be out soon. First I love Robert Dinero and everything he does since Taxi Driver. Again, he was magnificent, but this time his character although straight, was one of the funniest, believable fathers i have seen on film. Knowing a friend in the CIA, i can truly believe how he went about interrogating Ben Stiller in some of the funniest moments i have seen in a movie. Ben Stiller was equally as funny as the son in law to be trying to impress the future parents, but only getting into trouble every step of the way. I loved the story, the characters and I really felt bad for Ben. What a fun movie and I will not wait until video for the sequel!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *May Contain Spoilers*Meet the Parents is one of the funniest movies ever made. I first saw it at my friends house and I was laughing almost every second of it. After I saw it at my friends house I rented the movie a week later and it was just as funny the second time around.Meet the Parents tells the story of Gaylord 'Greg' Focker trying to impress his fiance Pam's father, Jack Byrnes, but everything goes wrong. My favorite part of the movie is when Greg loses Jack's cat Jinxie and tries to cover up the accident by buying another cat that looks like Jinxie. That part really had me laughing. I also like the part when Greg visits Pam's old boyfriend. The pool volleyball game they play is great.Everyone should see this movie and I give Meet the Parents a full 10/10 stars!  "},{"Title":"Even better the second and third time!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie seemed OK the first time I saw it. However, it's one of those movies that get better and better each time you view it. The chemistry between Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson just seems to click for the duo who have since kind of become a team in comedy movies. Also, Robert Deniro, best known for tough guy and mob roles pulls off comedy in this movie that will very much surprise you. The plot is also good, with Stiller again playing a hapless half looser just like in Something About Mary. Wilson plays the ex-boyfriend of Stillers girlfriend who's character is a winner who seems to succeed at anything he does much to the chagrin of Stiller. I definitely think this is a movie to watch several times over.  "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller is genius, a wonderful, wonderful movie!","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  NO COMEDY MOVIE FAN WOULD RATE THIS MOVIE UNDER 10. This is with no doubt the funniest movie ever, and ever will be.From 1 to 100 this is a568,764,234,354 in funniness. It's just incredibly funny Ben Stiller at his best! I can't expect Meet the Fockers to be funnier And no DVD collection is perfectly complete without this comedy hit! See it in a friends house, rent it, buy it,watch it in the theaters, watch it in a bar, Pay-Per-View it on t.v, stand outside a neighbors window in the rain and a storm, watch it with a telescope through your apartment window to another building, JUST DO ANYTHING TO WATCH THIS MOVIE.  "},{"Title":"Funnier Than I Expected - Very Good Comedy!","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADBen Stiller must play the greatest victim in the history of American cinema in Meet The Parents he's Greg, an alright guy, perhaps a bit shy and clumsy, but fully dedicated to the woman he loves... and that means he'll try to please her father as much as he can. Robert DeNiro plays the father of the bride, an ex-CIA agent, no nonsense, very serious, humourless guy. And he loves making his daughter's boyfriends feeling miserable.In less than a weekend, Greg will have suffered so many embarassing, unpleasant, cruel situations, you can't help feeling sorry for him. He's a guy full of good intentions, but somehow he's always ridiculed in the end, whereas everyone comes out flawless and shinny. It's a great, funny contrast and it evokes dozens of fun moments.It's a good comedy, nothing world-shattering and not a piece of art, it's just a very good piece of entertainment that'll leave anyone with a sense of humour laughing out lad... and perhaps it'll even bring out some other emotions on you.DeNiro's performance is ace, but it's Ben Stiller that shines in this movie, to me. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably funny film! Just rent it already!","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had some reservations about this one before I watched it. Now I cannot rave about it enough. I have watched this at least 10 times, and find it even funnier, every time I watch it. DeNiro is surprisingly good in this film, much better that he was in 'Analyze This'. Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller have become the best one-two comedic punch in the business. This movie is the complete package, with great acting, storyline, and potential for a great sequel. Some of the slapstick comedy wears a bit thin, but it still fits in with the storyline. Overall, a great film with good acting, and afantastic storyline. I can't wait for the sequel, even though this one stands on its own.  "},{"Title":"This was a funny movie","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"               I really liked Meet the Parents. It had so many funny lines that it succeeded in making it an enjoyable film. Owen Wilson was drop dead hilarious when he was bragging about his work. That was so funny. I think that Meet the Parents is a very realistic film that like if you get engaged, it can be a little scary coming to meet the parents. Ben Stiller as Gaylord Focker was really impressive and I kept getting mad over when Robert De Niro told him to be in the circle of trust. I really liked this film and it's a different kind of comedy movie and there are many funny scenes that you will laugh out hard like I did in the volleyball scene, coming to Owen Wilson's place, and tons of other hilarious scenes.8/10 "}{"Title":"A son in law's nightmare&#133;","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just a quick and easy comment. Love it, hilarious by times. Just see it. One thing why can love stories like these never be true in real life?Dario/  "},{"Title":"Not as funny as expected but still OK-but just OK.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I(finally) saw Meet the Parents which I had heard SO much about I was expecting a lot. Maybe my expectations were to high, it definitely wasn't the laugh fest I had expected though I still kind of enjoyed it and would rate it about a 6 or so out of 10. I wouldn't really strongly recommend it though.Some of the jokes, to me, just weren't funny. Like for instance the volleyball that hits the girl in the face and the ern breaking with the ashes in it. I also thought some of the jokes directed to Greg(Stiller's character) were a bit cruel. I thought I was the only one who thought that until I read some of the other reviews on here and found that others agreed with me. Some of the jokes were funny-there were a few great one liners and fun dialog(the martha farker thing, the milking scene for instance)but after awhile I was just getting mad at everyone for tormenting this guy and angry at his girlfriend Pam for not sticking up for him. The movie to me rated somewhere between a 5.5 and 6 which still means I thought it was average , just not great or the 10 I thought it would be.De Nero easily steals the movie in his best role and should consider more roles in comedy, somehow he manages to keep Jack Likable through it all(even while I started hating everyone else picking on poor Greg I couldn't hate Jack)and he absolutely makes the movie, with another actor I probably wouldn't have liked it at all.The best scene in the movie was when Jack proposed to Greg, THAT was great. Meet the parents was definitely not perfect but OK to see as a rental if not already seen. My vote's 5 or 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It amazes me how many people didn't think this movie was funny.  I thought it was a riot.  It also amazes me how many people actually get angry because they thought it wasn't funny.  Humor is a matter of opinion.  If you didn't like it maybe instead of getting angry you should get a sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Worth the Price of Admission","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not a big De Niro or Stiller fan. But you have to laugh at this one. Here's this guy with this pure, burning love for this girl. Then he gets to spend a weekend with her parents - and walks into a minefield. Fun stuff.Nice to see that Robert De Niro isn't just about murder and mayhem. "},{"Title":"excellent comedy","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Stiller plays a young man who endures a disastrous weekend at the home of his girlfriend's parents. Greg Focker (Stiller) is completely in love with Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo), and views their upcoming trip to her parents' house on Long Island (where her sister is to be married during the weekend) as a perfect opportunity to ask her to marry him. Once Greg is introduced to Pam's parents, however, things stampede steadily downhill. Pam's father Jack (Robert DeNiro) takes an instant and obvious dislike to his daughter's boyfriend, lambasting him for his job as a male nurse and generally making Greg painfully aware of the differences between him and Pam's family. Where Greg is grubby, relatively unambitious, and Jewish, Pam comes from a long line of well-mannered, blue blooded WASPs. Things go from bad to worse, with Greg incurring the wrath of both Pam's father, it turns out, worked for the CIA for 34 years and the rest of her family, and almost single handedly destroying their house and the wedding in the process. Meet The Parents was hilarious, I loved how DeNiro pushed Ben Stiller around, if you haven't watched this movie please do you will love it, I can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"De Niro is a great comic actor too!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For Mika in Finland, if you think De Niro has never played a clown, you haven't seen The King of Comedy. I highly recommend it. He will make you want to crawl out of your skin, he is such a geek in that one!But back to Meet the Parents. Aside from the fact that Pam doesn't stand up for her man until the very end, which really bugs me, I think this one of the best comedies of the last 10 years, easily. Particularly because they don't resort to the gross-out stuff that virtually every other comedy contains these days. De Niro is the best thing about this film....I think he has great comedic timing. It's definitely a part of my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"This is quality comedy","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEET THE PARENTS (2000) spoilers in grammar((( Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro plays the two main characters in this very good comedy that takes like the same showdown as the TV-series about three women/men in Meet the folks. The film is surprisingly good with many memorable sequences as when De Niro and Stiller challenges each other in their cars. But we also have a nice small role in Owen Wilson (who's a great actor). The movie is so choosy and nice but in the same time hysterical as when Stiller climbs on the house roof and when De Niro takes the lie-detector on him. I really urge you too see the movie (and the sequel who's soon finished). STARS **** 4/5 (this is comedy!) "},{"Title":"Bag'o'laughs! .. and yet, leaves something to be desired","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good movie.. made me laugh and say O my god, don't DO that u focker! (yup, literally), and made me laugh harder when he DID do it ;-). But then, it's no different than the other movies of this genre. What *is* nice is the acting, which is great all around!Having said that, I think that the dude (stiller) was shown more as a looser than anything else, what with letting the cat out when told not to do so ever, the smokes, the fire, the septic tank imbroglio, the you are a psycho, jack... the list goes on and on. No wonder De Nero was p***ed at the dude, and father would be! The only explanation I can find is that the dude could not handle pressure at all, but then he's a nurse! he would be under pressure a lot of times, and it cant do to crack up like this!good movie nonetheless. onward to MTP2!-Abhi "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie!! Ben Stiller is so funny, and so is Deniro!!The dinner scene is great! I can't believe anyone could hate this movie!! Owen Wilson is also great as Kevin, Pam's old boyfriend.  This movie has a great cast, great plot, is very funny, and is an overall great movie! 10 of 10 stars!! "},{"Title":"Comedy the way I like it","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's quite rare for me to really laugh at a comedy because most of the time the jokes are too lame, mega-predictable, sometimes too vulgar or just not funny for whatever reason. But this one... I can't remember the last movie that made me laugh so much... brilliant! To me, only one joke was really predictable and just waiting to happen. The rest was, in my opinion quite original and totally hit the right tone. I can't believe how much fuss was made when There's Something about Mary came out. The humor in that film was so much 'cheaper'...this film was classier and way, way better. "}{"Title":"everything went right here.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So rarely does Hollywood turn out a decent comedy, that you've got to stand up and take notice of this movie.  It manages to be funny and entertaining at the same time. No small feat these days.  This movie works on two levels.  Yes, it's hilarious.  It really is. But it also works as a thriller.  I know that sounds silly, but this movie had me on the edge of my seat.  At certain points, I couldn't even look to see what horrible turn the plot might take.This film deserves all the success it's had.  And that's so rare. "},{"Title":"De Niro's best comedic role and so far the best comedy of the 21th century","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert De Niro, who is undoubtedly one of the greatest actor legends of our time, made an interesting career move at the turn of the 21th century. He started appearing in wacky comedies (Analyze this, Meet the parents, Showtime) and even though it's pretty easy to admit that many of his serious dramatic roles had slight comedic elements in them as well, it was still quite a surprise to see him taking this road.Of course he has never taken the role of a complete clown. Even when he takes part in a total one hundred per cent comedy he's still the same old supercool, tough and extravagantly stylish Bobby as always. He has definitely the best comedy role of his career in Meet the parents as Jack Byrnes, the provoking father-in-law straight from your most horrifying nightmares.So far Meet the parents is probably the funniest comedy of the 21th century and the dialogue is so side-burstingly hilarious that this movie has to be the finest comedic screenplay for years. The whole film doesn't have a single empty moment or a bad joke. Acting is superb all the way, for example the splendid James Rebhorn made an amusing little role as Doctor Larry Banks although he really wasn't so much on view.Owen Wilson is most likely at his best when he just appears in small supporting roles and plays the most irritating, vexatious and self-conceited characters you can think of like the one in The Cable guy. Wilson is once again marvelous in Meet the parents as Pam's old boyfriend Kevin. The guy is so self-satisfied and full of himself that he truly represents the type of a bloke everybody would like to punch. And in this film, everyone just happens to love him and hate Greg. It's a cruel world.Ben Stiller's performance as the unnaturally unlucky Greg Focker is so funny it's almost moving. He tries so hard to be the good guy and win the approval of Robert De Niro's wicked Jack Byrnes but everything around him just happens to go wrong. It's almost too easy to step into his shoes and think of what kind of a hell he's going through.Almost every guy can probably say that his girlfriend's parents have given him more or less troubles but this is the kind of a massively overdone Elm Street version of it all it makes our own personal experiences so very idle and trivial. Good comedies are starting out to be such a rare art form that I feel it's great once in a while someone still makes a masterpiece like Meet the parents. I think it's impossible to grow tired of this film. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I ever saw","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I borrowed the movie from my sister and it was the funniest movie I saw last year. Ben Stiller plays his part so well. Robert Deniro really convinced me he was a meddling jerk. Greg Focker is a great name. I wanted to tell off Jack Byrnes. I loved the part when the cat peed in his mother's remains it was hilarious. "},{"Title":"My opinion on this movie.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This move was very cool. The jokes were original, and this is a movie that you never get tired of watching over and over. Some movies don't have this, I think it is the characters that make it happen. Especially the dad. He was so funny. I can't wait to see Greg's parents. Or shall I say Gaylord. "},{"Title":"AAAAGH!! This movie is awesome!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But so incredibly nerve-racking! I laugh every time I watch this movie it is so good. This is the perfect cast and you feel Ben Stiller's character so well it makes you want to scream of frustration. It is done so well and I can't wait for the sequel to arrive.I just really hope they don't screw it up because this is gonna be a hard one to top. Robert DeNiro should get more recognition for this one, and Ben stiller too. Definitely buy-worthy no matter how many times you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller make a great team, this is a great movie!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie Meet The Parents is a great movie fot the whole family.  It keeps you laughing from beginning to end.  You would not think of Robert De Niro as a comedy actor but he did a great job.  Ben Stiller is a great actor and has made some of the funniest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"mixed cocktail","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film is one of robert de niros best work and ben stillers 2nd best (next to theres something about mary)it is funny and the main reasen is for stiler and de niro first of the title meet the parents sums it up then the storyline a male nurse has to meet a girls parents before he can propose marriage then the scenes the rooftop scene,the sespool garden scene,the vollyball scene,the lie dectector scene and the name of ben stillers character then it has jynx the cat,the rich old boyfriend the pot smokeing brother played by jon abrahams(scary movie,boiler room and kids)and air hostess this film is a must see so see it "},{"Title":"Disappointing comedy squanders potential","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     My guess is that people who love this film laugh at comedies because they know that they are supposed to be funny.    It has its moments, but lacks. DeNiro is about as scary as a bag of bunnies. Why Stiller outappeals Wilson is unexplained. Why Stiller hangs around DeNiro after suffering the worst insults is sitcom crud writing, dragging out the story.     An obvious attempt to ride on SOMETHING ABOUT MARY's coattails. "},{"Title":"Absolutely great!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am very assured that every viewer will feel ashamed and relieved too. Simply puts your soul into it.Do not try to avoid this movie or hesitate for renting it. It's worth it. If you feel you could watch a movie with your girlfriend and you/she hasn't seen it yet, this is a must. Just brilliant! "},{"Title":"Are you good enough for my daughter?","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Meet the Parents' is a universal story that makes fun on what parents would do to vet their potential son in law. It was applicable to all sections of the community, but particularly struck a chord amongst interracial alliances as well as cross class alliances. Just what would a middle class family say to the working class black bloke that their daughter has brought home? "}{"Title":"Funny Movie!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie! My favorite part is when Gaylord 'Greg' Focker (Ben Stiller) was roaring and hitting the volleyball hardly into the girl's face and I laughed so hard! Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller are one of my favorite actors because they were great and funny. If you haven't seen this movie, see it and you might laugh and enjoy this. **** out **** stars. That means excellent. "},{"Title":"four stars!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few films that i ever went back and saw twice. It is that good. I remember that the editor of my hometown paper even praised this film in his column. I don't think that I have ever laughed so hard at a movie in my life. You just watch the film and you have such a wonderful time that you just never want it to end. Robert De Niro is one of the great actors of our generation and he is hilarious in this film. I think this is the first comedy I have ever seen him in and this man is a natural. He is wonderful because you can see that his character is basically a good and decent man who is just a little overprotective of his daughter. Ben Affleck is also wonderful, he brings a sort of awkward, charming boyishness to his role as Greg Focker. You can sense his insecurities and you really feel for this guy as he tries to make a good impression, but just keeps screwing up! I feel that the best performance of this film belongs to the great Blythe Danner as De Niro's wife. She should have at least gotten an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress. She is truly someone who has never gotten the credit that she deserves (she is best known as Gwenyth Paltrow's mom) but she is a great actress in her own right. Check out her work in The Great Santini and The Prince Of Tides. "},{"Title":"I don't like Ben Stiller's mug!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just don't like his mug. Perhaps that's why I couldn't really sympathize with his troubles. He seemed a little too old for the part, and a little too ready to stand his ground. One of the guys from American Pie would have been better. All the same, the film starts brilliantly. But somehow De-Niro seems to fade awaaaay!, I expected him to be even more of a monster.As in many comedies the catalogue of mishaps that befall poor Ben eventually cease to be funny. Many minor roles are excellently played. "},{"Title":"an absolute riot","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the funniest films I've seen in years. Greg (Ben Stiller) wants to marry Pam (Teri Polo), and they decide that he needs to meet her parents first. Once there, the father (Robert De Niro) puts Greg under the microscope-a very hilarious microscope. The urn scene was my favorite, and there were countless laugh-out-loud scenes, including the airport scene.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Often funny, though over-the-top","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meet the Parents is an over-the-top comedy that begs for laughs like a cinematic vagrant.  It attacks you at every corner, begging for some laughs, hoping you can spare some.  Luckily, I was generous and was gracious enough to donate a sufficient amount of laughs.  This is a boisterous sitcom of a movie that occasionally drives you nuts, but often pleases. Bobby D has made a fine transition to comedy, and although others feel he's not suited for the genre--being stuck on his Travis Bickle persona--I think he's cut out just fine for films of this kind.  You know why?  He doesn't GO for laughs.  He lets the laughs come to him, and disciplines the material to a reasonable level.  Ben Stiller, on the other hand, does the complete opposite.  Stiller can be extremely funny in roles in films like There's Something About Mary, but in lame roles like in Heavyweights he can be really obnoxious!  And sometimes he tries a bit too hard to get the laughs.  So hard that you just want to shoot him with a tranquilizer dart.  During lame points of the script, Stiller tries to elevate the material to a good comical status, but instead ends up looking like a complete...idiot.  Like he should be locked up in a cage.  And it's not funny.  It's just obnoxious.I am going to reccomend this movie, because I can't deny I was laughing 75 percent of the time.  And that was my motive for seeing the movie.  Of course, that and I'm a big DeNiro fan.  However, there are moments where you just want to yell out at the director Enough already!  We get the joke!  The makers of the film just merge way too many jokes into one scene, and it gets pretty lame and/or predictable at times.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For me that movie was some sort of repeat of «There's Something About Mary». If you liked that one, you'll probably like this one too. A lot of laughs and good acting by De Niro and Stiller. I'm not sure I would want to watch it a second time though. Maybe that's the difference between «Meet the Parents» and «There's Something About Mary».7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"All-round entertainment comedy","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is great comedy that always keeps you guessing and holding your breath for the next gag. Robert De Niro slips into a humorous role of an ex-CIA man who is overbearingly suspicious of his daughter's intended (Ben Stiller) and does so with dignity and savoire faire. The outrageous story line as Stiller tries to impress his future father-in-law and digs himself in deeper and deeper is so well acted and well-told that it is easy to forgive the glitches (like, why would a sophisticated young woman with an impeccable background want to marry a total dick-head) and enjoy the film. One to laugh all the way through to from start to end. "},{"Title":"2nd funniest film I have ever seen!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This would deffinetly have to be the 2nd funniest film I have ever seen in my entire life.  (1st is The Whole Nine Yards)  The entire audience was cracking up, so loud actually that you sometimes missed the next scene. I'm waiting for this to come out on tape.  It was deffinetly worth my $6.  You laughed constantly from begginning to end, (and even on the car ride home.) "},{"Title":"Meet The Parents Is One Of The Best Movies Around!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To sum up Meet The Parents in one word,it would have to be BRILLIANT! I loved everything about this film,the story line,the humor and the characters.It was great to see such a brilliant actor,such as Robert DeNiro in such a good,funny role and Ben Stiller what can i say....VERY talented, VERY funny and VERY cute.The man just rocks and is one of the best,most funniest actors around.Anyway,whatever you want in a movie Meet The Parents has.Go see it NOW!   "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedies seem to be Robert De Niro's new line of work.  He seems to do comedies very well.  (ie analyze this)  This film by far is the best comedy this year; it is sort of like the movie The Party.  It's about not fitting in, and feeling left out.  Many can relate with this experience of a fish out of water situation.  This guy (Focher)is a constant accident waiting to happen.  See it... Watch it... Laugh.... "}{"Title":"Sorry, didn't like it!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So you know the plot.  The stupid decisions that Greg Focker makes during this film and coupled with the growing anti-Greg sentiment building up from Robert De Niro's character made me antsy, angry and not buying it. Kelli Polo's character also makes some stupid mistakes that I didn't buy into.  Yes, it seems to be a bit of way out something About Mary kind of humor, but the puzzle pieces don't fit together.  Too much anti-Semitism for me.  Too much anti-male nurse teasing for me.  There is a point at which Ben Stiller's Greg becomes harassed and that's when it lost me.This stellar cast did the best job possible with a twisted, disjointed, unbelievable and doesn't know when to stop script!Yes I laughed out loud at much of the physical humor.  But I cringed at the Jewish jokes, the male nurse jokes and thought these things went too far.By the way, I'm not a Jewish male nurse...I wanted to like this movie! "},{"Title":"Not something most can relate to","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found this movie in a VCR player and decided to watch it because I am a huge Owen Wilson Fan (as my name clearly implies).I was a little disappointed by the main premise of the movie--I was expecting something a little more realistic (the VHS tape, after all, had originally been from Blockbuster video...or possibly Hollywood, I don't remember because I loaned it to someone I met on the internet so cannot check now to see but I'm pretty sure it was Blockbuster. It could have been from Hollywood though. Like I said, I don't remember so please don't IM me about this information).For starters, why would anyone need to meet someone else's parents when they have parent's of their own (that they do not need to meet, unless they were abandoned as children and left either at an orphanage or for dead on the harsh, realistic streets of New York City. Even then, I really don't see the point of meeting the parent's who never loved you). What made this idea even more improbable, was the idea that there was a great deal of distance to travel for that meeting to occur...I'm not sure what Owen Wilson was thinking when he accepted this part. What I do know is that I have never met anyone else's parents other than my own (my parents loved me very much and did not abandon me in New York City). And I'm glad too, because from what this movie portrays, other people's parent's are very mean and would probably judge me off of my character.If you're looking for a realistic film about social situations I would much rather you watched Saving Private Ryan. It's a lot like this movie but a lot more realistic. "},{"Title":"There's Something About Mary for the over-40 crowd","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Total crap.  One more Focker joke and this juvenile slapstick would've made me leave.  All the boomers in the theater seemed to find it hillarious, even after the 11th time, though. This movie was like a rerun of I love Lucy.  Things go implausibly wrong, then turn worse as the lead character tries to fix them. Ha. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents, I'd like you to meet the rubbish bin","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went into Meet the Parents with an open mind, in the mood to see a lighthearted but somewhat intelligent comedy.  Considering the two stars (DeNiro & Stiller), I thought I had a good shot at getting what I was looking for.  Unfortunately I was sorely disappointed; Meet the Parents is nothing more than a 2-hour cliche, with a horrible script full of more holes than Swiss cheese.  For example, Stiller's character name was Gaylord Focker.  So everyone in the film keeps addressing him Hey Focker!  That's not funny, that's sophomoric!  Once would have been okay, but from beginning to end?  Focker is a male nurse, which makes him an endless target for being less than a whole man.  Isn't that fodder for an after-school special from the 1970s? But the thing that destroys this film is the horrible plot.  I guess we're supposed to recognize that DeNiro's character (the father of Focker's girlfriend) is kind of a psycho, but at the same time, Focker is exactly what the overprotective Dad claims a habitual liar.  Then, after Focker has wreaked all kinds of havoc on his future hopeful in-laws DeNiro does an about face and realizes that Focker is the right guy for his daughter, as long as he loves her.  What the hell??  You just spent two hours developing a character and then in two minutes you tear it down...  I know that it's written in the U. S. Constitution that all films must have happy endings, but you could have found a more plausible way to arrive at that legally binding conclusion.  The movie makes absolutely no sense.  So Focker didn't lie about his MCAT scores, he lied about everything else.  But the MCAT score is the thing that saves him?  Why is an MCAT score from 10 years ago more important than the dozens of disasters he has caused?I know it's just a comedy, but where is it written that comedies don't need to be written and filmed in a logical and intelligent way?   If you want to see a GOOD dark comedy about a bad luck streak, check out After Hours or The Out of Towners (the 1970 original).  Leave Meet the Parents for another lifetime (I know it's too late, you have all already seen it). "},{"Title":"A must see movie!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Imagine asking Robert De Niro for his daughter's hand in marriage. (Shudder!) Now imagine he's an ex-CIA agent who keeps a lie detector in his basement. (Eek!) Now imagine you're Ben Stiller.Now you see where Meet the Parents gets all its best laughs.A middling comedy-of-the-uncomfortable escapade in which casting is the key, Parents stars Stiller as Greg Focker, a very nervous boyfriend spending a nightmare weekend at the childhood home of the girl he loves (Teri Polo).Plagued by Murphy's Law while trying desperately to buddy up to her folks, Greg's missing luggage containing the engagement ring is the least of his problems (that is, until the wrong bag is delivered later, packed with S&M paraphernalia). He can't seem to get a laugh out of Mom (Blythe Danner) and Dad to save his life. His little white lies -- a domino effect begun when his girlfriend whispers Oh, yeah, and we're not living together, as they arrive -- keep coming back to bite him in the backside. And before long the slapstick kicks in A spilled urn of grandma's remains, a sorry substitute for a missing housecat and an overflowing septic tank are all pivotal gags in what should be a side-splitting comedy.When he and De Niro are playing off each other, this gag-fest is at its best -- but mostly because De Niro has a hilarious arsenal of innocuously threatening glances he keeps feeding the camera at a steady clip. He catches Stiller poking around the polygraph machine in his concealed workshop and says Go ahead, try it on! like a suspiciously encouraging carnival barker.Overall 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"awful, honestly","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay so why is this movie so bad? the movie revolves around Ben Stiller and all the supposedly funny things that happen to him. In the end it's just Ben Stiller doing everything wrong. thats just not funny nor entertaining. On the other hand there are some scenes, that are just great. Like when he wants to check in at the airport and when he is on the plane. A must see.It boils down to rather uninspired comedy, with Robert de Niro acting waaaayy below his standards and Ben Stiller being really dumb all the time not worth seeing it 1/5  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie because of the talent of Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro.  Unfortunately, the only funny parts of this movie are in the trailer.  I hate it when that happens!The jokes about the last name of Stiller's character start wearing thin very early in the show.  I admit there were scenes that I laughed at, but most of the funny parts were predictable.Both DeNiro and Stiller will be in good films in the future, unfortunately this isn't one of them.  I give this film a 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good idea, shame about the movie","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On the inside of Meet the Parents is a great plot idea, struggling to get out. Actually, that's not strictly true - the plot is actually realized pretty well; it's the supposed timing and unrelenting nature of the events that, for me, make this film no better than mediocre.The premise is simple About to propose to Pam (Teri Polo), his girlfriend, Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) realises he's expected to ask her father's permission first. Of course, Jack (Robert de Niro) turns out to be every suitor's worst nightmare demanding, condescending, belittling. Worse, it seems Greg can do nothing right.The bulk of the film documents everything that happens over a weekend at the parental home. Pam's sister is getting married, so it's a big get-together with family and friends. The battering starts immediately; Greg's luggage goes missing. Jack makes snide comments over the colour of his rental car and choice in pets. Greg even causes chaos when opening a bottle of wine.He is mocked for his choice of career - he's a nurse. Guess what half the guests are doctors. He's intimidated by Pam's previous boyfriend, the seemingly perfect Kevin (Owen Wilson). His surname makes him an easy target. He manages to lose the family's pet cat, so he buys a replacement which looks nearly identical - which promptly tears the wedding dress to shreds. His luggage turns up, and Jack searches it, finding a pile of women's clothes - because, of course, it's not his bag.It transpires that Jack is a former CIA agent - except Greg becomes convinced he's still involved in some covert operation. So he blurts out what he knows - and, wouldn't you just know it, he's put his foot in it again.Taken individually, each incident is at least passably funny; some are hilarious; some make you cringe on Greg's behalf. But it's the whole thing - the relentless progression from one minor disaster to the next - where I felt the movie fell down. At first, it's pretty funny, watching this guy make a complete fool of himself; but when it goes on and on, and you realize you're in for an hour where nothing, NOTHING goes right, it just gets depressingly tedious.And it's not all perfect. The surname gag grew old fairly quickly; the way people addressed him using only his surname was downright rude rather than funny; one leaking toilet would NOT flood a yard, no matter how full the septic tank (and what kind of planning is it to hold a big wedding party with the tank ready to blow?) The happy ending was also pretty unconvincing.I haven't really said anything about the performances. I felt everyone did a reasonable job, nobody excelled. de Niro *can* do comedy - Brazil, Midnight Run - but here, I thought he was too deadpan, and the role just a bit *too* psycho. Stiller was a good choice for the lead, and Owen Wilson is great as the all-too-perfect ex. But, as I said, it's the pacing that spoils things. If they had spread the pain out a little - shown meetings over several weekends - along with scaling it back a little, I'd have enjoyed it a lot more.  "},{"Title":"Overhyped!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong; some parts of Meet the Parents were very funny, but the movie as a whole seemed like a slow train wreck.I was waiting throughout the movie for Ben Stiller to be a man and stand up for himself while all of his girlfriend's family dumped on him.  I think his girlfriend was the most maddening character of all, not taking up for him and basically setting him up for failure.  She also let him sleep late, and wear his pajamas to the breakfast table, when everyone else was dressed and ready to go.  I would have drawn the line at the lie detector test, and walked out of the house, never to see any of that family (including his girlfriend) again.I had heard wonderful things about this movie from almost everyone I know, and to say the least, I was incredibly disappointed. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents... from hell.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I figured since today's poll is Your favorite Ben Stiller movie? and Meet the Fockers is coming out this December, I'd write a review for my favorite Ben Stiller movie.Directed by Jay Roach, the director of the Austin Powers movies, and staring Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro.Ben Stiller plays a male nurse from Chicago named Greg Focker, who has spent the last 10 months with his girlfriend, going to places, spending time together, and all that corny stuff. When he is about to propose to his girlfriend, she gets a call from her sister telling that she's going to get married. This means, they have to exit the state and go to his girlfriend's house. Time to meet the parents. Robert DeNiro plays Jack Byrnes, the father of Greg's girlfriend, who he immediately takes a dislike of him. One bad thing leads to another, such as Greg losing his luggage from the airline, and soon enough, Greg leads himself into hell and deeper and deeper into it.This is a good comedy. Some laughs but I watched it more for seeing how the story ends up. This is now my favorite Ben Stiller movie. At the end, if you were to watch this 4 years ago, you could predict a sequel because the ending keeps that option open. The sequel, Meet the Fockers will be released this winter and it should be a very interesting story. The teaser trailer mostly shows the events of Meet the Parents but gives you a small peek of Meet the Fockers, with Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand added to the cast.Overall, a decent comedy. It's great to see the how Stiller and DeNiro are both on the screen and them having the direction of Jay Roach. Good movie.My Rating 8/10Eliason A.EDIT, JANUARY 7, 2005 This isn't actually my favorite Ben Stiller film anymore. Here's my Top 31. Meet the Fockers - 8.5/102. Meet the Parents - 8/103. Dodgeball - 7.5/10Starsky and Hutch close behind at 4th with a 7/10 "}{"Title":"A great Ben Stiller comedy","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ben Stiller has shown throughout the years that he does great at starring in fun comedies, and this is no exception. Stiller stars as Greg Focker, a male nurse who is going to meet his girlfriend's parents for the weekend and ask her father for approval to marry Pam, the aforementioned girlfriend. Stiller creates a character that is hilarious, believable, and one that many can relate to.Robert De Niro steals the show as Jack Byrnes, a former CIA agent who is a nice guy but has strict rules. There are times when he suspects and knows that Greg is up to no good, but is accepting of who Greg is and isn't afraid to say anything. Jack likes to have fun but makes Greg nervous. Nobody can pull off the chemistry better than De Niro and Stiller do in these roles.Teri Polo plays Greg's girlfriend Pam and Blythe Danner plays Jack's wife Dina. They both do fine jobs but are not given a whole lot to do.Director Jay Roach takes an idea of what it'll be like to spend a weekend with a girlfriend's parents and makes an original story out of it. Roach is great at telling funny and heartfelt stories. Roach does an excellent job at getting the performances that he wants and is able to tell a good story. "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily funny!!","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet the Parents is undoubtedly one of the funniest movies ever made. Someone once said that only the truth is funny, and that certainly applies here. Every young man who is going to meet his girlfriend's parents for the first time is filled with trepidation, and has the feeling that he is about to be subjected to an Inquisition. This film takes that impression one step further, making literal what is ordinarily only figurative. In this case, the hapless suitor (Greg Focker, played by Ben Stiller) is to be probed and dissected by an ex-CIA man, who has years of experience and all the tools of the trade at his disposal, including contacts at the Agency. To say that Jack Byrnes (Robert de Niro) is an overprotective father is like saying that Krakatoa was an explosion. Unlike her husband, Dina Byrnes is generally supportive of Greg and sympathetic to his plight, but Jack is calling the shots. Greg strives gamely to win them over, but everything he does backfires, or at least fizzles.I have only one minor criticism. The lie detector idea was brilliant, but it could have been used to better effect. After the earlier scene when Greg is questioned about his feelings toward cats, the polygraph gave Jack the perfect opportunity to find out the truth, but he doesn't ask Greg about it.There was an earlier, much shorter version of Meet the Parents that came out in 1992. It had basically an unknown cast, and very few people saw it. The lie detector bit from the 2000 film was the inspiration for a television reality show called Meet My Folks, which ran on NBC for all of one full season. In contrast to the film, it was not primarily funny, although many viewers found it so. "},{"Title":"Strong performance by two leading roles","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was watching this movie on TV and I think that it is real entertainment for whole family or maybe for some couple because it is so funny and it has two great leading roles . Of course they are Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro . I really enjoyed in this comedy and it is one rare comedy in which you can laugh . I didn't like what other actors were maybe too calm but whole story was very well connected and so funny .Ben Stiller maybe confused but he played his role on high level . It was really enjoyable to watch him in this role . He always makes movie funny when he is doing something in which he isn't good . In this movie it is babysitting .DeNiro was also damn good because he was playing retired agent and he was doubting whole time . He is funny with his calm humor . I liked the part when he is testing Gaylord . It wasn't his best performance but it was OK. "},{"Title":"I've nipples GREG, would you milk me?","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" GREG FOCKER (Ben Stiller) is a male nurse that loves his girlfriend PAM (Teri Polo) and wants to ask her in marriage, but after he gets to know that his future Father-in-Law (JACK BYRNE, played by Robert De Niro) would appreciate he would ask him his daughter first, he decides that would be fine to meet her parents on that purpose. So he goes to spend a weekend in her parents' home. Well, that weekend will not be easy to GREG, as an amount of unlucky occurrences happen, having always the same protagonist, GREG. Or I should say GAYLORD FOCKER (his real official name! LOL!).One more time Ben Stiller is great doing this kind of character. He's perfect performing the unlucky guy who just want a change but for whom everything gets always wrong! Robert De Niro, on his side, also performs a good and funny character, but that stills too close to his image. I thought that at least in this movie (a romantic comedy!) he wouldn't be a member of CIA&#x85; Anyway I liked the performances from all actors. I just think that Owen Wilson's role is too short. Funny as he is he deserved better, but he was at the beginning of his career I suppose&#x85; It's a funny and entertaining movie, with great laughs. Some of them made me cry of laughing! They're plenty I won't mention them all, but the scene (and the whole context) when De Niro says I've nipples GREG, would you milk me? was purely hilarious! Ben Stiller do it again! A good comedy! "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved both Meet the Parents films. I don't know which one I liked more because they were both hilarious. Both Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller are fantastic in these films. Director Jay Roach has brought us his best films to date. Some people find Austin Powers stupid. I think it's really funny, but I prefer Meet the Parents more. Robert De Niro's Jack Byrnes' character reminds me of my father. I mean my dad wasn't in the C.I.A or anything like that but he sure does scare some people. De Niro's character in Meet the parents is kind of an asshole because he goes out of his way to make Greg(Ben Stiller) look bad. It feels that way at least. I think that, though Austin Powers was hilarious, Meet the parents is a comedy that everyone can enjoy. It is the definitely better version of Son in Law. I wasn't a fan of Son in Law, but I love this film. The acting is a lot better and the film is a lot funnier than Son in Law. Not that I have a problem with Pauly Shore, it's just that I prefer Ben Stiller. I am one of those people. Well, I doubt that Ben Stiller will go and fake his death like Pauly Shore did. Well, it was just a film, but Pauly Shore really hasn't done anything in so long. Both Meet he parents' films are laugh riots, and I love the original. Both of them are great though. "},{"Title":"de ja vu","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every one who sees this film should relate to this type of nervousness. Everyone dates and every one has to face the parent or parents of their significant other at one time or another. I thought this film was very good. De niro's character is very realistic. The movie has a lot of laughs because of the genre background of the actors. I think Jay Roach definitely knew what he was doing when he casted Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller. Both of these particular actors carry an opposite approach on comedy. When you put the two together you will have a hard time keeping a straight face. Just as the actors did in the making of this genius comedy. If you watch the extras on the DVD you will see the how hard it was for two totally different styles collaborating to bring you this type of de ja vu experience. I highly recommend the purchase of this DVD to anyone. It was all the round funny for the whole family. Fathers, daughters, boyfriends, mothers, and even children can relate. Nothing less than brilliant for strategic marketing. As an actor myself i can say clearly that everyone in the film was casted perfectly. The story is as simple as any really. Greg Focker wants to marry his girlfriend and has to face her (ex cia agent) father. He is gonna be very mysterious and psychological in determining whether Greg is right for his little girl or not. Trust me, you'll love this film. Of course at the climatic point Greg experiences nothing more than just a thorn in the Burn's eye's. He must quickly think of solutions to capture their hearts and acceptance into the family. Everything he does negatively turns around on him. I don't want to spoil any more of the film, you will have to watch to see the turn-out of this hilarious addition to cinematic archives. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller plays a wimp.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The entire idea that Ben Stiller's character has to be afraid isn't funny and wears thin very quickly. His character is such a wimp and is concerned about pleasing everyone so badly, he ends up doing really foolish things. Not funny, just foolish. I can't understand why Robert De Niro accepted a part in this movie. Robert De Niro is such a great actor, and this is almost a silly kids movie. Ben Stiller's character in constant fear of, well, nothing is a bad plot concept. The idea that he would allow his future father-in-law to connect him to a lie detector and answer questions just shows how truly wimpy he comes across. His love interest, is also one-dimensional. If nothing else is on cable, and you are smart enough not to waste your time watching sports, this movie might mildly entertain you. "},{"Title":"Brilliant. Cringe","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the funniest films that I have seen in years. Rob de niro is brilliant as playing the overprotective dad, Ben Stiller is convincing too. The bit that stands out for me is when Stiller is playing volleyball in the pool and plasters it in that birds face. I've lost count of the amount of times I have watched that. Superb.what a film, Oh dear god, you are such a good god. De niro giving everyone that typical look.are you a pothead focker?!Its only a game focker!Why cant i say bomb on an airplane??!!!, bomb-bomb-bomb-bomb-bomb-babombbombbbbombbombba-ba-ba-bomb.Rating 9/10. Quality. "},{"Title":"parental advisory","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is another topic which has been extremely used in cinema a young man who wishes to marry his girlfriend but first he's got to ask her parents the permission. And sometimes things don't go as they are expected...By making this movie, it's clear that the director Jay Roach gave the actors a free hand perhaps so as to try to compensate an unremarkable plot. The success of the movie rests on their shoulders. I would grant a special award to Ben Stiller and of course to Robert De Niro who shows that as an actor he's always at ease and excellent after all these years spent in the cinema. Of course, we're obliged to recognize that the humor isn't always subtle, certain characters are nearly stereotyped (Owen Wilson) and the sequence where De Niro blames Stiller for not being honest whereas honesty isn't his strong point appears quite conventional. As Jack Lemmon said in Some like it hot (1959) Nobody's perfect. But there are quite a lot of funny situations and hilarious gags.So, a mastered topic that gives a spirited comedy.     "},{"Title":"Why would you want to meet any of these people?","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well i think this movie certainly proves that it is the writers that make the movie, not the actors. I think most would agree that Ben Stiller and Robert DeNiro are good actors. But in this case, they were saddled with an unfunny script and unlikeable characters.None of the jokes were funny. Stiller raising heck on a jet might have been mildly amusing before 9/11, but it certainly is not now. The scene with Stiller hooked up to the lie detector was just a yawner. Even the cat couldn't do anything funny! And i love cats! lolThis movie is only for serious DeNiro and Stiller fans. Basically it is just a waste of 2 hours of your time. More hype than humor here. "}{"Title":"DeNiro Almost Makes It Work, But Not Quite.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Over-rated would-be-comedy has Ben Stiller wanting to marry live-in girlfriend Teri Polo, but there is only one obstacle meeting her parents (Robert DeNiro and Blythe Danner). Naturally nothing goes right and Stiller ends up being the target of ex-CIA operative DeNiro who tries hard to carry the film by himself but has only minimal success. Silly situations galore will put a smile on your face, but don't expect anything remotely special. Only average. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Just trying to impress. The future of love is at stake.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This romantic comedy is scattered with laughs and hilarious situations. Greg Focker(Ben Stiller) is a male nurse and hazards to spend a weekend getting to know his girl friend's parents. Robert De Niro is the over protective father, with Blythe Danner playing the sympathetic mother of Teri Polo. Misunderstanding runs rampant in this comedy of misfit errors and bad timing. The weekend is heading south rapidly and Focker is desperate to impress his future in-laws.Also in the cast areJames Rebhorn, Phyllis George and Thomas McCarthy. The versatile De Niro hands down steals the whole show. I'm sure the many Stiller fans will disagree, but the multi talented De Niro can successfully play roles not expected of him. This is one of the best situational comedies to come along in a while; it may in fact make you feel right at home. "},{"Title":"To be met encouragingly","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsMeet The Parents is a pleasantly told comedy,which you wouldn't notice was from the director of Austin PowersInternational Man Of Mystery,a far less subtle and divertingly worked film.This works in a much more pleasingly liberal sense,straight out and generally appealing for almost everyone to enjoy.Robert DeNiro is improving in his comedy roles,thus broadening himself as an actor even more,which is always going to be a good thing.Ben Stiller may not be the most encourageable performer around,but he suffices some funny scenes in the film.Catch it before the Winter ends.*** "},{"Title":"for anyone who's ever had to meet in-laws","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We all know that meeting one's future in-laws can be an unpleasant experience, but none can be more unpleasant than what Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) and Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo) go through. Planning to get married, they go to meet Pam's parents Jack (Robert DeNiro) and Dina (Blythe Danner). Maybe it's the R-rated connotation inherent in Greg's surname, or maybe it's Jack's status as a CIA agent, but Greg and Jack do not hit it off. Somehow, Greg causes a series of accidents, and it all leads Jack to consider Greg unworthy for his daughter.The whole movie is pretty silly, but at the same time, all so true. One can understand that Jack wants to protect his daughter, but a lie detector test? And just what about Mr. Jinx? What is with that cat? No matter, the movie never gets so ridiculous to the point where you roll your eyes. It's nice brainless fun, but it's nice brainless fun that accurately reflects the world that we inhabit. Oh, and Greg is Jewish while Pam's family is a bunch of WASPs, so you know what that means. "},{"Title":"De Niro The Comedian","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Odd to state that Robert De Niro is the star of this comedy, but that's the case here. One doesn't normally associate him with comedy, but he's a pretty versatile actor, and can play a lot more characters than Mafia-type thugs. He's also a pretty darned good comedian, as he first proved way back in the early '80s with Rupert Pupkin in The King of Comedy.Anyway, De Niro and Ben Stiller provide a lot of laughs in this modern-day comedy. No sense going into detail as there are plenty of other reviews here. I hate to see the hero of a movie being a character who is chronic liar (Stiller's Greg Focker) but that's not unusual in the world of films. That, and Blythe Danner's excessive use of God's name as exclamations gets annoying. Other than that, it's a fun movie that turned out to be a hit and justifiably so. I imagine you could get a lot of laughs from watching this over and over. That would be better than watching the sequel. "},{"Title":"Meet the Parents","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to admit I never saw this entirely before seeing the tame sequel, Meet the Fockers, and thank god I finally did, it is a fantastic comedy, from director Jay Roach (Austin Powers). Basically Jewish male nurse Gaylord 'Greg' Focker (Ben Stiller - originally it was meant to be Jim Carrey?) was planning to propose to girlfriend Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo), but he sees that first he should ask permission from Pam's parents first, like the boyfriend of her young sister Deborah 'Debbie' Byrnes (Nicole DeHuff) has. So begins the weekend visit from Hell when Greg meets mother Dina (Blythe Danner), and strict father and ex-CIA agent Jack (Robert De Niro), and trying to make a good impression, with no embarrassment or humiliation, everything that can go wrong, does go wrong, and very disastrously. In the course of the weekend trying to get on with the parents, especially Jack, Greg manages to knock over Jack's mother's ashes (and have the cat pee on them), have a personal lie detector test, hit the bride sister Debbie in the eye with a volleyball, flood the garden with the toilet water and sewage (because of the sceptic tank not being emptied), burn some of the garden and the altar made by Pam's ex-fiancée Kevin Rawley (Owen Wilson), and lose the cat Mr. Jinx. There is obviously the point where Greg pretty much gives up trying, and is told to leave, but Pam has a real talk to her father, and he knows that she is old enough to make her own decisions, and he has to get used to one of her partners, so they all make up in the end, and it ends not only with a wedding (Debbie and her boyfriend), but you know a sequel is inevitable with Jack saying all we have to do is meet his parents. Also starring Jon Abrahams as Denny Byrnes and James Rebhorn as Dr. Larry Banks. Last time I saw De Niro manage some comedy was in the dark Scorcese classic, The King of Comedy, and he proves himself capable of being not only a great method actor, but a great comedian, oh, and Stiller excels too, a very funny film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Randy Newman's A Fool In Love. Robert De Niro number 2 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was also number 50 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and he was number 5 (along with Al Pacino) on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 18 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Funny stuff with broad appeal.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stiller, looking very much like Ted from There's Something About Mary, is an almost fiancee who has gone to spend the weekend with his girlfriend's parents. There he meets the future father-in-law from hell, played by De Niro. The film is a well assembled series of comic moments, with Stiller coming out on the short end of each, which builds from the almost normal early on to the utterly preposterous near the end. The director puts a bow on the flick by tidying up loose ends with a feel good ending followed by a little kick. All in all the flick may be a small step down from ...Mary for Stiller but is still quality comedy which will be enjoyed by most adults.  "},{"Title":"A Major Disappointment","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You'd think black romantic comedy + Robert De Niro + Ben Stiller = great fun wouldn't you ? But MEET THE PARENTS is an extremely disappointing film . Some of my disappointment might be down to the trailers I'd seen ( Which basically contain all the amusing moments ) which led me to believe I'd be seeing a film similar to THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY . Okay there's a couple of bad taste moments and there's a subplot involving a cat but there's nothing I found to be laugh outloud funny . De Niro - Like in WE 'RE NO ANGELS - seems to think comedy involves entirely of mugging for the camera , it's sad to point this out but De Niro is doing himself no favours by appearing in all these films , a few more unfunny comedies like this and Travis Bickle will be a distant memory . And as another reviewer pointed out watching this film after September 11th 2001 makes it even more unfunnyUpdate 2005  Having recently rewatched this movie I wish to point out that is does slightly improve over time "}]