[{"Title":"Fun","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm probably one of the few who thought this movie was hilarious. I mean, how can you NOT laugh at Will Ferrell and Lee Evans breaking into a song about how they're going to beat up the title character (the bastard's going to pay!) The movie gets funnier and stranger in the second hour, when anything resembling a plot was apparently tossed out the window. Leon Phelps is a unique Saturday Night Live creation. If you don't expect much (as I did going in), you may just find yourself in stitches. Granted, this is not the stuff of classic comedy, but it's not the one star comedy that most critics called it.  "},{"Title":"This movie was dorky as heck, but...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved it. It was just what I needed after a hard day at work. Tim Meadows was freaky and disgusting. Heehee! He is so dang cute, I could hardly contain myself. He says some great one-liners and I laughed out loud a few times. This movie was hands down craptacular in my book and definitely in keeping with several other fine SNL films. "},{"Title":"Is it an Oscar Winner? No. Is it the greatest ever? No. Is it so silly and funny, that it is fun to watch? Yes!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Ladies Man was never made to win awards, or put Tim Meadows at the top of the hottest actors list. What it was made to do, is to make you laugh. Now, if you are still interested in seeing this movie, please do so. Not only is Tim Meadows a riot as the fish sandwich eating, houseboat living, stud muffin, but Wrestling Will Ferrell, and the rest of the cast are great as well.I'd give this movie 6 out of 10, just for the goofy jokes, and laughs it got out of me. "},{"Title":"How does anyone not find this hilarious?","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Do you like really inventive comedy or do you love the wedding crashers, if the answer is the latter stop reading now. I can't believe this movie is not higher rated. Basically Meadows plays a character not unlike Austin Powers.There are so many inventive moments in this gagorama. From crudity - Leon playing with himself on the porch, the ex boyfriend tricked into eating . . Oh well. To inspired lunacy- clown sex , the Broadway routine, the voice over. Meadows is great as the childish, but very sweet natured Leon. Some great lines don't blame the wang freaky deaky sex world too many. . . Why this movie wasn't huge is a mystery. Great comedy. "},{"Title":"Ahh... yet another instant classic from the people over at Saturday Night Live.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes they get lucky and have a hit on their hands (Wayne's World, the first one, not the second). But most often they have duds (It's Pat comes to mind rather quickly). This time out it's Tim Meadows as The Ladies Man. This movie falls somewhere in between a hit and a dud. It was very funny for the first 20 minutes, but then, as usually happens with SNL skits, it starts to slow down, before finally ending, long after it should have.Tim Meadows is Leon Phelps, a radio DJ with a nightly show called The Ladies Man. He answers any and all questions dealing with sex and relationships, usually in the crudest way possible. Everything seems to ultimately come down to the butt. After pushing the buttons of the station manager, Leon, along with his producer Julie (Karyn Parsons) gets fired, and needs to find another job. Out of the random blue, comes a letter from one of his ex-ladies. The letter offers him wealth and luxury for the rest of his life, the only problem being that the letter isn't signed. So Leon needs to track down all the women he's been with to find the woman of his dreams. But sometimes, as Billy Dee Williams says in the film, the woman of your dreams is standing right in front of you. There is also a sub-plot about a bunch of guys who's wives/girlfriends have all slept with Leon, and they want to first figure out who he is (by a tattoo he has on a part of his anatomy), then kill him. Leading this bunch of guys is, surprise! Will Ferrell from SNL.  First off, I thought the sub-plot was rather lame. The singing and dancing stuff was just completely worthless. I usually like Will Ferrell but here he just never clicked for me. And the rest of the guys were just schlubs who tagged along, and in the end all decided that having their wives/girlfriends cheat on them was in fact their fault. So back to the main story. The story basically centers around Leon and sex. So what it comes down to is, if you don't like the character of Leon, you won't like the movie. His voice, his mannerisms, his dialogue is what carries the movie. I am not a big fan of Tim Meadows. I never thought he was a particularly good actor on SNL. The only thing I ever really liked of his, was his Ladies Man skits. But the best thing about those, is that they usually involved the guest host (remember the one with Cameron Diaz?), and they were short. For about 5 minutes, they were pretty funny. And here, for about 20 minutes, it's really funny. What I thought was good about the character in the movie, is that he stayed in character throughout. He never wavered from his wanted to just get laid persona. Until right at the end where there was this transformation, and the ever present speech to tie things up. Other than that, it was pretty good at keeping Leon as Leon, and not changing him into something less crude than he was. There isn't a lot of substance to this movie, if you couldn't guess. But like I said earlier, the beginning of the movie I found to be very funny. Some real laugh out loud moments, all revolving around sex and his crudeness. The problem of course with this movie, and most other SNL spin offs, is that these are characters that are only supposed to be shown for a few minutes at a time. Stretching the concept into 80 minutes is very difficult.  That difficulty is obviously why they needed the sub-plot, because without it, this movie would have been a little under an hour. When it was good, it was good, but when it wasn't good, it got to be boring.So overall, The Ladies Man wasn't as bad as other SNL films, but it wasn't as good as others. It had some funny moments, the first 20 minutes was pretty good, but the rest of it dragged on. There was an unnecessary sub-plot whose only purpose was to lengthen the film. The bottom line is, if you like Tim Meadows and his Leon Phelps character, you'll be able to watch the film. If he annoys you, don't even bother going. Unless you just want to see Tiffani Theissen in some nice revealing clothing.  "},{"Title":"Built for five minutes, not eighty","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The fact that The Ladies Man originated from a skit on Saturday Night Live should surprise no one who has seen and disliked the film. The film feels exactly like a character who belongs in skits roughly five to eight minutes long, who will occasionally say something funny in those five to eight minutes, and then end on a comic-bang before the screenwriter decides to cut over to another sketch. The sad thing about The Ladies Man is it focuses on its title character (played by a clearly inspired Tim Meadows) for eighty long, often tedious minutes, completely deluding the character's comic effect because it must be referenced with almost every line he says.I've discussed how tedious and often frustratingly unfunny Saturday Night Live films can often be (I wrote a whole blog on it three years back, so that should give an idea of how opinionated I was). Their main complaint links most of their films (with notable exceptions of the Wayne's World titles) in that they have difficultly giving their character's antics enough to do for a film's runtime. The Ladies Man character already has enough energy to be in a eighty minute film, but does he have the humor, plot, and charisma capabilities of carrying such precious minutes? How far does a sexist, afro-rockin' radio host go? The answer is not very far, but the film is at least buoyed by the competence and appeal of Tim Meadows, who can do no wrong in films as far as I'm concerned. His presence is casual and his attitude often laidback, even when he's playing a character as tiresome as this one. He plays Leon The Ladies Man Phelps, a studly black radio host who is known for his outspoken sexism on air during his nighttime show where he gives female callers shallow advice about relationships. The first thirty minutes of the film show his attitude and serve as nothing but a showcase for redundant jokes akin to that of modern Saturday Night Life sketches.When the story finally does get going, it's lame and serves more as filler than as a significant plot. It follows a man who finds his wife cheating on him, only to spot a naked black man running outside his home with a smiley face tattooed on his rear. Turns out, there is a website dedicated to finding this man and a group of angry husbands meet up to try and track down the man who pleasures their wives. The result is a tiresome array of unfunny marital jokes and a predictable but slightly catchy song and dance number.Tim Meadows (who serves as co-write on this film) is clearly inspired when playing The Ladies Man. His personality is always energetic and here he plays a character he completely created and perfected himself. There is a genuine sense of fun and comfortableness when playing this role. The issue is that The Ladies Man is so thin and uninteresting as a character that he's more of an idea. In that regard, Meadows does a great job at playing an idea.I return full circle to my point that I made in the beginning that stated that the films focuses on a character that feels exactly like he belongs in concise skits on Television. It's no surprise that after about fifteen minutes of laughing with and at the character, I began to be burdened with feelings of tedium. This only influences my point that a character with this personality belongs in shorts seventy-five minutes shorter than the film The Ladies Man.Starring Tim Meadows, Karyn Parsons, Billy Dee Williams, John Witherspoon, Will Ferrell, and Eugene Levy. Directed by Reginald Hudlin. "},{"Title":"Nothing spectacular, but still funny","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Ladies Man is a funny movie. There's not much thought behind it, but what do you expect from an SNL movie? It's actually better than most SNL movies (i.e. Superstar or A Night At The Roxbury) Tim Meadows and Will Ferrell were both very funny. Chris Parnell was also funny in his short scene (one of the funnier ones in the movie). Other than that, the rest of the cast is average and is just there to support Meadows. I've definitely seen funnier movies, but I've seen dumber ones too. Again, it's not exactly a deep movie, but it's good for a few laughs. It was funnier as a skit though. But still, if you're looking for a pretty funny movie, I'd recommend this one. Just don't think about it too much, or you'll hate it.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Modern Marx Bros Movie","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I give this 8 stars because it's like a modern day Marx Brothers' movie or Myra Breckenridge. Everyone's in it, there are silly musical numbers, the story's negligible, but it's just pure enjoyment and a snap shot in history. I heartily recommend it for mindless watching which is a whole genre of movies. Caveat, the cinematography during the big musical number is lacking. But it's just laugh out loud funny!!! I won't say more because it's terrible to spoil jokes. Still, there's a lot of Chicago-isms as well as pub-related humor. If you like to go to bars and have ever had casual sex with a stranger, you will find this hilarious. Plus! It has Billy Dee Williams in it, and if you ask me, any movie with him in it is a 10 star film. "},{"Title":"Poor Date Movie.","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Ladies Man (2000) Dir Reginald Hudlin / Cast Tim Meadows, Will Ferrell, Billy Dee Williams, Lee Evans, Tiffany Thiessen Lackluster portrait of a guy who hides behind a radio personality because he cannot find love. It stars Tim Meadows as Leon Plelps who gives advice about relationships. Many husbands are familiar with the happy face tattoo on his ass and they group together with the intent on reclaiming their manhood by castrating him. The conclusion is insincere as Phelps attempts to justify his behavior. Well directed by Reginald Hudlin with visual flair but Meadows hardly presents Phelps as sympathetic, and his concluding statement is difficult to swallow. When your leading character is this pathetic then it takes a creative plot turn to turn that around and this film fails to do that. One performance that does pay off is Will Ferrell who is hilarious as a wrestling obsessed husband who leads a funny song and dance number out to Phelps's houseboat. Billy Dee Williams is wasted as an advice giving bartender. Lee Evans plays an angry husband whose wife is caught in bed with Phelps. Evans could have matched Ferrell in hilarity had his role had any followup but unfortunately he just gets lost amongst the other hateful husbands. Purely an act for Meadows to further promote his Saturday Night Live skit with no conviction or care for its orgy. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Ladies Man is a Surreal Screwball Comedy","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I picked up the DVD a few weeks ago and finally got to see the whole film.This film is hilarious! There were so many WTF!! moments... ;D It helps if you just accept this as a screwball comedy from the get-go. Characters break the fourth wall early on, so that's something to keep in mind.Tim Meadows plays Leon, a Chicago-based late-night radio talk show host, The Ladies' Man, who focuses on love & romance related issues. He's popular, but controversial, as his on-air commentaries are frequently raunchy and ribald. One evening, the station manager (Eugene Levy) has had enough and he fires Leon and his producer (played by Karyn Parsons of TV's Fresh Prince). In the meanwhile, a strange all-male support group plots to track down Leon for, shall we say, making them cuckolds. The leader of the group is played by fellow Saturday Night Live alumnus Will Ferrell.Tim Meadow's Leon is clueless, moronic and sex-obsessed, but also a decent guy, deep down. His portrayal is of a man that is grossly out of touch with reality, yet obtusely hidden gems of wisdom can be found within his crude radio commentaries.The story of being the adopted son of Hugh Hefner was nuts! We never find out whether it was true or not-- a cameo by the real Hugh Hefner would have been cool.Billy Dee Williams as Lester.. spot on! (And at first I thought he might be Leon's real dad.) Did I miss any Colt 45 product placement? ...Here's the always reliable John Witherspoon (scrap iron? LOL...) ...and of course the director as Leon's tailor! Karyn Parsons.. so lovely, and amiable as the straight woman to Tim's antics as Leon. (she needs another TV show!) Tiffani Thiessen... I admired her from afar on Saved By the Bell, but... wow... (repeat she needs another TV show!) ...The woman who plays Candy.. I'd swear I've heard her voice before..Will Ferrell does so much here it's insane... He pretty much takes over every scene he's in.. the first VSA meeting is gold...The song and dance sequence.. who did the choreography? The bar food challenge was one of the most hilarious-- and disgusting-- segments in the movie!! ... there was a whole lot of liquor consumed in this film-- or maybe it was really iced tea or something? ...So many left field appearances lend to the pleasantly surreal atmosphere of the narrative. Tamala Jones.. nice!! Julianne Moore.... !!!!!!!!!!!!!!?????????? Then Julianne Moore in a clown outfit...?!!!!!!!!?!?!??! ... I wonder what was involved in decorating Leon's funky houseboat digs? (and where'd that remote control come from? , LOL) You'll enjoy this film whether you rent it, buy it or stream it.Tim Meadows is an underrated, underused talent, especially considering his long tenure on Saturday Night Live. This film only received modest returns at the box office, but it is definitely worth checking out. "}{"Title":"Not the funniest movie ever, but it's funny enough, once again thanks a lot to Will Ferrell","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the comedy, The Ladies Man, Tim Meadows plays Leon Phelps, a radio host, who gets fired from his radio station, and is being hunted down by a psycho named Lance (a literally breathtakingly funny Will Ferrell). Now Leon must get his pride, and his job back. The only problem is his radio show consists of completely sex talk, and he can't stop hooking up with the ladies. The first step for him to get his pride back is to find out who sent him a mysterious love letter. This involves running into lots of extremely angry women he just had sex with once and they never heard from him again. The movie is essentially a mix of him trying to avoid people who are mad at him, and purposely running into people who are mad at him. The movie is not smart, it is funny, it isn't Oscar-worthy, it is entertaining. I've got to admit, this might not have been as good if it wasn't for Will Ferrell, a great talent who basically steals the show as one of the many people who have become deranged with anger, and are determined to find Leon. The only real message you can get out of this film is Will Ferrell can make any comedy into an extremely funny one. "},{"Title":"Courvoisier - Yes that is a drink.","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Ladies Man is laugh out loud funny, with a great diverse cast as well as having some very stupid but excellent scenes (including the funniest love song ever written).Ferrell is his usual quality self in a brilliant side role.Tim Meadows plays an idiot surprisingly well and has written himself some of the funniest lines you'll find in any comedy out there.It is definitely worth a purchase as watching it every 6 months or so will lead to you still laughing as hard as you did first time round.I am distraught to think at the time of writing this that it has a meagre 4.7 /10 and i urge you to vote! And remember kids- Theres more motion in the ocean "},{"Title":"You'll speak like Leon for weeks.","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I must say, this movie has given me a dual personality. I've been told again and again to SHUT UP and start speaking like a normal person. But, it's very hard... no not the wang. Did you find that disgusting and disrespectful? Well, get in the mood for a lot more. This movie is just filthy! It's not a film to show your grand-parents, but you should show it to a teenager or some immature guy at your workplace. Anyway, back to the voice mannerisms. Fortunately this site has some Ladies Man (did anyone at the studio notice that there's supposed to be a apostrophe(?) between the e and s?) so you can always have a fine little something to say to your boss or the cops. I have a sheet in my wallet. "},{"Title":"Cognac for Everyone","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was so good. Leon Phelps is hilarious. I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!! I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!!I went out after and bought a case of Cognac!!!!! "},{"Title":"Masterfull","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tim Meadows has to be the most underrated of SNL's recent cast members. What initially was a low-brow look at a sleazy gigilo develops into a thoroughly entertaining 90 minute run, albeit, still low-brow. Don't pop this one in expecting beautiful cinematography or Oscar-worthy performances. Walk into it expecting brilliant silliness with Tim Meadows and Will Ferrell doing what they do best - making the audience laugh.Leon The Ladies' Man Phelps is a naive, likable radio sex show host who knows very little about anything except the ways of the wang. As a gifted Ladies Man, he lays waste to the wives of countless saps who've banded together in order to hunt him down. The director does an inspired job of guiding the actors on a comedic tryst which makes up completely for the lack of plot development. How much plot would one expect from an SNL skit? While some scenes are a little off the mark, for the most part, Meadows' one liners and absurd sexual comments hit the funny bone squarely. For instance, in one scene, Meadows compares himself to Mother Theresa, but for bonin'. Sure it's crass, but don't we all in the privacy of our homes get a chuckle out of his advice to an entire city for doin' it in the butt? In another scene, immediately after a heartfelt kiss with the female lead, he suddenly remembers the name of his would be benefactor, a woman he slept with years ago. He stands up in front of the woman who's obviously fallen for him and proclaims that The Ladies' Man is back, to her obvious chagrin.Billy Dee Williams hits the ball out of the park as the bartender/narrator. Will Ferrell, the repressed homosexual, rounds out solid performances.See this movie if you're into adult humor. If not, stay away with extreme prejudice. "},{"Title":"Ledgendary Character. Watched many times, should be apart of every collection,","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everyone should know this movie, everybody should watch this movie. Any man, any women. Leon Phelps, 'The Ladies man,' is cool, smooth and very funny. He has a cool job, and he gets the best women. Will Ferrell (S.N.L., Zoolander, Old school)adds great comedy value. The actor who played Norm from 'Something about Mary' plays alongside Ferrell as they are both victims their wives infidelity to Leon. With a small appearance by that dad from American Pie. And Valery from 'The Fresh Prince of Belair' is the producer of Leons talk show.I found this little gem on 'Foxtel' one day and was addicted. I bought the dvd now and have watched it many times. It's one of my best movies in the collection with other greats like Predator, Monty Pythons 'Life of Brian' and every Pearl Jam D.V.D. there is. "},{"Title":"Great comedy in Leon Phelp's style","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  as an avid snl watcher over the years, tim meadows' leon phelps character is one of the top 5 snl characters ever.  if you dont like the inappropriate humor - dont see the movie.  but if you enjoy the bits on snl, then the movie totally rocks.  i loved the movie the first time i saw it, and after purchasing it, it's only grown funnier and funnier over time.  i quote it (GREAT lines such as i see on your resume under interests you list dabutt.... oh yeah that's da butt.) and could go on for days quoting. all in all, i'm a huge fan.  if  you're looking for a good date movie - this isn't really it. but if you want classic leon, go for it. "},{"Title":"Silly, dumb fun.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Enjoyable and watchable.  Tim Meadows at his best.  A big boost  from Billy Dee Williams.  He and a very funny John Witherspoon provide a solid foundation for Mr. Meadows' riffing. Have fun with this one. "},{"Title":"Not Quite a Love or Laugh Session","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Ladies Man suffers a common problem among movies based on Saturday Night Live skits.  And that is, a sketch that usually succeeds in five minutes will not do so well in ninety minutes.  Although this movie does have its laughs, like Tim Meadows as Leon Phelps, a sex-maniac straight out of the '70s, and Will Ferrell as a wrestling-obsessed husband cuckolded by Leon.  So this movie is funny enough, but it's no Wayne's World! "},{"Title":"Not great, but there's a lot worse out there.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Here's a weird film. Largely unworthy of a smile throughout it's running time, it does occasionally produce some laugh-out loud moments. The impromptu dance number is a highlight as are some of the key performances (Will Ferrell, Billy Dee Williams, Tiffani Theissen) but this is all pretty forgettable stuff. Don't get me wrong  it's not a bad movie but just not all that good, either.2/5 "}{"Title":"Take it for what it is","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really don't understand why people get so upset and pan this movie! Remember folks, this is an SNL movie, not anything that is supposed to be unpredictable and original in plot or direction!  The Ladies Man is a hilarious movie, albeit stupid at times, with a wacked-out cast and, as usual, WONDERFUL performances by Will Ferrel and Tim Meadows.  Yes some of the jokes are stupid, and yes, the characters are unbelievable but its comedy!  I really don't understand how anyone couldn't laugh a lot during this hilarious film.  Anyway, all I ask is that people take this as it is--an SNL, silly and irreverent comedy. Nothing that will win awards, but nonetheless, some modern comedy gold. 10-4 Apricot! "},{"Title":"Yeah, an we still doin' it","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is yet another one of those movies that will only truly find its audience long after it reached theatres.  It's achieved cult status throughout most of the members of my local campus community, solely based on the dry wit and hilarious stylings of Tim Meadows as Leon Phelps.Oh, and also, the wang jokes.  You can't blame the wang.Go rent it for a couple of bucks and have a laugh at the breezy, pointless comedy.  Unless you're expecting Schindler's List, you won't be disappointed by this comedy.Especially if you like butt-jokes.  Yeeeah. "},{"Title":"Cruel and unusual","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When i heard about this movie it was supposed to be the funniest thing i've ever seen, Yes it was funny. I mean i liked it all until the end where...........Oh no i can't tell u should it for yourself. It is funny except. The vulgar language. That's why i say if u like movies that r funny in sexual ways watch it , but if not don't waist ur money on renting it or buying it. "},{"Title":"finally snl got it right","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  well Wayne's World is long gone and the years since then have been hard for snl off-shoot movies.  from such cinematic offal as It's Pat to the recent 80 minute yawn, A Night at the Roxbury, many have, no doubt, lost faith that any other snl skit will ever make a successful transition to the silver screen.  well fear not because Tim Meadows comes through in spades. the well-written plot maintains audience interest until the very end and while it remains true to the Leon Phelps character introduced in the five minute skit, the storyline allows the character to develop.  the humor (consisting largely of sex jokes) is fresh and interesting and made me laugh harder than i have in any movie in recent memory.  its a just great time if you don't feel like taking yourself too seriously. Tiffany-Amber Thiessen of Saved by the Bell fame, makes an appearance in the film and looks incredible. finally Billy Dee Williams, reliving his Colt 45 days, gives the movie a touch of class. and for those out there who are mindless movie quoters like myself, you will find this movie to be eminently quotable, ooh, it's a lady! "},{"Title":"Better than recent SNL films, but no Wayne's World","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The choice to make this SNL skit into a movie was far better thought out than other recent ones.  The humor involved in the character is not annoyance humor, and is also character driven enough to be stretched out for an hour or two.Oddly enough the sexual content seemed like it could be avoided, but that may have been because the constraints of live television schooled me to not expect it. I suppose I was thinking more Leisure Suit Larry risqué than the producers were...Definitely not a PG-13 movie, which will probably hurt it from ever reaching the heights of its more successful predecessors, but still better premise and writing than its more dismal ones.I liked it, but I doubt it will be a smash hit... (which is sad, as Tim Meadows tends not to do characters that annoy me with quite the frequency other SNL alumni tend to) "},{"Title":"You know right now if you'll like it or not.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The world is made up two different types of moviegoers... There are the English Patient types, who can't be bothered to enjoy anything that isn't high-brow enough to be shown on PBS, and there are the Happy Gilmore types, for whom an hour and a half of genitalia puns are definitely worth the $7.Certainly, there's a ton of gray area, but you know to which side you're leaning.  If you're an English Patient person, save your time, save your money, and save us all your Oh, this movie is so childish and stupid comments.  I know, you thoroughly enjoy belittling every movie you don't like, and every person that likes them, but maybe you could hold off just this once.But if you're a Happy Gilmore type... go see this one... You'll find it hilarious.  Tim Meadows has created a hilarious character, and Will Farrell continues to be hilarious in just about everything he does.  Go check it out.  You'll be glad you did.  And that's OK. "},{"Title":"Another remarkable piece of cinematography from none other than Reginald Hudlin.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classic Hudlin... Over the years, 'Reg' - as he likes to be called - has dazzled us time and time again. In this 2000 tear-jerking saga of a compulsive sexoholic turned romantic charmer, he proves that it's not only knee-slapping House Partyesque antics, but Oscar worthy screen writing composure that captures the respect and hearts of audiences worldwide.  "},{"Title":"Pearson, a ladies man with a plan","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here was a comedy surprise, which really made me laugh, again and again, it shi..ed all over Undercover Brother. Tim Meadows is a comedy acting revelation, and what's he's brought to the screen here, is an infectious comedy, with a wonderfully written script, with such memorable dialogue, one misinterpreted conversation between our 'ladies man' Leon and a nun is a crack up. Too we have, a few lively choreographed scenes to the movie's title'd song, featuring some angry vengeance seeking husbands, who the ladies man has been doing. Leon (a excellent Meadows) is a talk show host, whose frank and crass advice hasn't always been helpful to the unsatisfied honey's all over New York. One of his fan letters, from a secret admirer, sees our shallow and selfish Leon, set up for the rest of his life, bathing in riches, so a quest begins to find this one woman, where the real lady of his life has been in front of him, all the time. A great taste challenge scene, involving really old, hard turds, will have you saying What the fu..?. It's another funny moment among many others. This comedy will really brighten up your night, an unmissable comedy gem, for which Pearson gives it it's magic. Watch out for a sexy unbilled Julianne Moore, one of the sexiest clowns you'll meet. A non stop laugh comedy, you must invest your viewing time in. It's also the first movie, you'll see a baby afro. Don't miss this one. Billy Dee Williams is a thankful return presence as a bartender, retelling Leon's story. "},{"Title":"Ladies Love Leon Phelps - check in your brain and you might too.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another Saturday Night Live project. If you get 4 minutes into the film and decide you don't think that you like Leon Phelps you might as well stop. If you get that far and don't smirk once DEFINITELY stop, it ain't gonna change from here.Leon Phelps is a radio talkback guy that can only exist in movies as he would never really get a job in the real world. He is a 70s throwback complete with a 12 scale Dr J afro and speaks with a heavy distinct lisp and a slow drawl in a wannabe erudite manner.Leon gives ridiculously homophobic, sexist and outdated answers to the most straightforward of relationship based questions, and for some reason the callers are offended despite the fact that Leon ALWAYS gives similar, generally butt-related responses.Leon's producer is Julie Simmons who is likable but will always be the uppity daughter from Fresh Prince to me, she must field all the complaints and queries, and simultaneously ward off the angry station managers who constantly want to fire Leon.When one manages to do so and Leon is turfed, we get a brief explanation of how he came to be (long story short he grew up in the Playboy mansion) and then move to his dingy local bar where we get to meet the regular clientele that Leon calls friends.As Leon and Julie plot the next stage of their career we are informed that Leon not only talks the talk but humps the walk, he apparently has a string of special ladies all over the city, many of whom hate his guts. This has lead to a similar number of disgruntled husbands and partners who know Leon only from the smiley face tattoo on his derriere. I will not refer to this group again in favourable terms, suffice to say they include Will Ferrell and Lee Evans, two of the worst and over-hyped comedic actors in recent history.They wish Leon harm.Leon has no job, no prospects and no regular missus. On top of this Julie has had enough of his lack of common sense and has temporarily scarpered. After delivering one of the better lines in any comedy film for two decades; There is nothing left to do. I'm going to have sex and wait for something to randomly happen. &#x85; something happens. Leon gets an unsigned letter where the female writer offers to share her life &#x96; and millions with Leon. He sets about finding his soul mate, leading to one of those montages Schneider specialises in where every meeting is apparently hilarious even though most of them aren't.Another case of the wrong guy chasing after the wrong lady even when everyone knows that the chick he is ignoring is Miss Right, don't they do this in rom-coms about 75 times a year? That thought is also put on its head when he finally finds the chick and it is Tiffany-Amber Thiessen in her prime. In lingerie. Damnnnn, HELLO MISS WRONG!!! The finale is cheesy and a little disappointing&#x85; (Ferrell & Evens feature), but mostly The Ladies Man is the story of a man out of touch with the real world, a man who lives in his own bubble of ignorance but is always totally honest and true to himself and what he believes in. Even if that is stupid.Take out the wronged guys subplot and this movie is even better, but also about 40 minutes long, maybe this is a case of better left as a skit? Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. Annoying sub-plots and cheesy finales aside, this is funny stuff in the main. I do like Leon Phelps. "},{"Title":"A Player for All Seasons","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What is love? What is this longing in our hearts for togetherness? Is it not the sweetest flower? Does not this flower of love have the fragrant aroma of fine, fine diamonds? Does not the wind love the dirt? Is not love not unlike the unlikely not it is unlikened to? Are you with someone tonight? Do not question your love. Take your lover by the hand. Release the power within yourself. Your heard me, release the power. Tame the wild cosmos with a whisper. Conquer heaven with one intimate caress. That's right don't be shy. Whip out everything you got and do it in the butt. By Leon Phelps When Tim Meadows created his quintessential SNL playboy, Leon Phelps, I cringed. Hearing his smarmy lisp and salacious comments made my remote tremble with outrage. I employed the click feature more than once, dear readers.So When the film version of The Ladies Man came on cable, I mumbled a few comments of my own and clicked yet again. But there comes the day, gray and forlorn, when nothing is on any of the 100+ channels...sigh. Yes &#x96; I was faced with every cable subscribers torment &#x96; watch it or turn my TV off! There he was, Leon Phelps, smirking and ...making me laugh! What had happened? Had I succumbed to Hollywood's 'dumb-down' sit-com humor? Was I that desperate to avoid abdicating my sacred throne? The truth of the matter is I like The Ladies Man more than I should. A story about a vulgar playboy sipping cognac while leering at every female form goes against my feminist sensibilities.What began as a crude SNL skit blossomed before my eyes into a tale about Leon and his playboy philosophy, going through life helping people solve their sexual conflicts. I am the Mother Teresa of Boning, he solemnly informs Julie (Karyn Parsons), his friend and long-suffering producer of his radio show, The Ladies Man. And he's not kidding. Leaving a string of broken hearts and angry spirits, Leon manages to bed and breakfast just about all of Chicago. That he does so with such genuine good-will is his calling-card through life.Our self-proclaimed, Expert in the Ways of Love, manages to get himself into a lot of trouble with husbands and boyfriends. One such maligned spouse, Lance (Will Ferrell), forms a Victims of the Smiling Ass, USA club, vowing to catch our lovable Don Juan. Oh yes, we will have our revenge, he croons to his cohorts, in a show-stopping dance number.Plus it's such a total delight to see Billy Dee Williams as Lester, the tavern owner and smooth narrator of Leon's odyssey to find his sweet thing and a pile of cash. (Where has he been hiding?) But would I choose this movie as my Valentine's Day choice? Leon's search for the easy life changes him in so many profound ways - that I had to give the nod to our Ladies Man. That he can, at the movie's close, find true happiness with one woman, while still offering his outlandish advice, is the stuff of dreams! "}{"Title":"This movie is FUNNY! ))","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a virulently racist fascist bastard, and I dig this movie. It's totally ridiculous, and that's it's charm ) It doesn't pretend to be something else. It's a big '70's cliché, and the story is very complete and 'cute'. Undercover Brother is another flick like this one - very silly, very funny! I absolutely hate blacks, but movies like this do show a side of them that is entertaining to see. It's a vibe that is very alien, and also interesting in an anthropological sort of way. It's rather like watching peacock struts and so on. This 'Leon' character is so totally over-the-top it's really high art - art of sleeze you might call it LOLThere are also many great scenes in this movie. Will Farrell is funny in this one as well - though in many movies he is not. Also a hoot is the gay style musical number from the macho men - totally unexpected and funny as hell. Many scenes like this - unexpected things, funny little things. This is a good movie ) See it, and you will laugh lots. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think.","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, like many other such films, spawned out of a SNL skit. But Tim Meadows does a fairly fantastic job of making a 3 minute one-dimensional character into a moderately viable comedic movie character. He drops amusingly consistently-threated one-liners with fair frequency, Billy Dee Williams is in it though his Lando days are long gone, and the entire thing is shot pretty well. True, it's not great art, but if you went into Wayne's World looking for the Gone With The Wind, you did something wrong. Enjoyable for what it is.......  "},{"Title":"Gold","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clearly an hilarious movie.It angers me to see the poor ratings given to this piece of comic geniusPlease look at this for what it is, a funny, ridiculous enjoyable film. Laugh for christ sake! "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SNL Studios finally made it! This has to be the funniest (most worth-watching) SNL-skit movie ever made. However, the movie lacks in consistency. Some hilarious parts, but the movie starts going downhill in its comedy, towards the end.6/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a surprisingly humorous movie.  The underlying plot (self realization love story) is a decent enough vehicle for Tim Meadows to deliver his shtick.  Will Ferrell's character is also quite funny as are other supporting members.I enjoyed Night at the Roxbury more than this but Superstar was far worse to compare it to other SNL skit-gone-movies.  As a goofy, no-brainer comedy, 8 of 10, as a full fledged movie 4 of 10 so we'll settle for 6 of 10. You'll probably enjoy it if you like the skit and you like a bit of low brow humour.   "},{"Title":"Honking the Clown","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Television exists as a sort of palliative, designed for small familiarities so that hawkers  can be inserted to make their pitches. Since the earliest days of radio, the formula for  familiarity has been to create simple characters that we meet every week. TeeVee made  these even simpler in their version of the situation comedy, and in the sixties dispensed  with the plot altogether with Laugh-In. That was a true innovation character alone. SNL  made it hip in the early seventies, and then after a couple years lost the hipness.Still, the notion of a funny character works in that medium, which I remind again is a  palliative designed for selling stuff.How to transfer to a film? Mike Meyers knows that film is essentially about itself, so you  should make a movie that goofs on movies and incidentally has your funny guy in it.They didn't learn that here. To the funny guy bit they added the most standard of TeeVee  guy/girl plots. The whole thing is a waste of neurons.Except. Except for one scene of about four minutes that is incongruously shoehorned in.  It involves Julianne Moore and was almost certainly written by her.Julianne is one of our master actresses; that means she knows that much of what she  does has to be a matter of self-reference. So in comes the Ladies' Man to her  dressingroom Julianne the actress plays an actress, getting ready to perform. She goes  behind a screen and emerges as a horny clown and does a bit so funny that it shows the  rest of the movie as just something waiting for a commercial.You have to know her other work to appreciate this, but if you do it is precious. Not  worth $30 though.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Actually a Hilarious Movie","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes it may be goofy and may not seem as funny as many high budget comedies out there, but this movie is truly hilarious if you really watch it. Tim Meadows has always struck me as being funny off of the Saturday Night Live show. Whenever he would do this character on the show I would crack up laughing. So after I saw this was going to be playing on Comedy Central one night I decided to check it out. All in all I was farily impressed with this movie, because it wasn't meant to win any Oscars or become comedy of the year, but it did entertain the Saturday Night Live fans that love the Ladies Man character. This movie is also packed with some highly quotable lines that can be recited for years to come. "},{"Title":"Just Awful...","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this tape a couple of years ago, and boy did it suck.  From the commercials, I was lead to believe that this was a movie about a guy who had no no luck with women, and that was where the comedy would lie.  Boy was I wrong.  The jokes were vulgar, and they were just not funny.  Don't bother. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in years.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I honestly don't understand how tripe like this gets made. The worst junior-high talent show skit you've ever seen is more entertaining than this film. Will Ferrell's wrestling fetish provides the only (briefly) humorous moments. Utterly horrible.  "},{"Title":"Another failed attempt for SNL","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, I'd like to say that I love the Ladies' Man sketch on SNL.  I always laugh out loud at Tim Meadows' portrayal of Leon Phelps.  However, there is a difference between an 8-minute sketch and a feature-length movie.  Watching Leon doing his show and making obscene comments to his listeners and coming up with all sorts of segments for his show, like The Ladies Man Presents... which is reminiscent of Alfred Hitchcock Presents... is absolutely hilarious.  There's a great episode where Cameron Diaz role-plays Monica Lewinski, and Leon plays Bill and they call it The Oral Office.  See, that's funny!!!  In the movie, we don't see Leon on the show too often.  In fact, he gets kicked out of almost every radio station in the country.  And the plot revolves around his quest for true love, involving a mystery letter that got dropped off at his houseboat, signed by Sweet Thing.  Karyn Parsons, who is famous for playing Hillary on Fresh Prince of Bel Air, works with him on the show and has a secret crush on Leon.  The movie just piles on one boring subplot after another.  And the gags are boring as well.  The first time we see Leon mention the word wang it's pretty funny.  When he uses it over and over again, supposedly trying to get a laugh, the joke has run dry.  Most of the jokes he uses in the film are jokes we heard before, and done better, on the SNL sketch and played out tediously for a whole hour and twenty-five minutes.  They even try to insert a musical number by Will Ferrell and his gang of Ladies' Man haters, who all want to destroy him because their wives had an affair with him, to bring some life into this witless comedy.  Ferrell has some funny moments, and tries to make the best out of an otherwise unfunny role.  Ferrell just has that unique comic talent, and he's funny at almost anything he does.  Even Julianne Moore gets a cameo.  Watching her, you can't but wonder What the hell is an Oscar-winning actress doing in this movie??!!!!  Her name wasn't mentioned in the opening credits--probably by her consent.  And of course a movie of this theme has to include the Master of Love himself, Billy Dee Williams.  Billy Dee is charismatic as always, but even he can't breathe enough life into this film.  I also have to add that the soundtrack is full of soft R & B hits, which impairs the film even more, giving it a horribly downbeat tone--as if the script isn't boring enough.  I mean, this is supposed to be a comedy.  The soundtrack would've been appropriate for something like Love Jones.  The Ladies Man only has sporadic laughs.  There are exceptions in which SNL can produce a great movie out of a short sketch.  Watch both of the Wayne's World movies, and you'll see how it's done.  But this movie, just like adapting Mary Catherine Gallagher's character to screen in Superstar, shows the flip side.  Some sketches are meant to be remembered on SNL, and not on the silver screen.My score  3 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"I give this a 2, because that's how many times I laughed.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think I laughed twice. The line where the main character says something about being from the streets.  And then I forget the other time I laughed. It was probably in the beginning.This has to be one of the thinnest movies ever.  Doesn't Hollywood realize that this kind of humor is degrading and sad, really.  You can only insult yourself so many times.2/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointed","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was very well advertised.  I am an avid movie goer and have seen previews for this movie for months.  While I was somewhat skeptical of how funny this movie would actually be, my friends thought it was going to be great and hyped me up about it. Then I went and saw it, I was sunk down in my seat almost asleep until I remembered that I had paid for this movie.  I made myself laugh at most of the stuff in the movie just so i wouldnt feel bad and destroy the good mood I was in, plus I wanted to get my monies worth out of the movie!  I always go into a movie with an open mind, not trying to go into them with too many expectations, but this movie was not that funny. Now it wasnt the worst movie I've ever seen, but it is definitely worth waiting for HBO.  If you havent seen many previews for the movie or you like very slow and corny comedies you may enjoy it, but for true comedy fans Id say pass.  Maybe even check out The Kings of Comedy again.  Something told me to go see Meet the Parents instead!!! "},{"Title":"SNL skit doesn't fill time","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While Leon is cute on SNL, he's only on for a minute. Like most SNL skits-to-movies, this one can't fill 90 minutes. It has some cute moments (the ones you've seen in the trailer) but the actors are largely wasted. Tim Meadows does his best but the plot just doesn't have many high points. Will Farrell has a bit part. Farrell may be the funniest man alive... but not in this movie. What a shame.  "},{"Title":"Somebody Stop Lorne Michaels!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lorne Michaels once again proves that he has absolutely no business producing movies.You'd think that after such dismal flicks Superstar, Night at the Roxbury, and Coneheads, he'd start to get the notion that maybe he doesn't know what he's doing when it comes to movies (and many would argue that he doesn't know what he's doing when it comes to television, as well). Trying to make feature films out of skits that wore out their welcome the third time the were done on SNL makes no sense.I personally like Tim Meadows, and think that he would be great in the right movie.  It's a shame to see a talented guy wasted in a film that features unfunny after unfunny situation, and caps it all with a dreadfully bad song and dance scene.  Any laughs here will be because the movie is so bad, not because it's funny.Oh well, at least we can be thankful that there are many other tired SNL characters who will never have films done about them.  It's just too bad that this one made it to the big screen. "},{"Title":"Maybe the unfunniest comedy ever.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I could name plenty of funny movies.  There are comedies that set out to be funny, and are.  Some movies, like a Gymkata for example, try to be serious but end up funny.  The Ladies Man is a film that is desperately trying to be funny, but could not be less funny if it was about a guy who got a lot of chicks in the middle of the wreckage of a nuclear holocaust.  It's anti-funny.I don't think I laughed harder than a chuckle at anything in this movie.  It's simply unfunny.  It's boring, stupid, inane, annoying, mind-bogglingly bad, but not funny.  I don't particularly care for Tim Meadows, or this character from SNL, but I expected better than this.The movie is completely lacking logic or common sense.  It's like the script writer had a bag over his head while he was typing and he couldn't see which keys he was hitting.  They tell the origin of the Ladies Man, but fail to include a motivation for his bizarre fascination with acting like it's still the seventies.  The movie tries to get humor out of a man who appears to pleasuring himself to porn, shortly after he tried to hang himself.  This is comedy?  I like to consider myself having a pretty keen sense of humor (Spending a lot of time writing comedy as I do), but maybe I'm just not quite bright enough for this film.Lee Evans, so funny as Tucker in There's Something About Mary, is outrageously bad here.  I was pleading with him in my head to shut up.By the end I was pounding on my chair, muttering under my breath, and had the film gone on any longer, would probably have attempted suicide.  This film might not be as bad as Battlefield Earth, but it's the first movie I've seen that's come close. "},{"Title":"More like 'Tongue-biting man'","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I seriously think Tim Meadows made a huge mistake in creating this character because I swear, his voice was like fingernails scraped through a blackboard as it was extremely annoying. Why couldn't he act a voice impression he could've done like he could do Barry White or Michael Jackson? I'm saying this because his character's nickname would make sense y'know! I feel sorry for the actors that were involved in the film especially Karyn Parsons who made success after playing Hilary in 'The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air', she was always brilliant at doing roles! Also with Billy Dee Williams who was successful at doing 'Star Wars. To be honest, I think this is one of the worst films that SNL ever made and thats not even funny!Don't watch this! "},{"Title":"Cheap Laughs","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Saturday Night Live character Leon Ladies Man Phelps (Tim Meadows) gets a big screen treatment.Of all the Saturday Night Live adaptations, this is not the best. But, luckily, it is far from the worst. In fact, if you just sit back and enjoy it, you might even laugh a little. This is not clever, witty or intelligent humor... but it can still bring a smile. Tim Meadows is an underrated comedian, as evidenced a bit here and even more in Mean Girls.We get some good cameos and supporting cast. Billy Dee Williams is excellent, and it is nice to see him in a slick role, ready to serve up some Colt 45. And we have Will Ferrell singing in a most amusing manner... alongside the guy from There's Something About Mary. Best scene of the movie? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film has something that a lot of comedies don't have - it is fun and enjoyable, while not taking itself too seriously. Unlike many modern comedies it does not try to be profound or convince you to become a Democrat or a Republican. It is about a guy who likes women and sex and life and that is about it. However, these are all pretty basic themes that most people can get behind and so the film does appeal. The comedy is relaxed and the cast is charming. The film exudes an optimism that is hard for anyone to knock down. The film has its flaws, but they are mainly flaws of under achievement. While it is not going to win an Academy Award, it does work quite well as a pleasant comedy that can make you laugh and feel optimistic. There is nothing wrong with that. Even doctors say that laughing and feeling optimistic can help cure disease. So if you want to enjoy yourself and you are not trying to find the next Citizen Kane, put this movie in you DVD tray and enjoy a pleasant evening that will leave you feeling good and feeling that love can win in the end. Not a bad attitude to have these days. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly told jaunt into the mind of a narcissist.","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film deserves a 10 for its brilliant portrayal of the world as experienced in the mind of a playboy. While I found that world morally repulsive, the film did best what storytelling should do, and that is take us through an experience that we would otherwise never undergo. Tim Meadows so convincingly portrays Leon Phelps, and the story so drew me into the reckless world of Leon, that I momentarily forgot that I was watching a parody of the playboy world and felt compelled to rebel against it. Herein lies the film's undoing because its great and bold achievement in storytelling comes at the price of its own success. Understanding that the vast majority of moviegoers will respond only to the story of this film that lies on the surface, and reject that story, I hesitate to be misunderstood by them and admit that I loved it. I loved it not only for its fascinating insights into the deluded mind of the playboy, not only for its amusing portrayal of the idiocy of the human sex drive, but also for its courage to fearlessly explore what is in the shadows of heterosexuality. Besides, it's just funny. "},{"Title":"Would you like a fish sandwich?","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this movie was LOL funny. It's a fun, not to be taken seriously, movie about one man's twisted views on life, love, and... well, ladies from the lowly bus station skank, to the high-class débutante... bus station skank. Tim meadows plays a guy (Leon Phelps) who was raised by in a Playboy-style mansion by a Hugh Hefner-esquire father figure, surrounded constantly by beautiful porn models and actresses. When his father kicks him out on the street he must learn to fend for himself with nothing but the chauvinistic outlook on life that his youth has taught him... that and an unfathomable, nearly mystical level of charm and dumb luck. And so the hijinx begin! If you haven't seen this movie and you enjoy a light-hearted, semi-mindless, comedy/love story, then I highly recommend renting the Ladies' Man. "}{"Title":"Waste of much valuable time...","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The concept of the movie itself seems rather ridiculous to say the least. However, every once in a while curiosity takes the better of you - and though you might think it would do no harm to check out this movie....don't!Tim Meadows is completely miscast as Leon a.k.a The Ladies Man. His role as an 'irresistible lover/dirty mouthed talk show host' is just plain dubious! Instead, throughout the movie you find yourself wincing every time he has to get near a woman, and feeling sorry for them for having to pretend to even be taken by him. His performance lacks charm, good skills and credibility.The plot is weak - if barely there.  There are too many things happening in this movie, and the worst part is - it's not even funny. "},{"Title":"Funny, but only average.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't watch Saturday Night Live but I found the commercials for Ladies Man alluring.  Where else can you see Julianne Moore and Tiff Amber Thiessen as sex-crazed luney toons? or Will Farrell singing and dancing?   This movie was funny; but only average good, not above average.  This is the story of a the man-stereotype taken to the extreme clueless, saying-the-wrong-thing, and always thinkin bout sex.  Just don't expect much from this movie but some laughs; and then you can enjoy it.  I gave this 5 stars.  I thought Undercover Brother was a lot better and funnier.   "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ladies Man is a funny movie.  It successfully turns the short SNL skit into a long story.  The story is not that great, but that's okay.  The actors make this movie.  It's hard for them to fail.  They're just too funny. "},{"Title":"The only review not to mention 'SNL'","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mainly because I don't know anything about 'SNL' or even what it is.Other than that, a very average film. It kept threatening to be both good and awful at various points, but never went on to be either, just stayed ok. I didn't find a single bit of humour in the film, but I'm not really one for US humour or sex humour so never really expected any laughs.But it wasn't awful. It's an easy to follow story & if you watch it the way it is meant to, then it's a likeable plot with likeable characters, who despite constant mentions of male genitalia aren't that crude. On that point, I can't be the only heterosexual man who wouldn't have minded seeing Leon's old boy, or 'wang' as he called it, as it would have added to the theme.Lee Evans & Billy Dee Williams if a little out of place, still put in a good effort in pleasant roles, and there's the gorgeous Karyn Parsons, who I hope goes onto to better things. If it's in comedy, then I hope she gets some funny lines, unlike here.A high 5/10. "},{"Title":"Ladies Man = Pure genius","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I find it extremely disheartening that this soon to be classic recieved only 4.7 stars out of 10 on its recent rating.  Not only is The Ladies Man romantically universal in its meaning, but it also proves extremely heartwarming.  Watching the characterization Tim Meadows brings to the hard-luck Leone  Phelps is purely breathtaking.  I will be truly shocked if this movie does not outesell and outperform the classic Blues Brothers film, also spun off by a SNL skit.  This one is an all around better film.  AFI, I think we have a new film to add to both the Greatest Comedies and Greatest Films of all time.  As, the Ladies Man would say... This movie is Spanking good. "},{"Title":"Funny film","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Ladies Man is the funniest SNL film to come along in a while. Tim Meadows makes a brilliiant to screen transfer as Leon Phelps. The humor in this film is right on target with its humor and the script is witty. My only problem with the film was their was no nudity. But just for being funny it gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.  I loved it.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Except this isn't the sort of movie Billy Dee Williams should have done. He was great in Star Wars, but a movie like this?  Is like Harrison Ford in Sabrina.  It doesn't work.  His acting abilities are far above the quality of this movie.Otherwise, it's one of the funniest movies out in the market.  It's very effective at what it wants to do.7/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Hilarious, Humorous, Funny, and Just Plain Brillaint Film!!!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    The Ladies Man is one of my favorite comedy films ever. Tim Meadows is hilarious and great as Leon as known as The Ladies Man radio  talkshow host. The story is mainly about a man named Leon who is a radio talkshow host who recieves a letter from a rich woman who wants to see him, so he goes to find her while a group of men are chasing him because of him stealing their girlfriends & wives from them. This is slapstick comedy, and a sure hit!!! I have know idea why the critics gave it this rating *+. I think this film deserved at least two or three stars, but that tells you what the critics say. When ever a good or funny movie comes along, they give it a bad rating. Then, when a stupid film comes along such as American Beauty , it ends up winning four academy awards!!! Well, anyways, I don't care what the critics say. I just see a movie if I THINK that I'll like it. And I have to say that The Ladies Man was a movie that I wanted to see. And I saw it, and it is completely great!!! With it's disgusting and funny humor, this is a great comedy that is underrated. This is a great and funny film!! I HIGHLY recommend this film!!! I give it a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!   )                              "},{"Title":"The funniest film of the year","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know you're in for a real treat when the preview you saw 2 months ago had enough laughs to fill 3 whole movies. I was rolling in the aisles through this hilarious romp which puts the Laugh-a-minute back into Laugh-A-Minute Comedies. Tim Meadows is a genius... I think in a decade he will be as big a star as any comedian before him.I saw the advanced sneak preview of this film last night and not only was it hysterically funny, but it had as good a plot as you can expect from a goofy comedy. 100% Comic gold...a real winner.Don't miss the ladies man. "},{"Title":"Once again, SNL proves they should stay away from the big screen.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've been a fan of Ladies' Man for awhile now.  Hell, until now I even had the movie poster as my screen saver at work for the last 2 months. Unfortunately, the SNL character skit going to the big screen has become even more anti-comedy than I had thought possible.  'Skit gone scat' I say.The problem with this film, as with Pat, A Night at the Roxbury, Stewart Smalley(sp?)and other SNL character films (with the exception of Wayne's World), is that these characters simply aren't interesting enough to stretch into a 90 minute film.  Granted there are some humorous moments in Ladies' Man, but for the most part, the film is puerile and painful to watch. I'll grant this one a very generous 3 on a scale of 1-10. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as some might believe","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While this film isn't as worthy as such SNL skit turned films as Coneheads, The Blues Brothers or even the masterpiece Wayne's World, it is much better than the crappy SNL movies that have recently been released (Superstar and A Night at the Roxbury are good examples).  Also, it has some very funny moments, thanks to It's star (Tim Meadows) who plays the wacky Leon Phelps. It might've not worked, but luckily, the skit on SNL was so good (one of the better ones that have been on besides Celebrity Jeopardy) that the movie doesn't degrade it too much, just to the length Lorne Michaels can.Plot follows Phelps as a radio show host who gets fired after using some dirty language (take your lover by the hand and put it in the b*tt).  So, he starts to look for new jobs (the interviews are the funniest part) but finds that he might want to not be the ladies man anymore, but just the man. Overall, the film turns out ok and even sporadically hilarious, and gets in the middle of the SNL film list, just as long as you don't take it too serious (of course) and don't expect Wayne's World 3. B "},{"Title":"Somewhat unfunny attempt to stretch another SNL character...","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1st watched  12/19/2001 - 3 out of 10(Dir-Reginald Hudlin) Somewhat unfunny attempt to stretch another SNL character into a full-length movie.  The problem is not Tim Meadows as the Ladies Man or his sidekick lady Karyn Parsons, it's more the attempt to make a complete character out of a 5-minute sketch character.  Will Ferrell is funny and again it's not the actors & actresses here that I have a problem with it's the writing, the simple directing, and the basic hey we can make 90-minutes out of anything that is funny on Saturday Night Live.  The fact that this was made into a movie shows the American public that we are not smart and we'll accept anything(Well this is one American who won't).  There are much better and more original comedy's out there (watch them not this one).  "},{"Title":"waste of my time","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie for a few laughs.  I had never seen the SNL skit, but with hits like Tommy Boy, and Waynes World, it couldn't have been that bad, could it?  The answer it was.  This movie hardly was a means of relaxing after a hard day at work.  I just kept waiting for a plotline and a funny part, but there wasn't any.  The highlight was tiffany amber thieson, and thats just about it.   "},{"Title":"Watch it!","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the funniest movies of the 21st century! Brilliant. Meadows is excellent in the movie. Plot is daft. Tiffany Thiessen looks amazing. I must have watched this movie at least 10 times by now. I still laugh. I've tried to move onto some other daft comedy movies. Club le Monde from the UK hitting the spot. But you really cannot beat this! Why do I have to write a minimum of 10 lines? Change that rule - poor ludicrous. Why do I have to write a minimum of 10 lines? Change that rule - poor ludicrous. Why do I have to write a minimum of 10 lines? Change that rule - poor ludicrous. Why do I have to write a minimum of 10 lines? Change that rule - poor ludicrous. "},{"Title":"ridiculous, unrealistic movie","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When Tiffani Thiessen was straddling Tim Meadows on the couch she looked hotter than ever, with those long legs in thigh-high stockings. However, her character is ridiculous. She seems to take on these vacuous, sexually charged roles often. It makes you wonder what she does in real life. But I found it depressing that she was automatically willing to sleep with the Tim Meadows character, as were all the other women he predictably bedded. But isn't it convenient that they were all so automatically willing to sleep with him? Of course they were, that was the whole point of the movie. They had to be! But how many people's lives really work this way? How many women are actually this one-dimensional and predictably available? It was completely unrealistic and quite depressing. And it also made no sense that at the end of the movie Tiffani threw herself at Billy Dee Williams! PLEASE!! And it made even less sense that Leon turned her down. Tiffani looked great, yes. If she's so easy, why can't she come over to my place and be an automatically available sex object with me??!! "},{"Title":"well, you cant make a movie from a 5 minute skit!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  was this tim meadows first acting role in a movie?  the character, leon, is funny enough but shortly after that the sexual jokes and humor are too dumb to listen to anymore.  some movies can get away with the sexual jokes, and base their audiences to know that right when the advertising comes on. some movies that do this are american pie and scary movie.  scary movie was stupid, and american pie wouldnt have done well without the sexual jokes. the only role, besides leon, that had some humor that followed was will ferrell.  the character really was dumb and that was all, the dumb humor was all that had me watching.  the movie was ok, and nothing else.  i dont really understand why the snl people that are dying to leave the show always get a movie based on a character they played on the show. the skits last about 5 minutes, and if they can make a movie off a 5 minute skit, then what is the world coming to?  molly shannon had superstar, cheri o'terri had scary movie, but she wasnt a leading role, and will had elf. but that was good, but he did some dumb movie, but i cant remember, and mike myers with wayne's world.  how come the mad tv crew dont ever get movie deals?  seen only one guy break through, but only in like 2 movies and a tv show with andy dick.  but that guy relies on comedy for his life to continue, funny or not.  this movie is not good, but had some positive humor.  what a waste of film and people's money.  (D D-) "},{"Title":"A funny SNL sketch...reuined!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tim Meadows is a great sketch actor. He was one of the best on SNL for almost 10 years. The Ladies Man was sooo funny, he did a great job with it on SNL, but man oh man did this movie suck, i couldn't even watch all of it. Lets think back for a moment now, how many SNL sketchs have been made into really good movies...hmmmm WAYNE'S WORLD and thats it. Molly Shannon's SuperStar sucked ass, the It's Pat movie was horrible. Wayne's World is the only good one. Lets keep them to the TV, don't bring kinda funny sketches to the big screen, it doesn't seem to be working. "},{"Title":"Luvverly Jubblies...","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear World,          I must write and let you know of this wonderful talky which we watched last weekend during happy hour, when I get two reds and a green one and am allowed to sleep under the radiator. The man's afro is very funny. Also someone's trousers come off and you see their ass. Then there is lots of talking, some of which was quite frightening. Then there was some writing, then a lot of dark, then some black and white dots moving very fast over the screen. It's my secret.           Yours sincerely           An idiot.   "},{"Title":"Waste of talent","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Frankly utterly unbelievable that talented directors/writers have such a hard time getting their projects to screen, with gazillions of execs casting their opinions about the quality of their work, and this clunker gets through with apparently no kind of studio review. Lorne Michaels does indeed have a lot of power. Meadows, Williams and the other cast members, all extremely good actors, are totally wasted in this complete waste of time. Apparently there appears to be no QC whatsoever in respect to SNL movie spinoffs.Someone in charge of the production ought to be ashamed of themselves, presumably Michaels. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, waste of $1.99","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie knowing that it was a Saturday Night Live movie, and knowing the track record of SNL movies (It's Pat, Superstar, Night at the Roxbury, Stuart Saves his Family, etc.), but I have to admit that I was disappointed even for an SNL movie.  This was just awful.I suppose it was a lot like the Ladies' Man skits on the show, only a whole lot longer.  It's raunchy, ridiculous, and at some points just plain stupid. I think I laughed once, and it really wasn't a good hearty laugh, but more of a 'I can see how some people can find that funny' laugh. "}{"Title":"The absolute worst movie ever from the SNL crew","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The ladies man might be a somewhat amusing five minute sketch on SNL, but a full length feature is way too much.  The movie is incredibly hard to watch with nothing closely resembling anything funny.  His character becomes more progressively annoying as the movie goes on and my ears were bleeding after listening to his whole rap.  Tim Meadows should stick to playing OJ on SNL. One of the five worst movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"What a HORRIBLE movie!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Of course we weren't expecting it to be great but we were NOT expecting it to be as bad as it was.  How AWFUL!!!  Who in there right mind thought this was a good idea.  It's a shame too because Tim Meadows is such an under used talent.  I could not believe how bad this picture was and would have given anything to have been watching 'It's Pat' (another SNL movie bomb) instead of this one. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  REVIEW THE LADIES MAN *1/2 out of ****The Ladies Man is astonishing in its ability to make Tim Meadows, Lee Evans, and Will Ferrell incredibly unfunny...AND MEADOWS EVEN CO-WROTE THIS S***!!!! The movie is nowhere near as entertaining as it should be. The sketches are hilarious because Leon can only pick up the most filthiest, sluttiest skanks. Here, he's a lovemeister and can pick up any girl. That was a BIG mistake. Not only that, but the film also resorts to the tired boy-meets-girl formula. The film has the new renovated Leon Phelps (Meadows) getting fired from his radio show. (He has a TV show on SNL) He has no luck finding any jobs with his producer (Parsons). Then he finds a note from a former lover who wants to marry him and finds that some angry husbands whose wives he cheated on with are trying to kill him. I nearly cried at seeing Will Ferrell in the tired guy-who-is-gay-but-denies-it character. And yet again, Eugene I'm In Every Third Movie That Comes Out Levy is totally wasted in his role. The last movie to properly use him was Best in Show. However, there is a surprisingly well-done musical number that is a bright spot in the film. But, just watch The BEst of Tim Meadows to see some funny Ladies Man stuff. "},{"Title":"A poorly-extended SNL sketch.....","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Saturday Night Live is a great comedy show and so are most of its late-night scripts for sketches like The Ladies Man.This is not the case with this new film version of this SNL sketch where its main character Leon Phelps (Tim Meadows) plays this sex God who has his own radio program to help people (mostly women) in need of sexual advice and, one of a sudden, seems to be trapped in a world of females, sex and adventure.This whole story is such a Preconceived one and even worst very stupid and full of bitter-tasted jokes. Finally but not the least, the actors performances, which has been one of the worst I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"This Ladies Man is a LOSER and a Scrub!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this movie. I thought it was silly and not too funny. It was only 90 minutes long but that seemed like an eternity. This skit is very funny on SNL but this movie was just plain dumb and not near as funny as I thought it was. Although Tim Meadows is supremely funny and talented, the script and storyline have alot to be desired.  "},{"Title":"`The Ladies Man' could be nominated as the worst SNL adaptation on record yet.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Ladies ManBy Dean KishYet another `Saturday Night Live' sketch makes it on to the silver screen. Haven't they got the hint that there really has been only two of these adaptations that were any good.`The Ladies Man' stars Tim Meadows as his creation Leon Phelps. Leon is a late night sex therapist on the radio who believes deep down inside that he is god's gift to women. He struts around like a reject from the 70's. In this feature film, Leon has slept with to many married women thus creating a coalition to kill the mysterious other man in so many marriages. This coalition is commanded by an Olympian Greek wrestler, played by another SNL alum Will Ferrell. Other prominent figures in Leon's life are his producer, Julie (played by Fresh Prince of Bel Air alum Karyn Parsons), and a loyal barkeep (Billy Dee Williams).`The Ladies Man' could be nominated as the worst SNL adaptation on record yet. The first half you wonder how many jokes can a film like this have about a sexaholic who by pure fluke ends up sleeping with all these women. Not for one minute did I believe that this guy was a gigolo. He is obnoxious, blatantly retarded and insecure.                We also have the stupid voiceover of Billy Dee Williams as he talks about where Leon came from and commentary on what may be happening in his brain. I liked the whole Hugh Hefner connection and personally it was the best part of the film. Why not run with his whole story for the film instead of summing it up in about five minutes.The angle about the group of frustrated idiots running after a bigger idiot to seek vengeance is the saddest excuse for a comedy this critic has seen in a long time. Couldn't they have played a more interesting angle. Then when the mob of idiots sent out to hunt down Leon bursts into song I so wanted to run for the exits. That wasn't funny but just plainly bad. That whole scene will remind me again and again why musicals have never made a comeback.For me the saddest moment in this film was the cameo by Julianne Moore. Moore is a great actress and one of my favorites. Why did she decide to play a horny clown of all things? I almost cried when I saw that. Poor, poor Julianne.Why exactly would a successful woman like Julie fall for such a loser? Why are all the people in this film complete idiots? And why would an audience pay to see this guy? (1 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer. "},{"Title":"Remember when SNL movies used to be funny?  Well you'll have to rely on your memories","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Saturday Night Live used to be a great show, with hilarious skits, and a great cast, several of whom had successful movie careers John Belushi, Chevy Chase, Billy Crystal, Eddie Murphy, and most recently Mike Meyers. In an attempt to repeat this success, SNL Productions has shown that they are willing to stretch any amusing skit into a full-length film -   Stuart Saves the Family,  It's Pat, and Superstar are examples of this desperation.  All of which helps to explain    The Ladies Man.Leon Phelps a.k.a. the Ladies Man is a moronic radio host who dispenses insipid advice to callers and somehow manages to be successful with women. After getting fired for one too many FCC complaints, Leon embarks on a quest to find the rich woman he slept with years ago who has offered to support him.  Unknown to Leon, he is also the subject of a quest - a group of men whose wives/girlfriends he has slept with want him, dead..Even after seeing the trailers, I was determined to approach this movie with an open mind - but I can only do so much meditating.  Not only is the plot ridiculously stupid, the acting is horrible, and the bulk of the film - except for one or two scenes that inspired a smirk - is markedly unfunny. In addition, the repeated use of the phrases doggie style and da butt and numerous homophobic references are too immature to even be classified as juvenile.  Finally, the one mildly clever scene is dragged out and mercilessly beaten to death.The Ladies Man has earned a well-deserved spot in the Hall of SNL Infamy "},{"Title":"Very unfunny","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If I remember correctly SNL used to be very funny, and the movies those guys made were hilarious(Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase, Mike Myers, Jim Carey............), but this movie was SO not funny it hurt. I guess it tried too hard to be smart as well. It failed. The only thing its got going are the two lead female actresses, Karyn Parsons whom I loved since the first time I saw The Fresh Prince and of course Tiffani-Amber Thiessen. Oh yeah, and that nun scene.  But the leading actor pretty much sucks, and he has a silly speech impediment.   Skip this one.     5/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, albeit somewhat crude, Tim Meadows movie","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE LADIES MAN, in my opinion, is a funny, albeit somewhat crude, Tim Meadows movie. I laughed really hard when Leon (Tim Meadows) gave his advice at the beginning. In my opinion, all the women looked very beautiful in the dressy clothing they wore, especially Honey (Tiffani Thiessen). Another thing that made me laugh were the confrontations. I especially loved Scrap Iron (Billy Dee Williams) and Lester (John Witherspoon). Their acts were really funny. They were funny, but a little crude. This movie was very sexy, seductive, witty, glamorous, and hilarious in my opinion. In conclusion, I recommend this movie to anyone who's a fan of Tim Meadows. You're in for a real treat and a lot of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "}]