[{"Title":"Very enjoyable, and sweeter and funnier than the first film","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I sort of enjoyed the Rugrats movie, but this is better. It is sweeter and funnier, and is consequently very enjoyable. While there are some really sweet moments like Chuckie getting upset(that bit nearly made me cry) and some truly funny parts too, namely the priceless wedding scene at the end and the part when Betty sarcastically says while they are in Notre Dame If you've seen one church, you've seen them all, wake me if you see a hunchback. The animation is bright and colourful, and the gorgeous Paris setting is used to very good effect. There is also a nice soundtrack and great voice work from Christine Cavanaugh, Tara Strong, Elizabeth Daily and Cheryl Chase. Susan Sarandon was also wonderful as Coco. While well written and funny, plus the Reptar was cool, this film is not a masterpiece, it is too short, and some of the secondary characters needed more development. I loved the references to the Godfather, Hunchback of Notre Dame, Godzilla and King Kong, they were hilarious, and I think adults will find some enjoyment too with the well scripted lines and the frequent references to various film favourites. In conclusion, funny, sweet, colourful and enjoyable. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Better than the 1st Rugrats movie!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is even better than the 1st Rugrats movie. It was a really fun movie to go see. It had jokes and gags for both the kids and the parents (that's me). I went with my wife and my daughter and all of us really enjoyed the movie and thought it was better than the 1st movie. It was great seeing Chuckie trying to be brave like Tommy. And Angela was her usual naughty self. Phil and Lil were their usual gross selves, too. Even Dill was there, along with all of the grownups. You definitely have to go and see this movie, whether you are a kid, or just a kid at heart.  "},{"Title":"A movie for the WHOLE Family","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being that the first film in this series was somewhat of a  disappointment, I had no expectations of this being above or beyond its predecessor-much to my surprise and pleasure, I was rather thrilled at the results.The animation is stunning, even inspired. The illustrations are full, with just enough whimsy to let you know that this is still what it is. The story is a bit of a tear-jerker, especially if you have seen the series and are familiar with the characters. Anyone who doesn't feel something during this film never had a childhood.Each segment comes alive with its own beat, pulsating joyful across the screen. There is enough in here for adults to WANT to see it again, and enough that the kids won't complain. The references to pop culture are extensive, not limiting themselves to the last five years, or just one genre, but running the gamut from art to politics and back again, from the present day to the distant past. This a film to treasure-not quite all time great material, but very, very good.There are of course, scenes which don't work, or could have been cut out, but then it wouldn't have been itself-And what's the point of that? "},{"Title":"A Lost Rugrats Classic","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Nickelodeon's second theatrical film based on one of their groundbreaking Nicktoons, Stu is summoned to Reptarland (via a cheesy scene where he talks to a woman on the phone very late at night)to fix his attraction and he brings along Chaz, who's thinking about remarrying. (Like the show, everyone else comes for the ride also). The best scenes in this movie are the Godfather parody, Casey Kasem's few lines at the wedding, the King Kong/Godzilla/Super Mario 64 parody, the famous scene where Chuckie SPOILER ALERT crashes the wedding, the Chuckie Chan song, Ooey Gooey Land and Chaz's MySpace page. This film is the best of the trilogy. After seeing this, the first one just looks like an experiment and Rugrats Go Wild, the third and final movie, just looks like a bad film. If you like Rugrats, and you're given a choice about which one you want to watch, pick this one. Oh, and if you want to see this, pick it up very quickly; it hasen't been on TV for years. However, after the movie, the show started to go downhill. (I think that I'm the only person who realized that the tittle is abbreviated to R.I.P. Maybe it was intended to be the series finale...) My Rating 8/10 Rated G (Cocoa MIGHT have said ass at one point of the film.) "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie for Kids","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have watched the movie Rugrats in Paris and I think that it is really a great movie for kids to watch and enjoy. The movie was very realistic just like the other Rugrats movie The Rugrats Movie. Although it wasn't very good because of some parts. On a scale of 1 to 10 I think I will give it a 7 or 8. "},{"Title":"Parents and Kids will like this one","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I sat through this movie with my wife, my two-year-old daughter (on my lap) and my boys (5 and 7 years old).  We've been watching Rugrats on TV for some time, and are quite familiar with the characters.Honestly, this was one of the better movies I've seen this season, bar none. There are ample parodies of other movies (to make the adults laugh-outright), as well as lots of fun for the little ones.  The battle between Robo-Reptar and Robo-Snail kept my boys talking excitedly all the way home.If you are not a fan of the Rugrats, this movie will do little to change that.  However, this movie is considerably better than either the first Rugrats movie or any of the individual TV episodes.  For once, a movie spawned from a TV series is actually better than the series.   "},{"Title":"For once... sequels are better.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went with my 3 daughters and whole family.(husband and inlaws) We all loved it. The music scores was just right, and I thought it was VERY good. Two new characters are introduced. The locales were true to life. The detail was amazing. And after the movie... I had to remind myself that it was made for the kiddies. It's not something that an adult will groan as 'the obligatory movie' for their child that they have to suffer thru as their chaperone. Knowing the characters before-hand is a plus... then you would know/understand what's going on with the characters, because everyone is there at some point. For a kid's cartoon... it was very good. two thumbs up and in perspective, it's for the kids. "},{"Title":"They did it again. I laughed, I cried and you will too; if you have a heart.","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is a pleasant surprise when a movie meets your expectations; it's a great gift when a movie exceeds them.  Rugrat in Paris The Movie does just that. Being a sequel usually means a movie has one strike against it.  Not only does it have the predecessor to live up to, but it needs to still seem fresh and new.  The rugrats movies had the almost decade old series to live upto. The first one was a ruckus affair reminding one of the early years of the series.  It was a total triumph.  To maintain the high standards of both the series and the first movie would require some hot writing and a big payoff. Both are present in the newest edition to the  rugrats saga.  The story is a heart warming touching story, the songs that make of the sound track are just fantastic.  Even if you are not a parent this movie will be one of your favorites of 2000.  "},{"Title":"The Rugrats visit Paris -- and Paris will never be the same.","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With lots of fun references to other movies (`Godfather' being the best homage) `Rugrats in Paris' is a good time for all.The animation in this film is not as flashy as in the first `Rugrats' movie that came out in 1998 but because of that it works all that much better.  It is more simplistic, less dark and much more in the vein of the Nickelodeon cartoon series.It also has a few breakthrough moments  why Chuckie doesn't have a Mom, Chuckie's first word (at least the first word understandable by adults) and actual empathy by Angelica for another person's feelings.That is why I continue to watch the `Rugrats' both on television and in their movies  unlike so many other cartoon characters they continue to evolve and grow &#150; though I hope they never truly grow up.In addition to the usual voices used in the Nickelodeon series the addition of Debbie Reynolds, Susan Sarandon, John Lithgow and Casey Kasem make this film version just that much better.  Especially Susan Sarandon who plays the scheming &#145;Coco LaBouche' &#150; a real star turn if ever there was one.There are a few scary moments that children of the actual age that the Tommy, Chuckie, Phil and Lil are supposed to be might find to be a little too much but the overall film has a lot of warm, fuzzy moments that, as is the standard for all the &#145;Rugrats' productions, teach a good lesson without hitting you over the head with it.There is pathos, sweetness, redemption, scariness and just the right amount of humour to make this a film that all the family should see.  "},{"Title":"A fun-filled, adventurous and amusing spin-off of a childhood favourite","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this film at the cinema in 2001 with my sister and a volunteer/social worker and we all found it enjoyable. Later that year I received the VHS for Christmas (which I still have to this day) and I was happy that it included two bonus features at the end; the music video for the Baha Men's 'Who Let the Dogs Out? (the most memorable pop song in the film itself)' and behind the scenes footage.Back to the film. The animation is more fluid and detailed than that in the television series while the backgrounds for Euroreptarland are vibrant and imaginative. A lot of the dialogue is pretty memorable with some funny and clever lines, particularly from the Rugrats themselves (such as Dil saying Wee wee/Oui oui as he wets himself and Angelica saying he's speaking French already) and some pop culture references that I didn't pick up until my most recent viewing today. The characters from the original series and 'The Rugrats Movie' are their usual selves while Chuckie brings out his brave side towards the end, and although Susie (who I think should have gone to Paris since she didn't join the other Rugrats on their adventure in the first film) and Kimi (who is new in this film and pleasingly appeared in 'Rugrats' episodes following this film) got the least screen time. While the story was weak in places, I liked the main plot of Stu being sent to Euroreptarland to fix a giant robotic Reptar and the subplot of Chuckie longing for a new mother. The incidental music is mostly grand and cinematic with a couple of quirky spots that sound like the music used in the series; however while most pop songs were pleasant, funny and catchy, they weren't as memorable as the Baha Men's number, Geri Halliwell's version of 'These Boots Are Made For Walking,' and the rendition of 'Bad Girl' performed by Angelica and the sushi place staff. Another flaw was the second coating of slime on Angelica changing from purple to green during the climax. Flaws aside, another positive spot was the voice acting, particularly from the Rugrats and their parents. Debbie Reynolds was a pleasant surprise for Lulu while the French accents from Susan Sarandon and John Lithgow for Coco and Jean-Claude respectively were spot on.In spite of its problems, 'Rugrats in Paris' is fun to watch and brings back fond enough memories of watching the television series as a child and teenager. 8/10. "}{"Title":"Better than I would've expected **spoilers**","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     After seeing the utterly horrid The Rugrats Movie, I wasn't expecting anything better than mediocrity from this one.  Boy was I pleasantly surprised.   The plot concerns Stu Pickles going to Paris to fix a Reptar Robot he gave to a French theme park ran by Coco LaBouche (Susan Sarandon).  Well . .. I don't wanna spend too much time on the plot, so . ..   Hardly perfect, but it's above-average, compared to most Nick films.  Certainly way better than the original.   The animation isn't great (in my opinion), but numerous jokes and movie references (much more intelligent than the three year old-directed humor of the original) work extremely well.  The continual parodies of The Godfather are hilarious and shockingly well-done.  (And Chuckie does kinda sound like Vito Corleone . . . scary.) There are references to King Kong, Lady and the Tramp, the Godzilla movies, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Enter the Dragon, and surely more.  This film is, as one reviewer of The Rugrats series put it, on the fine line between children's entertainment and adult satire.   There are some relatively emotional moments, too the opening wedding scene is surprisingly effective (and it takes a lot to get me crying, believe me), the wedding of Kira and Chas, Chuckie screaming No! (his first word intelligible to the adults) as Coco and Chas are about to get married . . . the only drawbacks are the toilet/gross-out humor, which is unfortunately abundant here (esp. the scene with the babies playing in the bathroom of a plane I don't get it, either and Ooey Gooey World), and the fact that the new characters, Kira and Kimi (Chuckie/Chaz's wife/mom/daughter/sister) would destroy what little enjoyability the Rugrats series had left.  But, aside from that and the (enjoyable) implausiblity (I'd rather see the 'rats riding the Reptar robot around Paris than Spike fight that stupid wolf on a bridge), this is a very good family film.   Seven stars. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rugrats in Paris The Movie is another worthy sequel to a great movie. The babies are funnier this time around and the in joke refrences are hilarous. The Godfather parody will ahve you rolling in the aisles. This is a movie for the young and the young at heart. "},{"Title":"A Kid's Movie For Everyone.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rugrats In Paris is a really cute movie. The tv show has been aired from around 1990 till now, and is a very fun children's show. The movie also shows more emotions from the characters than in the original, such as the mother-less Chuckie. This movie is really funny and entertaining. I give Rugrats In Paris a 10 out of 10.  )  "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I felt manipulated. Good job!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you only see one movie this year... hopefully this isn't it. It's a good movie (I gave it an 8 out of 10 though I was probably a bit generous), but there are better ones out there.  However, if you're an adult with children, or you just want to take a break from serious cinema and go on a shallow emotional roller-coaster ride, this is your ticket.  Geared primarily for kids and the adults they drag along with them, this will probably appeal to those who may have had a bad experience with other holiday releases (i.e., one featuring a certain revamped Dr. Seuss character who shall remain nameless.) It's definitely one of those movies that you've got to allow to be corny, cheesey, and oftentimes sappy in order to enjoy it. If none of this appeals to you, then you'd best avoid this movie, because it's full of it.  Though it makes up for it by having its share of in-jokes, parodies, and subtle wink over the kid's heads humor that won't make sense to them for a decade or so. Was it an unnecessary sequel? Perhaps. But as far as unnecessary sequels go, this is one of the better ones I've seen recently.Warning single fathers with children may have difficulty explaining to their kids afterward why they can't go mother-shopping in Paris too. (And no, that's not a spoiler, you're told that much in newspaper blurbs.) "},{"Title":"THIS IS THE BEST FILM I HAVE SEEN","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is just as great as the first one was. I recommend everyone to see it. I can't wait for it to come out on video so it can proudly be added to the rest of my Rugrats video collection.I hope they make a third Rugrats movie next year so Kimi can have a full adventure with the rest of the crew. "},{"Title":"The Rugrats shine in their second feature film","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought Rugrats in Paris was a great movie, a must-see for all ages, especially Rugrats fans!  The plot was intriguing, the animation outstanding, the dialogue funny and charming.  This movie definitely brought some major changes to the Rugrats clan, and all in all, made me love them even more! "},{"Title":"Can't think of a better thing to do with my kids for 2 hrs.","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had a blast.  They had a blast.  It was clean fun.  No profanity, no sex, nothing I had to explain.  (Other than what a Godfather was.) ;)I enjoyed it much more than the first movie, and more than the TV show It is amazing how they can throw in some pretty high-level humor that only my wife and I are going to laugh at, while simultaneously showing babies shoving goo in their diapers and putting my kids into fits.I thought I was going to fall off my seat when Phil and Lil came up with a horse's head that they found in their crib.We will actually go see it with our kids again in the theatres.  (Probably do a matinee this time.)  I can think of a lot worse things to do with two hours. "},{"Title":"Those lovable rag-a-muffins take on Paris.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very good animated comedy. And true to the TV series, out of the mouths of babes comes potty talk and there is always the heavy helping of potty humor. The Pickle clan along with Chuckie Finster and his widowed father find themselves at a Japanese theme-park in Paris where the greedy proprietor Coco LaBouche(Susan Sarandon) tries to force Mr. Finster into marriage. Chuckie interrupts the wedding at the appropriate time by uttering his first word(understood by adults)...NO! But that doesn't mean romance is dead. All is well that ends well. The Rugrats' appeal seems to still be snowballing. This flick has what it takes to please everyone in between the younger diaper set to the older diaper set! Forget about your troubles for just a little while and find the humor in the messes these toddlers and crawlers get into.Christine Cavanaugh is the voice of Chuckie. Cheryl Chase gives voice to the group's brat Angelica. Sarandon is not exactly in her element with the French accent. Some other voices you may or may not recognize are that of John Lithgow, Melanie Chartoff, Casey Kasem and Debbie Reynolds. "},{"Title":"Any adult with guts will say that they like this movie on their own, rather than because their kids like it.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I started to watch the Rugrats' TV show because my kids wanted to watch it.  I'll watch it on my own now, because it's one of the funniest shows around, and the movie is even funnier.Fortunately, it's not a show or movie that talks down to kids, or does whatever it can do to stupefy the parents (as, say, a show about a certain purple dinosaur).  Rugrats in Paris succeeds because it has humor on all levels -- certainly simple slapstick, but also higher satire as well (what three year old kid will understand the reference to The Godfather?).  Even though you could probably see the ending coming from a mile off, it was still a very funny movie, and extremely well made.  A lot of the animation effects were worth the price of admission itself.Oh yeah, my kids loved it, too.  This was the first time that my three year old daughter was in a movie theatre, and she loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Better than the first, but still","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While I will go as far as to say this sequel to the smash (though not to smashing to me) 1998 film Rugrats is better than the first, I'm not giving this film everything.  There are as many (if not more) poop and pee jokes here than the original and while I'm a fan of that humor (Jeff Daniel's landmark scene in Dumb and Dumber is a good example), this goes too far. Still, despite various liabilities, it was fun, with the big pull up being the parody of The Godfather with the Mobfather as Angelica.  Celebrity voices include Susan Sarandon, John Lithgow, Cindi Lauper, and Isaac Hayes. B+ "}{"Title":"The decline continues","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rugrats in Paris, where can I start.... well, it's kinda like the first film, the fact that it's not a terrible movie, but certainly not a masterpiece either.First off, the only good bits are the Godfather Parody at the start, and I must say, it's a good parody, and some well scripted lines, thats where the good stuff stops, and if you wanna expect a good film, stop reading now.The bad points are that the movie has crappy animation, some bad voice acting, and crappy designs, thats all the bad points.Other than that, it's a relativly enjoyable experience, and you just might like it.Overall 6/10  "},{"Title":"A great film. Have loads of memories of it from when I was kid. Good for the family too. If you loved the Rugrats, I highly recommend watching this.","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was officially released in 2000. I first saw it in 2003- 2004, when I was only a young child. I enjoyed it a lot but since I was so young I couldn't remember anything from it, until i watched it again a few years later in 2009, and it brought me back to it. I've been watching Rugrats since I was 2 so I grew to love this movie. I watched it again a few weeks ago, and I cried so much. The scene at the start of the movie when Chuckie had to stand out from a mother-and-child dance because he had no mother of his own (and the lovely song When You Love playing in the background) literally had me in tears. Even more so the scene on the plane, with the song I Want A Mom That'll Last Forever playing whilst Chuckie is looking out the plane window, sad and lonely about having no mother when he sees a picture of his late mother and him in a cloud. That scene hit me even more.The movie in general though, is extremely entertaining, cute, beautiful, well written, and in some cases funny. It is definitely one of my favourite movies and I recommend it to anyone who is a hardcore Rugrats fan from any time of their life. It is also a fantastic family film. However, the two sad Chuckie-mom scenes will always make me cry, no matter how old. I have to say that watching this film for the third time in December 2015 was really a great feeling. It brought me back to my Rugrats filled childhood and it felt sweet and happy at the same time.Personal rating 10/10. An absolutely brilliant film. I love it. After 15 years of its release, they definitely need to show this movie on Nickelodeon or something again. It will definitely bring back the nostalgia that either 90's kids or Nick/Rugrats fans dream of. And I'm not even a 90's kid, and I still love this movie! It's because, like I said before, my love for the Rugrats. ) "},{"Title":"Leave It in Paris.","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rugrats in Paris The Movie (2000) Dir Stig Beggvist, Paul Demeyer / Voices Susan Sarandon, John Lithgow, Tim Curry, Debbie Reynolds, Jack Riley Surprisingly better than the original film while still being mediocre. This is an exaggerated paradise when factoring the Rugrats venturing to Paris but the animation itself is still pretty bad. One of the fathers must travel to France to repair a mechanical dinosaur and his friends gather up their babies and join. The villainess must get married in order to seal a theme park ownership deal. The rest is formula yet may appeal to children. Directed by Stig Beggvist and Paul Demeyer who can be credited for the broader plot but it is the villainess voiced by Susan Sarandon who steals the film. She attempts to con her way into a relationship for her own personal gain and is brought down by these juveniles. John Lithgow voices the thankless role of henchman who is out to botch the Rugrats under the villain's orders. Tim Curry and Debbie Reynolds are among the talented voice talents voicing cardboard characters. It is practically a given that one's career is in shambles when it comes down to lending your voice to this. There is a parental theme that somewhat works but adults will prefer that this idiocy remain in Paris. It is pretty much toned down to a child's understanding and that isn't totally complimentary. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Downturn the Rugrats Franchise Takes Before the Awful Crossover","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After a successful, entertaining Rugrats film I was expecting this one to be an interesting sequel. Think about it, most TV shows that are adapted to films are basically and more often than not just longer episodes. Some films like The Simpsons Movie, when thought about, could just be half and hour episodes. With the first Rugrats film it would have been next to impossible to chop it down to a half hour episode. With this one though, the babies (or rugrats) I was excited because I thought now their really changing it up. Way different, unexpected setting, a fine plot, this should be memorable and way more entertaining than the first. I was off.The plot is recycled and just modified to fit the characters. Stu Pickles gets a late night call from Paris to go to EuroReptarland, a theme park, to fix the broken Reptar mechanical robot. He brings Tommy, Chuckie, Phil, Lil, Angelica, the baby Dil, and all of their parents to have fun in Paris while Stu works. Soon and ironically, Coco LaBouche is looking to run EuroReptarland and must find someone with a heart of a child. When Angellica overhears her talking about this, she comes up and tells her about Chuckie's lonely father, Chaz in exchange for her own princess float at EuroReptarland. So Coco is determined to win over Chaz.Not a bad plot, but it's not really unique in anyway. Is that the best they could do? Its better than if they recycled the babies getting lost like they did in the first. But still, that plot might have worked in a big city like Paris. I must also note Grandpa Pickles doesn't make an appearance at all in this movie, unless I missed him. I didn't recall him appearing once in this entire movie. I was disappointed because he was one of my favorite characters.In sequel terms, it's fine, but the first like 80% of the time, is better. The idea of the babies in Paris could've spawned numbers of ideas. The babies visiting the Eiffiel Tower, running ramped through the town, anything. But the idea they went with just didn't grab me in really at all. There were parts that the film felt original, fresh, and funny. But the comparison it has on the original film is small. Could Rugrats Go Wild be any better than this? Don't count on it.Starring Elizabeth Daily, Tara Strong, Cheryl Chase, Christine Cavanaugh, Dionne Quan, and Kath Soucie. Directed by Stig Bergqvist and Paul Demeyer. "},{"Title":"Best Romantic Comedy in a long time","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this would mainly be one for the kids, but I thought it was at least as romantic as the typical Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan or Ben Affleck/Sandra Bullock vehicle.  Only reason I didn't give it a 10 is my dislike for the usual obsession with poop. "},{"Title":"Best of family entertainment this past year!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe that I almost missed this highly entertaining movie!  This is a movie that anyone will enjoy.  I am almost 24 and find the Rugrats to still be charming!  This movie even moved me, especially when Chuckie is watching all of his friends dance with their mothers.  I can't wait to own the DVD!  It is one of the best times that I had at the theater this past year, and I enjoyed it many, many times over The Grinch. If only all family movies were as well written and entertaining as this and The Emperor's New Groove, the world (or at least Blockbuster) would be a better place for ALL! "},{"Title":"I thought it was cute!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My child watches the Rugrats all the time but I have never really watched them. I went to the movie and I thought it was really cute. I enjoyed the movie. The songs in the movie are real well also. I am looking forward to purchasing the movie when it is available. "},{"Title":"Cute movie, good music","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the first time I've ever seen Rugrats.  The movie appealed to all ages.  It even had a story line that brought laughs and almost a few tears. The music was great as is the soundtrack.  Only one thing missing from soundtrack.  What happened to the song sung by the princess and Coco, Reptar, I Love You.   It was a beautiful and important part of the movie and should have been in the soundtrack.  Tsk!  Tsk!  Do you agree? "},{"Title":"Glad I saw it","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was a fine movie, suitable for children and adults. If you're like Coco LaBouche, however, you probably won't like it. Too bad for you, then.Although my kids are rather older than Angelica and her dumb ol' babies, I find I relate to the adult characters, and, as a recently widowed father, particularly to Chaz. The plot of the movie provided stimulation for some meaningful conversations with my 9-year old son that might not have occurred otherwise.My son loved the film, and pronounced it, on a scale of 1-10, a 20. I loved the movie parodies, as well as the humor that went over my son's head (he was unfamiliar with the phrase to lose one's lunch and so missed a rather gross joke ...).All in all, it seems that, on the heels of their unexpected success with the first feature-length film, someone in the creative team said, And how much more can we gross if we give this one a *plot*, too?. The result worked MUCH better than the first film.Can't wait to own a copy. "},{"Title":"Rugrats in Paris The Movie","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is film sequel to the first film based on the second longest running cartoon on TV (longest running is obviously The Simpsons). Basically best talking baby friends Tommy (Elizabeth Daily), Chuckie (Christine Cavanaugh), twins Phil and Lil, and mean Angelica (Cheryl Chase) this time are going to Paris when Tommy's Dad, Stu, is summoned to the region's theme park, Reptarland, to work on his new invention. Along the way the kids see the blossoming romance between Chuckie's Dad, and secretary Kira Watanabe (Julia Kato), who works for the horrible Coco LaBouche (Susan Sarandon). Also starring Casem Kasem as the wedding DJ, Debbie Reynolds as Lulu Pickles, John Lithgow as Jean-Claude, Tim Curry as Sumo Swinger, Billy West as another Sumo Singer and Dan Castellaneta as Priest. Good for kids, and adults will like some of it too. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"Best sequel ever!!!","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rugrats in Paris was good, it close to it's 1st movie, the music, new characters and love and sadness. I like the part where Chuckie Finster look at his friends dance with their mother and he there all alone without a mother (how sad it was), the other part is when Chuckie has vision of his mother when the song came on (it's I Want a Mom that last forever), there's clouds of him and his mother hugging, and loving each other, the song makes it more sadder (it relates to Chuckie's past that Chuckie wants a mom that last forever when he grown up and have a mother to support him), and the last part where Kira Watanabe (Kimi's mother) role the bike, non-stop rushing to save the children and warn Chas Finster (Chuckie's father) about Coco (Kira's boss). Well at the end of the movie, Chuckie has his wish, and it was so good. I wished that I have seen ever single Rugrats episode before All Grown Up, I going to see All Grown Up episodes, especially, Trading Places, I wonder who is Kimi's true Japanese father really is.This movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Better than the first.","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this film about 4 years ago and I thought it was brilliant. This is probably the best Animated movie. The voices for the characters were great and I most particularly liked the voices of Tommy Pickles, Chuckie Finster, Stu Pickles and Chas Finster. I also thought that this movie was better than the first. The animation was brilliant. The script writer was good and I most Particularly like the bit when the kids say, I've seen London, I've seen Paris, I've seen coco's underpants.I liked the songs and I most particularly liked the song who let the dogs out. This film is suitable for children and adults too. I like watching the T.v. series but I thought this movie was better. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rugrats in Paris is a great movie. I think it was even better than the first Rugrat movie. It had many good moments in it and I thought it was very cute and touching.I saw this movie in theaters opening weekend when I was 13. I went with my sister and my friends and the theater was very crowded.(I think it was sold out). I remember I was very excited when the movie started.The best part of the movie was the wedding of Grandpa Lou and Lulu. The way they spoofed the Godfather was hilarious. I was laughing hysterical about Angelica being the Godmother and Phil and Lil finding the horse's head in their crib. That part was great! The end of the movie when they are having the cake fight at Chaz and Kira's wedding is also very funny. The plane ride to Paris was also hysterical and sad! The music and the songs in the movie was also really good, my personal favorite was the Reptar song. I have the soundtrack! Overall I give this movie 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't say brilliant... Nei - zer would I.","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rugrats Movie was diverting enough, but Rugrats in Paris The Movie is dangerously close to being a sequel too far - the animation is again more expensive than that of its source, and the movie's fine when it sticks to Chucky's desire for a mother, or when the avaricious, angular, child-hating Coco La Bouche (the head of EuroReptarLand, the woman who says Nei-zer for Neither, and arguably the real star of the movie) is on screen.But when it focuses on the shrill, grating antics of the other kids (Angelica sums it all up What is it with you babies and poop?)... or when it pads out its fairly slim storyline with too many pop songs... or when the movie really has no good reason to bring the whole bunch to Paris other than Stu and his family (with a total of ten writers credited, including five punch-up writers, you'd think they could have come up with something better)... simply put, any given episode of The Fairly OddParents beats this movie hands down. And is this really the best place for a Godfather parody?The aforementioned Coco (give it up for Susan Sarandon!), Chucky's kung fu dream sequence and the get-me-to-the-church-on-time climax keep this movie from being a total waste, but it's to be hoped that Rugrats Go Wild (Tommy Pickles and Co. meet Eliza Thornberry and the rest... what next, SpongeBob SquarePants visits Jimmy Neutron?) is the last in the series. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie for the family of all ages!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was wonderful. I laughed and had a great time. My 9 year old daughter and 4 year old son loved every second of the film. Theynenjoyed it more than the first Rugrats movie. My husband even laughed out loud. I really enjoyed it when the song ,Who let the dog's out By the Baha Men began playing. All of the children in the theater sang out at the top of their lungs. I highly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"RUGRATS RULE","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an awesome movie. It was twice as good as the first one. The music was really cool. Especially the song Who let the dogs out. That is a cool song.  The plot was really good. The movie was also really funny. I loved every minute of it. In fact I think I was more excited about watching the movie than some of the kids in the theater were. Trust me you and your kids will love this movie. Even if your a Rugrats fan or not. I recommend this movie to anyone who is a big Rugrats fan and for anyone who likes a good childrens movie. In my opinion I think this is the best Nick movie ever made. "},{"Title":"slightly better than the original","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i thought this was a slightly better movie than the first one.it starts out the same,though.with about half an hour left,the movie becomes oddly involving and actually held me interest.once again,this movie is filled with references only adults would understand.this movie has a cheeky edge to it that the firs tone didn't have.it's thankfully,not as loud as the last one,and there are less annoying musical type songs.there is a bit of toilet humour this time around.again though,the kids will probably enjoy it and the adults will be mostly unsatisfied.it's unfortunate,since there are so many clearly geared toward adults.for me,This second Rugrats movie is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"It was thanks to this movie that the t.v show plummeted","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rugrats in Paris is another animated family film about the whole gang of babies going to Paris because of Stu's robot in a big show blowing up so he must fix it. When in Paris the babies enjoy the sites, Spike runs away with a pup, and an evil business woman tries to marry Chuckies dad to get a promotion from her boss. Can the babies save Chaz? Rugrats in Paris is like the last Rugrats film, predictable and family friendly. The babies are cute, the story is squeaky clean, and there are plenty of diaper jokes to go around. But it's thanks to this film that the character Kimi is introduced and, spoilers ahead, Chuckie's dad Chaz marries Kimi's mom and so Kimi becomes part of the gang. That started the fall of the show. But overall this film is good for a rental. Rugrats gets the big 6, fun for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Great salute to Godfather","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great joke for the adults!The movie starts with the wedding of Grandpa Pickles and has Angelica as 'Godmother' receiving visitors 'in the occasion of her grandfather's wedding. Dil and Lil found the head of a hobby horse in their crib and Chuckie asked for a new Mommy.All the rugrats travel to Paris to EuroReptarland and Angelica almost sets Chuckie's Dad up with childhating Coco who wants to make her retiring boss think she likes children so she can take over Reptar Inc. Along the way we meet Coco's assistant, Kira (and 3 year old daughter Kimi) who help the rugrats crash Coco and Chaz's wedding in a giant Reptar robot.The movie ends with the wedding of Chuckie's dad, Chaz, and his new mommy Kira (and a new sister Kimi. Chuckie is receiving Angelica's visit 'on the occasion of his father's wedding' with Kimi warning Angelica to not disrespect him.  "},{"Title":"Great as well as the first","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rugrats in Paris the Movie - Rugrats II (The Rugrats movie part Deux) I liked this movie as well as the first rugrats movie, the rugrats go to paris and they get lost, Chuckle's dad tries to find him a new mother, he meets a wrong kind of mom and then meets the right one, a French woman who has a French Daughter, Chuckles new sister is a French girl "}{"Title":"Some sequel to spike up a new season","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So THE RUGRATS MOVIE was a box office smash, and they got tired of continuing the show off with the cute Dil, and wanted to make Angelica bossier, and brattier. Well they come to the right place to continue off the where the T.V. show left us off. When I saw the new rugrat Kimmi, she was cute. And like Dil, they will continue the show off with her and Kira. And it was good that Chuckie got Kira as a nice new mom. Good CGI affects for the sentimental cloud scene, the disco ball, and the big robot scene. O.K. now in 1977's RACE FOR YOUR LIFE CHARLIE BROWN this was a Peanuts film that included a villain which is Charles Schultz's answer to the Three Stooges. But in this film, there is Klasky Csupo's answer to Cruella De Ville, Coco La Bouche. Anyone who saw THE GODFATHER trilogy will laugh hard at the beginning of the film. Any one who watched a lot of Kug-Fu movies, will laugh hard at the Chuckie Chan scene (which is spoofing Bruce Lee, and Jackie Chan). Anyone who watched a lot of monster movies, will laugh hard at the Reptar vs. Robo-Snail scene. Robo-Snail is either spoofing Mothra, or Gamera (but to me it's Gamera). The Reptar theatre scene is reminding kaiju fans of DAIMAJIN, and those Godzilla movies with musical numbers between 1971 to 1974. You can see what Mr. Yamaguchi looks like all along, and you can see why Angelica gives the babies hell, what was Chuckies first Mom looks like, and what happened to her. There is a cheap SUPERMAN spoof It's a bird, It's a plane, It's Angelica! KING KONG films gets spoofed in this one. The 1933 original (Reptar rockets on the Eiffel Tower), the 1976 remake (a helicopter files around Reptar on top of the tower), KING KONG VS. GODZILLA (Robo-Snail grabs Reptar by the tail and swirls him round in circles), KING KONG ESCAPES (at the tower, Reptar saves Angelica from death). And yet there is one scene that took an element off an unmade American King Kong movie by RKO that was said to shot in color called KING KONG VS. FRANKENSTEIN (Reptar and Robo-Snail fought on a bridge). There are morals to this film. Never let your child watch an R-rated movie (even when it is old). Choose a good and nice wife. Listen with full attention. No one likes a meanie. Now I heard that the Rugrats will have their third movie with the Wild Thornberrys. And I bet in this movie Angelica will God help us bratty. Zoiks! Oh no!!  "},{"Title":"A charming, upbeat film","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion, the new rugrats episodes are kinda boring, but the movie sequel is the exact opposite!  This film was cute and touching, like Lilo and Stitch was.My dad, my mom's friend's son and me went to a mall to see this, but the first show was sold out.  Luckily, we saw the next viewing.  Let me tell ya, there were ALOT of kids and parents in the theater.It's funny how there's a Japanese themed amusement park in Paris.  Kimi's a nice edition to this movie too.  My dad liked the part when Chuckie said Over my dead potty! (lol).  It was more realistic than the last movie, except for the part where the babies were driving the giant reptar monster throughout the city.If you want to know who Chuckies new mother is, see this movie for yourself! I recommend it!P.S. My favorite Rugrats episode was the one entitled Radio Daze.  They were so cute in that episode!  I don't know why I'm saying this, but I'm not really a ghetto superstar, that's just my favorite song. "},{"Title":"Um","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is really a comment from my sister, and nieces. My nieces are 8 and 4 and my sister took them to see it. They didn't like it, and the 8 year old clearly thought it was disqusting.What with this thing about a barf bag on the plane and hints that Phill ate some and now he's feeling sick and Lil brought it along for him?I can't remember what else to say, but they liked the first movie better and I used to be friends with the man who created Raptar or the Raptar song, I can't remember which for the life of me and he wrote 2 episodes for the series.All I can say is I think it's gone downhill since the first movie.I myself love all types of movies, whether they're horrors or not, but this scene with a barf bag and eating it for kids?  That's just wrong in my opinion.But hey, many people like it, just wanted to note what my nieces thought.  Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Not necessary...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't even need to see it to believe it!  The whole Rugrats empire has gone too far.  A second movie IS NOT necessary at ALL.  Here goes... little scaredy cat Chuckie Finster goes to a wedding and gets depressed that he doesn't have a mom (deceased).  A brother of the father Chaz calls up and says there's a malfunction at Euroreptarland (a licensed Japanese Godzilla-type Reptar theme park in Paris) and make's a mistake, saying that Chaz can bring family and friends (I don't know why they could have settled it all with a nice, long mini-series).  That was the cunning way to a plot of garbage.  Chaz had an idea that he could find love in gay not today's meaning -P Pareee.  All the babies and company go to Paris and get into a typical Scooby Doo situation (Stupid meddling kids...).  Two new characters come into view, a new Rugrat, Kimi, and the step-mother of Chuckie, which has yet to be determined.  They make a big deal about a minor character instead of a new Rugrat. But hey, I'm only a 12-year-old who loathes many popular cartoons (Pokédie!))   A Rugrats movie is the way to introduce a new character to the show (miniseries...).  They have also stereotyped the French enough to call it discrimination.  Streetside cafés, monuments (like the dog doing his busines on the Eiffel Tower, ala Big Daddy), the language (like saying Oui, Oui meaning an amber bodily waste), their fashions and appearances, food, etc. etc.  What the $%#@ did Nickelodeon do to them?  Infiniti thumbs Way, Way DOWN!  "},{"Title":"Are You Kidding? This Must Be A Joke!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie and it really is not great! The music is great, but the plot sucks! Save your money, and just buy the only thing thats good about the movie THE SOUNDTRACK! P.S. Keep in mind I am A Rugrats fan! "},{"Title":"one of the worst films ever made.","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I hated this film. I was forced to go watch it with some friends that hate me now because they heard me sware. Doesn't this crap ever get old Nickolodeon. Nickolodeon really needs to bring back Ren & Stimpy real bad. Nicktoons is dieing off now and thats a good thing because nicktoons disirves to die for banning Ren & Stimpy. That was down right cold man. So avoid this movie with all you got. I'm not saying this movie is bad because they banned Ren & Stimpy. NO that's only half of it. There cartoons are just plain old crap now. Even back then I actually didn't mind the rugrats. I would rather watch the grass grow for the next 4 years than have to watch this again. "},{"Title":"Pretty awful.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the first couple of seasons of the TV show and I love Paris! So I thought this would be great fun -- afterall I could imagine the kids getting lost in the Louvre, or dangling over the edge of the Eifel Tower, or falling off a bridge and onto one of the tour boats on the river, etc. But, this film takes place in a pseudo-Tokyo theme park named EuroReptarLand (can you say EuroDisney?) There's jokes about sushi, not escargot, sumo wrestlers as waiters and floor show entertainers, and some ripoffs of the Lady And The Tramp film, etc. All in all, a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"An OK kids film that will please fans but doesn't do enough for the adult audience","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When Stu gets an invite to visit Euro-Reptarland, he decides to make it an extended family thing and takes all Tommy's friends and their families to Paris with him. While his peers just look forward to the holiday, Chuckie wishes to find a new mother. When the head of Reptarland learns that she will not be promoted any further, Coco LaBouche decides to use Chuckie's dad Chas as a way to quickly get a family and thus promote her career.Although it opens with a Godfather spoof, this second Rugrats is pretty much more of the same from the first film by not really having much for the adult audience to enjoy even though it is not dull or silly enough to bore them. Of course kids will enjoy the sense of adventure that the babies get into as well as (perhaps) the easy sentiment associated with the main plot thread surrounding Chuckie's desire to have a mother. There will be sufficient jokes and action to keep them amused throughout and adults will probably find the easy noise and action at least prevents them becoming annoyed by it.The voice cast deliver the characters in the same fashion as they do in the series, which will be a good thing for fans as it means the tone and atmosphere is the same. The guest cameos feature solid turns from Sarandon and Lithgow in prominent roles but mostly the rest add very little as I doubt many viewers will be able to identify all of Reynolds, Mako, Curry, Richardson, Castellanta and others as they buzz through. Overall then a professional and enjoyable film for child fans of the series which fills the running time well. However there isn't much for adults other than the promise that at least it won't grate the way some kids films do. "},{"Title":"What is the deal here?","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all let me get right to the point. Rugrats is not that great of a show. It's a clear rip off of the Muppet Babies. Only difference Muppet Babies is better! Muppet Babies encouraged children to use their imaginations and think positive. Rugrats does not. Tommy, well he's cool. Chuckie is cool too. Phil and Lil are your average pain in the bum pair, and Angelica is a BRAT! If she were my kid, I'd spank the daylights out of her! Then I'd spank her parents for spoiling her the way they do! Plus Tommy and Angelica's fathers fight like they're 8-years-old. What kind of an example is that for their children? So Rugrats is a ridiculous idea! It was ridiculous when it was first created and it's STILL ridiculous. They keep adding these new characters who turn out to be real idiots (with the acception ofChuckie's new mom and sister. They're cool) just to keep the show new and fresh. Bad choice. Now the first Rugrats movie was good but this one bit the big one! First of all Susan Sarandon's French accent? Well, let me be honest, IT'S NO DAMN GOOD! This movie blew chunks. See the first movie, but try to avoid this one. And don't see the show if you can avoid it. That bratty Angelica get's away with everything and never get's punished. Her parents and Godparents think she's too innocent and sweet. I can't wait to see the look on their faces the night the cops bring her home. Then maybe they'll learn! So in conclusion, the Muppet Babies were so much better. But I'm glad they gave Chuckie a new sister who's so cute and a new mom who is gorgeous.His pop, Chas, made a very good decision! "}]