[{"Title":"Great satire, very misunderstood","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The film Bamboozled has caught a lot of heat for it's portrayal of blackface (an issue that wasn't really talked about until the release of Bamboozled) Writer Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans) sees his pitches for TV shows being rejected one after another. He is upset with his job and his boss Thomas Dunwitty (Mike Rappaport) He is under contract, he cannot quit because he will be sued. So he decides to get himself fired. He plans on reviving blackface and hopes that it'll be so controversial that CNS will be under fire and he'll get fired. He recruits two street performers Manray (Savion Glover) and Womack (Tommy Davidson) and pitches the show to his boss. The show gets green lighted, but unfortunately it becomes a big hit and destroys his whole plan. Spike got some heat for this (mainly because he criticized previous films for the way blacks are shown, then he made a film with blackface) But what people don't understand is that this is a satire. The images of rappers and Timmi Hillnigger are all poking fun at today's society. Bamboozled is clever and one of Spike's most explosive films next to Do the Right Thing and Malcolm X. This film has Tommy Davidson performing in blackface, in a very funny routine. I wanted to laugh but at the same time it made me think. This sketch was making me laugh at every stereotype about my people that I hated. That was the smart thing about Bamboozled, it caught you in the act of doing something and made you think. Bamboozled is a well thought, mentally challenging film that'll change your life.Bamboozled- rated R **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A fireball of a movie","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"41 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am absolutely embarrassed right now that I have never watched a Spike Lee film before. I have always wanted to see Do the Right Thing, which is generally considered his best film, and I even rented it once, but never got around to watching it. When Bamboozled opened last year, it sounded very interesting, but after the critics dismissed it as a failed attempt at satire, I decided to catch it later on, perhaps after I saw Do the Right Thing. Then I saw it was going to be played on television, so I found the time and sat down to watch. What I saw was something absolutely amazing.And that's not to say that Bamboozled doesn't have its flaws. I would personally deem it a flawed masterpiece, a very flawed masterpiece. The critics were right Lee's satire is misplaced. He's far too hotheaded an artist to have realized this immediately, but he should have when the New York Times refused to run the movie's add, which depicted a sambo character eating a watermelon, because they feared protests. Bamboozled asks us to suspend our disbelief - a disbelief which Spike Lee may not have had himself - and accept that a TV network would produce the New Millennium Minstrel Show and that the public, a la Mel Brooks' The Producers, would eat it up. Lee's argument in the press is that this was already happening. His targets were rap videos and a show on the WB network that only produced something like 6 episodes (the show was about Abe Lincoln's black servant who single-handedly ran the country; Lincoln was the buffoon). The reason that the New York Times didn't run Lee's add is the exact same reason Lee wrote the film in the first place African American political activists, including Lee, often have very knee-jerk reactions to such things. The show about Lincoln, which Lee argued was set during the holocaust of his people, actually showed the white people to be the buffoons and the blacks to be their manipulators. He missed the point (which could very well have been due to the fact that the show sucked anyhow). Add to this the fact that, besides clips of Good Times and The Jeffersons, both of which, I ought to add (in my own opinion), Lee is taking out of context (he would have been much better off to feature Diff'rent Strokes, which is somewhat offensive), all of the clips he uses to demonstrate the abuse of his race must have been downright difficult to dig out of film archives. None of these cartoons or movies that are shown, nor most of the sambo toys, have been seen for some thirty years or more, most probably not since before Spike Lee was born. We all know they exist, and, as Sloan (Jada Pinkett Smith) says in the film, we oughtn't to forget whether we're black or white, but it doesn't work as satire to show these things. They aren't at all harmful now, not until you drag them up again. Then they're only offensive when knees start jerking.None of this matters, in fact. Not to me, anyway. In my opinion, film today has become far too complacent. Bamboozled is an enormous jolt to our current, apathetic world. The fight may be misdirected and wholly fabricated by a paranoid man, but Spike Lee is indeed a masterful director. In fact, I would very favorably compare this film to Jean-Luc Godard's Le Week-End, which was also somewhat misdirected in its satire. Both of these films are excellent. Bamboozled moves with a speed and passion almost completely foreign to the world of filmmaking today. It's angry, it's brazen, and it makes your heart pound with fear, sadness, and intensity. It also raises more difficult issues than any film I've seen in a very long time. It manages to do this while remaining funny, too, although I was always wondering whether Spike Lee would slap me for laughing at this stuff. I especially loved the Tommi Hilnigger Jeans commercial. But even the New Millennium Minstrel Show is presented in a humorous way. A lesser artist, I believe, would have made it more clearly offensive. As it stands, it's difficult not to laugh at Mantan and Sleep-N-Eat (probably the most jaw-droppingly funny and ballsy name I've ever heard) as they perform. Tommy Davidson and Crispin Glover put enough energy in these stage performances to electrocute you. Their performances are awesome - often the dialogue they do have is cliched, but in many small moments their faces clearly express, and subtly, too, how their lives are crumbling. I would also like to compliment Jada Pinkett Smith, who turns in the film's finest performance. I have a feeling she's just going to get better and better, if someone would give her another decent role. Michael Rapaport, although perhaps a little too cartoony, is still very funny. Damon Wayans has the most difficult part. I'll bet money that he and Lee KNEW that the critics would immediately jump on Wayans' fake white accent. I can't imagine they thought it was all that funny or believable. However, I'm not sure why they did it. It does detract a little from the film, though not as much as many critics claimed it does. Personally, I would have either had that accent fade as the film went on. It sounds especially bad when it comes back at the end, after all those powerful (if pointless) scenes of African Americans in the cinema. Although, as that very phony voice is brought back, we recall the way the film began...Other aspects of the filmmaking are excellent as well. I have already praised Lee's direction. It is quickly paced and he really knows how to move his camera. The editing is fantastic. A powerful rhythm is established right away and never abandoned. In fact, the film pulls a daring change from satire to melodrama about halfway through, another aspect of the film that people complained on end about. It is all done with gusto, especially in the editing. The cinematography - wow! This and Lars von Trier's Dancer in the Dark show how worthwhile digital video is. Lee and his DP use it to an amazing degree! When characters are moving fast, which happens most often when Mantan is tap-dancing, a blur is left on the screen for a split second. Late in the film, when Mantan is trying to free himself from the show, Lee causes these blurs to remain onscreen for a prolonged period of time. The effect is simply powerful. One major complaint I have is the score. It's often manipulative. I think it would have been better to have had a minimalist score, which would have made the film seem even more immediate.Like I said, there are many major and legitimate complaints against Bamboozled, but critics and audiences forgot what's going for it it is EXCELLENT CINEMA. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"55 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Being white, and european, I'm not really sure about the point of this movie seen in an american perspective.  But as a european it really opened my eyes to a strange fact if your only knowledge about black America comes from television, you WOULD really think, that all afro-americans were gangsters, rappers or Urkel-like comedians, that is stereotypes. You very rarely see an american show, or movie, where a black american is portrayed as a complex human being. And that really IS scary.  "},{"Title":"Finally, the Truth has been revealed... in White and Blackface!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I approached this film with trepidation due to the mixed reviews(in particular, the flat-out negative review of Ebert at the Movies).  Knowing Lee's penchant for controversy, but knowing also his unflinching honesty and passion about his position, I decided to give this film a chance.I consider myself an educated, articulate, middle-class black-american.  And I was wary of Lee's supposed satire which centers on the creation of Minstrel show for the new millenium.  By the time I credits rolled, I was applauding.  In this film, Lee takes no prisoners, he neither excuses the white establishment for its entrenched and hard-to-expose racism nor does he excuse the blacks and other non-whites who become the literal agents of this process.  This story of two young black men's rise to financial and commercial glory through demeaning themselves, their talent and by example the group of people from which they hail, is an allegory.  Rather than getting stuck in a discussion of this film's form, viewers should consider what it means about the world around them.The disturbing and unnerving finale, is a suitable response to our rising awareness of inner-city violence, hip-hop culture, the prison industrial complex, and the police state in which many blacks, poor or not, find themselves a part.  Instead of offering us solutions this film offers us, as in many other of Lee's films, a wake up call.  As in the body of Lee's work, the camera work gives a gritty cinema verite feel to the scenes, and the performances of Glover, Davidson, Pinkett, Wayans, and Rappaport are dead-on.  The cast has a good chemistry and the dialogue will have have you howling with disbelief and laughter.An incredibly important film, for any consumer, and by definition, any creator of popular culture who may be responsible for the perpetuation and dissemination of DAMAGING and DEGRADING stereotypes.  Thank you, Mr. Lee.   "},{"Title":"This masterpiece left me speechless","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see the Philadelphia premiere of this movie at the U. of Penn, with Spike Lee in attendance, and I left the theatre feeling almost speechless.  I've seen most of Lee's films and have mixed emotions and reviews of each of them;  however, this film is truly a MASTERPIECE of filmmaking.  Without giving away the many-layered plot, which must be experienced to be appreciated, the subject is a touchy one --- controversial and poignant, embarrassing and humiliating, enlightening and insightful. Mainstream white audiences ( of which I am a part ) may find the subject to be uncomfortable --- obviously one of Lee's goals here --- and all audiences will find certain parts of the movie to be terrifying.  Besides the storyline, the acting is wonderful across the board, and Daman Wayans deserves an Academy Award for his over-the-top role.  Spike Lee's Bamboozled should go down in history as one of the most important films about race vs. social status and the misconceptions and stereotypes that surround them, as well as being a magnificent movie about popular culture and the almighty dollar. It is alternatingly hysterical, contemplative, witty and violent, and I left the theatre in tears, totally speechless. Unfortunately, this will probably be a short-lived film in your local cineplex, but hopefully it will gain enough serious attention to win the accolades it deserves, as well as open some closed eyes and minds.  "},{"Title":"Lee's best film...","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is Lee's best film. It isn't heavy handed despite the explosive topic. In fact I would argue that the images in this film are less offensive then some of the depiction of African-American life seen on MTV or BET. Less heavy handed then some of the vulgar depiction of my community that is allowed to be foisted on my community as entertainment. The modern minstrels show can be seen any night of the week on America's cable music networks. Which is more embarrassing Lil'John, 50 cent or Mantan? Which has had a bigger impact on the daily lives of African-American children, images of Step- N-Fetch it or Lil'John? Which are the stereotypes that are used to justify racial profiling in the larger public of the country in 2006, Gangstas or minstrels performers? It is a film about the power and responsibility of black America to control the images that define it. I think Lee for the first time in a long time had a story he actually wanted to tell. The script was solid if not great. As usual Spike had a tough time with his female characters. The women in his films tend to be two dimensional. All good or all bad. It wasn't a perfect film but I think it will be remembered as one of Spike's most interesting. "},{"Title":"Uneven but interesting","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This could have been a brilliant film. The problem I had with this film is that Spike Lee had too many ideas he was trying to pursue, and should have kept to the single focus. Yet, there were some brilliant scenes. We see a black gangsta group of hip-hoppers and one scene shows a member drinking out of a bottle shaped like a rocket. Later on we see a commercial for this product. Subtle and interesting. The film clips from old films and the display of of toys during the endtitles, were fascinating and could have made an interesting documentary.One thing I didn't like, besides the stereotypical white bigots, was Lee's focusing upon 40s black comedian Mantan Moreland as the epitome of black humiliation. Moreland was a brilliant comic who stole the show from the white actors of the day. Whites and Blacks turned against Moreland during the civil rights movement and the man could hardly make ends meet. Before he died in the early 70s, opinion changed again and he was seen as a pioneer. He once again managed to get some work in films and tv before his death. A better target for Lee should have been Stepin Fletchit, who made a career out of playing a lazy black freeloader.I have to agree with Lee on hip-hop as a minstrel show. The gold chains, oversized sport jerseys, and baseball caps worn sideways are clownish and not far removed from the olden days when blacks played buffoons to entertain white people. The show is still going on.... "},{"Title":"Lee sets up a great film, then misses the mark","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" TV writer Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans) is tired of having his TV concepts rejected by the studio. Accused by his ultra-hip white boss Dunwitty (Michael Rappaport) of not being black enough, an enraged Pierre comes up with an outlandish idea a modern-day minstrel show, complete with black-face, musical revue numbers, racial epithets, and the most ridiculous stereotypes imaginable. He enlists the aide of his reluctant secretary Sloane (Jada Pinkett Smith) and two street dancers Manray and Womack (Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson) desperate for a buck. Pierre is flabbergasted when the network accepts the show, and then becomes a pop culture phenomenon. But not everyone enjoys the racial epithets the show provides, and the Maumaus, a group of wannabe gangstas/rappers, decide to take matters into their own hands - with tragic results.Spike Lee's Bamboozled is certainly an ambitious film. It is an unremittingly vicious satire of the portrayal of blacks in popular media, a topic all too open to attack from Lee's inflammatory eye. However, having set up a potentially great and scathing satire, Bamboozled ultimately fails by being just too broad and over-the-top in its target.Lee is certainly right in attacking media portrayal of African-Americans. And for the early sections, it works. The most effective is the portrayal of pop culture - namely gangsta rap and hip-hop. The Maumaus are ridiculous posers who don't even notice that one of their number is white. The TV ads for Blow Cola and Timmi Hiln!gger showcase the artificiality and toxic nature of gangsta culture. Women are hos, bitches, and sluts; the men are cool because they do drugs and kill people. Lee's double-edged sword goes after the white media (embodied by the embarrassingly patronizing boss Dunwitty) for perpetuating such images, but also the blacks who embrace it. Very few societal targets, regardless of race or position, escape Lee's critical eye. The film's use of clips from minstrel shows of the past, as well as cartoons and other caricature portrayals, as well as the commentary of Sloane, to make the point reverberate. All of this is brilliantly done, and the witty dialog and character interactions of the first half indicate that Lee has winner on his hands.But the film ultimately fails due to the methods it employs. Seriously... is there a sentient human being alive who thinks that there would be a TV audience for a MINSTREL SHOW? Black face is such an inherently, blatantly offensive concept that it's impossible to take it seriously. For lack of a better word, it's overkill. And by showing it again and again, Lee rather overdoes (and undermines) his point. We get it; this show is racist and humiliating. Wouldn't Lee have better made his point by keeping the focus on the contemporary equivalent, or at least gone about it in a more subtle manner? Of course, Bamboozled is a satire, so hyperbole is expected. But, there are limits to this, particularly within the media of film. Be too outlandish and over-the-top, and the point is lost. Jonathan Swift's A Modest Proposal works because it is a written essay, where the venom beneath Swift's seemingly earnest tone is almost undetectable. In Bamboozled, however, we see starkly outrageous images of minstrel shows about black-faced, watermelon-eating, chicken-stealing blacks (and the black-faced fans who love and emulate them). And that image in and of itself blots out the point Lee is trying to make with such images. We don't remember that the media is demeaning towards blacks; we remember the minstrel show.The movie is also damaged by its cop-out ending, which uses violence as an easy solution to the problems it has set up. One could argue that Lee was attempting to show the detrimental effects Delacroix's show had on society. Thanks, but I'm not buying that. Whatever justice that argument has is killed by the ham-fisted, rushed way the climax is executed.The acting is uniformly solid. Damon Wayans, an actor I usually dislike, makes Pierre an intriguing character. Pierre's descent into hell - ultimately embracing the stereotypes he presents through his work - is fascinating. Jada Pinkett-Smith gives a quietly effective performance as the film's conscience, although her actions at the end seem ridiculously out-of-character. Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson are both extremely likable as two characters who slowly realize what they're doing is wrong. Michael Rappaport's hopeless studio VP is hysterical, and provides some of the film's best moments.In short, Bamboozled is an extremely ambitious film that starts out great, then becomes so outlandish and over-the-top its point is obscured. Regardless, one should note it is very much a point worth making.6/10 "},{"Title":"Great film directed by an awesome director","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Director Spike Lee has a big quantity of people who love his movies and people who hate them.The people who critic him say his movies which contain a message about racism produce damage.The people who love his movies say that Lee gives that messages to remind the people the facts with the intention that they have not to repeat anymore.Personally,I think Lee is a unique and extraordinary director who makes films with a big stylistic and narrative impact.And,the best thing of all,Lee leaves the spectator thinking after watching his movies.Bamboozled is another great film directed by this awesome director.Bamboozled is a very powerful movie with brilliant dialogs.The performances are perfect.Damon Wayans is a great actor very natural and expressive.Jada Pinkett Smith is excellent on her role.Michael Rapaport is a brilliant actor and,here,he brings the best performance of his career.Bamboozled is a great,fun and totally intelligent film directed by an awesome director. "},{"Title":"fascinating failure","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" first, the criticismsthe acting is bad. the camera-work is only competent. the narrative is weak.now the praise my jaw dropped a number of times during the viewing. I couldn't believe I was watching an American movie. more so than other movies, bamboozled is entirely a result of entertainment. the world the movie depicts is centered on a TV network (entertainment producers and distributors), the narrative within the movie looks at entertainment (they're making a TV show!), and there is the film itself (which is entertainment).but the things the actors say! if there is such a thing as a monolithic white America and a monolithic black America, many many lines that spike wrote can NOT be said in polite company.and the events that transpire! the very idea of a c.2000 minstrel show is enough to provoke discussion and examination. the non stop barrage of highly charged race signifiers (speech, clothes, ideas, the blackface fabrication and application, etc) contributed to a very specific tone of outrage and cynicism. so it's fascinating because it's brilliantly done. but it's a failure because it's not quite a movie. could spike really have intended to make a satire of a movie, where the story of the movie is to make a satire on TV?in short, the (often intense) reaction this movie engenders is worthwhile in itself. however, the movie feels to me like an intentioned, crafted harangue, which lowers its worth as entertainment, and establishes itself as a diatribe. "}{"Title":"A movie best viewed in a post Obama world.","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw Bamboozled on cable years ago and could not watch the entire movie. I was very uncomfortable with the racist minstrel characters and those dehumanizing vintage toys. Flash forward to 2012 and I happened across it again. Wow, what a difference 10 years make. Since the election of Barack Obama, seemingly normal white people have lost their collective minds. They spent years denying the president's legal citizenship. They joined anti government Tea Party groups not because they did not wanted their big gov't social security checks but because they wanted to hang with a bunch of aging bigots carrying signs of the President dressed as a Kenyan native.Where does Bamboozled fit in? These very same people love Herman Cain. It took me awhile but I finally got it, Mr Lee. Herman Cain is the Negro that white America is comfortable with. A self confessed sitting on the back of the bus entertaining... awwwwww shucky ducky now Negro. The Racist Tea Party folks could not get enough of him and his simplistic 9-9-9 plan. . When white women accused Mr Cain of sexual harassment, that just comforted them more because everyone knows Negros love white women. I guarantee you that if Herman Cain had darkened his skin with a burnt cork, the Tea Party folks would have lapped it up. His audience could have easily started to sport a black face too and proclaimed loudly to the press, See we aren't racist! The Herman Cain train exemplified everything that Spike Lee was saying in this dark comedy. Americans do not want to see African Americans represented by the Bill Cosby Show or the educated, functional Obama family. They want a minstrel show.The movie is heartbreaking as is the behavior of many Americans. Thank you Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"Best Since Do The Right Thing","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Read most of the reviews for this flick and you can tell that they are written by people who are saying more about how they feel about Spike Lee and racial issues than this movie.  Here's something about me pertaining to this.  I like Spike Lee, but I only like two of his films (before this one).  His TV commercials are more entertaining than the rest of the flicks.Malcolm X was the best, but most of that was based on the autobiography completed by Alex Haley.  Do The Right Thing on the other hand was pure Spike Lee brilliance, but none of his films following that one (and X) were worth viewing much... until this one.Damon Wayans' performance was compelling, though the accent was a little too emphasized and annoying (It was Damon, not Keenan... you idiots!).  Jada Pinkett's good in anything.  As for Mos Def et. al.... Their characters might have been mostly illogical, but their contribution to the story was believable and powerful.  The climax, in particular, literally had my heart pounding with an anticipation I can't remember having for anything in a motion picture.I ain't a know-it-all wanna-be-intelligent-sounding film critic, but take it from me.  If you don't like Spike, you won't like this one.  In fact, this film and the story therein aren't for you.  This is more for those who have an interest in the entertainment business with pertinence to racial relations.  Particularly, if you think you don't see color 'cause one of your girlfriends or boyfriends were of a different race, you might need to check-out this one; not that this is the topic of the story, but your way of thinking is.This film has good casting, a good script, an important topic, a compelling story, and a compelling soundtrack (particularly Stevie Wonder's Misrepresented People). "},{"Title":"I think Spike Lee is scratching the surface of great satire but the film is cloudy and has no real message","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Bamboozled' is a great concept, but it doesn't really have strong enough material to sustain a film. I don't know what Spike Lee is trying to convey with this film. 'Bamboozled' isn't social commentary like Lee's other films although it tries to be. What is there to say about these minstrel shows? They were an ugly part of our American past, but they are far from being relevant now. Lee is trying to use them for something and what he is trying to use them for isn't all that clear. White guilt seems to be what is trying to be conveyed, but it isn't all that simple. The show is proposed by a black man named Pierre Delacroix. Is the film about African-Americans looking at this aspect of their past? But it isn't really their past is it? 'Bamboozled' is a really interesting concept for a film. It's the execution of the material that I wasn't all that fond of. I think what should have been done more with it though is to play it for laughs. I kept thinking of Mel Brook's 'The Producers'. In many ways 'Bamboozled' is a successor to that film. Pierre Delacroix wants nothing more to be fired, and instead Mantan's New Millennium Ministrel Show becomes a pop culture phenomenon. Lee is very good at playing up the absurdity of the scenario. I had the privilege of seeing this film with an audience in a Theater course. What Lee excels at is playing with the uncomfortably of seeing people in black face. I love the fact that Lee is very careful to show in the taping of Mantan that no white audience members laugh until the black audience members do. In ways that is the strongest aspect of the picture. The film becomes less interesting when when it gets smaller.For starters Pierre Delacroix is a weak character. Damon Wayans is performing a character with a horribly fake voice. He just seems like a skit character and his movements, his postures, and especially his voice seems like a caricature. I thought this may have been a conscious effort to fit in with the freak show mentality of the film, but I don't think so. For the most part Pierre is played pretty straight. I don't think Damon Wayans was right for the role. Perhaps Lee viewed the film as being a comedy, but it isn't comedic enough for Wayans to really offer anything to the character.This lack of direction plagues the film. The fact is you can't create a plausible world where minstrel shows could become popular in the 21st century. Lee exaggerates reality to the point where it is too far a stretch to take with the semi-serious tone of the film. It has great dark comedy in places, but it also has an unnecessary grim final act. I would look at the material much differently. If all Lee was interested in was attacking the notion of black face than he should have set his film in the olden times. I think the idea of a modern day minstrel show is ripe for satire, but the film is far too self important to pick at the notion. 'Bamboozled' believes it is a serious film, it has serious ideas, but it would work much better as a straight forward comedy. I think this is the kind of material I'd love to see Trey Parker or a Dave Chapelle handle. Lee likes to keep the drama in this hybrid and it hurts the final product and overall it hurts Lee's intent. "},{"Title":"I don't think Spike Lee knows how to actually make a film.","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I think Spike Lee wasted his money and his time getting a film degree because the only thing he has learned--as seen with Bamboozled--is that if you put enough 'controversy' (which does not age well) into a film, you can skip on the writing and the plotting. Lee's films aren't linear films in any sense of the word you can break them up into plot point and annoying spiel between two characters. The crappy DV cinematography of this only underlines how amateurish Lee's film-making...sorry, I almost said style....methods are. Who needs to craft a movie into making anybody with an opposing view step into another's shoes to understand the point when you can just throw the LA Riots, 9/11, or the Million Man March and get some attention from that? Hence we come to the great problem with Bamboozled. We are being told--since Lee doesn't have the ingenuity to allow a bit of ambiguity in his films--by a man who made Nike commercials with Michael Jordan that all of us are racist because we indulge in stereotypes. But not like the stereotypes that Lee uses in every single one of his movies to shove his points. No, stereotypes are bad until the filmmaker latches onto something very public and fills his script with them in order to make a movie which all of us are supposed to pay for so we can hear what he thinks. Does Spike Lee want to make movies, or does he want attention so he can speak out about something that happened? One can't imagine but think that Lee just wants the respect of being paid attention to, but can't muster the talent that he had once to make it worth our time. In short, Lee had a good idea for a movie. And then he threw it away because he simply doesn't have any idea on how to make an effective movie and wants the easy way out of speaking his mind and letting it end at that. Any doubters? Well, they're not there. Introspection is only reserved after one side has walked away in Spike Lee's world, and only allowed when you're pondering how wrong you are and how right the director seems to think he is all the time.Damon Wayans is awful in whatever accent he was trying to do, Jada Pinkett is woefully miscast, Michael Rappaport is probably regretting how he played a rich white stereotype, and everybody else is probably glad that they did a better job than the higher paid leads. And Spike Lee can fill his hubris tank up all the way and pretend he's still relevant to a world that has forgotten Do the Right Thing and is now waiting for something else to happen so he can leech on that pity train as well. Too bad he isn't taking the time to watch how a film is constructed. Nah, there might be another Nike commercial to do. For Lee, commercials are as deep as he can get. "},{"Title":"such a mind-boggling shame because of the huge amount of ideas (some not bad) throughout","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" To give credit where it's due, Spike Lee is a genuine article, someone who came out of NYU and became one of the most recognizable personalities in film-making. His voice is his own, and whether working for a studio or on more independent terms it's always a Joint. Is this always a marker of him hitting it out of the park every time? Not really. As if he was Jean-Luc Godard among the black filmmaker's circle, when he's on fire he's surely hot, and when he's not it's f***ing horrifying to see him fail. Bamboozled is one of those latter times, and it's so flawed in so many ways that it's a wonder that some of the good ideas come through in the mid-section. It's the kind of movie where one may like it more for what it could have been rather than what it is.Bamboozled is meant to be, as Lee's character Delacroix (Damon Wayans) points out more than once both to the audience in dictionary definition and layman's terms, a satire. Thanks for the reminder, Spike! This is all well and good, but it's ultimately misguided and without a really solid comic viewpoint. In essence what Lee is after is a premise sort of out of Mel Brooks's the Producers; a creative guy down on his luck finds something to push that he thinks is so offensive and terrible that it won't run for very long, only to find that it becomes a surprise smash hit. Where Brooks had really funny and spot-on casting with Mostel and Wilder and characters to care about in their lunacy, Lee makes it a total mish-mash that is unnerving. And for every little moment, like the ads for the likes of Timmy Hill(n-word), there are a lot of satirical targets that just fall flat.But back to the casting for a moment Damon Wayans, both his performance and his character of Delacroix, is a total disaster. Maybe Wayans has done some good work in the past (ironically, as it's mentioned in the film as a point of reference for black variety shows, in In Living Color), but he makes the character sound totally off-key, sounding like a nerd with a bad accent and with mannerisms that are just awful. Whether or not the blame is Wayans or Lee's writing and direction is a 50/50 split; others like Davidson and Glover fare a little better, and Jada Pinkett Smith arguably delivers the best non-unreal performance of the lot. And Mos Def basically hadn't really become an actor quite yet, so his turn here is mostly as a spoof (a flat one at that as a gangster rapper). And don't get me started on Michael Rappaport, ugh! Bamboozled goes up and down in its level of pretentiousness and ineptitude for the first half an hour I wondered if I was really watching a movie by Spike Do the Right Thing Lee, as it's mostly shot in mini-DV camera style like some amateurs from a college film program in their first year. It doesn't even FEEL like any semblance of a real movie, save for some attempts at moving the plot forward (Rappaport's insistence on getting more edgy black images on TV to Delacroix, who responds with his brilliant put-on), until about forty-five minutes in. Then it starts to get slightly more interesting, though still problematic in filming style and performances (albeit I did enjoy, as filmed in 16mm, the Mantan sequences as a hyper-stylized set-piece, and the one scene with Delacroix and his stand-up comic father played by Paul Mooney).But as Lee's polemic grows more dire and more serious, and as the circumstances of Womack and Manray's disagreement about what they're doing leads to a somewhat predictable, horribly melodramatic and preachy finale, I was ready to chuck my diet coke at the screen. Yet I stuck through to the end, and realized something during the final five or so minutes as the cavalcade of images in montage went by of American TV and movie history of black stereotypes (including the infamous Birth of a Nation racism); had Lee done much of what he's presented in Bamboozled as a real documentary- which is just as much if not more-so history lesson than satire- then he might be on to something with a better grip on minstrel shows and media-stereotypes. Instead, as with She Hate Me (though in a way not as entertainingly in a bad-movie sort of way), Lee vomits up all of his ideas in a spastic narrative, and only a few of them stick out. When they do stick out, it's cool to watch. When they don't, it's tiresome, scatter-shot, and ultimately very faulty in execution. 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Completely horrible filmmaking as usual by Lee ---","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film sucks.I had given up on Spike Lee after watching his previous films. Everytime I vowed not to waste anymore timing watching his garbage, I'd watch another, hoping I'd finally see a good film of his. So two years after it came out, I said ok, I'll give him ONE more chance and rented Bamboozled. What a mistake.The funny thing is, like with most of Lee's films, the premise of Bamboozled is actually quite promising and probably would have worked if only a capable filmmaker was behind it. (However, the fact that the whole country went ballistic when Ted Danson put on blackface that one time doesn't do the premise any good.) The truth is, Lee is a horrible filmmaker and that's why his movies bomb.For whatever reason in the world, Spike Lee still has that pimply-faced know-nothing NYU film student mentality, where he feels if he does a few odd things with the camera and audio and goes for an artsy feel, that it'll be a success. Well, it isn't. It's a big failure. Many of Lee's fans (and maybe Lee himself?) may give that old line of well, you just don't get it or it's over your head or something similar. Well, that's a bunch of crap. There is nothing here to get. Bamboozled is such a hack piece of garbage, it doesn't come across as profound, deep or anything else the typical NYU film student feels he or she is so good at expressing. The movie just plain and simply sucks.Most of the actors are decent enough, although a Wayans in the top role doesn't help either. Damon Wayans is straining so hard to get his part right, it hurts just watching him. Some may say, he's camping it up. Well if he is, he's doing it very poorly.Watching this movie felt like watching some kid from heck, not just NYU, any high school film class who threw a whole bunch of garbage together in the guise of profoundness and deepness. There is no message in Bamboozled no matter how much someone wants to say there is. It appears the only reason this film was made in the first place, was as an excuse to remind the ten people who saw it in the theaters that there were such things as minstrel shows and people performing in blackface.I wonder how many of the few viewers actually even realize that there actually was a real actor dubbed Sleep 'N Eat (more originality by Mr. Lee).But, I'm glad I did finally see this film. Because it was definitely the slap in the face that finally convinced me never again to waste my time viewing any future Spike Lee films.  He has to be the most talentless so-called maker of films out there today. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Tragic - Masters the subject of Race without Guilt.","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I thought this was one of the very few works that challenges the viewer to answer valid questions of them selves. Particularly I felt the address was to African Americans(Blacks)and the Question was this Are you entertainment or are you human?To me it clearly stated the contributions African Americans have made to their own stereotypical position in American Society, Illustrating that the power to minimize these stereotypes rest within the African American 1st. I saw it written in reviews that this film was about white guilt, I completely disagree. In my viewing I did not find that white Americans were part of the story line beyond atmosphere. This film was written by African American's(Blacks) informatively & the question was posed to African Americans (Blacks, educationally. One of the few films on the subject of Race where guilt was not a factor of either side. Enjoyed It. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Failure","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The basic premise of the film is witty enough that I would think most people would want to see it just upon hearing about it a modern-day minstrel/coon-show intended as satire becomes a big hit on TV. There are so many ways for this premise to be so right, but most of what Spike Lee did with it was unfortunately so wrong.Just to be positive, I'll start with what I did like I enjoyed how he was unafraid to be self-referential.... it seems like every major player here is referenced. Spike Lee is mentioned by name, Damon Wayans has a line about In Living Color, there's reference to Will Smith (his wife Jaida Pinkett Smith has a major role), there's reference to Mos Def (or at least use of the term), and so on. Which, if you're going to make a film like this, you have to show up without your makeup too if you know what I mean.I thought Savion Glover was really excellent as Manray/Mantan (renamed in honor of Mantan Moreland). His dancing, his charisma, and his dark energy were perfect for the part. I thought Smith came off pretty well as an intelligent and motivated woman, although she couldn't hold together her part in the ending because the logic of the character had broken down which was Lee's fault and not her's.So we're getting into the bad there, possibly already the ugly. OK let's start with the big target Damon Wayans. About 10 seconds into the movie I strongly suspected that he was going to sink the film. 5 minutes later I was certain. This guy can be excellent, sometimes, but he really only registers on screen in one dimension if you know what I mean. This film and this character required more of him than he is capable of providing even for a director like Lee. He got the Delecroix character perfect, and it would have been fine for a sketch or a character part, but the inner person that the surface Delecroix is hiding does not show up in Wayans' performance.Now, it should probably be a generalized rule of satire that you should not begin a satire with a stated definition of what satire is. Because if you do that, then you had better be making a satire of satire itself and I don't think even Spike Lee would aspire to that much less achieve it. There are many points in this film where the satire breaks down and I really think Lee is very poor at this form of storytelling. For example, the two sponsors commercials that he shows, the spoof of Tommy Hillfigger and the malt liquor thing, are much MUCH too broad and register into the area of farce instead of satire. They have no edge. It's satire for dummies. He literally has the Tommy Hillfigger-esque character saying stuff like buy these clothes, spend your money and never get out of the ghetto. And of course he can't pronounce ghetto correctly. Oh god, Spike, that's a reg'lar knee slapper! It's all sickeningly broad. The malt liquor spot makes Ben Stiller's Booty Sweat mockommercial in Tropic Thunder look like Aristophanes by comparison.Same message all over the place with this movie nice ideas Spike, but tone it down a bit. In terms of tone, this movie is flying all over the place in an infuriating way, especially as it eventually develops into this dramatic story that the rest of the picture doesn't support. I couldn't buy any of the things that were happening at the end, that any of the characters had actually reached that point naturally. I didn't think Savion Glover's character would walk away from the show, I didn't think Mos Def's would actually get off his drunk ass and do something like that, I wasn't feeling Wayan's rage at these icons of minstrelry. I just didn't buy the resolution for any of those characters. The only way I could understand it and possibly re-evaluate this film is if I could see the whole ending as some kind of satire of dramatic films. But I didn't think I was supposed to be laughing during those scenes. It seemed like he wanted it to be more serious than it needed to be, more dramatic and violent than the story really called for in the first place.One other thing I didn't think they made the show funny enough that it was believable how it became a big hit. If I had been cracking up at the routines, then I would have started to feel guilty myself and the movie would have gone to a whole other level. But since it's just a bunch of stale vaudeville routines, it's hard to believe what you're seeing on screen. The whole thing sounds like the most insane greatest Dave Chappelle sketch ever, except that unfortunately it was written by Spike Lee instead so it's constantly reverting to a tone that's alternately ministerial, professorial and documentarian instead of satirical. Just for a random totally unrelated example, one of the reasons why Spinal Tap really works and is a fantastic satire of the whole rock scene and rock documentaries, is because the actual rock/metal music in the movie is just good enough that you could imagine somebody liking it, but just bad enough that you can laugh at it. "},{"Title":"Satire too narrow and too overt.","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For the most part, Spike Lee is an angry filmmaker and I cannot blame his anger nor do I criticize it. With films such as Do the Right Thing and Jungle Fever, he shows his passion and understanding of situations such as racial feelings between all races, not just whites and blacks as well as how outsiders view interracial relationships. Here, his target is the entertainment industry, specifically television and he cuts right to the core because he knows how important and complex this issue is and wastes no time of this 135-minute film to stuff every frame and scene with a message and relating what he has seen in this country and how he feels about it.First off, the acting is near flawless. Damon Wayans gives his best performance ever as Pierre Delacroix, a successful producer upset that he is not considered black with his fancy dress and white accent. Determined to make his case, he decides to create a minstrel show very much in the vein of those from the 1930s and 40s. However, he goes one step further and hires black actors to use blackface makeup as well as make the subject and setting the most politically incorrect setups imaginable. What he doesn't expect is the overwhelming popularity of the show complete with huge ratings and numerous critical awards.For my money, Lee almost had a great film here. The first hour is terrific, biting satire, attacking everything and anything. Lee takes no prisoners and also gives some very interesting bits about how a TV show is brought to life. But, once the show becomes a success and the people involved develop consciences, Lee's vision narrows and soon it becomes more of the angry and socially-aware Spike Lee we've seen in much better films. Being white myself, I never liked how Lee seemed to portray whites as leering fools and the true ignorant people of America as opposed to the more commonly accepted view of blacks. Still, his feelings were justified in Do the Right Thing, Jungle Fever and earlier works. Bamboozled tries too hard and loses its mission towards the end. The end is in fact a rehash of many other movies seen before, even ones self-consciously referred to here such as Network and The Producers.Spike Lee is a gifted and fearless director and I cannot say this is a boring or uninspiring film. I was held captive every step of the way. I just wish he had picked a better and more effective way to satirize his subjects, as well as maybe broaden the horizons; only then could it really take root. "},{"Title":"Lacks True Vision","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Faizon Love in Dinner for Five, July-'02 (On Spike Lee interjecting himself into his own pictures) ...don't do that, it looks stupid, don't cast yourself...the weakest thing can be the biggest blemish. I beg to disagree with actor Faizon Love (of Friday fame), the biggest blemish of a Spike Lee film is it's self-righteous preachy endings.Don't get me wrong &#x97; as an American white woman, I've wallowed in buckets of liberal guilt for the past U. S. genocidal policies. But Mr. Lee does not make films for marginally enlightened white folks.And while almost all of Hollywood's directors offer up a sanitized view of the process of racism, director Spike Lee does not. I can always count on Lee to tell it like it is, and nowhere is this more evident than in his latest cinematic effort, Bamboozled.The key word is effort, because Lee is prone to hit us over the head with his point &#x97; again and again and again. It's as though he doubts that white America is smart enough to get his message and concerned that black America may have forgotten it while climbing up the assimilation ladder.And while I may squirm at his intellectual contempt for the audience, and be irritated that he plays his usual double standard, where EVERY white character as a racist stereotype), I'm drawn to the single - minded courage of his view.Bamboozled grits and grates on every nerve and then does a deft tap-dance on our last one---stretching it for all it's worth. For everyone in this movie becomes a giant-sized stereotype. And it leaves this viewer hoping he did this on purpose, but knowing its just the same old lack of self-control.And yes &#x97; we got the point, Mr. Lee &#x97; no thanks to your sledgehammer method of directing, that blacks who play roles to serve a racist stereotype are the enemy and deserve only death.I've seen almost every film that Spike Lee has created --- The Girl's Gotta Have It, Malcolm X, Girl 6, Do The Right Thing, Jungle Fever, etc. Each movie resonates with Lee's caustic and uncompromising world view &#x97; and there's nothing wrong with this &#x97; every great director keeps making the same movie of their limited viewpoint. Yet Lee is young enough for me to wish that he can cast off the S.O.S. &#x97; Same Old Stereotype - and create something truly original.In a way, Faizon Love is right on target &#x97; for while Spike Lee is an Oscar-caliber director, with piercing insight and uncommon talent, he still lacks any objectivity to truly direct that vision to it's desired end.For rather than just making a point that's obvious to all, we'd rather see whats' beyond that one-dimensional image to embrace a more three-dimensional viewing experience. So while America has been Bamboozled by racist stereotyping, Lee is still playing to it. "}{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I went through equal parts of liking and disliking this movie. Enough so that I feel the need to write it out here.First the good The message of this movie is right on. It really makes you think about portrayals of blacks in popular culture not only in the past, but in the present. How different is the dichotomy between the straight laced Tommy Lee Jones and the hip/cool Will Smith in a movie like Men in Black from that between the massa (yes sa) and the black house servant in movies of old? So the movie is good in terms of making you think about these things. All of the scenes showing the black face performances on the Man-Tan Show and the montage of blacks in entertainment at the end of the movie are quite poignant, and frankly left me speechless and fixated on the television screen.The bad The acting and script left a lot to be desired. Okay, to be fair, Damon Wayans left a lot to be desired. Has a good performance EVER come out of a Wayans brother? I understand he was trying to perform a white black man, but every word out of his mouth felt so forced that it was painful to listen to. Other than Wayans the acting, while not superb, wasn't terrible. The script however had a lot of problems. It felt like it was forced along too much, being made to lead to Mr. Lee's agenda rather than unfold naturally as a story. This made it feel rushed at times and completely ludicrous at others.Overall, if you want to be made to think about race in America and in entertainment, this is a good movie to pick up. However, you will have to sit through some painful acting and a lackluster script, so be prepared. "},{"Title":"Redefining Symbols Despite Popular Sentiment","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled is one of Spike Lee's finest films and, despite the technical boundaries this film faced, his team creates an American masterpiece full of social and racial nuances not easily discussed in popular media. However, there are subtle flaws in the arguments made toward the end of the film regarding the films topical show Mantan. Although he successfully manifests the arch between peaceful protest and its transformation to violence, he never mentions the once and simple argument that if it displeases someone, one should quite frankly ignore it. Instead, he takes us on a dramatic flurry of consequences by constantly engaging us through plot points that all lead back to the fine line between racism and choice. While like any decent human being I deplore and detest negative racial stereotypes everyone, despite my own personal agenda, has an equal right to exist. Also, everyone has a right to their own opinion in our country, so long as they do not force their choices onto others. In Spike Lee's Bamboozled, the choices snowball into an inevitable downfall simply because the characters opinions and choices are forced onto each other. These choices are confused but clearly detest Mantan's chosen style of expression. This leads me to the argument of meaning versus intent. Quite clearly, the films provocateur Pierre Delacroix meant to make The Mantan Show racist, that was his intention, as it would lead to his termination at the television company, and he showcases that early in the film in his conversation with assistant Sloan on the rooftop. Having said that, I do not find the people who embrace the show to be racist because if one means to create a satire and views it that way through their own opinion, than the intent is to poke fun or laugh at humanities flaws as an acceptable way to correct them. Spike Lee avidly declares this at the beginning of his film. He does not declare that everyone has a right to his or her own opinion despite how negative it may be as guaranteed by our constitution. The reality is that every living human has an equal right to exist despite how angry they make us or how opposing they are to our own purposes. Who are we to negate people who seek to redefine the negative stereotypes of our past in attempt of redeeming them? They have a right to define the world as they see it.Clearly the confusion in Spike Lee's characters exists because they cannot ignore anything, but instead seek to control everything. Sloan declares after she shoots Pierre, You never listen to me, you should've listened to me. She is frustrated by her lack of power to control the situation that has spiraled out of control and she shoots him in a desperate attempt to regain it. The Network V.P Thomas tells Manray after kicking him out of the studio, You're replaceable after he tries to present and control the real persona he's losing touch with. Their anger stems from negative interactions by people who constantly seek to impose their beliefs onto others. So, to not fall into that same trap, we cannot seek to define or judge the characters portrayed in this film, we cannot seek to impose our own beliefs onto them. To do this film justice, we must define them through the clearly complex nature of human interpretation and opinion. "},{"Title":"Chappelle's Show...","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" While watching Bamboozled, Chappelle's Show kept popping into my mind. When Dave Chappelle came back from Africa he explained that he walked away for his hit show because he felt like a prostitute and socially irresponsible. The outwardly racist and stereotypical words and images that he put on the screen to be funny became funny to the wrong people. Dave was filming a sketch about a minstrel show in black face and a white person on the set started laughing at him, not with him, at him. White people were coming up to him on the street quoting lines from his sketch about a white family named The N-----'s much like in Bamboozled when white people show up to the taping of Mantan The New Millennium Minstrel Show in black face calling themselves N-----'s and C---'s. I think Dave Chappelle's realization parallels Pierre Delacroix's realization that instead of discrediting those racist words and images by shoving them in the face of society he was reinforcing them and making it seem OK, funny even. What surprises me is that Spike Lee pushed this idea so far he missed the fact that he too was enabling and even force feeding the racism and the stereotypes.Interesting Side Note Paul Mooney and Mos Def appeared in Bamboozled and Chappelle's Show. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I have two main problems with it?1.  Michael Rappaport  He was terribly miscast in this movie as a subvertly racist white executive.  I've seen him in a lot of movies and he's the type of white guy that is so down that if he said the 'n' word around a group of black guys, he would probably be able to get away with it (I'm black, btw). The part would have been better played by someone like Mark-Paul Gosselaar or Matthew McConaughey, white guys who would be totally unconvincing if they tried to act black.  Rappaport is too convincing and that's the problem. The character was supposed to be oblivious to his own racism but clearly obvious to the audience.  I didn't see Rappaport as a racist because he was too down.2. The execution  The plot would have been better if Damon Wayan's character created a TV show that was not blatantly offensive but still controversial (kind of like the shows Martin, In Living Color, or Homeboys in Outer Space).  Spike Lee insults the audience's intelligence by making a complete minstrel show that no person (black or white) with a conscience (and a brain) would find entertaining in the 21th century.The only thing I liked was Damon Wayans and Savion Glover.  Wayan's voice was grating but his acting was still good enough to carry the movie. Glover proved that he has other talents aside from tap dancing.  This movie could have been an Oscar winner but the execution was completely off. "},{"Title":"Great ideas, flawed film","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I want to like Spike Lee.  He's an important film-maker whose work refuses to let us forget our past or ignore the present it's created.  His career has been devoted to asking questions no one wants to answer, and such courage &#150; rare in Hollywood - is something to value.  What frustrates me is that his films rarely live up to the ideas behind them, and Bamboozled is no exception.It presents his most interesting idea and biggest disappointment to date.  Harvard-educated screenwriter Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans) is frustrated.  The sole black writer at his network, his ideas for shows featuring the black middle class are rejected one after the other.  His white station manager wants something more real &#150; real meaning poor, undereducated and armed, the kind of `real' we see in gangsta rap videos.  In reply, Delacroix creates The New Millennium Minstrel Show, a black-face variety show that will fail so badly and outrage so many he'll be freed from his contract.  Hosted by Mantan and Sleep &#145;n' Eat, the show is set in a plantation&#145;s watermelon patch, filled with sketches where the duo steal chickens from their overseer's coop.  The pilot is a hit and suddenly Delacroix finds his creation out of his control.Bamboozled was a hard film to finance and its struggle points to its importance, but despite its wealth of ideas the execution is poor and reeks of an opportunity missed.  Much of its failure comes from the central performance by Wayans, a frankly bizarre turn that irritates from the first word.  His Delacroix, uncomfortable in his skin, has changed his name and much of his accent.  What remains is an impression of an upper-class white man which is just that &#150; an impression.  It's a superficial performance, a pantomime out of place among the more subtle performances that surround it.  I appreciate its point, that Delacroix is ashamed of his origins, but it misses the target and does nothing but grate.Beyond that, Bamboozled is underwritten and feels under-rehearsed.  The character development is sloppy, huge changes in personality coming without warning and with little credibility.  Add to that a clichd friendship-not-surviving-success subplot and big ideas apparently lifted from The Producers and Network, and there seems little left to praise.But while it fails on many levels, the good ideas remain and allow Lee to explore two main themes &#150; the past degradation of black performers and the position they hold today.  We learn that black artists in minstrel shows or movies had little choice but to degrade themselves if they wished to pursue a career in entertainment.  They were only allowed to be greedy, lazy, bug-eyed buffoons, stripped of their dignity so white audiences could enjoy them without addressing their prejudices.  Willie Best, an actor from the 1930s who himself performed under the name Sleep &#145;n' Eat once asked 'What's an actor going to do?  Either you do it or get out.Addressing the status of today's black performers in a number of interviews, Lee has accused gangsta rap of being `the 21st century minstrel show'.  It's an interesting argument, seeing that its lyrics and videos give overwhelmingly negative images of contemporary black culture that are lapped up by young white audiences.  Theft, drug use and abuse, violence against women, murder as entertainment; these are the means by which the rappers degrade themselves for their listeners.  The Mau-Maus, the gangsta rappers in the film who take issue with the New Millennium Minstrel Show represent these ideas, though how well they do so is questionable.  On the subject of blacks in film, Lee has condemned the use of `Super Magical Niggers' in the likes of The Green Mile and The Legend of Bagger Vance, men who `use magic to help white people but can't help themselves.'  Hollywood is still limiting the kinds of black films they'll make, choosing mostly gangsta, hip-hop shoot-em-ups or lowbrow comedy.  The same is true of TV, where `about 95% of blacks on television now are working on sit-coms.'  Where are the all-black dramas?  With gangsta rap, the dominance of lowbrow comedy on TV, and simplified fairytale roles or drug-centred grit in cinema, it seems that black entertainment in the white world still relies on degradation, stereotype or cheap laughs.  And although much of Lee's argument can be countered by a number of positive roles or by seeing gangsta rap as only a small part of the black music that dominates the charts, these are the things Bamboozled wants to make us think about.  Unfortunately, Lee's interviews that publicised the films are far more interesting, persuasive and thoughtful than the film itself.Perhaps that's the problem.  He's an interesting thinker but seems to have difficulty in wrapping his arguments around plot, pace and character.  The finest moments in Bamboozled come when he's not weighed down by those burdens.  The last few minutes feature a fantastic montage of film and TV's shameful past.  We see the obvious clips from Birth of a Nation and The Jazz Singer but are surprised to see Judy Garland, Mickey Rooney and Bing Crosby applying blackface.  When these films are shown on US television these moments are edited out &#150; Lee even came across a cartoon of Bugs Bunny in blackface that Warner Brothers wouldn't allow him to include.  The end credits house an equally shocking montage of racist memorabilia such as `The Hungry Nigger Bank' from Lee's own collection.  Had Bamboozled boasted that intensity throughout, had it not been let down by a script that fails to make its points, by Damon Wayan's superficial take on the lead role, and its betrayal of supporting characters for its finale, it would have been a fascinating film.  As it is, the message is powerful; the film is not.But when his films work and when they don't, Spike Lee is at least consistent in one thing; he makes you think long after the credits have rolled.  That's a responsibility and an opportunity that too many filmmakers are afraid to take on. "},{"Title":"Network?","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  How do you satire a satire?  Let me tell you  By making 'Bamboozled.'This movie was a huge pile of crap.  If you've ever seen 'Network,' you understand why.  Network was a satire done well.  Bamboozled comes off as nothing more than a satire of a satire.  It feels almost contemptuous of its predecessor 'Network,' taking the famous line I'm mad as hell, and I'm not gonna take it anymore, and turning it into something of little value and zero meaning.  Also, the assassination of Mantan on live TV is taken right from 'Network.'While the plot of 'Bamboozled' may be interesting, and shocking, it is done in the light of shock and nothing else.  There seems to be no emotional drive behind any of the character's actions, and these actions seem nothing more than plot devices to convey the shock Spike Lee was no doubt trying to convey.It is appalling that an acclaimed director would stoop so low as to butcher a classic.  He should stick with movies like 'Summer of Sam.'  Tell a story, don't try and woo people into thinking you're Mr. Civil Rights.  You're a storyteller!  Not Malcolm X. "},{"Title":"A HUMILIATION","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was an unfortunate demonstration of misconceptions. I couldn't handle it's racist overtones. Spike Lee really screwed things up here. The movie doesn't have a single white person in it who is not characterized as a bigot. I'm insulted that Spike Lee features only Black protesters and the on lookers are white. Is he trying to say that whites aren't participating? How could he possibly think that anyone (Except white trash Klan members) would enjoy watching Black-face in this day in age. Considering I found Malcolm X to be a fantastic movie. It just seems he is going too far, and becoming more and more racist with every movie. I'm insulted that Spike Lee feels white television writers would even do something like write a black-face pilot, that all these white writers were whining about the O.J. Simpson Trial and saying, If it were a White Guy. I have never heard a white person say something like that. I'm white, and I am in no way racist against any race. This was insulting to me, and it should be considered a disgusting work of art by a very angry man. The fact that he had two black actors, and talented at that, put on black face and act in a genre that has been dead for more than seventy years is just going too far. He's an embarrassment to movie making and his own race. But I am sure he will make another movie even more sick than this one. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee Lets His Powerful Material Down","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Towards the end of Bamboozled, Spike Lee lets go of his narrative for a minute and turns to the film over to a parade of archival material. From classic films and cartoons, this footage shows the image of African-Americans that the white media constructed for decades. Dancing wildly or alternatively lazy, eyes popping out of their heads and stupidly eating watermelon. For a brief moment, Spike Lee is showing the audience, rather than telling us and the result is incredibly powerful. In these moments, Bamboozled reminded me of Marlon Riggs's 1991 documentary, Color Adjustment. Using similar material, Riggs showed the way that the mediated images of African-Americans helped to maintain the political status quo. Riggs relied on the primary sources and on traditional talking-heads documentary style to make his point. And I can't help but feel that his approach was far more effective in its subtlety than Lee's in his bombast.Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans) is a low level television executive at a floundering network. His boss (Michael Rappaport) thinks that Delacroix's work has been suffering because it hasn't been black enough and he sets him to creating a truly black show. In his frustration, Delacroix plots a revenge by suggesting a revival of the minstrel show with one major twist -- the show would feature black actors in blackface. He brings in two street performers (Tommy Davidson and Savion Glover) as his stars and he assumes that the show will never actually make it on air. But much to his chagrin and the dismay of his assistant Sloan (Jada Pinkett), the show is a massive success. Spike Lee's criticism is against black performers and image makers who allow the negative representations of their people. The film is a harsh indictment not only of Delacroix, for letting down the African-American community, but of talented tap dancer Manray (Glover), who prostitutes his talent towards the negative depictions of his people. The hubris of Manray and Delacroix is juxtaposed with the guilt and better judgment of Womack (Davidson) and Sloan. Strikingly, the film actually takes its strongest stand against the brilliant artist Manray, suggesting that his was the greater betrayal.Delacroix is doomed from the beginning in Lee's loaded didactic script. He's Harvard educated, wears ugly suits, and speaks with a goofy accent. It's unclear whether the accent is an example of a horrible performance or a horrible decision by the director, or possibly both. The accent is annoying in ways that distract the viewer from his true character flaws. I can't image that Lee meant for me to forget Delacroix's reprehensible actions to concentrate on his stupid voice. It certainly pulled me out the of the movie and directed my antagonism at the filmmaker who didn't have any better ideas, rather than at the character of a TV executive whose ideas were evil.Lee's script (always the downfall of a Spike Lee movie) goes off in too many directions. It touches on Delacroix's father, a comedian who plays what appears to be a modified version of the old Chittlins Circuit. Naturally the father doesn't think much of Delacroix. And it touches on the Mau-Maus, a group of rappers/revolutionaries who naturally don't think much of Delacroix. And the script finally makes Pinkett's Sloan into a school marm of a woman who's the overly-erudite symbol of all of the wrong done to both blacks and women. Sloan's character plays like Lee's response to perpetual criticism that he can't write for women. It's worth pointing out that he still can't.The movie's failings are made all the more unfortunate by the importance of its lesson. When Lee steps back and teaches the audience about lawn jockies, Amos and Andy, Mantan Morland, and other negative racist depictions, he's doing a great service. Among the film's documentary moments are pieces of brilliance, including a touching scene in which the two minstrel performers burn cork and add water, following the traditional recipe for face-black. But for every time Lee educates us, he bashes us over the head with references to his own movies (even though Bamboozled is shot on digital video, it has moments clearly borrowed from Mo' Better Blues and Do the Right Thing) or, even worse, he makes too-obvious references to Network (Including a repeated misquoting of the famous mad as hell and I'm not going to take *this* anymore line). Lee never lets anything, however powerful, rest on its own merits.Wayans is just horrible playing a character who wouldn't have been compelling even in an In Living Color sketch. And Pinkett is forced to suffer through Lee's dialogue and several awkward, seemingly improvised scenes with Mos Def as her Mau-Mau brother. But as the performers, Davidson and Glover are excellent, with Davidson giving the film its only true center of regret, and Glover combining acceptable acting with his outrageous tap dancing skills.I wish I could recommend Bamboozled. I wish I could say that its message and material were of sufficient merit to make the movie required viewing. But probably the Marlon Riggs documentary (Color Adjustment, if you've already forgotten) should be the required text. Spike Lee continues to need lessons in trusting the intelligence of his audience. The alternative is a film like this film, an important idea unsalvaged by a bad execution. This is a 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Eighty-percent smart, followed by twenty percent stupidity.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Like many Spike Lee Movies, this one gets in some great zingers and aims high with some bang-on satire and social observation only to end in something which I cannot describe without a SPOILER.  Could Spike Lee please make a few movies in a cycle where he introduces us to characters, allows us to understand them, and then refrains from killing them off just for a change?  Spike Lee endings at their worst offer contrived violence with a pretense of relevance to what has preceded it in the story.  But the downer you get feels tacked on as obligatory Spike Lee false inevitability.  For example, is an offensive TV show (which by the way would never get on the air considering the relationship between lobby groups, networks and sponsors) to blame for the actions of a radical who names it as the reason for his violence?  I say no.  If that were the case, most of us could cite annoying life insurance commercials as the devil that made us do it.  We can't use the comfort level of a lunatic as our guideline.  So I felt this reduced and undermined a lot of the effort that went into Bamboozled.I felt the same way, to a lesser extent, about Do The Right Thing, which down-shifted a bit and left me only thinking of a vandal (Lee in that case) and his over-reaction).  Little moments resonate much better in his films than the big MESSAGE or the audience manipulation of his tacked-on violence.In the case of Bamboozled, Lee forgets the primary motivation of Damon Wayans as the person who conceives the offensive TV show  TO GET FIRED. He stops wanting to get fired, and his superior Michael Rappaport (who has exactly the right note of satire as idiotic TV head executive) has nowhere to go.  I wish Rappaport would have stolen credit, gotten himself into jeopardy, and Wayans went full circle and stepped up into the top spot instead of leaving the company.  Also, the comic well cast as Wayans' father deserved more screen time.  The racist TV variety show is pretty lame and seems to be making fun of Hee-Haw more than commenting on modern day sensibilities.  The false commercials are entertaining, although Lee himself plays the same game for which he criticizes Tarantino  he uses the N-word until we don't really notice it anymore.   "},{"Title":"amateur hour","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee's latest had some amusing moments, but, like most of his movies, it was so over-the-top that it seemed to lose sight of what it was trying to say.  Watching black actors in black-fake making extreme black stereotypes, i was unsure of both how i felt and how i was supposed to feel.  In fact, i didn't really feel anything at all, and it certainly didn't make me think about racial issues.  All it made me think about was how much more interesting it would have been if it was about black actors in white-face making white stereotypes.The biggest problem i had with the movie was the miscasting of Damon Wayans in the lead role.  This has got to be the worst performance by a major actor i have ever seen.  I was actually embarrassed for him.  Everything about the performance is completely misguided and misdirected.  His character is supposed to be a phony, but he just comes off as a phony phony, and he seems entirely uncomfortable in the role.  That, combined with the obvious fact that the film was shot on video, made me feel like i was watching an amateur movie by a high school student.  The only noteworthy performance is by Savion Glover, who is a very appealing and attractive actor with a real screen presence that i was unprepared for. "}{"Title":"Did he understand us own message?","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes, Spike Lee is an excellent movie director. So are others. However, he distinguishes himself with depictions of black or colored Americans being victimized by white society. As in his movie CSA, Lee dredged up the long dead corpse of slavery to remind everyone that racism abounded in America long ago. What he cannot understand is that segregation and slavery were curses on everyone. Whites fought a war over it while blacks were still selling their brothers and sisters to slave traders in Africa. The NAACP was begun by white people. So, why must he cling to the bitterness of a past that died long ago? Why not discover what America has become? Either Lee failed to understand the message of Bamboozled and CSA,or he must hate his own race. In CSA, he shows an America that never rid itself of slavery, yet still landed a man on the moon, became a global power, and was an economic giant. The only difference between our country and an America where slave-holding was mandatory was the lack of entertainers and sports. Is that what Lee believes about the races? I hate to tell him this, but there are great entertainers and athletes who couldn't't pass as black. In Bamboozled, blacks betrayed blacks by profiting from insulting racial stereotypes. They made money by using the N word in every sentence. One character claimed that saying the N word kept his teeth white. It certainly lined his pockets. It has lined Spike's pockets. too.So, what has Lee accomplished in this movie? I think that once again he has bamboozled us all. "},{"Title":"SOMEONE STOP SPIKE LEE BEFORE HE FILMS AGAIN!!!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let me go on the record and state that I am a black man. Unlike a large percentage of my brethren, I think that the majority of Spike Lee's films are scarcely above the level of student films. It truly saddens me to see the moviegoing public buying into his black artiste BS, and all of the  critics who fall all over themselves to praise him, presumably out of fear of saying anything negative about his films for fear of being perceived as racist. BAMBOOZLED had a great premise, but in the virtually talent-free hands of Lee, all of the points that the film has to make are lost beneath his cheap attempts to shock and lecture to his audience. And Damon Wayans turns in what may be the most embarassing performance that I have ever seen. People, I implore you to stop worshiping at the temple of the false god named Spike. "},{"Title":"How does the media shape your perceptions?","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The opening scene of Bamboozled has the main protagonist, Pierre Delacroix pacing his apartment, alone and directly addressing the audience. This is no accident or passing cinematic device. This technique is often used in order to build a character immediately for the audience, to make a personal connection and importantly, to build character sympathy. In my opinion, Mr. Lee carefully arranges this quick familiarity with the protagonist's character as a beginning marker or reference point into the descent and ultimate demise of the central character. Bamboozled is a moving example of the classic tragedy, full of satire and moral conclusions about society.After creating Mantan The New Millennium Minstrel Show, Pierre gives the definition of satire as part of his explanation and justification for creating the show Satire 1.a. a literary work in which human vice or folly is ridiculed or attacked scornfully. B. The branch of literature that encompasses such work. 2. Irony-derision or caustic wit used to attack or expose folly, vice, or stupidity. While Pierre used this definition in defense of his show, his show did not ultimately adhere to the definition. In the context of Mantan The New Millennium Minstrel Show, satire may have been Pierre's original goal but once mainstream media and popularity gained power over the show it failed to ridicule, attack or clearly expose the folly, vice or stupidity of creating a blackface minstrel show. Pierre originally claimed that the creation of the show would do just that as well as illustrate to the network and to Mr. Dunwitty the folly, vice and stupidity of pursuing the creation of stereotypical 'black' shows which do not accurately reflect the true everyday lives of their subjects. Bamboozled itself directly, specifically and brilliantly adheres to the definition of satire.Being a well-made satire with all of the emotional leaps from humor to horror was a double-edged sword for me as a viewer. The skillful way in which this was produced satirically speaking is what makes for a fine film but is emotionally expensive. With that said, I would not have it any other way. In the audition scenes where Pierre and Sloan are trying to put together a cast I was overwhelmed by my disgust at the performances but found it very hard not to laugh at the ridiculousness of them. Clearly, the first in studio audiences had the same experience of ranging from hilarity, shock, disgust and outrage. The experience was the same watching the final show and seeing the entire audience wearing blackface and adamantly proclaiming themselves n***ers and affecting a 'black' way of speaking, just as Pierre affects his acceptable 'white' diction. Seeing the way the media co-opted and created acceptability for non-blacks to be everything they have discriminated against blacks for being was a sobering reflection of what we see daily in youth, performers and pop culture.Pierre is clearly different. As a viewer it was hard to decide if he was just odd or eccentric until I considered that a strong characterization such as his could be no mistake made by Spike Lee. There is a purpose in his strange characteristics. Over all, Pierre seems homogenized, like many media personalities, and seems to fit the stereotypical caricature of the 'non-threatening black man' in the words of Dunwitty's publicity executive. In addition, as the film progresses and viewers are introduced to his father the conflicts that Pierre is faced with become apparent. Pierre has affected this odd way of speaking and what he sees around him as acceptable behavior in the white corporate world in which he operates daily. This is in stark contrast to the way one assumes he was raised and with the realities of the other black people he lives around.The title is ironically appropriate. With all of the denial and deception that is taking place, just about everyone is being bamboozled. Many of the characters seems to be in deep denial or are in complete ignorance of their internal and external racial, as well as class bigotries. In their unawareness they are deceiving themselves and those who are aware of their racist or classist bigotries seem to feel very secure in their superiorities, such as Dunwitty's northern European production assistant. Only Sloan seems to have her eyes open wide and remains true to herself. She is the stable force throughout, the sole voice of reason until the tragedy's grasp reaches her in the end. Pierre Delacroix attempts to redeem himself by trying to shield her of responsibility when he tries to wipe her prints off of the gun she has shot him with. Pierre has taken nearly everything from her her respect for him, her job, her presumed chastity, her lover's life and finally her brother's life. Although, he cannot return that which he has taken, he does allow for the possibility that she will have the opportunity to rebuild a life.  "},{"Title":"Spike Lee tries to have a sense of humor and fails","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Let me first state that Bamboozled has a terrific premise a black TV executive decides to revive the minstrel show in order to get fired, and it unexpectedly turns into a hit. This was the basis on which I rented it. Good satire comes from anger, but Spike Lee turns out to be a man so angry that he is unable to make his points coherently, let alone humorously. The trouble begins as early as the opening credits, wherein he apparently so distrusts the intelligence of his audience that he has to provide a SPOKEN DEFINITION of the word satire before the movie even begins. Thanks for the heads-up, Spike. Ironically, he then demonstrates very little understanding of how to make a satirical movie, as the plot veers into straight drama early on and never backs up. I don't believe I've ever seen a comedy with so little comedy in it. The problem is not that the jokes fail, it's that there are no jokes! Instead, we are treated to passionate, sincere speeches, soul-searching, somber music and violent shootings. It is also odd that for a movie about the degradation of black culture, Lee would choose Damon Wayans for the lead role, a man who has actually, in real life, regressed comedy to the level of the minstrel show (unless I was missing the brilliant social commentary of Major Payne). Damon is not a good actor, and neither he nor the script tells us anything useful about his character. I never figured out who this guy was, what any of his motivations were or why his actions were so inconsistent, and I don't think it's my fault. In a final blow to credibility, Lee chose to film this in digital video, and the overall effect of that artistic decision is like a two-hour Youtube video it's impossible to be drawn into a film's world when the images are so damned fuzzy. In fairness, a few moments in this movie (the fake commercials especially) lived up to the name of satire, and I appreciated the massive amount of racist imagery Lee dug up for a sobering montage at the end. And the actors, including Wayans, turn in brave performances, obviously having put a lot of trust in their director. Other than that, the movie is disjointed, confusing, dull, poorly filmed and generally unfunny. If you enjoy good satire, comprehensible characterizations or competent film-making, you won't find it here. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity&#133;","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Spike Lee fails to deliver his message in this video filmed satire that exploits the imagery of the minstrel show while failing to deglamorize it. The choice of filming technique and some ill-advised ad-libbing make matters worse as the viewer starts realising that the actors are as clueless as the characters as to what is happening to them.Part of the problem stems from the TV show itself. Damon Wayans Putney Swope character fails to be black or white and his success defies conventional wisdom. We do not believe the show is good enough because it isn't. Surrounding himself with minstrel memorabilia like a retired Nazi, his character is beyond redemption because he never had any good qualities to begin with. And what IS with that accent? I have never heard anyone talk that way in real life.In one scene his arrogant, but efficient, assistant (Jada Pickett-Smith) is shocked to find she is considered hired help. If you are no longer sleeping with him, err, isn't that what assistants are? In the end Spike Lee fails to understand what made black stereotypes funny. It was the fact that we could feel superior to them. In this film they are superior to the preposterous being who inhabit them and that makes the film oddly racist.Spike would have been better off with white leads and black voices in the background showing reason. By casting black actors in the role, the film echoes not some old time racist pastimes but rather the current charade of wealthy black rap artists going out every night pretending be ghetto gangstas. (the judgemental Mau-Maus?) His rainbow coalition audience and the talent of the two entertainers undermines his message about minstrels and gives the old shows unintended warmth.A monumental failure in many ways, BAMBOOZLED disappoints more because of what it should have been that what it really is. Although Spike Lee fell up his own ass several films ago, this one takes the cake.Instead of a tribute to the fine actors who were subjected to silly stereotypes by white producers he has insulted the artists, who show more talented in the few clips near the end than that exhibited by the two previous hours.Is the movie anti-black? Yes, Mr. Lee, I think you have made a very racist film. Someday some better filmmaker may have to use a clip. "},{"Title":"A fascinating Spike Lee film","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee always has a unique way of looking at things.  In this movie his ways prove no less unique.  This is not a great movie but it is a powerful statement on civil rights and the state of the country today.  Damon Wayans plays a TV executive who is hounded by a Vice President of the Network that fancies himself to be black.  Jada Pinkett plays Wayans' secretary. Michael Rapaport plays the Vice President excellently.  It is hard to say why this movie is so good.  The plot is unbelievable.  While the movie suffers a little bit from perhaps taking on too much the movie explores some deep issues.  Delacroix is the name of Wayans' character.  He comes up with what is a modern day minstrel show to broadcast on TV.  He intends it as a wake up call, but it ends up going completely out of control.I will not give away the rest of the plot.  The movie makes many statements about the way America views minorities, women, television and so forth.  While there are many pointed criticisms of the way America treats minorities there are many more of the television industry in general.  Tommy Davidson and Savion Glover have good roles in the movie. Davidson who is known mostly as a comedian turns in an excellent dramatic performance here.  Glover who is known as a dancer does a great dramatic job as well as an acting job.What amazed me about this movie are the scenes with the show.  Those are quite intense.  What is even more amazing is that a group of Americans were looked at in that negative of a light.  I think part of Lee's message is that perhaps minorities are still looked at in such a negative light.  When you look at the very end, you will see some amazing things about our society.  Michael Rapaport's character is great.  HE is one of the standouts in this movie.Also my hat is off to veteran Paul Mooney who plays a small part as Pierre's father.  He adds a lot of class to this movie.  But the movie says so much about race as well.  There are so many different kinds of characters in this movie, all of which represent some different aspect of America and how minorities strive and survive in a world that is not made for them, according to Spike Lee.  Perhaps he is right, but Lee has an excellent style of making films, and this one like almost all his others is very very good.  This is a disturbing and great film.  In relation to Spike Lee's other works this is not as good, but this is still excellentMos Def is very good as well in this part. He proves himself to be a very good actor.  The finale is such an odd but appropriate ending.  The New York flavor that is in Lee's movies is also very good.  When I saw this movie all the people in the movie were carrying on and I couldn't hear what the movie was saying.  The movie disturbed them so much in some parts they said nothing.  The part where that happened the most was during the commercials with &#145;Da Bomb' and &#145;Tommy Hilnigger.'  Perhaps Spike Lee is telling everyone to wake up in this movie as he often does.  This is an interesting view of the world, but like all of Spike Lee this movie is not for all tastes. "},{"Title":"Train wreck","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is easily the most disappointing movie of 2000, and of Spike Lee's career.   Simplistic and confusing all at once, this film suffers from multiple maladies.  There's poor character development(especially in the case of Pierre, who we learn surprisingly little about, and Womack, whose righteous change of heart seems to come out of nowhere).  There are rapid style changes (is this film a narrative? A documentary?  A farce?  A straight drama?), all handled with the grace of a donkey falling down a flight of stairs.  The last 10 minutes are so disjointed and nonsensical that the viewer is left wondering who slipped what substance into their soda.  Keenan Wayans is simply awful.This satire doesn't know what kind of satire it wants to be.  It occupies multiple places along the continuum between understated satire and full-blown silliness, but never finds a place of its own.  In addition, Spike Why whisper when you can shout? Lee's lack of subtlety destroys this work completely.There are some positives.  Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson deliver with a bang.  Lee lampoons both sides of the racial coin, often effectively.  The inclusion of demeaning stereotypes from vintage film and cartoons is necessary and thorough--but very overdone by the end.It's sad that this film falls so short of what it could have been in more capable hands.  This is an important topic, and a film that desperately needs to be made...by someone else.    "},{"Title":"Historical Comedic Take.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled (2000) Dir Spike Lee / Cast Damon Wayans, Jada Pinkett, Savion Glover, Tommy Davidson, Michael Rapaport Satiric view into racism and entertainment. Title represents the manipulation of this image into the minds of society. Damon Wayans plays a creative consultant at a T.V station. His boss claims to b e black because he married a black woman. He approaches Wayans about creating a program of racial controversy for ratings. Wayans scouts about and eventually turns two black street performers into characters named Man-Tan and sleep 'n' Eat for a program called The Alabama Porch Monkeys, which is both a media sensation and a controversy. Director Spike Lee highlights with images from black T.V. programs. To his previous credit are Malcolm X and Summer of Sam. Wayans creates an individual who is tired of media manipulation yet pulled by its corruption to the point where he is staring at consequences. Jada Pinkett-Smith is his voice of reason until her brother is killed due to controversy stemmed from the show. Now her sense of loyalty is altered in favor of self served justice. Michael Rapaport brings much humour as the enthusiastic forceful boss. Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson play the exploited entertainers forced to wear blackface. Their destinies prove different in this well-crafted look at racism, media and one's soul. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bamboozled vs. Slam","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Now, here are two films I remember watching many moons ago, and for some strange reason was compelled to watch again. Of both, I remember slightly unusual techniques and styles, feeling more like home movies than big-budget films. But, neither is particularly big-budget; both controversial in their own way and quite experimental, designed to create emotion more than they are to entertain. Both, therefore, are not great films, but interesting ones nonetheless, perhaps not fully getting their ideas across, but based on good ideas.Starting with 'Slam', we see young Raymond Joshua living in D.C., working as a small-time drug dealer, occasionally writing the odd verse of poetry. Caught in a gang-land shooting, he sees himself arrested and trapped with the choice of going to prison or going to prison on a drug possession charge. Angered and frustrated, he again finds himself trapped in the middle of a gang dispute in prison resulting in him letting out his grievances in the form of poetry in the prison yard.If you like, 'Slam' is a musical; not so much a film, but a vehicle to showcase the talents of the cast as poets and emcees. Much of the cast are poets and/or rappers appearing in a debut acting role, or one of their few and had a big hand in the writing. Saul Williams plays the lead role, with Sonja Sohn, Bonz Malone and Beau Sia taking up supporting roles, among others. The acting and story, therefore, are never fully polished, with writer/director Mark Levin known more for his documentaries than feature films.The story moves on a little too quickly in parts and character motivation is not always fully explored, beyond William's character. But with the low-budget feel, this has that trapped-in-time quality, feeling isolated from the rest of the world. There is nothing Earth-shattering here, but some interesting social comment and, at times, powerful performances.Spike Lee's 'Bamboozled' is a satire of modern television and what those watching the 'idiot box' have come to expect on the small screen. Damon Wayans plays Pierre Delacroix, a sit-com writer criticised by a 'more black than black people' network executive for writing shows that are 'too white,' featuring 'white people with black faces.' Pushed to deny the existence of a middle-class African-American, Delacroix works to create a show so 'black' as to shock America into realising the stereotypes that are portrayed on every day television. Ticking-off every racial stereotype imaginable, he creates 'Mantan The New Millennium Minstrel Show'. Amazingly, the show is a success, working only to further stereotypes rather than destroy them; leaving Delacroix viewed as a sell-out. Success and fame are predictably the downfall of those involved resulting in tragedy.'Bamboozled' is an interesting film for Lee to have made at the time; rising in his career and choosing to make a film that is quite low on a number of things. To start, the cast is low on out-and-out actors &#x96; and you can include Damon Wayans and Jada Pinkett-Smith within that &#x96; using rappers and comedians in many roles. It is also a film low on any nice Hollywood gloss and sheen &#x96; an effect probably desired considering the subject matter. The one thing it is high on is camera numbers, using numerous handhelds to take shots from various angles, such as audience reactions to a new breed of minstrel show. This creates a claustrophobic and documentary-like feel to the film.But being a satire, the film is more about the point it is trying to make; the use of footage from old television and film portrayals of African-Americans throughout and montaged at the end highlighting this. References are made to various moments where art and politics have collided, as well as using real-life figures vocal in such areas.But ultimately, 'Bamboozled' ends up a little messy in final execution. The lack of any real acting talent leaves performances a little wooden, as well as the characters they portray a little too extreme, notably the Mau Mau, led by Mos Def, who feel a little unrealistic despite Mos Def's usually charismatic on screen performances. A little too much can be rammed down your throat at times, with all imagery and dialogue geared towards one thing.Neither 'Slam' nor 'Bamboozled' will ever be regarded as great films, nor will they probably be remembered by many. But both are interesting examples of more creative film-making. Big budget effects, state-of-the- art camera-work and even actors are not required, as long as the film is based on a strong idea and purpose. They are portrayals of writers, trapped in different situations as they struggle to overcome stereotypes, relying on the talents of their non-acting casts. Well- executed at times or not, both still offer more than the endless big budget sequels and re-makes that make-up the majority of box office takings.politic1983.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"satire","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The film itself, like the show it portrays, is a satire. This is an important point that the below reviewer seemed to miss.One should understand that many characters (socialist rappers, Harvard sell-out, white dudes dying to be black) are themselves caricatures and stereotypes. The reason why, for example, Wayans' acting is so forced and corny is because Spike seeks to mock the idea of someone who overhauls his personality to fit in with the mainstream (or whatever) world. He overacts because he plays a character who is himself acting. From a comic standpoint, these characters succeed. Which, again, is a satiric device.Excellent soundtrack. "}{"Title":"A movie more Significant than it's Look","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled is a satire on our American cultural system and the television industry parodying the greatest satire on the television industry ever made, the Network (1976). Bamboozled ridicules how racism is preserved and reincarnated along with stereotypes here in America. Spike Lee targets racism created by stereotypes by satirizing on the most racist thing or form of entertainment ever to come out of show biz, the minstrel shows. He does create stereotypical characters in the movie but, when dealing with racial issues, stereotypes seem to be inevitable in order to get the message across. An underlying theme in the movie is that audiences will perceive anything on television as entertainment and nothing more without knowing the full actual intent behind the entertainment. Audiences watch the shows without realizing that they're being spoon fed stereotypes that could subconsciously reinforce racism. The networks feed off of controversy because as Dunwitty (Michael Rapaport) says, there is no such thing as bad publicity! The 'blackface' characters were born out of the minstrel shows and Lee uses this very racist concept, which was still around in first quarter of the 20th century, in its extreme form to send a message and force us audiences to reexamine our societal perceptions and whatever is shown on television. Minstrel shows gave rise to many ethnic stereotypes, if they weren't responsible for creating it in the first place. The Minstrels not only targeted blacks but sometimes even groups like the Irish, Germans, Italians, Japanese or Asians and Native Americans. On a side note, historically, among other terms like 'blackface' that Hollywood used to describe non-ethnic actors playing certain ethnic roles and characters were (Yellowface) non-Asian actors portraying characters with Asian or Oriental features. (Brownface) Indians and Latinos (Redface) Native Americans (Whiteface) or paleface, done by non-white actors but usually associated with the Mime or clown traditions. This movie can even go as far as communicating hints that televisions shows are the new types of minstrel shows but it all depends on your perceptions from the content of the film. "},{"Title":"Bamboozled","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie Bamboozled directed by Spike Lee was definitely a film that dealt with race, which is nothing new for this director. Both blacks and whites put their standards on the line in order to better themselves. The film tries to portray the white upper class as racist, but taking a look at the rest of the society in the movie they aren't any better. I thought the movie was over the top and exaggerated to the point of disbelief that anything like that would happen today. They tried to introduce a show in the movie that would be greatly similar to Black Face, in hopes of breaking down the chains of racism that black people still face. I didn't like it, and I found it only portrayed black and white stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Interseting","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am not a big fan of Spike Lee movies, but I do appreciate Bamboozled. It is a satirical movie where a TV writer, Pierre Delacroix (played by Damon Wayans)tries to get fired, by writing a show so racist that they would have to fire him. He did this out of spite, because his boss Thomas didn't think his shows were black enough. He does this by writing a minstrel show where black actors would black themselves up even more with black face paint for a comedy variety show. He thought that would certainly get him fired, but alas he was wrong. Thomas loved the idea, next thing you know it was aired on TV and became an overnight success. Although the show was extremely racist it stayed on the air. due to popular demand. Manray (Mantan,) was the star of the show with his side kick and friend Womack (Sleep n' eat.) they were street performers that lived on whatever they could make performing. Manray was a self taught tap dancer that jumped at the opportunity to play Mantan, as long as he would dance and get payed. They did not understand what they were actually doing to their people and themselves. They were all about to find out the consequences for their actions.This was a good movie that made you think. Go check it out. "},{"Title":"An acknowledgment of Spike Lee's excellent work in Bamboozled.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Spike Lee does it again! Despite the circumstances of being limited to filming with primarily mini-DV cameras, his vision and overall message has excelled beyond its boundaries. In this film, we particularly see the revisiting of the black face gone awry. Delacroix is forced to face a situation where his Minstrel Show becomes almost everything but controversial. In this story, the constant and excessive ridiculing of African-American culture becomes highly embraced within a significant part of the public. However, there is also the side that strongly detests the television project. In this film, we see the corruption of people, i.e the characters Manray, Sloan, and Delacroix, himself. We also see overall tension rising between officials of the media, the African-American community, and the overall population--and as we all are well aware, it does not necessarily yield positive results. Overall, Spike Lee's Bamboozled addresses a series of issues including the influence from media, racial profiling/discrimination, corruption, etc., and also alludes to the conflicts of the past regarding the origins of the black face as well as racism itself. This film is incredibly loaded and I feel it takes one with substantial passion and intelligence to organize and create a story as powerful as Spike Lee's. I truly commend Lee's work! PS I also commend Kuraz, the director of photography. She did an excellent job in working the shots, considering she, for the most part, only had access to mini-DV cameras. This was an extraordinary film and was brilliantly conducted. "},{"Title":"Bamboozled","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Loved this film. I'm a big fan of Spike Lee's work and this one is among my favorites. It's highly uncomfortable almost the whole way through, and that is part of its beauty. It gets under the skin in a way that movies rarely are able to, begging questions about the prejudice inside of us all. I was blown away recently when I learned that the whole film was shot on mini DV cameras due to a lack of budget. The controversial script was turning away financing so Spike decided to approach the project in an independent mindset. The quality of the picture reflects the equipment used but doesn't draw away form the story. On the contrary, I felt that the DV footage gave the story a more documentary style, adding a sense of authenticity. This is not a movie for people that take themselves to seriously. it is a satire that deals with some gritty material, but one that I feel starts a dialog among viewers. "},{"Title":"What else you may not have known about the media","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Spike Lee takes on yet another social issue. This time it is the media and its role in perpetuating stereotypes and racism. It is a catch 22 for many actors and entertainers. Take the gig and sacrifice my self-respect, or don't take the gig and sacrifice my ability to eat. A similar theme was explored in a very funny and well done movie in Robert Townsend's Hollywood Shuffle.I thought the movie was good. It showed the different aspects of the media, from the talent, to the execs, to the writers, and even the audience. I would be lying if I didn't say that some of the scenarios were a bit exaggerated, but Spike Lee is well known to exaggerate to make sure the point is understood. I, for one, was glad to see him magnify the situations so that there would be no mystery as to what happens in the media on a more subtle and discreet level. It was the best Spike Lee film since Get on the Bus. "},{"Title":"Spike lee is resisting the negative stereotype","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" After watching Bamboozled, I was left with a burning question To what extent does Spike lee reinforce or resist the dominant cinema's negative stereotype of the black male?On one level Spike lee is reminding us of the origins of the blackface myth and how it helped to define the concept of blackness as the other against that of Whiteness.On the other hand Spike Lee seems to be inviting us to laugh with him the racism that constructed the concept of blackness as inferior against white insuperiority.Is there no contradiction of Spike Lee resisting the blackface through demythifying it?But at the same time, he seems to make a fool of himself. "},{"Title":"Spike Does It Again!!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Let me say at the outset that in many instances this can be VERY disturbing to watch, especially for Americans given the history of the races here. And Spike, (GOD I love him)still continues to work you. You tend to watch this as you would a horrible accident....you simply cannot turn away but it is entirely too painful to watch. I understand exactly what he was trying to say and agree wholeheartedly. Yet I cannot deny I was squirming in the beginning because it takes a bit of getting used to.First and foremost, forget critics. Your opinion is just as valid. This is another very important film with wonderful performances. While Damon's interpretation is a bit over the top, there is no doubt what perspective he was trying to convey. He is a very troubled black man who has issues. His boss, who has a black wife and half-white children is repugnant, and thinks that this gives him the right to say and think anything about African-Americans he likes which is utter nonsense.Jada Pinkett Smith is wonderful as the conscience after-the-fact and you wish to see her in more controlled, intelligent, roles as this.But the standout, to be sure, is Savion Glover whose dancing is quite simply mesmerizing; it is quite easy to forget the rough ground we are treading and just revel in this man's talent. He also was the film's choreographer and the precision of his dance routines tended to help one endure such painful presentations as black actors in a cotton field in blackface.Paul Mooney who plays Delacroix's father is positively wonderful and his comic routines are hilarious as well as insightful. He has always been a cutting edge comic but sadly has not received his just due.But just as he did in Four Little Girls Spike MAKES YOU CONFRONT IT WHETHER YOU WANT TO OR NOT!!! I am quite satisfied with this DVD; it is a must for any DVD collection. The only complaint I have is that some (as a matter of fact, all) of the deleted scenes should have been rethought because they tended to flesh out the plot a bit more. The ending may have been a bit too violent as a possible consequence to the network's insensitivity but overall, this is a very complicated, mulit-layered, film that will demand certainly more than one viewing. Besides, I have already made up my mind that everything Spike has/will do will be well worth the controversy he invariably provokes. Hats off again, Spike!!! "},{"Title":"Great Story...Bad Telling","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I love Spike Lee. I think that he has some great stories to tell. The problem is that sometimes he just doesn't tell them in a way that captivates the audience. Bamboozled is one of those times. The story behind this film is great. Daman Wayans plays a network writer that needs a hit, so he comes up with this completely racist show which pokes fun at the old black face films of the early twentieth century. The only problem is that it backfires on him. The viewers and the critics love it. This causes Wayans to forget what he originally set out to do. Before long, the black community is against him and the white community loves him. What I liked about this film is that it really was pretty accurate in its portrayal of how white people act. I know because I am white. We really do find humor in the degradation of African Americans...whether we want to admit it or not. And no one but Spike Lee could bring this to our attention. However, there were many times where this film just dragged on by...mostly in the middle. There wasn't a lot of substance, just a lot of fluff that was there simply to fill time. In the end...good story but the telling of it was a bit drawn out. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Missing The Point","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In an analogous way, this movie gives new meaning to 'film noir.' Spike Lee's Best Film! I've read all the comments here, pro & con and everyone has a good point to make. I can't believe that no one has mentioned the short film montage Lee inserts of all the stereotypical ads & cartoons of blacks down the years. It really made me sad & hit a hole in my heart for what some people thought (and some still do) was funny. Thank God it's difficult to find these things on the Internet and in print anymore. The New York Times is to be congratulated for extending 1st amendment rights (huh?) to Spike Lee in it's advertising denial for this movie. I'm wondering if they asked for a revamped ad to replace the one submitted at the time. Thank you for this movie & for your candor Mr.Lee. I, for one, got it. "}{"Title":"Quick correction to posted article by zetes","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In the article in praises the on stage performances of Mantan and Sleep and Eat. It states that these characters are played by Tommy Davidson( of In Living Color fame) and Crispin Glover.Crispin Glover is the actor who played Michael J. Fox's dad in the Back To The Future trilogy.Savion Glover is the actor/dancer who played the Mantan role. Mr. Glover is one the world's best tap dancers in an era where few tap dancers have a venue or audience. He appeared in the movie Tap( which starred Gregory Hines) and he was a feature co-lead in the Broadway Muscial Jelly's Last Jam( a work based on the life of original New Orleans Bluesman Jelly Roll Morton).Savion Glover is an amazing talent that I hope to see featured in more projects. He deserves to have his proper due.Aside from this slight, I enjoyed zeet's article and I encourage more people to talk about this movie and encourage others to view it! "},{"Title":"A little short of compelling?","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have nothing against this film; in fact, I thought it was built around a highly valuable premise that is racism, just like most of his movies were. After a good bit of it, though, I found myself thinking, Yeah, okay, I get it, I get it! Seriously, can Spike Lee get more importunately emphatic than this? I was not very impressed with the acting, too. It was okay, a little short of compelling, but not extremely bad. Nonetheless, if someone asks me if I recommend it, I'd still yes, just because I think it does bring an important issue to the forefront of everyone's attention, although a lot of better movies demonstrating racial tensions can accomplish that task, too. Plus, I honestly have a lot of respect for Spike Lee as a movie-maker, and I'd forever be hesitant to sell him short. "},{"Title":"re Why didn't people like this movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have seen few of Spike Lee's movies since Malcolm X and Crookland. I am upset that I waited so long to see this film. As an African American born in the 50's and a witness of the 60's and 70's, I think Spike was really right on, again.Perhaps to some White Americans, Spike may have drawn out the old conversation about the R word--racism some more. As an African American I think he pointed the flashlight back on a problem and phenomenon that has not gone away. I am immensely grateful that he included all of the caricatures of African Americans at the end of the film. As an epilogue, it reminded me that the society and culture my parents, grandparents, great-grandparents and related others who have passed had to survive is the same one that I continue to survive and one my children will have to learn to survive. The hum may not be as loud today, but the hum is still there. It ain't gone nowhere!!!! Damon Wayan I think was appropriate as you need some one who could effectively act the role of a character who was a buffoon and did not know it.I will say that I wish it had not so much foul language so not to offend some people. "},{"Title":"Pure Satire","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is an in your face satire. A satire of media, personal identity, and culture exploitation. This is a mix of Mel Brooks The Producers, Sidney Lumet's Network  and Spike Lee's in your face writing and wit. Follow Pierre Delacroix, a black frustrated TV producer looking to get fired. So Pierre comes up with the idea to create the most offensive television program ever put on. A modern day minstrel show. The thing that happens is, its a phenomenon. Damon Wayans invokes such a character its almost too telling to watch. Jada Pickett-Smith shows her true colors in this film. Spike lee explores the depth of racism/explotatio in media and general culture. This asked the questions Who wears the blackface? (Not just black people) This movie makes me explore all the movies/TV/characters that I grew up as a child. It makes me shy away from a lot of movies and cartoons from the 30's & 40's. Movies with the Yes Sa mentality. I knew there was rasicm/bigatory in media and culture, but never to this extent. Its sickening to comprehend.I highly recommend this film to everyone.  "},{"Title":"Uneven but still Enjoyable.","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is the story of a black television writer named Pierre Delacroix who is a lot more Bill Cosby than Chris Rock. Because of this, his writing gets criticsized by his boss for ''not being black enough''. Outraged by this Pierre creates a modern day Minstrel show in order to get fired, but the show turns into a hit.As you can tell from that summary the film starts out on a funny note, but as it goes on it gets uneven turning darker(no pun intended)and trying to send out a message. I would have enjoyed it more if Spike had chosen either to make this a straight out, some what political comedy or a more serious film. Damon Wayans does a great job as Pierre Delacroix. His accent makes you forget who he is and belive he is Delacroix. Equally good is Michael Rappaport as Delacroix's boss Thomas Dunwitty. The problem here wasn't the acting, in fact I can't think of anyone in the cast who stands out as sore thumb. The problem was the way the story moved. I enjoyed the beggining of the movie because of the humor, and at a certain point in the film, the comedy is abandoned as Spike wants to focus more on a message. This unevenness leaves you having to belive in the movies ridiculous concept, that a minstrel show can become a hit tv in the 21st Century.The movie ends on a higher note in a somewhat Lynchian way, but whatever message Spike wanted to send out either gets lost or seems unneccessary. That being said the first 3 quarters of this movie are very funny and feel like a sketch from Chapelle's show. In the end though the movie fails to send a distinct message, it leaves you thinking and leaves you entertained.7/10 "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is obviously Spike Lee's best film ever. It deals with real world racism and it is a satire of how black people as well as white people portray blacks on network TV. It is brilliantly done. I have noticed that everyone who has downed the movie has failed to understand Lee's point. His point is to show the viewers the ridiculousness of portraying a people in a way they are not or that is age old in belief. I advise anyone who doesn't understand to watch the making of the movie on the DVD to better understand Lee's genius. "},{"Title":"A thought-evoking film","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SpoilersA Minstrel Show was a show where white actors (such as Judy Garland) would burn cork and make a paste of the ashes to smear on their face to make it black, hence the name black face. This was at a time before blacks appeared in films, and allowed stereotypes to spread, such as the idiocy of blacks. The clips shown at the end of the film accompanying Dela's death are examples both of actors in blackface, but also cartoons with such stereotypes of blacks.One major point that was emphasized over and over was that you have to be educated! The Mau-Maus were ignorant Sloan What are you fighting against? Julius The USA... the KKK... Real specific there... Another example of their ignorance is the girl in the group (don't remember her name) always eating a lollypop, as if she can never get beyond that simple childhood action. Her only main contribution to the group was her comment, Why is 'black' spelled with a 'c'? From now on it should be spelled b-l-a-k. This group was so ignorant that at one point, they couldn't even express their own feelings of disgust towards Man Tan. The only thing they could say was, know what I mean?Another powerful quote Everybody wanna be black but nobody wanna be black tells the absolute truth. Also look at the Tommy Hillni--er commercial - the clothes are so ghetto that they even come with bullet holes! People want to dress like that. Being ghetto - tough, cool, wearing baggy clothes, listening to hardcore rap, is attractive, and rich, white rappers are a real-life example of this fascination.When you view this film, try to pick out what aspect of human nature is being satirized in it, and remember that it is a satire, not a serious drama. "},{"Title":"on point","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think a movie like this has been long overdue.  It raised some very solid, real points about the overall perception of blacks in the day to day life. One interesting scene was the group meeting on the new minstrel show, where you had young people who even admitted to not knowing very many blacks, but felt confident that they understood them through shows like 'Good Times'. Obviously that perception is not true of everyone, but its out there.  Its very scary, especially considering the kinds of shows that are on right now may have the same affect.  There were many other points that this film hit dead on. Too many to comment on.Although this film will hit you over the head with a lot of social points, its rich in subtlety.  I think its this part of the film that many people aren't understanding, be it from lack of that type of experience or whatever.  In one scene, we see Delacroix surrounded by offensive black memorabilia.  In the midst of all the lawn jockeys, and other collectibles, we see a stuffed doll of Dennis Rodman(nice).  In my book, this film is better that 'Do the Right Thing'. Great performance by MosDef. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled was a fine movie although I could tell that it was filmed in a hurry.  There were a couple of scenes where the dialogue wasn't quite right, but it was generally very well done.To me, the amazing thing about this film is the fact that it was shot on DV cams...not ten thousand dollar DV cams, but the kind you can get at any electronics store.  In some scenes they were using ten or fifteen of these things.  I would have hated to edit all that footage, but the results were great.  If anybody knows of other feature films that were shot similarly, please email me...I'd very much like to check them out.To all of you who think racism is a thing of the past, think again. That's the point of Bamboozled. "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Rarely have I seen a movie that was as unenjoyable as this. It was badly made, badly produced and quite frankly people like Jada Pinkett Smith and Damon Wayans should know better than to appear in such a ludicrously third rate production. This film was irritating from beginning to end and I am at a loss to find one solitary thing I liked about it. Overall it was a great disappointment. "}{"Title":"You know a movie works dramatically when tap dancing scenes add to its drama as much as any punch-up, shoot-em-out sequences.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee surprises with this offbeat, unique and totally inventive take on black history, racism and the media's cynical take on all things cultural. Humour mixes with perversely poignant scenes and you know a movie is hitting it when tap dancing scenes add to its drama as much as any punch-up, shoot-em-out sequences. Just when you were wondering if Spike was spunked out, he delivers a deadly spoof that never dances around the issues. james muretich "},{"Title":"think twice before you label it!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you expect a very evident discourse, you won't get much of this movie. Because Spike Lee is not the director who will say it straight in your face. Instead, he is great at suggesting everything. And he also likes to test your limits. If you come from a 'politically correct society', you will be very much annoyed at some points by what seems to be pure racism. But if you're patient enough to get throught the whole movie, you'll see that Lee does nothing more than picturing the stereotypes which are related to races, and the fact that people are many times racist without being even conscious of it. I heard that this film is a reply to Griffith's Birth of a nation, which was the first American talking film, and at the same time was a long racist declarations, in which the KKK was praised and the coloured people were regarded as sub-humans. So maybe you should take this into consideration too,when you watch the film.  "},{"Title":"Affective.","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've only viewed this film once and it was probably two years ago. I thought it was excellent. I've only seen a few Lee films, but they all make you work a little to take something away. You can't just sit back and expect to be spoon fed.Lee's points are frequently contradicting, renegotiated, re-evaluated. This means his film(s) may suffer for lack of a unified poignancy or thesis. Lee instead strives for affectation. I'm not sure you can fully get a film like this in a single way, it's layered such that conclusions may vary widely. You laugh at scenes where other viewers feel uncomfortable. You are outraged at scenes where others laugh... etc. Lee is perhaps much more interested in the source of these reactions than with content or a political, social, or cultural agenda.Lee's films are most successful when they face full and without compromise politically and socially hypersensitive topics. This film demonstrates the mastery with which Lee can toy not only with stereotypes, but make you evaluate your own perception, experience, and perpetuation of stereotypes and racism. In other words, the attentive viewer is constantly manipulated intellectually and emotionally. Lee zeroes in on the point of articulation between intellect and emotion, in both personal and social consciousness and conscience. Lee demonstrates how racism is institutionalized and perpetuated in Americans - not just white Americans. This is not what we expect. The effect is unsettling yet poignant. Lee has the ability to approach an emotionally charged issue with utmost calculation and logic, such that his treatment is not compromised by uncontrolled passion. Part of his intent, however, is to spur a passionate reaction. Lee is not afraid to tackle an issue or a explode a causality that may be enraging, not politically correct, offensive, or perhaps overlooked. Lee invites you to consider what emotions cause these reactions, and perhaps what portion of the collective conscience (Durkheim) is responsible for such emotion.The effect of Lee's meandering is a very relevant film that hits you on a gut level. The genius is that it is unsettling not only through the content of the film, but also through the intellectual and emotional considerations that immediately follow your preliminary emotional reactions. Sort of a meta-reaction.  "},{"Title":"I don't get it.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is one movie that I don't get.  I don't get the point of it at all--other than Spike Lee's normal racism is bad.  I read somewhere that Mr. Lee felt that rap videos were the minstrel shows of this era and that was a major idea behind Bamboozled.  Now I didn't read this in an article that quoted Mr. Lee so that could be faulty information, but if it's not then why did he not attack rap videos?  Beyond that I felt this movie was racist at points.  For instance Pierre Delcroix's father is a comedian, but every joke he tells ends up being a racist joke (and not even good ones).  If one was to make a film and have a white man tell the jokes and then have the words black and white flip flopped, still using the same jokes, the character would obviously be a person to look down on. Yet in this movie it seems that it is meant for him to be insightful. Watching the DVD they ask the cast members what the movie is about, and it's clear that none of them are on the same wave lenght.  Even Mr. Lee's answer is ambigious. I love Spike Lee movies (Do the Right Thing is one of my favorite movies), but I feel this is merely Mr. Lee speaking out about how he has nothing to speak out about. It almost seems as if he feels he's covered ever trail in the racial equality wilderness and now must digress and bring up something as far from the modern American's mind as blackface.  Saying all that, if you're like me and enjoy a movie that makes you think, then Bamboozled is good.  But watch some of Spike Lee's other films first so you don't get a bad taste in your mouth for the man (I personally recommend Do the Right Thing, and Jungle Fever).  "},{"Title":"A glass half full","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am not a fan of Spike Lee finding that his imagery and scripting lack subtlety. Bamboozled is definitely worth viewing but mostly for the amazing footwork of Savior Glover. Glover's character dances tap in the streets for chump changes until fate brings him to the attention of a gentrified television writer played by Damon Wayans. Hired by Wayans for a high concept variety show, Glover becomes Mantan, a racially stereotypic throwback to a time when blacks were thought of as shiftless and on CPT (colored people time as one TV producer states in the  film). His obvious talent is mesmerizing and a delicacy for those who have not seen him on stage. His presence energizes what is actually a rather dull and uninspired rehashing of TV industry prejudice and the men and women who are trying to rise above the glass ceiling. Network did it so much better and Lee even includes scenes that are vertual lifted from that superior film. It is meant to be a tribute but comes across as a sad parody in a film that cannot live up to it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"Flirting with substance","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee gets a full two points in my book just for his ambition, the bad news is the other aspects of the movie rate about a 4. Among the points he asserts and attempts to cover **The history and purpose and evolution of degrading black images in American culture **the complicitness of black Americans in their own degredation **how satire is not one size fits all, it's easily misunderstood and easily used to veil hostility **the battle between personal ambition and not selling out **does internalization and/or subversion of offensive images make them any less destructive? **What is authentic blackness? Is it a certain mindset, or a set of dialect and swagger that you put on like a hat, or is it something experienced?**  Is there such a thing at all?I don't necessarily agree with the points he makes(or tries to make, or that I think he's trying to make) but these themes, properly juggled, could have made for incisive, truly important cinema but Lee just throws them in the air and presents it as a movie. Damon Wayans, affecting a terribly unrealistic uptight white guy accent, stars as Pierre Delacroix, a television executive trying to get himself fired by pitching an outrageously offensive blackface coon show. Of course, in a Spike Lee polemic, his white wigger boss loves it and so does the American TV audience, creating a dilemna for Pierre and the poor but talented pair street performers who perform in the show(Tommy Davidson gives a great performance, and Savion Glover gives...great tap-dance). Throw in some self-righteous black revolutionaries, a superfluous, half-assed love story, and a complete lack of subtlety(rendering whatever satire there is rather impotent) and you have Bamboozled. Lee's ambivalence and lack of sharpness and/or courage in attacking present-day black images stands out the most, since to me, that should have been a large part of this type of exercise. I agree with Roger Ebert's assertion that using blackface is a cop-out, and obscures a screenplay already filled with competing and contradictory visions of what it's trying to say about present-day race relations. A mess of a movie, intermittently interesting and worth seeing despite what I've said but just a mess of a movie.  "},{"Title":"Funny, Real, Stupid, Scary, and Sad","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is the kind of movie where you have to see it from differences of angles. Number one, there are racist white people in this society today number two all black people are not lazy unemployed and crackheads. Bamboozled had got to be one of the most if not the most controversal movies ever made by Spike Lee besides Malcolm X. I think Spike Lee is one of the great directors of all time and I also think he wants to wake America up.Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans in a stupid role) Is a Tv executive at CNS a local Television Company Thomas Dunwitty (Michael Rapaport in a crazy role) is his boss he wants delacroix to come up with a smash tv show that will have viewers tuned in ever week so he comes up with Mantan the new millenium minstrel show  he brings in 2 homeless guys Womack and Manray (Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson) along with his assisstant Sloan (Jada pinkett smith) with sloan's help the show becomes a success but controversy starts to stir even Reverend Al Sharpton and Jonnie cochran comes and protestsThe Really dark scary Sad Part of the movie is at the end where spike lee puts in a video tape of archive footage from 1900 to 1950 shows we see in the footage Al Jolson in the Jazz Singer singing Mammy Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney putting on blackface Mantan Moreland Stepin fetchit and a whole bunch of other racist materialI want to get this movie on DVD so I can hear Spike Lee's commentary of what he has to say about the movie also I want to see the deleted scenes and also I want to see the making of the film and see what the actors have to say about itI give Bamboozled and 7 out of 10 and the only actor who was really good Is Savion Glover that Young Man can dance "},{"Title":"Great concept","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Some of the images in this film are scary. Collectives are scary. Spike Lee's Bamboozled got me thinking about race. It's incredible and disappointing that racism is still pretty dirty in the US. One day we'll finally wake up to some simple facts like 1) it's just melanin 2) your culture, like your identity, ought to be a *choice* 3) there is zero obligation to atone for the past. The most depressing problems are those behind which large, unseen, and ownerless hands are at work, like the seeming lack of social mobility in the innercities. It is dangerous to believe that the problem is not as bad as before, but it is just as insidious to keep prejudicing yourself as white or as black or as whatever. I think, I hope, that eventually the solutions will arise because each generation is slightly less stubborn about their prejudices than the one before it. This would require getting every young person up to speed about how prejudices manifest in its various guises, and how the media tries to capitalize on them.Anyway, Bamboozled has a great concept and some wicked satire, but like most satires, does not risk offering any solutions. We are alerted to the hypocrisies the characters in the movie commit, but of course the viewer is aloof and is free to consider the movie purely as an exercise in the exploitation of characters. Oh well, at least the film got some people thinking. "},{"Title":"I don't know how I feel about this movie","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When I walked out of this film, I was speechless. I don't know if I was offended, sad, or what exactly I should have been feeling. I understand that it was supposed to be a strong political message about how African Americans are viewed in our society. I think it was very over the top, but it also made me think about the hardships of Black americans, and how even now, in many ways are still not treated the same as whites. I just know that I felt awful watching this movie,and while it started off pretty light, it turned extremely grim by the end. I did not know much about black face before watching it, and can't understand why it was ever a popular symbol in our society. I really am sad sometimes at our culture and how we can be so cruel to people. I thought that it was very interesting how the main character started off by preaching how blacks are not treated fairly, and then kind of lost his faith and turned greedy when his show became a hit. Overall, I can see why this is a controversial movie, and I know that it made me reevaluate how I look at modern culture and our television shows. "},{"Title":"Intense film","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is a movie that addresses the issue of racism concerning African Americans.  From the very beginning, the raw reality of it is thrown into the faces of the audience, and they are left to deal with it on their own.  The story is centered on an aspiring writer for a major television company, who happens to be black.  Lately, the public has not been very receptive to his work.  The main reason being that the work didn't `appeal' to the African American population.  Played by Damon Wayans, Pierre, the writer, is accused of not being in touch with the black community, and this is why his work failed.  An issue of self-identity and place in society then arises.  What does it mean to be black?  Does it mean that one has to conform themselves to fit the mold of the stereotypes set forth by society?  This is what Pierre hopes to abolish.  By creating a show that is the very embodiment of all black stereotypes, he hopes that the people will see the hideous prejudice, and realize their wrong.  What follow is the exact opposite.  Instead of offending and angering the majority of the public, they end up loving it.  As the plot develops, Spike Lee shows how the issue of race and ignorance affects each character and how it changes them personally.  By bringing the audience to the receiving end of racism, they are up close and personal to what it really feels to be a victim of bigotry.  Bamboozled leaves the audience bewildered, and shocked.  The intensity of this ground-shaking movie forces one to reevaluate their perceptions of themselves, and the society that they live in.  "}{"Title":"I don't know if it's a great film, but it made an impression that won't go away","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The power of this film is it's WWII mine-sweeper approach to race and corporate entertainment.  Every scene is Spike Lee raking chains over the role of the black entertainer in America - ripping into history, sit-com stereotypes, degrading and gluttonous consumerism, gansta-rap culture, and the black/white audiences that eat it all up.  For the last half of the film, Lee layers image upon image upon image of a legacy of black entertainers until the whole thing is like a sickening hall of mirrors.  This film exudes pure rage.  It's a volley of fire-breathing disgust at the commodification of racist stereotypes.  We need more movies like this.  More movies that attack fiction and ask people to examine why some characters are interesting.The humor is bleaker than anything I can remember.  The art direction was essential and is flawless.  The acting and characters are somewhat uneven (Delacroix only seemed successful to me in about half the scenes he was in and none of the other fantastic performances get enough screen time). "},{"Title":"A redefinition of racism","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled, while certainly a film which dealt with race, was more a satire of American business.  Both blacks and whites sacrificed their standards of race and social equality in order to enrich themselves.  The film does portray the white upper class as racist but its image of the rest of society is not much better.  All the characters have different stereotypes, each according to his or her expectations.  It seems that the movie attempted to redefine racism with regard to its class and corporate facets in our new millennium.  It realizes that the two can not be separated.  This is contrary to many critics who attempt to label it as a race issues film only.  "},{"Title":"Profound, horrifying","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee presents one of the most racially driven movies of our time with Bamboozled.  But instead of so many African American movies where every one else seems to be criticized, uses R&B music, and involves some conflict with white people, Spike Lee held back with no one; everyone was fair game for criticism.Bamboozled was unexpectedly suspenseful, and I found the final scene with murder and death interspersed with  the sequence of black television scenes to be absolutely horrifying.I was pleasantly surprised by the acting.  Even though a friend reminded me as the movie was opening Wasn't he Major Payne?, Damon Wayans was outstanding in this over-the-top role.  He truly delivered. Savion Glover did a well to bring life to Mantan, also.Overall, an excellent, profound, and controversial movie.  "},{"Title":"Powerful and thought provoking","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think the most interesting attribute of Bamboozled was the characters and the type of people they were meant to portray.  Pierre Delacroix and Sloan Hopkins were the `Cosby' type characters of the film, each was successful, adjusted but still proud of whom they were.  Both a bit removed from the African-America atmosphere each grew up in, Pierre and Sloan each had a catharsis related to their own perceptions about race.  The characters Mantan and Sleep'n Eat are the 17th century parallel to the Mau Maus.  In the Vaudeville acts of the 1800's, blackened actors portrayed African-Americans as they thought they were lazy, stupid, clumsy and rash. The group known as the Mau Maus is the updated version African-American perceptions today groups of gangs drinking, complaining and plotting against those who are demeaning them.  Two things I noticed about the Mau Maus were their location; a decrepit basement, and their beverage of choice bomb, which was malt liquor.  Spike Lee made a powerful point about grouping a entire race into a few categories, and he proved that race issues should still be discussed as long as incorrect perceptions exist. "},{"Title":"Disturbing....","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently saw the Spike Lee film, Bamboozled, and was very disturbed by it. The premise of the movie is very interesting.  A black television writer, played by Damon Wayans, writes a racist show to protest the racism inherent in society.  Unfortunately, the show becomes a success.  The American public becomes enamored with the `blackface' minstrel show.  I would like to think that this sort of blatant racism would not be tolerated in our society, but this film made me think twice about it.  The media is a powerful thing. The continued imagery of African American cartoons, dolls and shows has a very emotional effect.  It definitely made me think about racism in this country's history. Spike Lee makes a crucial point about how serious racism has been and still is.  All of the acting in this movie was very good; I enjoyed everyone's performance.  This film was very well done and delivers a powerful message.  "},{"Title":"A well made, powerful film, but a little unsettling","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My initial reaction to Spike Lee's Bamboozled was one of dislike. However, after carefully thinking about it, I realized that it really is an amazingly well made film, even though the content may be a little unsettling.  The many stereotypes that are brought to life, and greatly exaggerated, are what give it the sense of uneasiness.  The main stereotype that it exploits is actually several views on how people see the black man.  These many different angles include the black man who tries to forget about his heritage and the family that remind him of the fact that he is black, the lazy, homeless, unemployed black man, the rapping, gun carrying gangster, and the typical southern slave that is portrayed in many old movies and TV shows.  It also shows that woman can only be successful in life if they have sex with their boss.  And finally, we see the white man who thinks he knows more about being black than a black man himself.  One of the things that bothered me the most was the great extent to which these stereotypes were presented.  What made the viewing much more painful, though, was the casual, and very abundant use of the word `nigger.'  This took every stereotype to the extreme.  After much consideration, and even though sometimes it was uncomfortable to watch, I think that Bamboozled is a very powerful film, but is not something that can be seen by everyone. "},{"Title":"No small victory","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A small victory isn't that small when you've been used to losing, Spike Lee's anti-hero Pierre DeLaCroix (Wayans) says to Sloane (the amazing Jada Pinkett-Smith) after his minstrel show has become an overnight success.  Aside from the social messages Lee proposes also the ways in which a person's own pride and need for recognition -- especially in DeLa's case as one between identities -- weakens his own defiance to bigotry in all its forms.It's also impossible on some level for DeLa to have known the results of his inspired idea -- another sad reality of being human and having prejudicial baggage to carry around.One of the most wonderful, powerful gifts Spike Lee has a writer and director is his ability to make audiences self-conscious.  Lee defines for the audience at the very beginning of this tremendous film the word satire, which is not only the format of the Mantan minstrel TV pilot, but also the larger world of the film itself.Bamboozled is an indictment of racism in everyday interactions, in close relationships, in the media, and in the consciousness of Americans not through the obvious but impotent medium of education but through the misrepresentative, money-manipulated format of entertainment.  Lee seems to be saying that since racism is not being revealed (or accepted) in the educational system as true history, modern audiences will only respond to information in the form of entertainment.  Mantan would be, except for its historical lineage, no more ludicrous and prejudicial than Jerry Springer is of wayward hookers and their overweight lesbian lovers or than Maury Povich is of teenage mothers who don't know the real identity of their baby's father.DeLa intends to offer up the minstrel show idea not as a serious pilot, but as a way for his boss to see how prejudicial and racist he is.  DeLa does not intend the show to be picked up, but when it is he finds himself hamstrung between his intellectual beliefs and the enjoyment of his own accomplishments -- just as he is shown to the audience to be hamstrung between white and black identities.  The race revolution he initially envisions as a liberation ends up (spoiler ahead) as a riot of violence in the hailstorm of neo-Marxist militant rappers eliminating traitors to the race -- in an equally entertaining fashion, via the internet.Some beautiful scenes -- may be spoilers Pierre (not) accepting an award from Matthew Modine, whom he confuses with Matt Dillon; Pierre's comedian father's set; Pierre telling his staff of white writers for Mantan to reach back into that white anger and angst you had when you saw OJ's hands didn't fit in those gloves; Savion Glover's incredible choreography throughout; Michael Rapaport's continually ballsy acting (Boston Public not included).The ending of this film is the most unsatisfying and the most puzzling for me, as I cannot surmise Lee's intent.  Spike Lee is so good at being aware of prejudice and bigotry, in a way that Oliver Stone only wishes he could be.  (Stone tends to hammer away at hypocrisy and injustice, juxtaposing it with his own sexism.)  Lee i always so meticulous -- and perhaps this is the final trick of Bamboozled.  Maybe the ending reveals Lee's own pessimism, that there aren't any clear solutions when it comes to racism in America.  No one wants black men dead unless they're in the KKK, but racism is usually not as obvious as pointed white hats and burning crosses.  Even the smallest acts of racism contribute to the death of the one you subjugate or alienate.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee has really outdone himself this time. I thought that directing comedies was beyond him, but he did such a good job on this wonderful film. I really appreciated his use of vivid color and humorous imagery to complete this film. The choreography in Mantan was wonderful as was the music and comedy. To be honest, I used to view Spike's movies as negative and depressing. What a pleasant suprise for him to resurrect such a lost form of comedy for the screen of the new millennium. Way to go, Spike... Keep up the good work. "},{"Title":"It's about race, dummy.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You will learn the following from this movie 1.  Racism exists 2.  Racism is bad And if you don't learn this immediately, Spike Lee will beat you over the head with it until you do.  Spike Lee has never been accused of subtlety. BAMBOOZLED will not change that.  There will be those who will say that this is a deep and/or moving and/or challenging movie.  Unfortunately, I failed to be moved or challenged by its depths.  It left me feeling cheated by a potential that was never fulfilled.  "},{"Title":"Not entertaining, but very troubling","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't really say it is a good movie.  The acting was good and it was directed well and it looked good, but I was not entertained.  To me the movie is very dark.  The racism you see in the old film footage and the toys is disturbing to me, because it wasn't that long ago, and America took it for granted.  That is sickening.  Believing that a person was inferior to you based on their skin color was as mainstream as the belief in heaven.  Times have improved, but that profound ignorance was not that long ago.  That explains a lot.  This movie went strait to my senses.  As in the last comments I too am black, but what was his point to mention that?  There is no collective intelligence based simply on color.  We are people with unique opinions as all people.  The only true race is human.  That is the truth of life.  The rest is illusion. "}{"Title":"Upon reflection, an interesting mixture.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Went and sat in the dark to watch this when it came out.  A movie looks and feels different in the dark, the smell of popcorn in the air, the slightly sticky floors reminding you to be thankful that the lights are dim.I have reviewed it twice since then, and have finally come to a conclusion as to why it left me unsatisfied.  Have you ever driven a long, straight, asphalt road during the summer and found yourself looking at the shimmer of water in the distance, knowing fully well there is no water, only an illusion?  Bamboozled is that type of film-- an illusion of a story while something else unwanted lurks beneath.Why can a black man NOT have depth, why can he not be a parody of himself?  Is there a reason he must be downtrodden, misunderstood, is there a reason he cannot have fire in his soul, a dream, and the will to build a ladder to the stars?  Is there some rule or law or ordinance that requires him the only meet black women who are equally as shallow, and to deal only with token whites who share the same pathetic shallowness?Even if we somehow find ourselves bound into this somehow dark skin means shallow personal life program, does a violent ending become a required function?  Must every sentence end with an exclamation point, or is each character a person, with his own hopes, dreams, loves, hates, foibles, and goals?Bamboozled is an interesting mixture; an argument by a complex, intelligent person with dark skin who manages to live a peaceful life that people with dark skin are bland and shallow and come to violent ends.  Confusing, at least to me. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie, like most of Spike Lee's other movies, dealt with race and violence.  A black television producer of a national network makes a black variety show in the essence of variety shows in the early 20th century where performers painted their faces black to make them look blacker than black. The producer purposely makes the show feed into many black stereotypes so that he would get fired and be released from his contract.  But the show becomes a hit despite his attempts to get fired.  The wins all kinds of awards but eventually they get tired of this stereotyping of black people and start to picket against them.  This eventually erupts in violence.  The movie brings up many controversial ideas that can not be fully developed until you watch this film several times which I have yet to do.  "},{"Title":"what is black?","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled explores racism and stereotypically represented African Americans.  There is a struggle between a high class Black television show creator, Pierre and his white black-acting boss who tells him that he and his shows aren't black enough.  Pierre then envisions a satirical show to demonstrate the baffoonery of African-American character in television.  The show takes place in a watermelon patch in the South and its characters are coons Mantan and SleepandEat who are in black face.  The show catches on and becomes a big hit.  People of all races come to watch in black face and all proclaim to be n----. The irony of the movie is that the mockery of Blacks leads to an understanding of all races.  The point that Spike Lee seems to be making is that African-Americans will only be accepted when they fit into their stereotypical role in society.  Bamboozled makes the audience about the racism in our country and and gets to the heart of it beyond what our politically correct selves are willing to admit.        "},{"Title":"It will make you think","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is the kind of film you should watch with someone else, since you WILL want to talk about it afterward. Because what Spike Lee does here -- and it's not the first time -- is toss you a live grenade and walk away, leaving you to figure out what to do next.Lee's films often raise more questions than they answer, but that's OK. If he didn't raise these questions, well, you wouldn't hold your breath waiting for Michael Bay to fill that void.This is not one of those movies where satire equals comedy. It has its funny points, but if all you take away from this is laughs, you didn't get it. The sad part is, as with most of the Spikester's movies, the people he's really aiming at won't ever see it.Bamboozled has flaws, to be sure. Mainly, there are points where -- and I'm speaking as whitey here -- believability is an issue. I know that Lee is stretching things for purposes of satire, and I know that shows like Homeboys In Outer Space still make the air in this day and age. But frankly, some things struck me as...unlikely at best. There were, however, far mare points where it's dead-on. Two issues I wish Lee would have explored more is (1) why white America accepts certain portrayals of blacks, but outright rejects others, and (2) how white kids have come to embrace black culture so much more in the last ten years. And -- speaking as whitey again -- doesn't it infuriate many blacks to see middle- and upper-class whites co-opt that culture when their lives are so far removed from the experience that creates it?No matter what you think of the rest of the movie, when you see the montage at the end, pretty much all you can do is drop your jaw and say, OK, Spike, you made your point.This is a good film for people who don't want to forget what they just saw as soon as the credits roll. And trust me, love it, hate it, or something in between, the last thing you'll do is forget it. "},{"Title":"Another brilliant Spike Lee joint","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In this film, the Damon Wayans character (a Harvard-edumacated former southerner with a faux French accent worthy of Tina Turner) creates a TV variety show based on offensive, archaic racial stereotypes, in part hoping that audiences will hate it, burying these stereotypes forever.Instead, the show becomes a smash hit, although extremely controversial.  The movie ending is predictable, if you are aware of Lee's politics.To me, the main question Lee raises in this film is, if entertainers exploit racial stereotypes, even in an attempt to destroy these stereotypes, and their product is successful, are they not cashing in on racism?The film is definitely worth seeing -- also, it has many hilarious scenes. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting.  Good Script.  Heavy-Handed Message","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee did an excellent job in bringing out the natural acting ability of the actors in this movie.  Jada Pinkett-Smith was exceptionally good and may have been her best performance yet, in my opinion (I haven't seen all of her movies yet).   When She's Gotta Have It was released I became a Spike follower.  When Do the Right Thing was released I became a big fan.  I love the camera angles and editing of Spike Lee.  But Spike, you lost me with the excessive, heavy-handed message you were trying to get across and I'm beginning to realize more about the importance of the viewer seeing the story instead of being told the story. I believe the message of the movie would have been more effective and the movie easier to watch with less.  It's like offering someone chocolate but setting them down in a vat of it.  Sorry Spike.  Good story.  Excellent acting, but too heavy-handed.  I'll give you a six because of the acting, but I took away points because of the manner in which it was presented.  Overkill, Spike. Overkill. "},{"Title":"Great Idea Rushed Ending","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a film worth seeing and worth making. Mr lee sheds a great deal of light on issues surrounding race in America and we should take notice.The lead charactor was very well played by Daman Wayans who as a very cultivated Afro-American sheds a great insight on the ambivalance Afro-Americans must have towards American culture and it's history and attitudes towards Blacks.All this is very well done and the many different charactors exemplifying different veins in Black-America today. Though I think Mr. Lee went just a bit beyond his depth with his Mau-Maus. As they seem almost as 2 dimensional as he sees white America's attitudes towards Afro-Americans.Now the script goes well almost to the end when it runs out of steam. Once the picture is drawn and drawn in some detail, Mr. Lee doesn't know what to do with it. The faux television show and the movie seem to have the same dilemma, where do you go from here? Well. the script's solution is to kill the principle charactors. But I didn't buy it. It was just too easy, as if death resolves anything. After all, we've got some very big issues shown here and Mr. Lee doesn't seem to want to want to take them anywhere but to say, here it is, now deal with it. Sorry, it wasn't enough for me.    "},{"Title":"a comedy from hell","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   The problem with all of Spike Lees movies is that he never seems sure whether he is making a comedy or a drama. The common pattern is that you feel as if you are watching a profane sitcom only to have the illusion shattered by some scene shocking brutality. Bamboozled is no exception to this pattern. In fact, the rift between comedy and drama is so great here that it feels like a comedy that was literally made in hell. This time, the laughs are derived from pop culture references and stupid offensive black stereotypes. The plot concerns a TV exec (Damon Wayans) who develops an Amos and Andy style TV comedy show as an attempt to spite his arrogant jerk of a boss (the reliably annoying Michael Rappaport) only to have it turn it to a hit and most of the jokes, as can be expected, come from this show within the show. On a superficial level, the jokes are funny but the sheer dehumanization they represent is not. Therefore, they pretty much amount to something like laughing at mentally retarded people who do not know how to act properly. There is also a pretty funny comedy club scene in which the execs father performs a comedy routine in the style of Def Comedy Jam. Unfortunately, those are the only funny parts of the whole movie . While Wayans Uncle Tom style character is probably intended to elicit laughs, he is so exaggerated and badly played by Wayans that he plays like nothing but Steve Urkel from Family Matters all grown up and utterly pathetic. Rappaports character is somewhat more convincing but all in all, he is nothing but a flat cliche of a dunderheaded white guy. As a comedy, then, the movie is nothing much. As a drama, it disturbingly evokes the dehumanization of dumb  cheerful blackface stereotypes which black people were forced to conform to in the first half of the 20th century. However, this is evoked more by authentic blackface footage rather than the uniformly one dimensional cast of characters. Just about anything that happens to them left me feeling cold (although theres a pretty depressing death scene late in the movie).   All in all, Spike Lee would have done better if he directed a documentary about blackface rather than this mess which calls itself a satyre.  Nevertheless, kudos go to Lee for creating fake commercials for the movie which justly put down the stupidity of the products and images which black people support.  "},{"Title":"Contradictory and Annoying","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike has the talent to make great films. My question is, why HASN'T he done so lately? The message of this film is all about smashing stereotypes through satire. I can buy the idea of satire with buffoonish characters using every black stereotype gag on the planet. I can buy the idea that it became an unexpected smash hit. Just look at the likes of shows like Howard Stern, Jerry Springer and South Park. The first half starts out strong, very shocking and funny. Then it starts getting tedious and predictable. Damon Wayan's character nasally, trying to sound snobbish, educated and cultured becomes tedious. He doesn't come across as a professional, creative and artistic black man, but rather, one of his over-the-top In Living Color white man affectations. Maybe this was the point, but it was transparent and annoying. *SPOILERS AHEAD* It could been less heavy-handed. Spike could have made a stronger and wider-reaching message by keeping it light and cutting out the tragic ending.  The main problem I have with the smash-the-stereotype message in this movie is this Spike is so focused on doing away with the watermelon patch-dancing-po'-boy imagery of the past, that he reinforces a stereotype of the present. *major spoiler here* Spike ends the story with the African-American characters shooting each other!! Come on! Throughout the story, we are told repeatedly in one form or another that Not all black people act like Mantan and Sleep'n'Eat. The underlying message being that we need to look past the stereotypes. Yet Spike decides to finish up the story with violence, brother killing brother when problems come to a head, instead of attempting a peaceful resolution. I dunno, maybe he ran out of time, or just couldn't think up an ending that didn't run contrary to the social message of the film. 5/10 for the chuckles at the start.  "},{"Title":"What was the point of this movie?","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  That was the question I found myself asking after watching it on DVD. Clearly it was in large part satire, and there's no shortage of targets of opportunity. Spike Lee pokes fun at malt liquor ads, white boy wannabes pretending to be black, and of course the television industry as a whole. His premise? That the TV networks, in their willingness to sink to almost any depth in their pursuit of ratings, can actually turn a blackface minstrel show into a smash hit. On the one hand, he really does make a point. We may not have anything as appalling as Mantan on the air, but we sure do revel in the likes of Jerry Springer and pro wrestling. On the other hand, satire works best if it isn't TOO blatant. In this case, it is hard to believe that a show as bad, as blatantly offensive as this, could actually become a financial and critical hit. I mean, it would be like making a comedy based on Shindler's List. It just doesn't come off as credible in the year 2000. So I'm not quite sure what the point of this film is. Does Spike Lee really believe America could embrace a show like this? That seems unlikely, since it shows a mixed race TV audience really getting into the show, which just doesn't seem possible. Or is he using this as a mechanism to rub our faces in the reality of the old time racial stereotypes from the early days of the entertainment industry? I suppose this is possible, and since most Americans today have not experienced this stuff first hand. Lee seems to be speaking to the current generation, saying look guys, this is what minstrel shows and blackface were really all about. Which is good, since most of us have tended to view this as ancient history, and therefore irrelevant. Unfortunately, much of this movie is just plain over the top. The violence at the end doesn't work, it's as if Spike Lee turned into Quentin Tarantino. And the lead character, played by Damon Wayans with the pretentious sounding name of Pierre Delacroix, is too one dimensional. In the end, it's hard to get a take on this movie. Is it a multilayered work of satirical genius, or just a muddled mess?  "}{"Title":"Appropriate title","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Since seeing Bamboozled, I've learned that a Spike Lee joint is not a vehicle with which to set a moral compass. Following the Do the Right Thing example, Lee creates a story that does nothing but lay out a social dilemma and then pepper the audience with questions they must ask themselves. Who is right/good? Who is wrong/bad? What is/are the solution/s, if any? Most importantly, where do you stand, and why?The way I interpreted this flick, and I'm sure there are many different views, Bamboozled is about how we define black culture and white culture, and perhaps more importantly, who defines it.The movie follows a black TV producer who is asked to come up with a new edge to black programming, something from the streets, something phat, something raw. He proceeds to create a show so cutting edge, so revolutionary, that it comes full circle and ends up harkening back to the good old days of Al Jolson blackface. The show is predictably controversial, with the forces of political correctness battling the purveyors of free speech until the publicity makes the show a hit.In the meantime, we, the audience, are asked to check our prejudices at the door, and really analyse how we feel about racial issues in this day and age. Is it funny for black people to call themselves nigger? How about white people then? Is anything racially taboo anymore, and if so, why? If black people do, or can, laugh off the past and move on, then shouldn't white people too? Who makes these decisions, and through what motive?The movie is very entertaining, and very well done, but I can see why it wasn't a hit at the box office. I watched it on video by myself, and found myself laughing at parts, only to stop and wonder if I should be laughing at all. Was I being racist? Was I being honest? Did it matter? I probably would have been too self-conscious to react had I been in a crowd of people.The emotionally charged content of Bamboozled, and the clever, disarming way that it draws out reaction and feelings earns it a solid 8. I had fun being tested.  "},{"Title":"why has no one seen this movie?","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie blew my mind. I left the theatre feeling bamboozled myself. I think this film was Spike Lee at his best, but unfortunately the issues it deals with are so controversial, dangerous, and deep-rooted in American culture that the power structure obviously feels really threatened by it, because (correct me if I'm wrong) it came and went like girl 6. The performances varied in my opinion. Tommy Davidson was amazing, Savion Glover showed some skills beyond tapping, Jada was not that impressive but she pulled her weight, Michael Rapaport was damn good as he always is (but his character was so infuriating that it was really hard to appreciate...he's an actor with balls, tho, no doubt), and Damon Wayans over-acted a little too much (altho I think his heightened performance was part of the point), but I usually love him. This movie opened my eyes to a lot of things I'd been thinking and others I hadn't even noticed. Spike Lee doesn't always do it for me, but in my opinion, Bamboozled should required viewing for all high school seniors (altho I know a lotta people will be ignorant and just hate)....I like it a helluva lot more than even my other favorite Spike Lee joint, Clockers. P.S. Shame on the NY Times for not advertising this movie. Dumbass move. "},{"Title":"this could be a very important film, unfortunately it won't reach a wide audience","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee has a great movie in Bamboozled.  There are things that i didn't like, but they were minor and didn't much effect the overall impact this movie has the power to deliver.  The best part about the movie was that while I was watching it, it bad me asking myself personal questions.  It's not every movie that gets you thinking and regretting things you said, thought, and have done while you are watching it.  It did not even have to get to the end for me to appreciate what this movie had to offer.  I have read a lot of reviews saying the end hurt the movie, but the end of this movie (unlike most) isn't the important part, this movie has a powerful message, but the message is going to be different for every person that sees this movie.  I believe that the viewers social perspective is an important part to this movie (hence the reviews are high praise or hatred, not a lot of so-so reviews).The only part of the movie that gets in the way is Spike Lee's big head, but like I said they were small things and did not bother me that much.  For instance the portrayal of white people is very racist in this movie, the writers table scene had me angry, but I'm sure that is what Lee wanted it to do.  Also there was a personal gripe against Tarantino, yes it was related to the films theme, but totally unnecessary.  I don't want to focus on these though because they are not important.I feel this film is far better than Malcom X, I loved Malcom X.  Unlike Malcom X this didn't already happen, but the premise of Bamboozled is something that could easily happen and that brings something extra to the film.  The fact that the viewer is going to think I can actually see this show being on tv, makes him think on different level, you start thinking what if and then start questioning yourself.I just saw this movie 10 minutes ago and I have a feeling this will stick in my mind for a while.  Everyone should see this movie, even though there will be a lot of people that will hate it. "},{"Title":"inconclusive, bamboozled","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers The beginning thesis voiced by Pierre is that only a show showing blacks as inferior could become big. It's basically a condemnation against the racism of our culture. This point is strongly emphasized by the ending in which both Pierre and Manray are depicted as sell outs and consequently murdered. You must pay for your acts and what you become. The final montage also speaks for this anti-racist theme. However, the black activists in the film are shown just as condescendingly and buffoon-like as the actors in the Minstral Show. Their revolution is foundationless and lacking direction. Nothing will result by referring to themselves as blak instead of black - playing on the feminist's womyn. Also, both these activists and Sloan (The only black activist shown to be intelligent. And the discoveries of her sex life seem to be claiming that stereotypes are at least partly true?) become murderers in the end. No one or side is shown as the decisive winner in this conflict and we are left bamboozled. What is the point of that?I'm most disappointed in the fact that Spike had a good idea and chose to soften it up. The movie itself should have been the satire. The point is weakened by the appeasements such as making sure the audience knows it's a satire (going so far as to define it word for word!) and making Pierre and Manray and Sleep-and-Eat have their revelations. Besides that, I enjoyed the acting of Rapaport and the first scene with Mos Def and especially all of the research and educational aspects put into the movie. The old video clips were alone extremely interesting and would never be shown on your local cable stations.  "},{"Title":"great but muddled","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled has the potential for great satire, being about the combination of race and television.  Lee's point--that whites in the TV industry are closet racists who think America will only accept blacks as maid, hookers, pimps, or drug addicts--is a sound one, and he balances this perspective by also skewering blacks who are too busy revolting against whites to ask what exactly they are revolting against.  Lee as usual swings a sledge hammer, taking no prisoners.   However---the Damon Wayan's character is confused; first, he creates a new millenium minstrel show to reveal the racism of his boss, but at times he seems to want the show to actually succeed.  Sometimes he is painfully aware of how destructive the show he's created is, and other times he justifies it as satire.  It doesn't help that Wayans affects a ludicrous white accent that only reminds you of how brilliant Eddie Murphy was in the White Like Me sketch on SNL.  As forcefully as Lee is trying to be, it also doesn't help that he muddles the screenplay with a lot of irrelevant points, like the whole question of whether Jada Pinkett-Smith's character slept with Wayans'.  One of Lee's better efforts, but a far cry from Do The Right Thing or Malcolm X. "},{"Title":"See this movie!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Somewhere close to the front of my mind, I'd been knowing since Malcolm X that Spike Lee is one of the great filmmakers working right now.  Seeing Bamboozled, a stunning film, leaves with with no doubt whatsoever that Lee is a genius.  This is a film that has, since its quasi-release by New Line in October of 2000, gone almost entirely unregarded.  It's about time that changed.  Leaving the politics aside, this is a film of stunning moral complexity, one that is as impactful as Network or Easy Rider or just about any other film that attempts to tackle real social issues.  The style -- the film was shot on digital video -- is wholly appropriate.  The acting, from top to bottom, is outstanding.  If you are interested in film, then you owe it to yourself to check this one out (preferably on DVD, where you can find an excellent documentary on the film and a commentary by Lee). "},{"Title":"Make up your own mind.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled is a Spike Lee movie, in the tradition of Summer of Sam and He Got Game.  You're never sure where the movie's going to go next, and you're never sure what to think of where it goes.  But therein lies this film's greatest strength, it does make you think.  (Lee's made a number of films in his career, including the masterpiece Malcolm X, which are notable for being both thought provoking and entertaining.)  I also thought Damon Wayans and Jada Pinkett were awesome in this movie.  Their performances were powerful, even if at times their characters went in directions that didn't completely make sense.  The movie is a satire of televisions treatment of African-Americans.  Should TV and the media try to portray stereotypical African-Americans in stereotypical situations that many people can relate to, or is this stereotype an insult?  The films point is that the stereotypical black TV characters are insulting.  In the movie, Wayans and Pinkett create a fictional program called the New Millenium Minstrel Show, which takes stereotypes of African-Americans to their most insulting extreme. (One of the targets of this film seems to be TV shows similar to those made popular by the likes of Wayans' own family.)This films has some strange plot twist toward the end that I believe hurt it overall.  I would not want to spoil anyone's surprise.  However, there's a lot of intentional similarity between this movie and the film Network.  This movie is never dull, and whether you like it or not, it'll make you think.  See it and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Bamboozled","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bamboozled ***1/2Bamboozled is a satire. And like every satire they're is a target that they are mocking. Bamboozled mocks both African Americans and Minstrel shows. The satire that is Bamboozled is original, intriguing, while shocking and racist.Bamboozled is about Piere Delicroix (Damn Wayans) who is practically a white man in black skin. His boss (Michael Rapaport) is more black than he is. He wants a new hip show for African Americans because all Delicroix makes is crap. Aiming to get fired, he creates a minstrel show called Mantan The New Millenium Minstrel Show. It's a racist show that stars all African Americans in jet black make-up with huge red lips. At first the show is shocking to the viewers. But they catch on and the show becomes a hit. So Mantan (Savion Glover) and his side-kick Sleep'n'Eat (Tommy Davisdson) go on making the show along with Honeycutt (Thomas Jefferson Byrd), Topsy (Dormeshia Sumbry), Aunt Jemina (Tyheesha Collins), and Lil' Nigger Jim (Cartier Williams).Bamboozled is a brilliant satire with the help of Wayans, Glover, and Davidson. Jada Pinkett-Smith is there, too as Delicroix's assistant. It was written smartly, it is shocking at times, but that is why the movie is here. To shock. To shock audiences. It is unbelievably racist, but that is the point. This isn't getting laughs for shock value (Tom Green, David Spade, etc.) it is shocking to prove the point of the movie, which doesn't really exist except for the fact that Delicroix wants to be fired.Then, we have the minstrel show. And here is the only place where Bamboozled takes a fall. The show is shockingly racist, as it's suppose to be, but not as funny as the audience makes it out to be. I did not laugh during the minstrel show. It was the only real place that I felt bored at.Glover and Davidson are good actors and I believe they will have a good career ahead of them. Wayans has a stupid accent to make him more white. And Pinkett-Smith takes a dramatic turn and suceeds with flying colors.Bamboozled has it's faults, it's racist, prejudice, sometimes mean-spirited, and brilliant  "},{"Title":"Spike Lee triumphs again","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have been a fan of Spike Lee since seeing his breakthrough She's Gotta Have It back in the 80's. So when I heard that he was making a movie with Damon Wayans and other members of In Living Color, the best television comedy and variety show of the past few decades, and the amazing tap-dancer Savion Glover, I was doubly excited.  When I read about the subject matter of the film -- a yuppie African-American TV writer who revives the repulsive old-time minstrel show as a prime-time comedy review -- I figured I was in for the same hilarious send-up that the Wayans family & co. are so good at. What I did not anticipate was the explosive synergy between Spike Lee and the comic geniuses he worked with to make this movie.Never before have I experienced such a variety of extreme emotion in watching a film. Within the space of five minutes, Glover, Tommy Davidson, and the other actors had me laughing, crying, and feeling physically ill, as the raw evil of the minstrel show stereotypes bloomed vividly before my eyes.   It's one thing to listen to a sleazy white TV producer, who thinks he's black, enthuse over the profits he's going to make by reviving Aunt Jemimah, Little Black Sambo, Steppin' Fetchit, and other characters from the bad old days; it is another thing entirely to see these characters in full, bright costume, dancing on stage, as if forty-plus years of civil rights and struggle had never happened. To see this is to experience, and understand, terrible, sickening rage.But the most wrenching moment of Bamboozled was also the most subtle, as the two stars of The New Millenium Minstrel Show are putting on their blackface makeup, and we see them holding back bitter tears as they awake to the full horror and guilt of what they are doing.  This moment alone made the picture for me.To be fair, I have a few of complaints about this film. As other IMDB reviewers have noted, Spike nearly sabotages this masterpiece with the eruption of climactic murder and violence that have characterized some of his other movies.  And as unlikely as the whole TV minstrel show scenario feels, it is completely implausible that any television station would broadcast a live, pre-arranged murder.  Finally, it seems beneath Spike to adopt the recent Hollywood convention of using prominent figures like Al Sharpton and Johnnie Cochran, playing themselves, to lend authenticity to the drama.Still, let's face it Spike Lee, and maybe John Sayles, are the only American filmmakers with any real vision these days. Spike, being black, is in the unique position of being America's most brilliant contemporary director and receiving virtually no mainstream attention, largely because of the greedy, racist, unoriginal morons who run Hollywood. In short, Bamboozled is a film you really must see.  Fifty years from now, when all of last year's Oscar-winning drivel is completely forgotten, serious film lovers and students will be discussing Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"Soul Searing Images","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have never considered myself a Spike Lee fan. I do admire some of his film techniques which I feel sometimes go unapplauded due to the heaviness of some of the subject matter he has dealt with. I have also seen the lies and rumors (such as being anti-semetic, anti-white and other nonsense)that have been circulated about him blown out of the water by whom he has worked with and which well established actors have worked with him. Sadly there is not a Spike Lee film that will come out where these lies will not come to surface, as with the case of Bamboozled.This film was in the theatres for all of about 3 minutes, and it is a damned shame. I have just completed watching this movie for the second time and I am still speechless.The images (even the horrid black face images) were stunning and beautifully captured,but in no way comprable to the hard hitting  message of the modern day minstril show i.e. Gangster Rap and other negative images in media.Spike finally said something that I and many other blacks have felt in a way that was offensive, elegant, and soul searing.I have no doubts that this movie will never recieve the accolades it deserves, but those who witness it will NEVER forget the haunting images, and important message the film delivers.Truly a Masterpiece that belongs in a museum. "}{"Title":"very funny  and  makes  you  think  about  portrayals  of ethnics on t.v and film","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike lee  makes  a very  good  and  funny  film.  The  movie  looks  at Damon  Wayans  (the  main  character)  trying  to show  a  clean  cut image of  Afro  Americans on t.v - but  the  audience  prefer  to see  negative images.  Bamboozled  is  not  as  good  as  HOLLYWOOD  SHUFFLE - but  does make  you  think "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's Best Work since Do the Right Thing","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee has written and directed a new black comedy about social issues in modern day America.  The film takes place in modern day New York City and follows two young unfortunately broke black men, played by Tommy Davidson and Savion Glover.  Glover plays Manray, a talented tap dancer, and Davidson is his friend Womack.  The two make money on the streets from Womack's voice in advertising and Manray's incredibly fast feet.  Their lives are going nowhere until a major television writer Pierre Delacroix, played by Damon Wayans with an outrageous accent, gives them the opportunity to be on one of his new shows.The show written has to have a new edge according to television executive Mr. Dunwitty, played brilliantly by a hilarious Michael Rappaport.  The show is The Mantan Show, a musical blackface comedy variety show, trying saying that three times fast.  The show generates a ton of controversy but also gets major media attention and becomes a smash hit.  The actors in the show are black with dark black makeup on their faces as a satire send up of old blackface programming from the early half of the last century.  The series keeps going on as a hit but the actors and creators start to have troubles inside with the show they are delivering to audiences across America.The film was very well written and directed and was shot on the new digital camera adding a different original feel.  The acting was on perfect and the whole film was very well done.  An ending that leaves the viewers speechless delivers a very serious and powerful message.  Definitely Spike Lee's best film since Do the Right Thing and certainly redeems himself for 1999's unwatchable Summer of Sam.8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Drop Squad was better","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  While seeing Bamboozled, The Drop Squad came to mind.  Comparing the two, I think Drop Squad was more effective.  The similarities are striking.  In both movies, there are blacks that made it in the establishment, one as an advertisement professional and in the other as a television writer producer.  And in both roles, they are enmeshed in producting something for the black audience.  The advertisement professional is soon black listed by his family for having made television advertisements that use stereotypes such as fried chickens and malt liquor, and other parodies of which the family relatives are ashamed and hint of an Al Sharpton's genocide.  The televion production in Bamboozled is protested by Al Sharpton (playing himself).  The sponsors of the televion series show ads of fashion clothing, malt liquor (The Bomb).  While Bamboozled ends in violence, Drop Squad ends with the uppity black returning to his true self, reminded of his own blackness.  In Bamboozled, reflecting the interested by white teenagers in Hip Hop, one member of the rap group is white and is the only survivor of a police shootout (why me? why me? kill me too!), and in the followers of the television series is a Sicilian Nigger, an italo-american that covered his face with blackface and wants to act black.  Or is it blak, since we don't need the C, as one of the rapsters suggests. "},{"Title":"An education and awareness tool to all people...","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee's Bamboozled was excellent.  As an aspiring Black filmmaker, I understand that we as a people must bring positive films to our community.Bamboozled touched on many issues.  The main issue being that we must remember our past or we are doomed to repeat it.  We must remember how our ancestors were depicted in television and on film.  In this day and age, we have rose to positions where we can control how our people are depicted.I especially loved the fact that Bamboozled took alot of research.  I love films that took some digging into history to bring the subject full circle. This film was an education and awareness tool to all people.Thanks Spike!  "},{"Title":"another aspect (possible spoilers)","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie's takes on race, society, & the media have already been exhaustively discussed here. I think Lee was also addressing how our perceptions and presentations of ourselves can have unintended and devastating effects on those around us. Delacroix' closing quotation of James Baldwin drove this point home.Delacroix' narcissism and racial self-loathing made him incapable of relating to others except as they fit into his plans for himself. He seduced, corrupted, and ultimately destroyed Sloan and Man Ray (two guileless innocents who were unfortunate enough to cross his path and extend him some trust and affection) simply because he was unhappy with the life and image he had created for himself.Delacroix is breathtakingly evil - in part because he so effortlessly shed his beliefs and principles in response to changing situations, and in part because he showed no compunction at all about seducing others to do the same. For me, the most wrenching scenes were the shots of Man Ray and Womack blacking up. Tommy Davidson's face, especially, conveyed such torrents of pathos, horror, disgust at his own broken spirit that even the dehumanizing mask of the makeup could not hide the sorrow in his eyes.A brilliant work with courageous performances. The one difficulty I had with it (and it is not an artistic quibble) was the use of digital video. While the long stretches of grainy, bright, and washed-out cinematography perfectly captured the arid and confused soul of Delacroix, and the world he drew others into, it gave me a headache. This one might be a bit easier on the eyes on video. "},{"Title":"He's Gotta Have It - Confused and Confusing","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Spike Lee is quite open about it - he talks about it on the DVD commentary track.The first major influence (or source) in making this film is Budd Schulberg, the man the film is dedicated to. Budd Schulberg is the son of the former head of Paramount Pictures back in the Golden Age. He wrote the screenplay for A Face in the Crowd, which attacks TV, and the first great Hollywood novel, What Makes Sammy Run?, about a climber who sells out his own people in exchange for success in showbiz (Pierre Delacroix wasn't the first and won't be the last). Secondly, there's ample tribute paid to Paddy Chayefsky's screenplay for Network, the most famous film expose of TV news. Thirdly, there's Mel Brooks' farce The Producers, which rips the bark off of Broadway.So, the acknowledged pre-existing sources for Mr. Lee's screenplay are Schulberg, Chayefsky and Brooks, all of whom happen to be Jewish. It's nice Mr. Lee has such good taste in choosing his inspiration.However, on screen it's another matter. There are two Jewish characters, Pierre's boss, who is a loutish, insensitive jerk, and an annoying, unsympathetic PR consultant, who is styled to look like Monica Lewinsky. That's all we get; there are no positive Jewish characters to provide contrast to these two.So after having paid tribute to three Jewish writers, Spike Lee then gives us crude racist stereotypes on screen, and not for the first time.If the point of the film, as he says, is to get us out of the box of racism, why can't he get past it in depicting Jewish characters? We hear about how Spike Lee has grown over the years, but how are Thomas Dunwitty and Myrna Goldfarb better than the Flatbush Brothers in Mo' Better Blues? If this is an improvement, thanks for nothing.Either you're against ethnic stereotyping or you're not. This industry has given Spike Lee the green light to do what he wants for over 20 years, but apparently, when it comes to vicious caricature, He's Gotta Have It. "},{"Title":"Bad Casting & Bad Direction!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The central premise of Bamboozled directed by Spike Lee is a good one. The final result is not. Having watched most of Spike Lee's recent work I am struck by his obvious lack of faith in the intelligence of American viewing public. He has become so literal a director that nothing is allowed to be ambiguous for fear that the audience will misconstrue the specific agenda. This Spike Lee admits in the commentary of his film by having the Webster's definition of Satire recited by the lead actor.The simplistic, amateurish and self-conscious direction was evident from the opening scenes especially the ones involving the two young protagonists in their tenement squat.One of the most important parts of making a Motion Picture is the casting. If that is miss- judged, then the whole film is in jeopardy, as you cannot cut around a poor leading performance as you might a poor piece of art direction. Damon Wayans is simply not a good enough actor to convincingly pull off this complicated roll. An actor with a wealth of subtlety, diction and technique was needed. Damon Wayans has none of these. At points during his stumbling performance, I was sure he was simply trying to remember his lines!Spike Lee had the chance to make a classic comedy with some serious messages thrown in but shot himself in the foot, again!! I hope this important and talented film director will somehow escape the cage that America has put him in and start making Motion Pictures of relevance again. How about making a film in Europe? "},{"Title":"A Great Idea Gone Wrong","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie I was intrigued.  A great premise for a satire.  A great director.  Some terrific actors.Unfortunately the movie just does not work.  Great satire needs to cut with both an axe and a scalpel, but this one only uses the axe.  The points are labouriously made - and made over and over again.  The audience finds itself moving forward a lot faster than this movie.Some of the directing choices are a bit odd as well.  The great, largely unheard of, Paul Mooney is wasted in a bit part that is designed to provide some cliche ridden motivation for the Damon Wayans character.  Daman Wayans performs in what is supposed to be a white voice but it is so obviously false that we're constantly thinking he's doing his white voice instead of becoming involved with the character.The story, as I said, is not particularly engaging -- even in the parts that are supposed to be shocking or funny.  The movie does not work as drama, comedy or entertainment.  It is a message movie that forgets to provide the movie part. "},{"Title":"I feel like I was Bamboozled after seeing this turkey!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had great expectations for this movie being that I love Spike Lee's works. The storyline sounded great, I was happy to see that someone was making a film about the degrading way blacks are portrayed on TV.But what a disappointment this film was!! For one, it was extremely fragmented. It couldn't find it's niche. The Wayans character was unbearable to watch and listen to, what the heck was he supposed to be about?? Bad character writing and even worse character interpretation! Maybe he should stick to just comedy! The film kept branching off into these different storylines that just didn't make sense and seemed to have nothing to do with the overall story. Plus these subplots were just plain boring! And it got just downright offensive towards the end. The ending storyline with the Glover character was absolutley absurd, even laughable it was so bad. And the very ending of this character's storyline was very unneccessary and offensive! A cheap, unintelligible way to end it! This was the worst $2.99 I have ever spent, and I would never recommend this turkey to anyone! Spike Lee really got down in the dumps on this one! "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's whole career is one long minstrel show","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" ...for all of his bluster about how he wants to uplift the African-American race, Spike Lee -- with the sole exception of MALCOLM X --  has done nothing but present one stereotype after another as his art. Even more demeaning to his casts is the fact that, in most of his movies, he sticks himself among the players for no good reason whatsoever. (Thankfully, his appearance here isn't in the flesh, so he has no speaking part to waste our time on.) The commentary track of the BAMBOOZLED DVD lays bare Lee's delusions of grandeur, trying to place this overlong piece of dreck alongside such truly brilliant pictures as A FACE IN THE CROWD and NETWORK. A vastly superior work on the talent and tragedy of minstrelsy is found in print and audio recording -- WHERE DEAD VOICES GATHER by Nick Tosches, inspired by the 1920s OKeh recordings of the great Emmett Miller -- and in a visit to America's Black Holocaust Museum in Milwaukee. If you must watch this one, wait for a run on premium cable, since you've paid for the channel already; avoid wasting green on the video... "}{"Title":"A failure. An embarrassment. Mere pandering...","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled failed, but not because Spike Lee went too far. A few critics have written that his images of the blackface performances (etc.) were just too hurtful, too deeply painful for audiences to have related to them as satire. I disagree.I just saw Bamboozled for the first time, on DVD. I was disappointed in Lee's work (although the actors seemed to be gamely delivering what Lee had requested of them; applause all around for their commitment and artistic courage).Bamboozled wasn't too dangerous, or too close for comfort. It was just plain BAD. Lame. It was a selfish movie, in a way. I couldn't shake the creepy feeling that Spike Lee, who was born and raised in a wealthy, prosperous, and privileged family (compared to the majority of Americans, white and black), might have been pandering to the audience. Perhaps, I have to conclude, he was preying on people's honest and genuine frustrations and sufferings in general life, and somehow trying to put a spin on them that he could convert to cinematic power. That is, as a rich kid, he has appealed to the less fortunate as a means to gain money, power, and fame for himself.I hasten to add that I could well be wrong. And, even if I am not 100% right, which is highly likely, perhaps there is some motive such as the one I have sensed, at work on an unconscious level. I don't know. But I do feel that other voices commenting on Spike Lee's movie need to be heard.Pointed humor in general, and satire in particular, is proper and successful only when it is directed toward the powerful, on behalf of the weak. Eudora Welty (spelling?), the famous southern author (in America) said this. I am not wise or fluent enough to explain fully what is happening with Bamboozled, but is feels to me as if some version of Welty's comments apply. I suggest that perhaps one of the the reasons vast numbers of people didn't see the movie wasn't because it was TOO on-target, but that it missed the target altogether. That is, perhaps the deep sentiments at the core of the movie were basically wrong. They simply do not really apply at all to reality for the vast bulk of Americans, white or black, and they do not really express any dynamic of personal or social life.The past, as we all know, is strange! Go to any time, any place, and you will find awful, horrible things. I don't think ANY ethnic group or culture is immune from this. AND, things change. Thank god! They evolve. They grow. I suspect that the critical and commercial failure of Spike Lee's movie was a reflection of this.Thirty, 50 years ago the movie might well have been satire. But today I think Bamboozled really just shows us a self-centered, arrogant rich kid grasping for power at others' expense. I am gratified that my fellow Americans ignored this tawdry and embarrassing invective. I gave Bamboozled a 2 out of 10, because the cast deserved more than the zero their director left them with. "},{"Title":"another bright burning joint by spike lee","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This picture is so much deeper than most things i give a 10 vote to, i'm completely blown away. Spike Lee is undoubtedly one of America's least appreciated geniuses and Bamboozled firmly re-establishes his claim as a thinking man's cinematic artist. A dizzying pontification on race relations and the subjugation of blacks through media image, Bamboozled is more than a movie; it is a graduate thesis with  plot, pyrotechnics, and tap dancing. It even comes complete w/ multi-page bibliography in the closing credits. Forget the flashy handmade-ness of She's Got to Have It, now that he's done more than twenty films, Spike's joints are now some of the finest crafted films made. With a cast of over 90 (not counting the hundreds of extras including Al Sharpton and Johnny Cochran) and a crew of more than 300, Lee marshals a massive army on Bamboozled, though the film always feels like an up close, personal story that happens to take on national proportions. Once again working with Ellen Kuras (who did phenomenal work in Lee's 1999 Summer of Sam and again astonished in Ted Demme's 2001 kaleidoscope, Blow)Lee's cinematic style has evolved to the point of seamless artless glide of sumptuous images.  As per usual Terence Blanchard's score (he's done 8 Lee films) is multi-faceted, haunting, evocative, appropriate and stands up as music on it own in addition to being background noise.  Lee's ear for dialogue from a wide variety of social strata and on an equally wide variety of subjects is spot on and his script pays great homage to hundreds of original sources of film in general and black exploitation in particular.  For example, Lee freely mines that 70s pitch perfect piece of agitprop, Network, to keep the focus on the fact that above all this film is a discussion of media. Further the immense number of actual historically degrading black artifacts (films, toys, posters and other objects) Lee displays boggle the mind, not just for their variety (and occasional ingenuity), but also as proof of how pervasively insulting white america has cast black america. Seeing how few film fanatics here have weighed in on this film is a bit embarrassing, not for Lee, but for the supposedly educated cinefile audience that attracts to this site.  We need to correct this problem. Tell your friends to rent this one, but be prepared the history of american oppression of blacks, especially in our media, does not make a pretty picture, but in Lee's hands it adds up to a powerful one. Also recommended all Spike Lee in general, but in this same vein, Get On the Bus, the volcanic epic Summer of Sam, and Lee's immortal prize winning masterpiece Do the Right Thing. "},{"Title":"Maybe Spike Lee's Best Film Ever","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" There are so many things I don't like about Spike Lee's movies. It's not just that he hates white people. He doesn't like black people much either. Spike is always angry, and he always has an ax to grind. He has no talent at all for creating lifelike characters or showing lifelike emotions on the screen. He's incapable of subtlety, nuance, irony, or perspective. The tone is always shrill, accusatory, hysterical, or self-pitying. His characters don't have feelings, they have ideas, and they only exist to make whatever point he's trying to make. Even though his clout has allowed him to work with all the brightest and most energetic actors of the last twenty-five years, I have never seen any actor, male or female, black, white or brown, give a moving performance in a Spike Lee film. It's just not possible to be natural in the artificial world of Spike Lee.Having said all that, I think BAMBOOZLED is Spike Lee's best film, better than DO THE RIGHT THING in a lot of ways. The mood is restrained, by his standards, the drama is quietly poignant instead of shrilly self-righteous, and much of the criticism of white America and the entertainment industry is movingly expressed and fairly presented. Several things work to Spike's advantage in this story of how black entertainers are forced to wear black face and inadvertently start a modern day comedy craze. Because he's exploring the entertainment world of the past, he can be honest and factual without resorting to hysterical finger pointing and conspiracy theories. He's able to show how things really were by using images white people actually created for their own entertainment. At the same time, for once Spike himself is able to see both sides of a question. Many of the old minstrel show artists were just that, brilliant artists, and this movie actually recreates their comic genius and dancing in a way that's as elegiac as it is horrifying. There's no way for Spike to resolve the contradiction between being proud of the past and being ashamed of it, and that's why Delacroix the Negro is unable to survive. Instead of starting a riot, he goes out quietly, bleeding to death slowly and painfully at the end of the film. But for once a Spike Lee character dies with meaning and dignity. I'm not a Spike Lee fan, by any stretch of the imagination. But this was truly his finest hour. "},{"Title":"all I can say is 'wow'....","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie left me speechless. Spike really drove one home this time. Perhaps his most serious, and saddening social commentary about the U.S. population and it's bizarre behavior concerning race relations. He attacks people from many varied social groups and all are made to look pretty pathetic. The movie will make you think...... and that's a good thing. "},{"Title":"A unique film experience","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was truly a unique cinematic experience.  As a viewer, I felt as many critics have, that Bamboozled was a film that accomplished a lot, but left a lot of things unexamined.  Every racial stereotype known to a member of popular American culture was introduced, exploited, examined and left on the screen to haunt the audience.  The biggest weakness of the film, in my opinion was the ending, which gave me the overall impression of gratuitousness and impulsiveness.  I'm left to wonder if Spike Lee trapped himself into a corner and didn't know how to get out. "},{"Title":"best of Spike","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  yes, i believe this was his best. for those who love spikes so called Angry Black Man mentality, this film definitely personifies that. he shows the evil, greed, and lack of morals which lies in all of our souls. Mr. lee not only attacks racist whites in this film but also those who are blacks portray their own stereotypes for the public to see. spike makes sure he gets his message across with this powerful, emotional satire. and he also use a digital format, which in itself shows how no matter how far technology has come, we still have past issues we need to sort out. major ones. this is spikes best movie! well directed, casted, edited, and developed. it is just like a regular movie to begin with and then it totally spins out of control and once you are on Spike Lee's rollercoaster ride for this film, you won't be getting off until you see the credits.  "},{"Title":"A goad for a self-satisfied country America's last serious director","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee's films are candy-coated bitterness.  Granted, you know you're there to be educated, but you want to be entertained too, and Spike is happy to indulge you for awhile with his fast-paced cartoonish style and funny jokes, but at some point you realize he's stuffing something nasty down your throat and you're not sure (at least if you're non-African, like me) whether it's medicine or pure bile, and you leave the theater feeling like you've seen some kind of German film--that is, confused and depressed.Bamboozled is Lee's definitive statement against entertainment  He doesn't like it.  He thinks if he makes you smile he must be a minstrel clown, or at best a pretentious black intellectual, like Damon Wayans' character, whose desperate attempt at social satire is really an expression of self-hatred.And why is this?  It's because America has embraced black culture as never before  Black entertainment, black celebrity, black athletes.  It's because many of the most blatant manifestations of old-style racism are disappearing  Good liberal white folk are genuinely shocked by watermelon jokes, and the white producer played by Michael Rappaport worships at the altar of black athletes and is himself married to a black woman.  And yet, the Rappaport character is the most odious, insensitive and unreflective non-African in the movie.  America is immensely proud of itself for its love affair with its own Africanness, but Lee is here to tell us that it's just a sham--a prepackaged, Hollywoodized, Madison Avenue sham.  All is not well.  The gulf between African and non-African is as wide as ever.  As in his other films, he leaves it pretty much at that.  He tells us America still has a whole bunch of unfinished business, then he sends us home, where we can agonize, or more likely sit down in front of the boob tube and anesthetize ourselves. "},{"Title":"Take notes...........","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Like I always say, if you're going to see a Spike Lee Joint, take notes. His films are not just movies, but an experience. He is an artist who is an activist and expresses himself through his art much like that of Jean Michel Basquiat(painter). The writing was phenomenal, the acting couldn't get any better, the plot was deeper than deep, and the message hit me like brick in the head.  This is a must see!!!...All his films are a must see, but this one was over the top, and definitely one of his best!.     "},{"Title":"The best and most important film of 2000 (contains spoilers)","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Film Review/Bamboozled'Bamboozled' by the truthSpike Lee's incisive and powerful satire on America's historical depiction of Blacks on TV is his best film everby Frazier44`Keep them laughing.'So says Pierre Delacroix, CNS (Continental Network Systems) TV writer/producer, during `Bamboozled,' Spike Lee's latest effort.  Lee keeps the audience from laughing much beyond the film's one hour-plus mark.  `Bamboozled' is densely-layered and profoundly thought-provoking.  So many points are made that the film will require several viewings.  Yet there's no mistaking that on first look the film registers, with a devastating impact on its audience.  `Bamboozled' provokes, disturbs, makes us laugh and pains us deeply.  And the truth and historical context of what is onscreen is one of the reasons the film is so very much on target.Previously ignored and marginalized by the company for which he works, Delacroix, an African-American, is called upon by a white CNS VP named Dunwitty to drum up ratings for the struggling network by writing a comedy show which will restore the network's glitter and popularity.  Delacroix conjures up an idea so offensive and outrageous that he's convinced it won't work.  However, he sells Dunwitty on the premise of a modern-day minstrel `blackface' show featuring two homeless Black men who had previously tap-danced for a living on New York streets.  Delacroix is soon the toast of CNS and America as `Mantan The New Millennium Minstrel Show' becomes a nationwide phenomenon.Little does Delacroix realize that the show's offensive imagery has set forth a chain of events that will be irreversible.  He seems to have sold himself out and sold himself short.Enter Sloan Hopkins, a CNS co-worker who appears to be the perfect antidote for a man who is spiraling out of control.  Hopkins is a confident guiding force for Delacroix.  Dunwitty is a culture bandit who believes he knows all there is to know about being Black.  Dunwitty proclaims himself `blacker' than Delacroix.  This and other exchanges are downright funny. The contrasting pain though, lurks at the same time and is particularly distressing in the sequence where Delacroix introduces his idea at a meeting with Dunwitty and Hopkins.The greatest and most devastating aspects of `Bamboozled' lie in Spike Lee's ability to visually articulate the racial psychology that resides on several subliminal levels in the minds of many Americans -- some Blacks, many whites and others -- about Black people in general and their depiction in the media.  Whether it be the contribution of some rap/hip-hop artists to degradation of Black women in music videos (satirized perfectly here) or the inner-city proclivity to spend money on indifferent big-name clothing fashions like Tommy Hilfiger (another classic satirical jab) or some Blacks' (and other racial and ethnic groups) habit of openly calling each other the `n'-word, or some modern-day Black entertainers who will do anything to be accepted, Lee's film articulates all of these popular attitudes and issues in brilliant, remarkable ways.Not so brilliant though, are the film's sub-plots.  Spike's films usually contain films within a film.  The `love story' with Hopkins and Manray/Mantan, along with a satirical Public Enemy-like rap group called `Mau Mau' that stages a TV spectacle of its own, don't quite fit in. Still, these segments provide a punch consistent with the film's overall tone.  A tone framed perfectly by the use of digital video cameras and an unforgettable parade of clips of TV and Hollywood films depicting racist images of Blacks from a very recent America.  As we see these images, one key question is whether the depictions have changed much today. If so, how much? The feel of `Bamboozled', as filmed in digital format, is appropriate -- real, grainy -- as if its story is actually playing out in someone's confused, bamboozled mind -- right here and right now.  The film's rich soundtrack features a rousing score from jazz musician Terence Blanchard and songs from Stevie Wonder, Prince, Bruce Hornsby, Erykah Badu and many others.As for the film's acting turns, Pierre Delacroix, played by Damon Wayans, is the film's central figure.  Wayans uses a deliberately exaggerated voice for his Harvard-educated character (compare the voice used by Robert Downey, Jr. for his reporter role in Oliver Stone's 1994 media-violence satire `Natural Born Killers'.)  Sometimes Wayans, in ironic casting (remember his `In Living Color' TV series, which Lee has criticized in the past,) plays Pierre as a man of condescension, contempt and naked scorn.  At other times, Wayans' character is humbly resigned to the avenue on which circumstances turn.Jada Pinkett-Smith has the important role of Sloan Hopkins and does well in limited screen appearances.  Savion Glover is compelling and sympathetic as Manray/Mantan, who gives a `Network'-like declaration when the going gets rough.  Tommy Davidson (another `Living Color' alum) is heartbreaking in several scenes as Manray's partner-in-crime, Womack &#150; known to CNS and the world as `Sleep'N'Eat'.  As Dunwitty, Michael Rapaport is comical.  Some of his antics are similar to those of characters in the Mel Brooks films `The Producers' and `Blazing Saddles.'  Don't miss Paul Mooney as Junebug, Delacroix's father. Mooney's scenes are hilarious and unforgettable.  So is `Bamboozled'.Copyright 2000.  Omar P.L. Moore.   All Rights Reserved. "},{"Title":"Positive reaction (contains some spoilers)","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee's Bamboozled is his strongest film in quite some time.  Damon Wayans plays a Harvard educated African American network television writer who is repeatedly accused by his white boss (played by Michael Rappaport) of not being black enough both in his lifestyle and in the projects he submits to the network.   In retaliation, and in hopes that he will be fired from the network so he can get out of his contract, Wayans pitches a program to Rappaport with a turn of the century minstrel show theme, starring two street performers he rechristens Man Tan and Sleep 'N Eat.  He offers the network the politically correct out that should they come under criticism their position should be that the show is actually meant to be seen as a satire (thus allowing the audiance the chance to have their p.c. cake and eat it, too) .   To his horror, the program becomes a smash hit, and the rest of the film deals with the damage it wreaks on the African Americans who have developed the show (suffering the outcome of a Faustian bargain of their own).In one swoop, Lee deftly raises for discussion several issues the role of race and gender in the workplace and in the world, the extent to which people sell their souls in the market place, and the dangers inherent in basking in a false view of nostalgia.  Some of the images in the film are chilling (particularly a shot of the show's studio audiance after it has become a hit- a room full of white people in black face), and yet Lee also does manage to interject some humor here and there in the mix. Bamboozled offers a great deal to think about even after it's over, and that's a rare thing in the film world today.  "}{"Title":"No one escapes Spike Lee's wrath in this balanced satire.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow. This movie is great and could be Spike's best. It's absolutely the best story he's imagined. Most importantly, it's his most balanced work to date, meaning everyone shares some of the blame for the media's depiction of African Americans. The audiences? We're lemmings who follow the trends. The writers? Only thing they know about black culture come from racist portrayals, so how can they write decent material? The protestors? Many protestors in today's hip hop fueled social situation are as bad as the portrayals they protest. The acting is strong, especially Tommy Davidson and Jada Pinkett-Smith. Rapper Mos Def has a strong debut as the leader of a gangsta rap group called the Mau Maus. What sets this movie apart from other Spike Lee movies about race? He's maturing as a writer and filmmaker. He's less angry than you think, there's a sadness here that allows an emotional depth rarely seen in a Spike Lee joint. Also, like his masterpiece Do the Right Thing, Bamboozled asks questions and doesn't offer answers, which makes the story more thought provoking than any Lee film since Do the Right Thing.  "},{"Title":"A film that makes you mad but for all the right reasons.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see Bamboozled on it's opening nationwide weekend, and couldn't believe how blunt the language in this film was. That there are people in this day and age that are this confused about their place history therefore cannot have the integrity not to add to the problem. As an African American I found this film raw and electrifying in it's truths. It was difficult to watch at times, but that's it's point. This is definitely an important film for our age, and couldn't have come out at a better time. "},{"Title":"We're the cultural children of minstrelsy","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Lee talks of this as a show about the media, citing A Face in the Crowd and Network. Yet it doesn't come off that way.  Yes, the movie is about a TV show and most of the characters in the movie are connected with that show--the Mau Mau's being the main exception. But, despite the intrusion of TV commercials, a few seconds of a sad little protest, and all the documentary footage, it doesn't have the feel of a movie about media.  It's really a movie, more or less, about culture, with TV being a means to separate culture, as such, from the encultured populace.  TV is Lee's device to hand our culture to us on a platter  See, here it is.  This is what you all've been eating.  And you know what they say, You are what you eat. And...there's a documentary side to this film that's extraordinary.               "},{"Title":"More then likely you will HATE this film!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you are your average middle class person of any color with no ideas on race or social ills and the media you will hate this film!  I loved it!  It's really the first film in a long time to go into a lot of ideas about race and the media and business.  I have to say that while watching it it reminded me of Robert Downey's Putney Swope (which is a must see if you liked this film).  I can't really get into all that I want to say about this but Spike really out did himself this time making what I have to say is one of the best films of the year!  It will be a film that people will look back on in 20 years and say WOW!. I don't think that people want to deal with or even think about what is he talking about here, so they say they don't like it or go even beyond that, HATE IT!LOVE or HATE IT!  I LOVED IT!THANK YOU SPIKE!  "},{"Title":"Disturbing and amazing","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was so intense and angry it made my stomach twist in real pain...for that reason alone, I found it more worthwhile than any movie I've attended for the past five years at least.  Spike Lee was wonderful at expressing his rage, not just at African-American stereotypes of the past but of the present day.  It managed to be funny at times before the story turned  more serious.  I've noticed some well-respected critics were not pleased, saying that watching two modern black actors donning blackface makeup is not funny.  Of course it isn't, and that's the point.  I found the movie's message very simple; there were many, many icons of Black Americans (depicted here by figurines of mammies and pickaninnies) that were considered perfectly acceptable in the early 20th century, which is not really that long ago.  And they could be again. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's Best So Far","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I highly recommend this film, not only for the laughs, which were many, but for the incredible historical clips and memorabilia. (It's hard to believe that those toys, books and cartoons were part of my childhood.) The movie's main problem is that its central character, played by Damon Wayans, doesn't have a clear purpose or trajectory, so it's hard to identify with him or understand his development. Spike Lee would say the confusion is part of the message, but that doesn't make for strong drama. The question that will be argued for years is whether Spike is guilty of the very stereotyping that he rails out against. There are many over-the-top Black characters in the film. But regardless of one's political analysis, there is no refuting that much of the movie is amazing, both the humor and especially Savion Glover's choreography. (Too bad there's no Oscar for that.) The humor, whether PC or not, works. And regardless of what one thinks of Minstrel Shows, the various stage routines and repartee between Glover and Tommy Davidson, as ManTan and Sleep 'n' Eat, have the audience both howling and mesmerized. This movie will be a staple in college film and history courses for years to come. "},{"Title":"Media Slam","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  it's hard to see a spike lee movie without bias, they're almost not even movies so much as they are cultural events. therefore it's always hard to pass judgement on them or review them like regular movies. there's nothing regular about spike lee, and predictably there is nothing ordinary about 'bamboozled', or perhaps there is and there lies the rub...i can imagine that this film is going to be hardest on the film industry people. because unlike 'the player', 'bowfinger' or 'get shorty' it doesn't allow them to laugh at themselves. they are enemy, straight up. david edelstein, over at slate, has been the first critic (i suspect among many) who are going to fall into the spike lee trap. he criticises spike for not drawing out his characters into objects we can feel for, and ultimately be entertained by. if you want to be entertained by 'bamboozled' you essentially have to understand black humor, for everybody else, you'll never really know when or how to laugh. because it *is* a serious flick with a serious subject and the humor is all in the interstices, but not in the subtext. there are only a few ways to laugh at 'bamboozled' and if you don't get it, then its rough sledding.even for me, busting a gut during the first half of the flick, it got pretty dry and heavy handed. spike has generally had a touch for giving his more dramatic lines a bit of tongue in cheek. but there is no famous 'spike shot' with people moving without walking. there are short soliloquies delivered with a kind of 'don't you get it?' attitude. if spikes characters are a bit flat, it's because they don't get it, and that serves the plot. it's not that any actor is sleepwalking through this film. it's well acted. nor that it is likely that anyone in the entertainment biz as portrayed by the characters is sleepwalking through their jobs at all. but 'bamboozled' is all about showing self-conscious frogs being boiled by degrees. everybody knows that something is going to pop, but they hope against hope that they can finesse the situation. there are no heroes, just the same old unbelievable s***, and that's hella realistic.when things finally do go pop, the film takes a tangent which seems contrived. and it is that contrivance, a life or death situation, which makes his tale all the more real. there *are* no life and death consequences for the mistrelsy that is american entertainment. hollywood, madison avenue, and where ever the captains of fashion and booze ply their trades are wading comfortably in their boiling cauldrons. they have all their excuses so well rehearsed that when spike brings out the damage control media hack scene into focus, we know what she's going to say before she even says it. any beef you have with hollywood, be it violence, sex, drugs or rock and roll, is all implied here. this is how the boat floats - the show must go on.'bamboozled' is only controversial, in my opinion, because everything hurtful happens to blacks due to the actions of blacks. and if you are unable to universalize the lessons, it overloads the significance of blacks and all the stereotypical devices in the coon show, as grotesque as they are. so moviegoers may end up twisted in knots thinking about 'the black thing' and what they are supposed to think of spike lee now. yes 'babmoozled' exploits a very particular venality of television vis a vis blackfolks and the america vis a vis the coon show. but there is something very deep and headbangingly harsh here in lee's critique of the business. and as didactic as many critics have called 'bamboozled' you would think more people will get it, but i think many will be stewing in their own juices.91%  "},{"Title":"Really funny at time, but message is vague","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This satire has some really funny moments in the first half, when the whole idea of the Mantan show is first developed.  The ending is too dark, however, and the dark tone does not seem to fit with the film.  I'm not really sure of the point of the movie, or what Spike Lee is trying to say. This vagueness is partly due to the unclear perspective of the characters themselves.  Great concept and plenty of controversial humor, but this falls short of being a great film. "},{"Title":"Take a good look in the mirror America...Hollywood...Society","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee has created a masterpiece. Worthy of the prize itself. He also deserves the statue for original screenplay. I fear that it wont see either accolade due to its subject and the fact that it breaks new ground with the use of digital video. "},{"Title":"It sucks out loud! is infantile and unnecessary seeing as how it brought up a long dead issue adding to the insult of it  O.o","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was far FAR!more insulting than any of the images of black faced media it honored by portraying...I find Spike Lee to be a tan skinned black man whom is talented some what but emotionally unstable. And I notice though I haven't see anyone address it, he really thinks lighter skinned, such as himself are better than the darker ones. Notice this is why the lighter skinned men and woman are more heroic and interesting, the darker ones are more apt to have issues. Malcolm X was the only movie he made that was up to snuff...and he couldn't sway the color thing because it was based on a real story...otherwise the LOL dark skinned Muslims would have instead been drug dealer and gang-bangers! It is so obvious that Spike lee got a hate for white men and a disdain for dark women...count how many he has dared to have in any of his movies ...they are the ones that find it harder to get work you would think he would have lend a helping hand but truly people, he do not like them...SPIKE LEE IS A INSANE MAN HE IS A SELF-HATING WHITE HATING DARK WOMEN HATING CONFUSED BIGOT!BTW the worst most disgusting part of this movie is the very unnecessary end...the way he showed all of hose black instances...it made me sicken...the NAACP along with other good people many were white also fought hard so our babies and their babies, wouldn't have to see this shyt, in a common media...they won that battle but he this idiot brings it back long after it no longer an issue even O.o i found Spike lees bamboozled the most insulting supposed to be entertaining derogatory thing I have ever saw in my 60 years, I hope that someone in the future do as the NAACP did and have it removed from available fair...so our great, great grandchildren will never even know what a Bamboozled was...I pray for this! "}{"Title":"Great movie with an interesting plot.","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled tells the story of Pierre Delacroix, a desperate African-American writer (played by Damon Wayans) that needs to create a different show to his white boss (Michael Rapaport) in order to raise the low network's ratings. His idea a minstrel show where black actors paint their faces even blacker (remembering the times when white actors painted their faces to portray black characters because African-Americans were forbidden to act). The boss likes the idea, but Pierre's assistant, Sloan (played by Jada Pinkett-Smith in a good performance) thinks that this is not a good idea, claiming that the audiences would react badly, but she follows his project and they hire two street artist dancers to the show. They change their names to Mantan (Savion Glover) and Sleep 'n Eat (Tommy Davidson). Both of them disagree with some aspects of the show, which contains many unfortunate references to African-Americans, but they stay in the project because they're homeless and they have no money. Like Mantan says If I can dance and make some money that's OK!And the show who had everything against it turns out to be a enormous success making Pierre a influential person in the TV business. But like Tom Petty used to sing, what goes up must comes down and that eventually happened when people starts to complain about the racist and not funny show. One of these people is Sloan's brother (played by Mos Def) leader of an rap group that feels that something must be done to end with the show. In the middle of all this mess are the crisis of conscience of all the characters brought to this controversial matter. Are they doing it only for the money? Self-respect worths nothing? These are some of the questions that this movie shows us. The good aspect of the movie is that Lee puts humor in situations that in real life could be very embarrassing, such as the first meeting between the dancers and the boss, when he says to one of them to dance over the table, while he laughs hysterically, or when he adds ideas to the show, considering himself to be more black than Pierre. But, on the other hand, Lee was ambiguous in saying to the viewers if the minstrel show was intended to be funny or not. When the show was showed in the first time I wasn't laughing at all, thinking that was a strange and almost pointless moment, but then I thought maybe that's the idea, racial stereotypes are only funny if you're at the other side of the audience just like the extras who were applauding to every joke. But to us viewers we're not supposed to laugh because it's not funny, it was just a way to tell that many times TV executives and writers fails to show what's funny and what's not. Many people complained about Damon Wayans french accent saying that it wasn't funny, that it was annoying, but I say that's not true, in fact, this is was a Lee's statement that really works in the movie, because Pierre was an Harvard graduated, so he wanted to pass this white image to his network bosses. A satire as he explained in the beginning period. The first thing that comes to the mind of many viewers of this movie is the countless references to Sidney Lumet's Network (specially in the notable Mantan's protest scene) showing the media power over his spectators, how producers and writers get their ideas to create a show that be appealing to all audiences many times using themes politically incorrect to guarantee high TV ratings. The main difference between Network and Spike Lee's Bamboozled is the way both stories are presented; this time we had lots of black humor and numerous real life references that wasn't showed in Lumet's work. I'm not saying that this movie is a better work than Network, but it's a bold story that puts it very close to the greatness of many controversial movies on the subject. Spike Lee enters this decade with another great movie, but lacks the rage protest of the wonderful Do The Right Thing and don't have many good performances like Malcolm X had. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When an African American uses the N word he/she is taking it back. But where is that line and when it just becomes racist? Just as you would expect form a Spike Lee move, Bamboozled is filled to the brim with all things involving race, stereotypes and improperness. Using every black creator stereotype, except for mammy (thou there is one in the tap- dancing troop), and billet upon a stage of humor you can't help at laugh and feel guilty for it. Our story is set in motion when our narrator (a talented television writer) is put on the spot to create the next big black television show. Having already created several good show that were all shot down, frustrated and feed up with being under appreciated, he hatches a plan with his assistant. Together they create a blackface revival minstrel show, designed to be so offensive that our narrator will get fired and freed form his contract. When the plan backfires and the show becomes a smashing success, our narrator embrace the show and all the recognition that he had been denied before. Creating three groups in the show. The first being those who see the humor in the show but ignore or just don't see that it's racist. The second are those who only see it's racism and not the talent of the actors who's talent we would have never seen other wise. And lastly those who can see both sides of the coin, recognizing talent behind the horrible mask it must put on. Unfortunately the last group seems to only consist of our narrator's assistant. Who is driven to her braking point by the end of the movie. The most thought provoking bunch in the movie for me has to have been the Mau Mau clan. Clearly part of the second group I pointed out, I feel that they may have be so out of jealousy. For they to addition for the part of the Alabama Porch Monkeys but were rejected. Another puzzling aspect of the group was it's strong stand agents the past day stereotype of African Americans but they clearly did nothing but perpetuate the modern day stereotypes. On the hole, the move was wonderfully done and you forget five minuets into the movie that it wasn't shot on film. Thou the ending seemed to be too convenient I don't see any other way out after digging a hole that deep. "},{"Title":"I was so glad someone (SPIKE LEE) addressed this issue.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When I saw this movie I though what a waste of time. I didn't like it... and then I couldn't stop thinking about it. About what it meant and why I felt so affected by it in the days to come. With out me realizing it the movie had planted something profound in me. I felt like I had seen a vague, offensive, and preachy film, but I loved thinking about it. What made it vague? Why was it offensive? And exactly what was it preaching? I started feeling like Alex de Large from Clockwork Orange. Now every time someone blurted out the word nigga I felt sick. I couldn't stomach certain songs on the radio. I realized that Spike Lee had done something brilliant. He made me think deeply about the everyday portrayal of the Black American. In that aspect I though it had succeeded.What made it vague for me was the way he steered off satire and went into a violent conclusion. I saw no real need for this. Was it offensive? Hell Yes. And it works wonderfully when you catch it while laughing. It is very preachy and I do feel like Spike might have overdone it. But it doesn't matter. He has made me think about my view and the view of society. And that is how I define a great film. One that makes you reflect, one that enlightens, and one that will change the way you see your world. "},{"Title":"Bamboozled rated high for drama and comedy","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled how can I describe it ? informative,funny,and real. I'm a big spike lee fan so any movie he writes I'm dead on it. Spike can do no wrong, Damon Wayans,Jada Pickett, Mos Def, those actors get two thumbs up. I never seen so much energy on screen before,the actors brought the movie alive, even though Spike Lee is a good writer the cast just put the icing on the cake. Lets not forget about Savion Glover with the tap dancing that was going on through out the movie.And my ex-boyfriend wondered why Happy Feet did so well at the box office,Savion Glover is a genius. The whole black and white thing I loved,I have ran into a lot of people who just don't get Spike Lee movies. I told them about Bamboozled and they simply loved it. When Savion and Tommy were saved from the streets by Damon it just gave thats when the fun began. The humor too this movie I absolute adore.Bamboozled was a modern day Rags To Richs with a twist,the movie gets two thumbs up and a tap. Overall rating 10 Doreen Henderson "},{"Title":"excellent piece of film-making","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" this is a superb film and yes, i would say lee's best to date. absolutely biting satire, i'm 300% sure that this film will not appeal to the majority but clearly it was never intended to. brilliant satire on the fate/face of blackness in the mass media. on top of that, the execution is excellent - the blackface performers are actually extremely good - close to the bone, the satire is funny, even if you're not sure what you're laughing at - i'm not 100% keen on jada pinkett in her role, but there we are. i'm not sure if that's her acting at fault or if it's down to the direction and script. a bit of both, perhaps, since i don't think lee tends to make fully dimensional female characters. lee gets in a dig at quentin Tarantino who has said, amongst other things, that 'spike lee is p**sed because i (Tarantino) make films about black people better than he does', which of course is a highly dubious remark on many levels. does this mean that Tarantino's comments have sharpened lee up? maybe.i have no doubt that many people will not 'get' this film, which is inevitable, and it is not without its faults. for example, it does get a bit leaden and belaboured towards the end. but the faults are outweighed by the positives and the intention, for which i;m giving it a nice fat 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Revisit to a Hidden Past","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I watched this movie at my school for a unit on 'Black Sadness', a term used for describing what African-Americans were forced to live through from colonial times until now. After watching the movie, I went to this site to see what commentary existed. And I have to say this there is no dead horse Spike Lee is beating. You just don't see it.What we fail to understand is just how powerful cultural history is. Near the end of the movie are a series of clips, real clips that showed how black people entertained America. That was the core of this movie. It was a social statement on the way black people were treated and continue to be treated today. We now have greater awareness of what's going on but we still deny it, still say,  Oh, it's in the past. I'm more tolerant now so this movie's bull. That is now true. The past is all around us, but now it's more subtle. There is a good reason why in many television dramas, at least ONE black and ONE woman appear in the vast majority of white men. We try to please those who would otherwise find the drama insulting for its racist and sexist views. Lee points that out powerfully in the film with Delacroix's assistant Sloan, and the neo-African movement Sloan's brother was part of.What's interesting is that Sloan's brother, Julius (Big Black African), thinks he's fighting something but he doesn't know what he's fighting. That says more than anything. There is something wrong in this society but there is no name for it.Only problem is, it's not dead. The horse is very much alive.I beg all of you to watch this film. The movie could have been better, I have to admit, but if you search out the message embedded, you will see the great truth about America. "},{"Title":"you keep thinking that they're about to go over the edge, but they always do it right","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In an interview, Spike Lee said that he had always wanted to make a movie about the portrayal of blacks in popular media. Believe it or not, Bamboozled actually manages to pull it off. Making fun of the black-face minstrel image of African-Americans, you are never sure whether or not you want to laugh. Overall, I think that the message that we should take from it relates to the portrayals of all minorities, many of which mirror Nazi portrayals of Jews.If nothing else, it's interesting to see Damon Wayans in this kind of role, considering how most of his movies so far have been pretty silly. The rest of the cast also does a pretty good job. "},{"Title":"This movie really hurt me when I finally caught on","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Disclaimer I am no racist but I will state my business in this here review of Bamboozled and I will do it very graphicallyAt first, I thought this movie was really dumb but when I finally realized what Spike Lee was getting across in this film were two things even though it does have some misfiring moments.  As a mixed member of the minority population in America(Black and Hispanic), It has seemed to me that black-filmmaking is only appreciated for being funny and sometimes for nothing else, now hold on to that thought.  This comment will probably be barred but I'm not gonna hold back and I'm gonna tell the honest-to-god truth whether you like it or not.  Back to the thought which brings me to explain the first thing that got through to me on this - the film has some truly disturbing scenes though it's not told in a dark context - the disturbing thing is that you have the first sellout of a Black man(played by Damon Wayans) who has these puppets that represent the terrible history of racist name-calling towards black people.  Then there's the second sellout, played by the talented tap-dancer Savion Glover.  The second sell-out is the one who depicts these puppets on TV for entertainment purposes which brings me to my second realization. The puppet metaphor in this I found to be absolutely frightening in a sense as the white executives for the TV company love the idea that Damon Wayans' character proposes and decides to use him and his bad idea.  Jada Pinkett-Smith plays the most difficult of these roles as the one who knows that this is impure stuff but instead goes ahead with it.  This may sound mean but I actually understood the part where Savion Glover's character is forced to tapdance because of gunfire at his feet which he eventually eats by some really angered thugs in an alley.  The ending, in which the cartoons are showed in conjunction with the black actors in black and white prior 1950s style, is truly unpleasant but effective with the cartoons with the monkeys being replaced by the black actor finally to fit a horrible spitting image - At first I was blind to it because I never looked at it that way but now that I see it, it really messed up...6.5/10 - not bad "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Movie, & Great Performance by Wayans","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't remember hearing very much about this movie when it came out.  In fact, I had only heard about it when it came to video.  However, when I actually saw the movie from beginning to end, I was very surprised why the movie didn't get more press, because it certainly deserved it.Bamboozled is a surprisingly good movie with surprisingly good performances by Damon Wayans, Tommy Davidson, Jada Pinkett Smith, Michael Rappaport, and Savion Glover (in his first actual acting role).  Damon Wayans, after being type-cast too many times as a racist arrogant athlete (Celtic Pride, The Great White Hype) really shows his acting skills in this movie.  My first thought when I heard his white man voice was, Man, he has got to be kidding.  His voice in the movie was similar to Richard Pryor or Eddie Murphy when they immitated white people in their stand-up acts.  However, Damon Wayans' voice is significant to the plot, as is Michael Rappaport's voice.Rappaport has had a slew of supporting roles in the past (Higher Learning, Copland), but he especially shines in his role as a white executive wanting desperately to be black, as opposed to Damon Wayans who is black wanting to be white.  Some of the things Rappaport says in the movie may make audiences both black and white cringe, but that's the beauty of his role.  It's also sort of cool when he makes fun of Spike Lee and refers to Lee's other previous movies (in fact, the title of this movie was taken from a line from Malcolm X, ironically).Savion Glover, best known for his tapdancing skills, tried acting for the first time in this movie, and did pretty well.  Spike Lee has the tendency to put people who have talents other than acting into his films and make these people act for the first time ever (he did this with NBA star Ray Allen in He Got Game).  Sometimes there are mixed results, but Glover played his part well as a former street dancer who gets caught up in the spotlight only to fall victim to his own demise.As for the plot itself, it does make you wonder whether an actual show like Mantan would exist.  It comes to show you that hype is a strange thing in show business, and you never know quite what people will and will not buy.  It is a thought provoking movie, and probably one of Spike Lee's best.  It may not beat Do The Right Thing or Malcolm X, but it sure as hell beats Girl #6 and even Summer of Sam.  It definitely should have gotten more press though.My rating= 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of Spike Lee's best films ever. You have to look at this movie under one premise, satire. (Possible Spoiler) Lee shows how certain networks (WB, UPN, etc.)take African-American actors/actress and turn them into something they are not. But he takes it to the next level blackface. This movie made me laugh. This movie made me cry. Also, a hidden satire, how the Mau-Mau's were so Pro-Black but always rapped about violence. Look at this movie with an open mind. "}{"Title":"I liked it better 15 years ago, when it was funnier, and called Hollywood Shuffle","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Have you ever accidentally started a conversation with a slobbering drunk over a subject that the drunk feels very strongly about?  They start out with their initial point.  Then you'll say, Yeah, I know.  Then they'll proceed to go on and on about a point that you've already agreed with.They'll make big sweeping generalizations.  They'll repeat themselves. They'll point.  They'll cuss.  Then they'll repeat themselves some more in order to make sure that you're 'getting it'.The initial point in turn, gets mangled and clouded in their clumsy, drunken delivery and the only realization left is that the drunk sure had a lot of conviction.That's what 'Bamboozled' felt like.  It felt like a drunk going off on the initial point that America used to be really, really racist and then just running with it, subtlety be damned.The disturbing or troubling aspects of the movie are the real examples of how racist America used to be.  The fact that those examples ARE so disturbing and troubling to the modern audience, undermines the movie's assertion that our modern society could ever be tolerant of such blatant stereotypical characterizations.So like a drunken lecture; 'Bamboozled' just isn't as intelligent as it perceives itself to be.  Like most message movies, the plot is a caricature and an afterthought, as are the characters.What makes it such a chore to watch, is that 'Bamboozled' is a message movie that doesn't offer any new insights and then doesn't have a real plot to fall back on. "},{"Title":"3+/5","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think I have seen the most of Spike Lees joints.Mostly for Lee is one of my brothers favorite directors.I think that he is a good director but his films is not perfect.He has made a near masterpiece,Do the right thing but he has also made a awful and bad joint called He got game.This film is good but it loses much of its power because its filmed with a digital camera.Its very good acting by Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson.3+/5  "},{"Title":"Satire & Sermon","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a bitter satire of racial divisions, media, and culture in general. The main premise is that people are forced to make a living from humor that degrades their own self-respect. Along the way, various tough issues are raised. What is art? What is truth? Who decides what art and truth are? What is the mentality we call history? And as all of these questions are contemplated, we realize that we must Feed the Idiot Box! The idiot box is not only TV but also news, films, music, books, and all forms of exploitation masked as entertainment or information.While Spike Lee acknowledges that he used A FACE IN THE CROWD and NETWORK as models, I was reminded of AMERICAN PSYCHO, especially with the use of voice-overs. The film wanders back and forth between satire and sermon. In this respect, the voice-overs were intrusive and came across more as lectures than as insights. I think the film would have worked better if the actions had been allowed to speak for themselves.In any event, this film is an interesting look into the way culture distorts reality and then turns the distortion into reality. Life imitates art, and art imitates life. Can we tell the difference? Interesting and disturbing question. "},{"Title":"10+++++++++++ out of a possible 10","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee strikes again!!!!!!!!  Just as he did with She's Gotta Have It, Do The Right Thing and Malcolm X, Spike goes beyond the jugular and tries to make us all take notice.  And it appears as if he has succeeded.  I know he has with me.Great start with Damon Wayans' opening narration (great use of this mostly-misused Wayans brother's actual super talents) setting the stage of his life he was in as he began to lay out the film before us.  And Jada Pinkett-Smith was a fine voice of contentious reason, never letting up from start-to-finish as well as seeing the truth of what was really happening all around everyone.  And Michael Rappaport was fine in embodying a latter-day white Negro (as a white person who partakes in black culture with his talk, lingo, interests, passions as well as actually marrying black, as he disclosed of doing in this role), not unlike the white male who was part of the Mau Maus either.  And then, there was Tommy Davidson (talented like Wayans in the afore-mentioned vernacular)  and Savion Glover (who can act as well as dance superbly; GREAT CHOREOGRAPHY), who go from poor street performers to the hottest commodity on television as a result.  In Wayans' original intents backfiring on him, the monster is out of control and regrets run rampant, turning the film from laugh-out-loud funny to stunningly-dead serious as the film wears on.If this was Spike's intent, to show us one thing in the beginning and turn it into something else altogether different at the end, he more than succeeded.  In the process, he serves up an indictment on our society with regard to the price society as a whole not only pays on racism, but success as well.  When these issues bring on the conflict they knowingly can, it creates hard feelings which can lead to the destructiveness this film eventually presented.  Though on a lesser scale in She's Gotta Have it, the downward defection on Do The Right Thing, Malcolm X (even knowing how that one would end) and (YES!) Summer Of Sam is no less impressing with regard to how Spike wants us to stand up and take notice about how badly our differences can lead to further distrust and misunderstanding where there indeed needs to be better trust and understanding.  In bringing this out uncompromisingly, Spike succeeds in once again making folks take heed where heed does not want to be taken.  That may well be a factor with regard to whether or not this film is nominated for the awards it deserves to be nominated for. (A multi-win storm is befitting a film of this stature, not limited to, but including any Best Actress award (Pinkett-Smith); any Best Actor Awards for Wayans, Glover or Davidson; Best Director (Spike deserves it); and....BEST PICTRE!!!)  It was also great to hear some fresh Stevie Wonder songs in this one; befittingly relevant as Stevie always is!!!!!Like American Beauty, which held up a collective mirror to some of the hypocrisies this country takes for granted, Bamboozled follows suit as well in a major way.  May this film be seen in that same venue as well.  For all that it is and it has done, it certainly does deserve the comparison.  "},{"Title":"SPIKE LEE IS MAD AS HELL AND HE AIN'T GONNA TAKE NO MORE!!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Most definitely one of Mr. Lee's, and this year's, best film offerings. The subject of black images in today's media couldn't be more timely with cats like Martin Lawrence and Puffy Daddy, among others, unceremoniously repping the black community. There's room for cats like that to do their thing, but what about the rest of the community hungry for more positive imagery? The cast was at the top of their game. Not a weak performance to be found. And that's because they were given actual characters they could parlay instead of the usual funny sidekick, noble support system roles they're usually saddled with. Hopefully, people will recognize what a gifted character actor Damon Wayans is after his performance in this film. Savion Glover has always been one of the most talented cats on the planet, but it took Spike Lee to give him a role worthy of his tremendous talents. And it's always good to see Jada Pinkett-Smith in a role worthy of her. The scene where Pierre Delacroix (Wayans) pitches Mantan - The New Millennium Minstrel Show to his boss Dunwitty (Michael Rapaport), who thinks he's the blackest man in the room, is hilarious. While the film may look like an attack on the caucasoid-owned white media, this is more of a wake-up call for the Black community to wrest control on how our lives are presented, instead of settling for how caucasians view and present us. Some people may find the ending too dark or off-track. But I thought it was a very valid and plausible ending considering the our violent climate (did anyone see Network, and how did that end?). Maybe, if we had more crews like the Mau Maus (featuring Mos Def, MC Serch, and the under-appreciated Charli Baltimore) modern-day minstrelsy wouldn't be going down like it is presently. This film should not be judged based on it's advertising. Go see the film first and then make your decision. This is a well-written, imaginatively-directed cinematic class act. Spike's created another winner destined for time capsule status!! "},{"Title":"Praise for it's educational purpose","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this movie for a class (multiculturalism and the media)paper. I had previously rented it because I missed it in the theater.  It was excellent and thought provoking.  When I chose this movie for my paper I remembered that the movie was loaded with the very things we were examining in class.  The professor initially stated, in the first class, that we must learn to view movies from a sociological perspective.I totally recommend this movie to used as a study tool in similar course studies.*A note to Spike Lee.  Don't ever underestimate yourself even if others do. Sometimes our purpose is much bigger than what has been revealed to us. "},{"Title":"Trust No One","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee's films (excepting his brilliant documentary, Four Little Girls and Do the Right Thing) have always revealed an essential distrust of his audience and/or his abilities as a storyteller. Rather than reveal his themes through his plots, he prefers to present his stories and then, at some point, tell you what they mean. His movies, and Bamboozled is no exception, is the cinematic equivalent of Aesop's fables. I personally object to films which lecture, especially when the points being made are so obvious to begin with. The reason I so enjoyed Do the Right Thing was not that it lacked an obvious message but that story contradicted the message. It said more than what it thought it was saying. I think it high time that Mr. Lee put away the soapbox and told stories the mirrored the complexities, contradictions, and moral ambiguities of life as we actually know it.  "},{"Title":"How Deep is This?","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I find Spike Lee uninteresting. He is not clever with the camera his trademarked shot is the subject and camera on separate dolleys -- blunt. His storytelling skills are similarly heavihanded, and if it weren't for the fact that American audiences treat race issues gingerly, he would be ignored altogether.But this film had me wondering. Maybe he isn't just a dull sermonizer. Maybe he does have a deep understanding of the ironies involved here, and is actually engineering his use versus exposure of stereotypes. What made me think this was the juxtaposition of this film with his `Kings of Comedy.'The central dynamic of this film was how the black audience was the pull for the (fictional) show, exploiting narrow stereotypes. The central dynamic of `Kings' was the pull of black audiences for a real show, also exploiting narrow stereotypes. The old stereotypes relied on blacks as stupid, lazy, sex-obsessed, lawbreaking, and fundamentally different. But check out the Kings, and see essentially the same characteristics. Both then and now have demeaning visuals, just the minstrel ones are rejected by today's society, and the `urban' ones are embraced. This film seems to skirt with the fact that all entertainment is pornographic and it is hard to tease out who is the exploiter and who the exploited.So I actually thought there was something brilliant at work here, something at the level of what I think the other Waylons do.... but then I saw the `making of..' feature, and realized that the intent behind this project was more more lowbrow -- a vapid morality play. It is as much a slave and exploiter of stereotypes as it condemns. A Spike Lee `joint' is not stereotypical? If Lee was willing to examine the extent to which he wears blackface, we'd have something important. Lacking that, we have simple fundamentalism. "},{"Title":"horrible and pointless","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This may have been one of the most pointless movies I have ever seen. The only reason it seems to have struck any type of cord is because of pulling the race card. This movie seems like nothing More then a petty attempt at insulting QT which is sad.The Dialoge was horrible, the acting was horrible, the cinematography was horrible. There was nothing redeemable about this film. I am really upset over this garbage of a movie, It cost me close to two hours of my life I WANT THAT TIME BACK. I was even more shocked that he was able to get creditable actors to play a part in this waste of celeiod. Mos Def is usually a deep actor, and it seems as though he was bamboozled into a waste of time movie. I have never really been impressed with spike lee anyways but now I even have less respect for the little bitter man, which is a accomplishment. now I already know half of you out there are thinking of a response to this write up. don't waste your time, I am not going to ever check this again so I will never know what you say. I am sorry If I offended you, I am sorry you are a black, and you have to endure yada yada yada, but this movie sucked. that is all there is to it. "},{"Title":"Excellent, Enlightening, and Extraordinary","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Brilliant! The way you perceive the movie Depends on what angle you are watching it from, If you are an African American, American, or Hispanic. The black face is funny to the ignorant few who live within the realms of those jokes. The film does a fine tuned job of depicting the consequences of fame without education while maintaining an acute level of entertainment for those who fall victim to the traps of the idiot box. The Minstrel show illustrated the humor that the general Black community would find funny which was fine but I am afraid of how easily deceiving this movie can be to the untrained eye. It is satire, but truth is some people still travel with the suitcase of hate on a flight to nowhere. Society is evolving and mental prematurity is a trait of the dying breed. The world is too small for the amount of hate that is comically described throughout the movie. "}{"Title":"A good movie, for the most part.","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I enjoyed Bamboozled up until the last half hour. The murder sequences turned a smart and poignant comedy into a heavy-handed morality play. After the bloodbath, the comical voice-over narration seemed grossly inappropriate. Besides, the characters' fates were completely out-of-keeping with their roles in the movie. How come Man Ray's business partner got to live and Man Ray died? Man Ray was definitely the more sympathetic of the two. Also, it pained me to see Jada Pinkett Smith's character go from smart, successful woman to crazed, gun-wielding lunatic. I wish they could have just cut out the murder sequences and went straight to the well-conceived-and-executed ending montage.All told, Bamboozled is a good movie that, like nearly every other film made in the last 15 years, would have been better off had they cut a half hour from it's running time. What was it that Hitchcock said about how movies should be timed to the carrying capacity of the human bladder? "},{"Title":"Bamboozled and Identity","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" An obvious challenge to Spike Lee's Bamboozled starts with the opening scene of Pierre Delacroix's broad accent. Like an old VHS tape, there is something about the sound of Damon Wayans voice that hurts the ears and makes us wonder if Lee was intoxicated while Wayans was shooting his scenes. But as the film progressed, I realized the magnitude of the brutal, pompous accent. In this film, racial identity is at the forefront of its message while Lee successfully incorporates the theme of one's own identity as a human being. While we see blatant racism being practiced by our own black protagonist, we soon understand that this is all possible because he never really knows who he is as a result of society's attempt to tell him who he should be a bumbling black man who can entertain white folk.Halfway through the film we find that Pierre is not really Pierre. His name is Peerless, the son of Junebug, a black comedian who tells his son to not sell out to Hollywood because they will change who he is in order to make money. Pierre's problem is, he has no grasp of a true identity, therefore he has had to create his own persona to please his white executives.On a more humorous note, Mos Def plays a black hip hop artist to refuses to be called by his slave name Julius Hopkins, and instead wants to be called Big Blak Afrika. Again the idea of black identity in a white society is explored.In the end, we realize, in some part, why there is an identity crisis among African Americans when we see the montage of racially charged cartoons, films, and TV shows which pigeon hole blacks into stereotypes. This scene more than any other scene in the film made me ashamed and saddened by America's tendency to entertain through exploitation. Lee readdresses the foundation of racism that has already been created in our society even though many have already forgotten these images. "},{"Title":"Bamboozled, 2000","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bamboozled talks about Pierre Delacroix (Damon Wayans) who is the only black show writer at a New York cable network that needs to save itself from previous low ratings shows and also to save his job. One day, Delacroix comes up with an outrageous show concept - A minstrel show called Mantan, the New Millennium Minstrel Show. When Pierre presents his concept to his white boss, Dunwitty (Michael Rappaport), the boss becomes very exited by the idea of this show. The only one displeased by the concept is Pierre's African-American assistant, Sloan Hopkins (Jada Pinkett Smith). Actually, Pierre expects this show to fail completely however, to Piere's surprise the show becomes extremely successful. After this huge success, Delacroix himself becomes immersed by the show too and he starts collecting buffoonish statues of blacks from the forgotten era in his office. But is such an era really far behind and forgotten or we still have minstrel shows today? African- Americans shows are still being seen as shows to please the white audience. However, in this case the show was created by a black man himself and didn't seem quite racist, so people lost its point. Is this movie a personification of the director himself? Spike Lee is an African- American director, same as Pierre Delacroix who is a black show- writer, and them both deal with racism between black and white in U.S. Therefore, I personally see Delacroix as being Spike himself. Also, the media plays a big role in this movie and in my opinion media just tries always to get attention and make money and some people who work for the media never care about the consequences, sometimes fatal ones like the deaths of main black characters in this movie, including Delacroix. "},{"Title":"Dichotomy of what is black and white","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is the epitome of black conflict in America. What is black, who wants to be black, and why is everything in black and white? Where's the shades of gray? Peerless (Delacroix's) character experiences the dichotomy of black and white. In the beginning his character (like many spike lee's characters) tries to put stereotypical black shows down the drain but the TV company CNS refuses to go for it. Nobody likes to see blacks successful. So Peerless tried to give the TV company what they wanted in hopes that they'd realize that it would prove idiotic and that times of changed. In Spike Lee's Do The Right Thing Mookie is a bit paralleled to Peerless' character. They both try to overcome the negative black stereotypes in the beginning but throughout the movie and in the end, it seems they have no choice but to fall to stereotypes and let the show continue (in Peerless case) or break down the pizza parlor (in Mookie's case) But did either of them really have the choice to do otherwise? "},{"Title":"Bambozzled for Real","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This was an excellent Spike Lee film. I rented it for my family and no one like the movie but me. I learned that it was shot with hand-held cameras and when it watched it this time I could understand the movie even more. It tell how blacks are view in some television shows and I enjoyed the art of putting on the black face I wasn't offended at all.Manray(Savion)dance very well in this movie it seem he gave it his all and his best. I was sad that he was killed at the end of the movie because you could tell he was growing tired of his character in the minstrel show.Tommy Davidson played a good role in the movie also.It was a very good learning experience given the work of a good director and writer. "},{"Title":"Gobsmacked","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm a Brit and white. I have 4 and a half channels to choose from at 2 in the morning. Imagine my surprise, on the arty channel, to start seeing a Black and White Musical with Gollywogs! This is an exceptionally well acted,intelligent work of art. I feel moved to write about it. It should be part of the curriculum of American schools. And elsewhere. You get the feeling of someone who is coloured/black/American banging his head against a wall until it stops. He's clever. More than me. Spike Lee used to be up his own arse. This is a great fillum. The only reason I've given it a 9 is because you Yanks should sort out the LOVE! That's the point. "},{"Title":"The most controversial movie i've ever seen. Excellent!!!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee delivers his most powerful movie to date in my opinion even greater then Do The Right Thing. Bamboozled is one of the most unique films i've ever seen when the movie started & i saw that this movie was filmed with a home video camera of some sort i thought that this was gonna be a meaningless movie but i was way outta line, this movie delivers everything a good controversial movie should have, never failing to hold back on anything. It covered important issues about people stereotyping something in particular & how it can backfire in ways you can't imagine. Even though this movie was made with a home camera the movie is powerful from the beginning to the end. Before watching this movie i was in doubt that this would be one of Lee's worst joint from the comments & messages i  read online. Everyone should give this movie a chance because its very entertaining & also very well put together little archive footage of famous trials, speech's & cartoon clips all in one. If your a fan of Lee then you won't be disappointed in this movie at all. My rating for this movie is 10 / 10. A must see movie. "},{"Title":"Discomfort","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of the greatest films ever made. How this got overlooked by basically everyone shocks me. Did audiences not understand it? Were they turned off by the ending or Wayans accent? Was it too controversial? Lee makes an extremely powerful statement about the way minorites are portrayed in the media, especially televison. This movie should have been embraced by America the same way Do the Right Thing was, but it wasn't. Many people can not get past the way Lee uses blackface in this movie. Some also seem to be tired of Spike and his controversial movies. I think that he is a genius. I give him tons of credit for providing a movie that just isn't stealing the viewers money. Some people will give this movie 2 stars and then give The Banger Sisters 3. They've been bamboozled.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is the greatest movie of all times. Spike lee deserves an Oscar for this masterpiece. Marlon Waynes also deserves an Oscar for this film. Jada Pinkitt Smith should also get an Oscar for this film. I cannot offer a single criticism of  this movie. See it now. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It has only recently been released in Australian video stores but I believe it is one of the most important films of our time. Urge as many people as you can to see it! I thought it was remarkable but then again what else would you expect from Spike Lee? "}{"Title":"A dark satire about race","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  While the film was powerful in its  depiction, the overdone racial disharmony  proved to drown out the real meaning in  the movie. While most people looked at  this film as a commentary against white  people trying to be black, it was really the  other way around. Spike Lee was more or  less trying to depict the fallacies of the  `hip-hop' lifestyle and how ridiculous it  really is. The black face Tommy Davidson  and Savion Glover used was more of a  commentary on black culture, who in a  way, put on black face when they indulge  themselves in the hip-hop lifestyle. Sometimes  over the top, and sometimes on the money,  this proved to one of Spike Lee's more  dangerous additions to his filmography. "},{"Title":"one of his best joints","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film achieves what it is intended to do, it constantly Bamboozels the viewer. Spike does this very well. The digital video is great, Damon does an excellent job, Jada has grown as an actress, Savion's feet are certainly educated, and my man Rapaport was off the hook, this boy is off the hinges yo! That preformance is certainly is his best and im sure more are to come. MosDef also gave a wonderful preformance along with the MAUMAU CREW. The direction is ace, as usuall by the man Shelton SPIKE Lee. Make sure to watch it on DVD to get the full experience, and prepare to be BAMBOOZELED. "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You know, I'm not usually a fan of these documentary type films, but this one was definitely an exception.  It was funny when it wanted to be and it was deadly serious when it wanted to be.  There was many great things about this movie, from Damon Wayans' character and his annoying voice, to Savion Glover's speech at his last show.  If you have never seen this movie, I suggest that you rent it, because if the whole movie doesn't do it for you, the ending alone will blow you away. "},{"Title":"Spike's most shocking and deep film yet","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   Bamboozled has to be one of Lee's most shocking films yet.The plot about sterotyped minorities is shocking because it's true. Damon Wayans is great in his first dramatic role as are Tommy Davidson & Savion Glover. Spike Lee chose to shoot this film on digital camera and you get the feel of a real life news cast with Mr. Lee's cinematography. I highly recommend this film. ************** out of ************* "},{"Title":"Horrible and Memorable at the same time","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is one of the most disturbing of all time.  It rates with In The Company Of Men in sickness but it was not as good.  I think the racial satire was a little more severe than it should have been.  I think some of the scenes were the most despecable in movie history.  The characters were all at fault in one way or another but the performances are memorable.  I liked the scenes between Damon Wayans and Michael Rapaport.  The scene where Delacroix pitched the blackface minstrel show to his superior was probably the best one in the film.  Spike Lee has struck a nerve way too hard in my opinion and that is one of the reasons this film shocked me.  Overall, though, it was brave piece of work and Spike Lee deserves kudos.8 out of 10.  A little too disturbing and spooky for me. "},{"Title":"Minstrelsy","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In this film, I guess what Spike Lee is trying to do is to engage with the issue of minstrelsy; the blacking up of faces. It is one thing as a white person to blacken up, but it is another thing as a black person to blacken up. After all, if you are white, how else are you going to appear black? If you are black, would you want to whiten up? And is this really entertainment? Is humour and entertainment not a dialogue whereby the giver and the recipient are both enjoying the process? If humour is at the expense of someone else, then that humour is not humour, it is sarcasm. Sarcasm is a monologue. Humour is dialogue. Both parties should be able to enjoy what is being said. Now that minstrelsy is part of an age long gone, we can console ourselves that it was merely the rippling effect of slavery, abolition, and coming to terms with integration. The way to deal with it now is to mobilise black talent worldwide so that it becomes a part of the mainstream rather than a separatist regime. "},{"Title":"Interesting Satire","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just got around to seeing this film on DVD. I missed the original release back in October, but I consider Spike Lee to be one of the greatest filmmakers working today (along with Coppola, Spielberg, Scorcese, and Allen.) While watching the film, I noticed a similarity to another satire on racism Mel Brooks' THE PRODUCERS. Obviously, Brooks' film was played strictly for laughs, but parallels in the scenarios struck me as unmistakable. First, there is the main character who is mild-mannered, well-educated, and coming to get his job done (Wilder in THE PRODUCERS, Wayans here.) Then, you have the boss who ends up getting them involved in some horrible project (Mostel in PRODUCERS, Rapaport here.) There is the hope that the incredibly offensive program will flop, but then it ends up a success, much to the horror of its creator (like SPRINGTIME FOR HITLER in THE PRODUCERS.) These parallels may not seem important but they do show two people of minority groups standing up against racial intolerance through the use of satire. I thought the supporting cast was excellent, especially Michael Rapaport, who I'd only seen before in Woody Allen's MIGHTY APHRODITE and SMALL TIME CROOKS, playing a dimwitted boxer in the first and a slowwitted truck driver in the latter. Here, he plays the network executive equally brainless, but much more harmful. Rapaport was really good in this film, and it's a pity he isn't used in film more often. My only qualm was the target that Lee chose to use for his satire. Lee could have made a much more powerful statement, I believe, if instead of tackling the minstrel show, he had gone after the countless, late-nite sitcoms that are just as demeaning as anything in a minstrel show, except that they use genuine black actors instead of white actors in blackface. As a viewer, I get a mixed message being told that a comic like Mantan Moreland or the TV Amos and Andy are unacceptable, but virtually the same material played today is not. If the material is truly offensive, then it shouldn't matter when it was made-it should be taken off the air. But if people have no problem with today's comics doing the material, then talented performers of past decades should not be censored. This has never made sense to me, because the tone of acceptability seems completely erratic. Then again, as there are more and more positive portrayals of blacks in films, TV, etc. today, the more demeaning comedy is counter-balanced by these positive examples and giving viewers a wider view of the culture. All in all, BAMBOOZLED was a film that I enjoyed very much because it was obviously well-written by one of today's top moviemakers, but that I felt tackled an easy and obvious target and could have gotten beneath the surface of the modern minstrel shows in today's culture. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have almost ever seen","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just read some of the comments of others, and I begin to think that I have seen a different movie.... But I know I didn't... The acting is very bad... It's shot on video (or it looked like it was shot on video).. The story is so utterly boring (I would like to say something else)..  The only thing I enjoyed at the end was the shooting, and the performance of the Dad (I laughed my head off).. I saw this movie in a Sneak Preview here in the netherlands, and I think this movie should go right to the dust bin.. And for the record, I do like some of Spike Lee's other movies. "},{"Title":"One of Spike Lee's best films since Do the Right Thing","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a shocking and deeply moving film about racism and greed in the United States. Even though I was aware of how deeply our stereotypes of black people went,this film re-awakened these     destructive   types and persistent attitudes I meet every day as a white person living in a predominately black city. And what is so very anger-provoking to me is that other white people always assume that I feel the same way that they do. Spike Lee is a courageous man for the shocking images he makes his audience view, an audience both white and black.Despite Lee's attack on racism and greed, he places himself in the great tradition of American filmmakers by cleverly inserting clips from silent and sound films. "},{"Title":"Worthy of Shakespeare","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  (Warning Possible spoilers below.) This movie forces you to think, and the thoughts are not always pretty. As usual with a Spike Lee joint, it's hard to decide who the good guys and bad guys are. Few clear-cut villains or heroes, just human beings. Painfully real people. Watching the minstrel show for the new millennium, I have to admit that I laughed at the coon jokes right along with the studio audience in the movie. God help me, I loved the tap dancing as well. The painful question this raises for me is Whenever I laugh at a black comic or clap for a black performer, how do I know I'm not applauding the latest version of the minstrel show? The movie is a tragedy, no doubt about it. The characters all have their fatal flaws. But there is also plenty of hilarity. One of the black characters makes a joking reference to Hamlet, another great tragedy that also had its uproariously funny moments. I'm not a huge fan of Spike. I wasn't much inspired by Get on the Bus or The Original Kings of Comedy. But I'd say that Lee has earned his place in the pantheon of great directors.   "}{"Title":"Spike's 2nd or 3rd  Masterpiece. Digital beauty.","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The film is just utterly amazing. It takes a stark look at the reality of television and how Afro Americans are viewed by way of television, film, and radio. SPIKE LEE's strongest glimpse although filtered through the lens of Satire and that of Ellen Kuras' beautiful lens it works. He brings forth a haunting nightmare of the plight of working in a realm of which you are shut out and useless for others write for you, of you and about you in general. Damon Wayans gives such an amazing performance, of the self hating protagonist that you feel sorry for. The hip hop group Mau Mau's who are highly misguided and take their voice to the furthest lengths. Yet though SPIKE is blamed for his films being too ANGRY, too BLACK, too UNREALISTIC. All false. Do The Right Thing was inspired by a real person killed by the police official choke. Even here a scene that seems too far fetched is sadly based in truth as MC Search is the lone survivor which is based on a real incident. Do The Right Thing is held as such an high mark upon cinema, which it deserves along with Malcolm X. Here he just delivers a powerful voice, message, and an outcry, its just masked and covered in that haunting laughter of Pierre (Damon Wayans). "},{"Title":"The opposite of Malcolm X","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" My official countdown of the TSPDT Top 250 of the 21st Century list has begun, and #250, Bamboozled, was up, which is easily Spike Lee's most daring and innovative film. It begins with a black TV writer (Pierre Delacroix) whose new ideas for productions are too restrained and casual, no one can relate to them, so no one cares. After an almost heated argument with his boss, Pierre decides to create the most appallingly offensive, disgustingly racist idea for a TV show, so as to show his boss that the blacker does not mean the better. However, his idea is accepted with great applause, and he decides to exploit his show as to gain attention from the media and let the world understand is artistic intentions.And as the show becomes a hit, Pierre is confronted with many different views and opinions, and threats from the gangsta community, regarding their intentions pop a 9 in 'is azz, along with his relationship beginning to fall downhill, and his friends and family turning against him, the poor writer has only got his money and blackface statues.Eventually, the film takes a halt and begins to drag in its own satire, it creates conflicts only to surmount its already playful exaggerations, and in a technical aspect, its pacing and editing become a bit of a mess. But the film always remains intriguing, thought-provoking, and sadly realistic at times (except towards the end). If only it had focused more on the main characters personal depth, and attempt to create less a substantial satire, I would've given the film higher pros, but gladly it took risks far and proud, with authentic execution, and that in itself is an achievement.*** (out of 4) "},{"Title":"what does he want to say????","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Spike Lee is a brilliant director. He is a virtuoso, weaving cultural references into his efforts that are as compelling as challenging to figure out. But (and that's a BIG BUTT!!!) what message is he trying to get across? Lee constantly contradicts himself, leaves a fuzzy image of what is really going on in his movies. I found it hard to gobble down the contradictory plot of Do the Right Thing (even though Da Mayor aroused my deepest sympathy...) but Bamboozled leaves you utterly puzzled and bewildered.Is Lee ridiculing Al Sharpton and O.J.'s lawyer Cochran or is he hailing them as heroes of the black race? Does he condone Bill Bojangles Robinson's complicity into the white entertainment industry or not??? Is the historical Manray's style of comedy acceptable or not?????? Spike Lee leaves all these questions unanswered. He gives conflicting answers in his film.On top of this dithering his effort is overly anti-semitic.See it and you'll be mesmerized by the artistic versatility of Spike of Lee but you'll be utterly disappointed by his lame judgments.The gospel according to Lee reads like this The nigger's plight is due to the white man's innate racism and the evil ways of the hook-nosed tribe and the abominable( my more graphic description has fallen prey to the IMDb guidelines...) Italian (Rudy Giuliani is singled out).My judgment is that Spike Lee is obsessed by an overwhelming urge to self-deprecate the black race, alleging that the majority stance toward black culture has not changed a bit since the 1860's.Praise you, Spike Lee for compiling a witty film on race relations in the late 1990's. Shame on you, Spike Lee for inciting racial hatred with this bungled attempt to convince your black audience that they are still being exploited by a plotting WASPish mainstream establishment.I view this film with mixed emotions I love it for its intellectual qualities, its play on references, its adeptness in imagery. On the other hand I despise it for its cheap demagoguery, its contradictions, its shallowness in some scenes.7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Tedious, tho some moments are riveting","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee took this very good idea and thru repeated and LONG montages destroyed this movie.  Damon Wayans brilliantly portrayed a facinating TV Network Executive and Savion Glover, his very charming and talented friend, a Street Performer doing Tap-Dancing. The story is at once riveting (when these two men are interacting with each other or the other main characters); and then, when you are most interested in the byplay, you get yet another long, LONG montage, which I am sure is meant to teach us something important . It did. It taught me to NEVER again waste my time watching a Spike Lee movie.At one time, I respected this director, but he seems to feel he must beat-the-viewer-over-the-head with a message which he has already presented so well early in the movie. He does this in so many of his movies; he has finally driven me away.        "},{"Title":"A creative failure","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spike Lee presents some on-target moments here, and for the most part you can see what he is trying to get at.  But his movie as a whole, is awful.  It mixes one-dimensional satire with attempts at fleshed-out drama, which gets awkward and eventually kills both.  He also neglects the films core idea by taking on every target he can possibly think of, but few of them very well.  He may as well have just gotten on camera and ranted for a while, because it would have done better than illustrating it through this ill-conceived story.  In fact, he stinks at satire because he actually steps out of it to make his points through frank dialogue (and elsewhere to propel the film with dramatic elements).  For someone who constantly relays the definition of the word  'satire' in his movie, he doesn't really have the hang of it.But despite it's flaws, it can at least be interesting.  It's subject matter is ripe.  And at times, it is thought provoking.  But it's not a good movie at all, and fails far more than it succeeds. "},{"Title":"Knocked Do The Right Thing out the box!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I being a Spike Lee fan, saw Bamboozled without knowing what it was about. I saw it at Magic Johnson's in Harlem and was swept away with the acting, the story, and the outcome. While everyone calls Do The Right Thing the best Spike Lee movie ever I will call Bamboozled the best. It was so good, when it was first released on VHS and DVD I went searching for it the first day! "},{"Title":"only occasionally interesting failure","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Even a failure by Spike Lee is often more interesting than a success by many another filmmaker.  His latest film, `Bamboozled' attempts to come to terms with the quandary faced daily by many African Americans  in a world where white people hold the majority of the wealth and power, can a black person move ahead without sacrificing his or her own roots and heritage in the process?  Does aiming for success in a white man's world automatically peg that black person with the derisive epithet `Uncle Tom'?  And, if that is indeed the case, what option does that leave an ambitious black person in determining his own future and place in society?To examine this theme, Lee has chosen to concentrate on the microcosm of entertainment television, an area that has often fallen victim to this schizophrenic view of Black America.  On the one hand, television has been attacked for portraying a white bread, homogenized view of middle class blacks in series like `The Cosby Show,' while at the same time being criticized for catering to lower class stereotypes in more `realistic,' urban-oriented shows as `The Jeffersons' and `Good Times.'  Lee has decided to aim most of his barbs at the latter type, creating a scenario in which these stereotypes are reduced to their most obvious, insulting level.  Damon Wayans stars as Pierre Delacroix, a pompous, pretentious but, we're told, brilliant comedy writer who comes up with the idea to create a show so offensive in its nature that it will shock all Americans into reexamining their own misconceptions and prejudices about blacks.  His idea is simply to resurrect the spirit of Amos &#145;n Andy, hiring a tap dancer and his partner to appear in black face on a weekly television variety show.  When his program director, Mr. Dunwitty (played by Michael Rapaport in an absurdly over-the-top performance) agrees to green light the idea, Delacroix finds himself with a surprise hit show on his hands.  But what price success?  For Delacroix begins to question whether or not the program is really being appreciated for its `satirical' bite or whether it is instead being taken at face value by a racist, undiscriminating audience.The idea has potential, but Lee, alas, is never able to bring it off successfully.  For one thing, the black face routine seems strangely uncontroversial this late in the game.  Why resurrect an issue that has long since been laid to rest?  Lee hits his satirical target much more effectively in the brief commercials we are afforded glimpses of than in the lame, gruelingly unfunny sketches that take up long stretches of the film.  We simply cannot believe that these tired, badly staged routines would strike even the most devout KKK member as amusing.  Yet, here we have an entire studio audience, as well, presumably, as an entire viewing public, rolling in the aisles in hysterics.  We are even told that the critics have taken the show to heart.  We don't buy it for a second.  Perhaps, if Lee had chosen a more contemporary assortment of black clichs and stereotypes to lampoon (as he does in those commercials we see), the film would have had more point and purpose.Lee does hit on some interesting periphery issues along the way, such as the absurdity of having black-oriented shows put together almost exclusively by white writers and producers.  The film also exposes the paradox inherent in the fact that even the most radical anti-establishment elements and images of the hip-hop, gangster rap culture are not impervious to exploitation from the likes of Madison Avenue.  In other words, young people, teens in particular, are bamboozled into supporting with their money the very elements of corporate America they are supposed to be protesting against.  Let's face it  when your ideals become fodder for yet another sitcom, you know the cause is lost.  (This theme was explored much more fully and brilliantly, however, in James Toback's far more gripping film, `Black and White').`Bamboozled' really hits the skids in its closing section.  Painful as the black face skits are to watch &#150; more for their ineptness than for any sense of moral outrage &#150; the real pain comes in the final scenes in which Lee loses his satirical nerve and makes a bid for high tragedy.  The characters, suddenly hit by a fit of conscience, go through a lot of introspective soul-searching about `selling out' and all that, looking droopily at the camera as portentous music drones on the soundtrack.  Particularly offensive is the film's misguided attempt to turn itself into a modern day bloody `Network,' the sheer heavy-handedness of which is simply appalling. Then, after all this mess, Lee tacks on a brilliant coda which shows us just how thoroughly black face permeated our culture and entertainment in the early part of this century, assembling an assortment of film clips not merely from Amos &#145;n Andy shorts but from such respectable cultural touchstones as Andy Rooney/Judy Garland, Bing Crosby and Shirley Temple films.  (In the ultimate irony, Lee is forced by copyright laws to pay homage to each and every one of these clips in the closing credits).  Thus, as a historical document, `Bamboozled,' I guess, has some validity.  But is it really relevant to today?  Perhaps, but certainly not in the modern context in which Spike Lee has put it.By concentrating on the realities of the modern world, Robert Townsend covered all this ground a lot more entertainingly in `Hollywood Shuffle.'  "},{"Title":"A very interesting and thought provoking but ultimately average film","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Pierre Delacroix is a frustrated writer for a major television network. As the only black writer on staff, Delacroix's boss, Thomas Dunwitty, demands that he produces a proper black show instead of his usual middle class black sitcoms that have black characters `acting white'.  Offended but contractually unable to quit, Delacroix comes up with a show that will be so racist and offensive that he will be fired - an update of the old minstrel show.  However the show becomes an unexpected hit.A fascinating failure of a satire, Lee succeeds in making his audience think, even if he produces a slightly messy plot and leaves himself open to accusations of the pot literally calling the kettle black.  The plot is an interesting swipe at blacks in the media - at those who green light the shows, perform in the show and watch the shows.  In other words - there aren't many who will watch this film who won't feel like Lee was having a go at them; which is a problem because Lee offers no answers or suggestions. Lee's basic point is that the modern portrayal of blacks on tv/film is no different from the days when they were buffoons or exaggerated comedy figures - the only difference being that now they are painted as `urban' caricatures as opposed to c**ns and n*ggers.In the UK this is maybe not as true but when I have been in the US I've always been taken back by just how many black sitcoms there are on TV - all of them with exaggerated black comedy caricatures rather than characters. True, there are white sitcoms that do the same but the number of white actors in these things are not out of proportion with how they are represented in other types of show.  Lee's argument is fair but he doesn't totally convince with how Mantan becomes successful - is it the audience's fault or is it executives? Most likely a bit of both I guess.  Other issues (like Delacroix suddenly forgot his motivations for the show and got into it?) don't stand up as well and the satire loses a lot when you look at it too closely.  This is best seen in the way the plot sort of spirals out of control towards the end; it was like the film had finished making all it's points and wasn't really sure what to do then.There are some humorous moments but really this is a hard film to enjoy because it does feel like a little ball of anger for most of the time. It is hard to totally disagree with the film's main point, it's just a shame that the actual plot came second and that it shows!  Lee's direction is good and he manages to do what I haven't seen done very often with DV - he manages to avoid it looking cheap and rushed.  At times he overdoes things with little repeat edits but overall he leaves things alone; not as stylish as his usual stuff but that's not a bad thing.Lee also has a brave dig at black audiences who sit and lap this up, as well as a dig at the `angry black youf' as represented by the Mau Mau's - a group who are ignorant to the point that they happily drink the alcohol sold them and can't articulate themselves better than `ya know wot I mean' etc. This is a brave but maybe unfair point served up by Lee - what does he expect people to do? And for another thing - picking Mos Def to represent the inarticulate Big Blak is a serious misjudgement and an insult to such an intelligent rapper.That said, all the rappers do OK in their very small roles, but are more interesting just to spot them and name names.  Wayans is very good - he usually does the mugging that Lee is complaining against but here is much straighter.  Likewise Smith does good support and Rapaport does his very best `w*gger' - a caricature that is sadly seen all over the place now. Glover is a great dancer and copes well with the serious role, Davidson is as good but again, is it right for the actor from Woo and Booty Call to be standing up to complain about how black actors are used as exaggerated caricatures for comedy effect?Overall this film is a great failure.  It is interesting and makes you think and, like it or not, he has a point - go and watch some American TV to see what he means.  The plot gets very messy and his characters are not consistent or very well developed but Lee makes his point and you will be left thinking.  Not a great film of course, but Lee continues to be a director that is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Before and After","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Spike Lee has greatly improved as a director.But in this movie he is contradictory. If portraying black stereotypes is bad, then why does he portray them as gun toting murderers? He has managed to proliferate the very image of blacks as naturally violent. So not only he is portraying black stereotypes, but he himself, is managing to make even more popular, negative black stereotypes.Both the Mau Mau and Lamb murder people simply because they don't agree with Pierre's (nee Peerless) point of view (that blacks need to join society and get over their slave mentality). Meanwhile, when Manray (the lead black actor) stops the show and starts dancing as himself, Mr. Dumbwitty doesn't shoot him, he merely fires him. Thus Spike Lee has maintained the positive white stereotype.Perhaps we need a refresher course on entertainment - it always has relied on stereotypes - nothing more and nothing less. To portray a real person would take hours just to correctly show who that person is and this then is not entertainment.The bottom line is that this is not a movie for a fan of films and/or movies. 5/10.-LD_________________________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"Wow! He's serious?","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Previous Spike Lee movies made me think he was deep, sardonic, whatever.Reading the screenplay and visualizing four or five ways of playing each scene convinces mea) putting ketchup in both eyes would be more entertaining than watching the film, andb) Spike Lee is either WAY deeper and more sardonic than I thought (i.e. the movie's a prolix joke on any conceivable viewer), or else another in the army of shallow meta-racists hoping to make a name and some money out of refurbished platitudes with attitude.Whichever, a quick read of the screenplay has saved me lots of time and ticket bucks down the road.... "}{"Title":"Left ME feeling bamboozled","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is not a bad movie, but a mediocre one and a low point for Spike--in my mind.  He's written and directed such powerful films as He Got Game, Summer of Sam, Clockers and my personal favorite Do the Right Thing.  Spike is often fluent in getting his point across in the films he makes.  This time around, he seems a little confused.The first hour of Bamboozled is filled with strong satire pertaining to the sleazy and conniving world that we call network television.  Michael Rapaport is appropriately slimy as the senior VP of the network, CNS.  Jada Pinkett-Smith delivers an intense performance as an employee for CNS, who refuses to go along with the majority in producing degrading, offensive material to show to the world.  Her performance sometimes acts as a saving grace during the weak points of the script.  Damon Wayans is likable and funny at first, but then his accent gets annoying, along with his overall character.  In the beginning of the film, we develop an interest in what he has to say, the ideas in his head.  Then he evolves into this unscrupulous, hateful man engulfed by the fame of the new show, and he makes Rapaport's character look like a saint.  By the second and third acts, Jada's character is the only one we feel like rooting for.The second and third acts seem to contradict its opening.  It dissolves into standard melodrama.  We have a scene where Wayans goes to meet his father (played by underrated comedian Paul Mooney) who tries to make the most out of life being a stand-up comedian.  Wayans disapproves of his Dad's low-class, alcoholic lifestyle.  It's hard to take the dramatic scenes between him, his father and the other characters seriously because his phony accent just contradicts the whole atmosphere.  I don't know why he decided to use the accent anyway.  That accent--which I assumed was Jamaican at first but then I wasn't sure what the hell it was--would've been suitable for a comedy, but not a film of this nature.  Was that accent supposed to be a caricature of middle class African-Americans or what?  And then we have the inevitable conflicts where Tommy Davidson protests against the Black-Face show's mean-spirited essence and eventually backs out, causing a conflict between him and his buddy, played by Savion Glover.  Savion still wants to be in the show, and then his conscience gets to him.  And so on and so on.  That's when the film develops a level of inconsistency, and clouds up its true message.  You never get to discover the true message of Bamboozled because of the mixture of such unlikely events.  And the third act was almost laughable--unintentionally.  It just got way out of hand, in a violent climax that also seems to contradict the film's essence.  At one point the film hands up a biting satire about the corrupt tactics of the television industry.  At another point we're bombarded by preachy melodrama about racism.  And finally, we have a series of bloodbaths.  That shows...this film just doesn't come together.  However, I have to mention that the song Blak is Blak was greatly suitable for the film and had a powerful message that almost measured up to the song Fight the Power used in Spike's previously mentioned Do the Right Thing.  The difference between Bamboozled--the bottom of Spike's barrel--and Do the Right Thing--the cream of his crop--is that DTRT expressed a powerful message like poetry in motion unpretentiously, with dead-on realism and no preachiness.  This movie has Spike's great directorial trademarks--and it's impossible to not be stunned by the visuals in ANY Spike Lee Joint--but the material is weak and inconsistent, and the few moments where it wants to express a wholesome message, it comes off as preachy.  And the continued use of the n word throughout the WHOLE movie didn't help either. As I said, Bamboozled starts out great, but dissolves into melodrama and contradicts itself.  This is the kind of movie that keeps your attention, but lacks the intensity and substance of Lee's usual work. If you've never seen a Spike Lee movie before, I suggest you rent Do the Right Thing instead.  That's a better demonstration of the African-American writer-director's unbelievable talent.  I can't say that Spike got lazy this time, but he definitely got pretentious and overzealous.My score  5 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"If you want to get in a bad mood, watch this.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" With 'Bamboozled,' Spike Lee enters a new dimension of haterism. Spike manages to stir up a very uncomfortable atmosphere of hate with his new 'joint.' For some reason, he decides to completely imagine that a very degrading fad hits America, which consists of pre-desegregation morals and utter nonsense. While this complete nonsense plays out on the screen, I wondered, 'Damn, Spike, was is something I did? Why do you want to stir up so much hate against white people?'Basically, two street performers sell-out to get their own TV show (a rip off of some 50's, racist, laugh-at-the-black-guy show), on which they paint their faces extra black. This show gains enormous popularity. Feelings of guilt and remorse over the fact that they are making a career out of degrading themselves and their race tears these performers to pieces from the inside out. Somehow, Spike lays the blame of this horrible, heart-wrenching tragedy on the white man. What's the point of this outright, pointless haterism? I don't know.Not only would the entire unfolding of the plot never even come close to happening, but the acting (especially Damon Wayans) is terrible and unrealistic.In a nut shell, Spike makes up some super-racist BS, snowballs the situation so you feel like crap for watching the hateful, degrading movie, and unnecessarily makes blacks hate whites for making such degradation possible, and makes whites hate blacks for trying to make real an unreal situation of hate, blame, and guilt. Boo Spike Lee, Boooo. The popularity of an angst-filled black man wanting to tear down the system with his pseudo-visionary ideas has past. Get over it. We all have. "},{"Title":"Bamboozled is how you will feel after seeing this garbage.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Coppola had One For The Heart, Lee has (us all) Bamboozled. Terrible production values (usual for Spike Lee).  Terrible direction (unusual for Spike Lee).  Weak, confusing script (a Lee hallmark).  Acting okay (but failed to bring audience laughter or tears).  Worst of all boring. Borrrrrrrrrrrring!  Try again Mr. I'm not here to entertain you Lee.  "},{"Title":"Another Bad Spike Lee Movie","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know what was worse about this movie,  the awful plot or Damon Wayan's awful voice! Spike Lee's eighties and early nineties movies were ten times better than this awful movie. And it is disrespectful to many people and their ancestors! "},{"Title":"One Of The Funniest in cinema history","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This Film is a truly a Hilarious comedy, the Maintan scenes of the show are terrifically funny, along with all the screenplay and the scene in which Delacroix is talking to his boss in the office and his boss tells him that he likes to use the world Ni egger so to hell with what Spike Lee thinks or something like this was one of the funniest scenes I have ever scene in a movie for a long time I was truly about to fall on the ground from laughing through the two hours duration of the film and some of the lines like Every Ni egger is an entertainer and something like Cartoons are racist and everyone would like to be a Ni egger, along with all the themes Spike Lee is trying to tell us about racism today are extremely funny, Also his way of trying to end this film dramatically in the last half an hour make such an awfully Funny film. Spike Lee is a comedy filmmaker and the best thing about it is that he thinks hes making a drama so when he takes such a stupid idiotic film seriously along with the black actor playing Delacroix(His voice and the way he pronounce the lines are very very funny) this film turns out to be a truly genius comedy. I Recommend this film Highly To Anyone Who Appreciate comedies. I give it Ten as a comedy but negative 50 as a drama Comedy 10/10 Drama -50/10. "}]