[{"Title":"Crass, offensive, and absolutely hilarious","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Usually this kind of film turns me off, but I was talked into watching 'Road Trip' with a bunch of college buddies and a couple of twelve-packs, and I couldn't stop laughing.Josh (Breckin Meyer) has loved Tiffany (Rachel Blanchard) since they were both five years old. But Josh attends college in upstate New York, while Tiffany has gone to school in Texas. Josh's friends think he's crazy to keep up a long-distance relationship when there are plenty of girls around to . . . date. Particularly alluring is Beth (Amy Smart), who has the hots for Josh. When Josh is unable to locate Tiffany by phone and begins to suspect that she's been cheating on him, he gives in to his urges and brings Beth back to his dorm room for a night of hot love. Beth, eager to show how wild she can be, decides to videotape the encounter. The next day, Josh finds out that he couldn't reach Tiffany because of a family emergency, and is immediately wracked with guilt. Things get more complicated when his knuckleheaded suitemate Barry mistakes the sex tape for a video message to Tiffany which Josh had asked him to drop in the mail. Horrified at the thought of Tiffany popping a tape into the VCR to see him making the double-backed beast with another girl, Josh determines to travel to Texas to intercept the illicit tape. His two best friends--resident prankster E.L. (Sean W. Scott) and stoner-intellectual Rubin (Paul Costanzo)--offer to come along, and help Josh persuade mega-nerd Kyle (D.J. Qualls) to let them use his father's car in exchange for a chance to come along for the ride. From that point on, 'Road Trip' follows the traditional teen exploitation comedy format, though with greater wit and intelligence than should be expected from the genre. Director Todd Phillips manages to give us slapstick, gross-out comedy while simultaneously poking fun at stereotypes and experiences familiar to anyone who's gone to college (psycho-sorority hazing, TAs trying to make undergrad girls, alcohol- and pot-related shenanigans, the nerd breaking bad, a hilarious run-in at an all-black fraternity house,etc.). Compensating for the adolescent hijinks is the surprisingly smart and thoughtful subplot for Kyle, who transforms from nerdy object of derision into the film's most likable and memorable character.In the tradition of 'Animal House,' 'Road Trip' is crass and juvenile, but irresistibly funny. Not a movie for date night, but a good choice for gathering around the tube with bongs, brews, and bros. An instant joe six-pack classic.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettably crude and unforgettably funny!  You will not stop laughing!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can I explain this movie?  IT'S HILARIOUS!!  Though you know the plot is no more than a setup for one wacky situation after another, it works and it works great.  This comedy pushes the envelope in every aspect, and smiles proudly.  Tom Green, who gets a pretty small role, is the scene-stealer.  Fans of him will be very impressed.  One moment that had me almost on the floor was the French toast scene with SNL regular Horatio Sanz.  I don't want to give away any of the comedy, because that would be a sin.  Just take my word  You will love this movie!  You will not stop laughing!  This is one trip worth taking! "},{"Title":"My kind of movie","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Similar in style to American Pie, and ultimately stemmed from the likes of Porkys and Animal house, this movie was right up my street.Josh Parker is separated from his childhood sweetheart by a difference of collage and of course 1800 Miles, until he videos himself having sex with someone else and accidentally sends it to her.The road trip then begins, and its a journey of disaster, discovery and above all laughs, as Josh tries to get to his sweetheart before the tape does.A really funny film, with the right ingredients.8/10 Also check out, American Pie, Old School and if you fancy something older try Porkys and Animal house. "},{"Title":"A throw back to the 80's comedy that was actually funny","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to thank Something About Mary and American Pie for doing what they did.  These are two movies that came along and were bold enough to try something different. Those films  included raunchy jokes, crude humour, nudity and they had the audacity to poke fun at everyone, call them the Quentin Tarantino of comedies.  Before American Pie, you had some ALMOST good films with Can't Hardly Wait and 10 Things I Hate About You.  They were good but not quite good enough to be mentioned in the same breath as Animal House and Porky's and such.  Then American Pie comes along and shows everyone that it is okay to have boobs again and to use the f-word liberally with lines like  Sherman, what the f*** are you doing here? and  Oz, F***face, I don't think he's coming back!  This was a film that didn't try to imitate closely the way teens and young adults talk, it DID imitate the way teens and young adults talk.  Road Trip continues that trend.  Hollywood has to realize when it gives the green light to scripts that we are not as stupid as they think we are, in most cases.  And what I mean by that is simply, sure, it can make money off almost any excuse for a teen film like Drive Me Crazy and Here On Earth and such, but if you want to hit the jackpot, if you want young people to feel the need to see the film more than once and recommend it to their friends, you have to have a smart ear, likable characters to laugh at and more than just a simple boy meets girl story.  Road Trip is that movie!When I went into the film, I was shocked but pleasantly so, to see Ivan Reitman and Dan Goldberg's name attached to the film as executive producers.  These are guys that have brought us films like Animal House, Ghostbusters, Meatballs, Stripes and even something like Kindergarten Cop.  These are all funny films with a great ear for dialogue.  So it immediately starts off on the right foot.The next thing it did right is the casting of Tom Greene and Sean William Scott.  Greene is quite sick and twisted by nature and Sean William Scott stole every scene in American Pie.  So to include them in your cast as the raunchiest guys of the bunch is great casting.  The next thing the film does right is it goes back to the roots of campus comedy and it has plenty of nudity.  Yes, sure this may sound sexist and primitive but it also sells tickets.  And they can actually make a case for having it because the story is being told by Greene's character so, as he puts it,  it is my story, there can be lots of nudity if I want there to be. Road Trip has plenty of beautiful women, crude jokes, a nerd that discovers who he is, annebriation, drugs, mean sprited jokes and a script that is more convoluted and conventionally funny than any film save American Pie.  Nothing is sacred here.  That includes the blind, obesity, women, animals and of course nerds.  This is a fun film and although I am sure that it is garnered more towards males, if you can go in with an open mind anyone can enjoy it.  I will bet that this film will go on to gross about 70 or 80 million dollars and I hope that more films are made in this kind of tradition.  We need more films inspired by Animal House.  We need more characters that are take-offs of John Belushi and Tom Greene.  Maybe Ivan Reitman will have another script like this one on his shelf somewhere and he is ready to dust that one off as well.  Maybe.  All I know is that this film is fresh and it is worth your time.And of course, most importantly, it is one hell of a funny movie!8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An excellent movie to see when you are with some buddies.","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw Eurotrip for the first time I heard this was some kind of sequel on Road Trip. Since I watched Eurotrip and loved it, I had to see this one as well of course. Big was my surprise when I saw that none of the actors that were in Eurotrip were in Road Trip. I might even say that the two movies have nothing to do with each other, except for the fact that both are about students who are about to make a long trip. Did I care? Certainly not, I loved this one as well! The story is told by Tom Greene, who brings it as some kind of urban legend to future students and their parents who visit the university for the first time. He tells them that three guys went on a trip from Ithaca, New York to Austin, Texas, because they had to retrieve a video cassette. On the tape was supposed to be a video message for the life-long girlfriend of one of them, but instead it features him in bed with another girl. Of course someone has send the tape to her by accident and now he'll have to get it back before she sees it...What you'll get to see is an hilarious movie that, it has to be said, isn't all too original. It follows the typical guidelines for teen comedies, but does it all very well. Even though it is irresistibly funny, I loved Eurotrip a little bit more. I gave that one an 8 and Road Trip a 7.5/10. Nevertheless, this is still one of those movies to see if you are with some buddies. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is definitely a riot! A must see for anybody. If you like to laugh, you will love ROAD TRIP. Not one second of this film is dull. It's constant laughs from beginning to end. Tom Green is in it, need I say more?The film is about this college kid. (male) He is in a long distance relationship with his girlfriend who is also in college and lives very far away. To try to help each other deal with not seeing each other, they exchange video tapes and talk on the phone all the time. But of course, the guy grows weak when he gets the chance to have sex with a hot blonde. He takes the opportunity, and actually video tapes it. That's where the trouble begins. He asks his friend to send out a love tape to his girlfriend, and he ends up sending her the sex tape! So now, they have to drive all the way out to his girlfriend's college before the tape arrives in the mail.This movie is so funny. I could not stop laughing. Check it out. You won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"Funny, in it's region","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be funny, when compared to Something About Mary and American Pie.  And since it is in that arena, it gets a good reputation (though doesn't live up to it's precedors).  I found the plot alone humorous- College guy (Breckin Meyer) from Ithica, who is dating a girl (Rachel Blanchard)in Austin since he was little, tapes a sex tape with another girl by accident and mails it to her, so he must retrieve it with his friends (Seann W. Scott, DJ Qualls and Paulo Costanzo). The Always hilarious (especially here) Tom Green brings us along in this story as he tells the story to a tour group and also includes himself as a experimentist and snake feeder with mice.  The wackiness and sickness in this film brings out the best and it is dead pan funny.  One of the best comedies of the year.  Look for cameos by Horatio Sanz, Andy Dick and Fred Ward.  A "},{"Title":"A fun entertaining movie to kill some time with (if you are a teenager).","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a typical movie that's perfect to watch to kill some time with. It's by no means a great, or highly memorable movie but it's still a movie that serves its purpose.Even though I highly enjoyed watching this movie, it wasn't as funny as expected. The movie could had really used some more comical sequences and situations. There were many missed opportunities in the movie but still that doesn't of course mean that the movie is bad. The biggest strength of the movie is its fun feeling. There are some great comical moments, although not as many and as constant as I expected and hoped for.Another great thing about the movie are the characters. Breckin Meyer might not had been the best choice for the main character but all the other characters are simply great to watch, especially DJ Qualls. Tom Green's antics were not always funny simply because he isn't a great actor. It also was perhaps a bit too much distracting from the main storyline.It's a great movie for teenager to watch and it has some typical teenagers humor in it, which I'm sure they'll find hilarious at times. Adults will most likely not be able to fully appreciate all the jokes in the movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A hilarious trip","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ROAD TRIP stars Breckin Meyer as Josh Parker, a college student who accidently has a tape of him cheating on his girlfriend mailed to her. What to do? Go on a road trip with his buddies Seann William Scott, Paulo Costanzo, DJ Qualls to get to the tape before it gets to her. On the way, they get into some hysterical situations and give great comedic performances. There are a lot of road movies, but this is the very best one. "},{"Title":"A top film for anyone who is or ever has been a teenager.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The basic plot of the film is fantastically simple. Josh and his girlfriend Tiffany have been together forever. To maintain a long distance relationship through college, Josh makes a video to send to her telling her how much he misses her.Later on that evening he makes another video tape of himself and Beth, a fellow student at Ithaca, having sex. You guessed it, the wrong tape is mailed to Tiffany. Josh and his 3 buddies Rubin, E.L and Kyle set off to retrieve it.For the first time in a long while, this film is entirely honest and not at all patronising. If you're sick of films condemning sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll then your time has come.Though slightly disturbing in parts, this film was able to carry off what was a potential cliche. The almost apathetic mood was perfect. Whilst some films try to deal with indepth emotions about each decision made, 'Road trip' overlooks everything that we overlook. It's OK for someone to steal a bus from a blind chick or exploit a rich kid, because your objective is the only thing that matters.The casting was slightly daring with a film debut for Paulo Costanzo and a first time lead for DJ Qualls but the characters were entirely believable and developed well throughout.I think it's best not to read too much into this movie because it's essentially about having fun. Which is what it is. "}{"Title":"One of worst movies","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hm... I don't understand what's beautiful in this vulgar movie? Why you all love it so? Yep, I agree - I'm Russian and I can't wait something like Gaidai's humor from American directors. But...When I get DVD with this movie, I thought it's good movie I saw many of my favorite actors in titles! But when I have seen it at home I was very angry surreal script not like Gilliam's but like Kokshenov's nasty boys freaked out one nerd who wants to be with his favorite girl. One of boys (who have a girlfriend!) sleeps with this girls and he sent tape with sex to his real girl. Ha-ha! Very funny! There's a lot of violence and nudity film but there's no kindness in this movie. And, after all, I don't wanted to see Amy Smart's ugly breast. So, movie's terrible. I hate this film.-100/10 "},{"Title":"A mediocre rip-off","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I might have enjoyed Road Trip a bit more had I not already seen Overnight Delivery - it's too blatantly obvious that the former is based on the latter. All the major plot points correspond, insofar as Road Trip actually HAS a plot. What plot it does have hangs together like a soggy potato chip.Frankly, if you have seen Overnight Delivery, Road Trip suffers miserably by comparison. The comedic action in the body of the film is related to the plot in only the most precarious degrees, and throughout most of the middle action the equivalent of the original's female presence is absent - rendering the conclusion far less logical.Overnight Delivery was a comedy, but it was a smart comedy, and it had a very deep meaning for the out-of-state college freshman. When you finish high school, often you think you are so sure of what the world is going to be like and how your life is going to turn out - and whom you are going to spend it with. The main characters - both the nebbish faux-conservative male and the pseudo-rebellious strippeuse - end up learning that life isn't that predictable, that impulses get in the way... and that there is so much left to discover in the world outside the childish confines of an insular suburban-strip mall education.Road Trip, on the other hand, is nothing more than a sex-raunch comedy. I'm not necessarily allergic to those (Ace Ventura Pet Detective and Dumb and Dumber remain two of my favorite guilty pleasures), but the problem is basically this. When you imitate a story that has meaning, and you reduce it to vulgar toilet-bowl humor without making an outright parody, you leave those habituated to the original product feeling... empty, cheated, even.Story archetypes abound, sure, but Road Trip is both too unoriginal to bring forth anything meaningful from its source material and too self-unaware to become an overt caricature of the source. As is often the case, the original is far more palatable by any standard. "},{"Title":"comedy all around!","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  road trip is super funny! oh yeah, tom green is in the movie, but he was actually funny in this movie, (**SPOILER**) when he stays home and lives with the snake. man oh man, you have to laugh out loud at the movie. (**SPOILER**)  what kind of guy would mail the tape of him and another girl together to the girlfriend of a long time?? it is a funny idea, and a smart one at that, which comes to the point of the cast, besides tom green.  the rest of the cast really helps the movie, since they all add a special funny side to the story.  get ready and watch this flick, its a guaranteed laugher.  (A A-) "},{"Title":"As good as the American Pie Trilogy? In a way, yes","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERSIt's hard to know what to say about Road Trip really. Done in 2000, right in the middle between American Pie and American Pie 2, this film carries on the traditions that the original Pie film introduces, and whilst it lacks the coming of age meaning, it is still worthy to be mentioned in the same breath as the Pie Trilogy.In Road Trip, Josh (Breckin Meyer.. soon to be seen as Jon Arbuckle in Garfield), E.L. (Seann William Scott in Stifler mode), Rubin (Paulo Costanzo) and Kyle (DJ Qualls) embark on a road trip from Ithika University all the way to Austin University a total of 1,800 miles away. On the way the guys have many crazy experiences happen to them, and things then round themselves off nicely. Truth be told, that's about the whole plot. As was shown in Master & Commander three years later however, a simplistic plot is not necessarily a bad thing.Ok, I admit it's not going to take much time to analyse this film, but that is a good thing. Road Trip contains typical gross-out humour, standard acting by a young cast, the inevitable scenes of brief nudity and ultimately everything to keep a teenage boy happy.Truthfully, I can't really think of anything bad to say about this movie. I could insult Tom Green, but for once the guy makes me laugh a lot and I'm grateful for his participation. The soundtrack is excellent, scripting as you'd generally expect, and even the limited special effects (for example, a car blowing up) are done to acceptable levels.Whilst it may not have the originality of the very first American Pie film, Road Trip is still something which people can watch over and over again. It doesn't stretch the brain at all, and it wouldn't win any awards. However, if you love the American Pie films, then I can't think of any reason for you to hate this. Sit back, relax, shut your brain off, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"I never thought I could love a movie like this...but I was wrong!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always been a rather fanatic movie freak who naturally likes all kinds and types of films but I have to confess there's only one genre I've never really cared about teen movies. As far as I can understand Road trip is one so I was pretty certain it would suck totally just like the rest of them. Then I accidentally read a really positive review about it and thought I should at least give it a try and I'm damn glad I did. If this is a teen movie it's an extremely refreshing exception. I just watched it and it was amazing to find out how it differs so pleasantly from all the others I despise. Road trip is filled with amusing and really nicely written dialogue, good and believable young actors, absurd characters and hilarious scenes that are so weird and irresistibly stupid I can't help of loving them. Teen movie or not, I think I'm able to recognize a great comedy when I see one. It's safe to say this is one of the funniest films of the year 2000 even though it took me three years to figure it out. I'm sure this film was an enjoyable experience to make and it sure is an enjoyment to watch. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly enjoyable!","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must admit seeing Tom Green's ugly mug on the cover of this one gave me great pause; I have never been a fan and was not willing to endure 90 minutes of fecal matter, vomit and dead kittens presented under the guise of comedy!  However I heard from some friends that this was one worth watching so I gave it a go, and am glad I did.  Thankfully Green's character was not central to the story (he acts as the stay-at-home narrator to the boy's wild road trip) and was surprisingly low key for his standards.  Tonguing a lab rat and a video shot of his butt crack was as much as we were forced to look at...and in the context of the story they were well-placed jokes.This movie seemed to roll up Revenge of the Nerds, There's Something About Mary and American Pie all in one.  Nice to see movies where the nerdy or average guys (as opposed to the hunky BMOC's) can have some fun in college too and get the odd piece of tail.  Some real funny physical comedy and some great lines as well.  Nothing overly gross or offensive but enough female nudity (at least in the unrated DVD version I watched) to keep your average 15-year-old schoolboy drooling.  My wife and I are in are mid-30's (children of the 80's) and we both laughed out loud on several occasions.  Nice throwback to our youth when, at one point on the highway, the road trip crew cranks up some Twisted Sister and has some fun.  Overall, don't let Tom Green's presence scare you---this is a funny movie with elements for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Dopey, contrived and predictable, it's also funny.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best thing about the characterizations in Road Trip, in which a group of college pals embark on a whirlwind trip from upstate New York to Texas to prevent the hero's girlfriend from viewing an incriminating video, is that for all of the cartoonish antics of his colleagues, the hero himself seems like a regular and decent fellow.  In any movie, and certainly one of this genre, this is noteworthy indeed. The story is presented through a rather interesting and unusual device it is recounted by one of the hero's room-mates (the one who stayed home from the trip, and is fascinated by one of the room-mates' pet boa constrictor and its feeding habits) as he conducts a campus tour for new prospective students.  This allows the story to have breaks, and for certain clarifications and asides which are generally amusing. So the hero has caught the eye of a pretty fellow student (played by Amy Smart).  Anyone who has been to college can relate to the thrill of striking up a new interesting acquaintance, and then bumping into them on campus as the semester progresses and a relationship takes shape; (Amy Smart would certainly be any guy's dream of such a potential relationship- she is also presented as a regular girl, not some sex pot with a cartoon figure and wild notions of extracurricular behavior).  We believe she genuinely likes him, and is hurt when it seems that he is still involved with his childhood sweetheart, following the interlude which led to the videotaping central to the plot.  The childhood sweetheart, we are informed by the narrator, and he have made a pact to remain true to each other while they are separated at schools 1500 miles apart. The accompanying roommates are stock characters, but are not objectionable a party boy, a pot-smoking intellectual and a baby-faced geek, whose car they need for the trip.  Some of the bits are eminently predictable the ethnicity of the fraternity where they plan to pass themselves off as visiting members, the crude demeanor of the grandparents with whom they stay one night, and the sudden courage of the geek to stand up to his domineering father in the climatic scene. Some scenes were unnecessarily vulgar (and could have easily been adjusted to be funny instead of cruel) such as the treatment that the geek's french toast order receives when he sends it back to the kitchen, and before it is re-served to him. There are some holes in the plot, but this movie does not pretend to aspire to cinematic accolades.  No one at the University of Austin seemed to have any Southern accents, and money for gasoline and food (though commented upon) was never apparently a real concern. All in all, though, it was amusing, and even had a happy )and for some, I imagine) a surprising ending.  It's worth the $4 at Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"It had it's moments, but most was unnecessary.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that there were points, in this movie, where I had to laugh.  Tom Green, who I usually cannot stand, actually was kind of funny.  The thrown in nudity was really unnecessary.  This movie could have been just as funny without it, which by the way wasn't that funny.  Even though the movie had it's funny moments, I caught myself looking at my watch, wondering when it was going to end.  The humor just wasn't enough to keep my continued attention.  I found the whole trip, itself, rather boring, with a few inputs of good comedy.  I'm sorry, but this movie was not at the top of my list. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, even Tom Green (gasp)","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I only say that, because I don't usually like Tom Green.  He is usually annoying and idiotic, but he's kind of funny in this movie.  Good thing he's not in it long tho.  That's all I have to say.  The movie overall is funny, and the cast is hilarious for the most part.  It's not a totally original story, but who cares...it works the way it is.  A couple of other things....I don't think Amy Smart is pretty, so why she was cast in the role, I dunno....and in the shower scene, the girl that walks by Beth and her two friends after Tom Green says she is naked, very naked....  who is she?  And whoever she is, how much does she cost?!?!?  Wow.  She should have been Beth!  Then, I might have understood why the guy ditched his girl for her....anyway.  I'd give it 7/10...... "},{"Title":"Good old-fashioned movie fun","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While Road Trip is nothing groundbreaking in the movie world, no one really expected it to be.  You have to appreciate this movie for what it is a mindless little comedy. Once you've thrown you're expectations out the window, what you'll get is an hour and half of solid laughs.  When you boil it down to it, it's basically just a series of gags, strung together with a very weak plot structure. But who cares, for all its shortcomings, there are moments you will be laughing too hard to even notice. Stand out scenes include an uncomfortable encounter at an all-black fraternity and the unforgettable sperm bank hijinx (I am curious if that practice is endorsed by the medical world). Green is his expected eccentric self, although his screen time is very minimal. (His experimentation with certain rodents would make even Richard Gere proud.) And as for Sean William Scott, it seems as if he'll be typecast as Stiffler for the rest of his career, which is not all bad.  All in all the movie delivers with laughs throughout making it a worthwhile experience. It is exactly what a movie of this nature should be. 3 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"The entire theatre shook with laughter.....","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ROAD TRIP is a movie with well focused hilarity from start to finish.  It is raunchy and wonderful, capturing college days with a light hearted frivolity that really tickled me so that I felt sick from laughing.  The New York Times critic reviewed it on Friday, May 19th and said it much better than I can.  He also loved the movie and found it very appealing, although neither of us is the age of the target audience, I suspect.  I am 64 and love comedies.  The sex and comedy is not at all offensive to viewers who have a well developed sense of humor. Sure, the serious and critical audience who love to find fault with any comedic effort will turn their noses up at this film. I do not recommend that they see this superb comedy.  Tom Green is not the central character but he is very good in his role. The other cast members may not be well known but after this film it's just a matter of time before they are leading stars. All of the casting is just perfect. Photography and music are excellent. If this is the first of the quality that Montecito Pictures will produce they are a studio to follow in the future.  Go see this film.  Buy a box of popcorn and a Coke.  Be careful not to choke on the popcorn from uncontrollable laughter.  Take a long, hard swallow of the Coke and calm down.  You will remember this evening for years! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie since Dumb & Dumber","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Exactly what I was expecting from Tom Green! An absolutely hilarious movie that made me laugh out loud throughout. Excellent mixture of gross-out humor, sex and nudity - including a great nude shot of hot young actress Amy Smart!! Irreverent and zany, worth frying your brains for 90 minutes! "},{"Title":"Adolescents admitted; ONLY adolescents.","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are a few smile-worthy moments in this flick about four college students, their girl friends, and there adventures, but there's far too much dreck in between. I noticed only one truly poetic touch. Amy Smart goes topless for a few seconds. Well, alright, as an actress she has only modest talent, but as far as this witless trip story goes that scene is a sine qua non. With it, you have a few seconds in which a very beautiful blond California surfer girl is without a top. Without it, you have a witless trip story.I won't even bother to describe the plot. It's just a peg to hang some jokes on. The jokes aren't very funny. They depend largely on guys with anomalous features, a blind woman, and an overweight black girl. Somewhere between Ithaca, New York, and Austin, Texas, the gang of four stop at the house of one of their grandparents. The old man can hardly move but he watches stupid sex movies on TV, takes Viagra, has a constant boner, and smokes dope. (Ha ha.)The musical score is built around rock. That's pretty depressing. I went to school in Ithaca, too, and during the mid-terms and finals the student radio station played nothing but uninterrupted classical music. Walking across the quad, you could hear the same mellow Mozart sonata drifting out of every one of dozens of open windows. Now it's a cacophony, reflecting the state of the union, I guess.The movie is similar to some others -- Animal House and the Porky's series -- that I found only mildly amusing. Something About Mary was much better. But this one tries to get laughs out of truly stupid gags. A man is caught swallowing a mouse; a fat waiter who is asked to remove the sugar from an order of French toast takes it in the back room, licks off the sugar, stuffs the bread inside his pants, and serves it again -- and the camera lingers on the dope who eats it with relish, while the editor waits for the expected laughter to fade. In Casino, a waiter expresses his contempt for the customers by spitting a ginder into a submarine sandwich and it disgusts, but not as much as this scene, which seems to go on and on, long after the joke -- if that's what it is -- has been swallowed.I bought this on a DVD. It's one of two movies. The other is Eurotrip. I'm not going to watch it. "},{"Title":"Dreary movie, below average comedy","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip manages to frame every detail a standard comedy about sex and love should consist of. However, there is nothing outstanding in these frames of randomly put together sex, racial, drug- and friendship jokes.Sean William Scott reprises the exact same role as in American Pie, humping his way through the whole thing. The rest of the characters are too boring and subtle and they all fit a pattern of who should preferably be in college guy gang.All that is left then is the story, which can pretty easily be summed up with the old line never have a girlfriend in college. If you want to gather your buddies and have a laugh don't choose this movie because neither beer nor pot will help you get more than a smile from this. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as a root canal, but cheaper","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow.  I just watched this movie for the first time after many friends I formerly respected recommended it.  To be honest, it wasn't all bad, just the parts that Tom Green had anything at all to do with.  Mr. Green is as funny as Will Ferrell doing his taxes while watching Ishtar in a burning orphanage on the Titanic.  He is to comedy what Stephen Hawking is to comedy.  His brand of humor is for those people that use phrases like book-lurnin' and found Animal House and Police Academy far too cerebral and uppity.  His success can only be explained by way of speculation that he has made some sort of deal with Satan, undoubtedly that Tom will be given fame and riches, on the condition that he never set foot in Hell as I'm sure even Satan's standards for humor are higher than this. Sorry.  Was I ranting just then?  I feel so cleansed.On to the rest of the movie.  Predictable, yes, but not without a few laughs.  Many of these are provided at the expense of taste, but anyone who watches this movie should be expecting that based on the familiar teen movie cast.  Check your standards at the door.Don't get me wrong, I don't consider this movie to be a waste of time. It gave me a chance to work on my Tom Green effigy. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, first off, road trip is not for everyone, it's just not. This movie does have a good bit of sexual content and some nudity, so if that offends you, stay away. Sean William Scott was great in this film, he was perfectly cast in his womanizing hot dude role. And Amy smart was good in this movie too, I like her in it. I really did think I would hate this movie, but I was actually pleasantly surprised. Now yes, the sex and nudity got to be a bit much in a few scenes, but it want pervasive or anything. The actors in this film did a good job with their comedy, the main actors all gave sufficient performances. The movie does a good job of catering to the college age audience. Overall, a 7/10, Sean William Scott was my personal favorite part. "},{"Title":"Run This Film Over.","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip (2000) Dir Todd Phillips / Cast Breckin Meyer, Amy Smart, Tom Green, Seann William Scott, D.J. Qualls Pointless geek show that attempts to outdo one vulgar scene with another. Narrator Tom Green tells the story of Josh and Tiffany whose childhood friendship blossomed to romance until she moved away. They kept in touch through separate universities. Beth is interested in Josh and has sex with him in front of a video camera, which accidentally gets mailed to Tiffany. Vulgar humour includes a scene where French toast is devoured after it was down the waiter's pants. Directed by Todd Phillips who executes the humour with surprise but never touches the complexity of National Lampoon's Animal House. Breckin Meyer is totally unsympathetic and probably doesn't get what he deserves. Amy Smart as Beth is more trouble than she's worth as she follows in road trip fashion causing chaos every step of the way. Green is not only the pioneer of the grossest humour but also involved in pointless footage when the screenplay shifts from the road. Seann William Scott also landed a part in this fresh after his Stifler act in the much better American Pie. D.J. Qualls plays the nerd kid who could easily be the poster boy for such a stereotype. There is very little if anything funny in this junk. The purpose is to exploit vulgarity so the film should be backed over with a car. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Funny but...","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have laugh also sometimes, but i'm missing something. It was some fun, but compare with e.g. American Pie, this movie is not so good. I cannot explain me, why I feel so, simply it has not a good mood as the American Pie series. I've missed from Seann William Scott a mad character as Stifler was (but generally it was a good acting performance). I don't like the end of the road in Austin. The relation between Josh and Tiffany was too serious, I have waited more drama after Josh arrival. Summarized this movie can be seen once, a light rest of evening, but there is nothing extra. "},{"Title":"Crude, stupid and unfunny","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" High school sweethearts Josh (Breckin Meyer) and Tiffany (Rachel Blanchard) are separated when they attend different colleges. She's in Texas, he's in New York. One night a girl seduces Josh and tapes the whole thing. Through ridiculous circumstances he mistakenly sends that tape to Tiffany. When he realizes what he did he decides to drive from NY to TX to get there before the tape (guess he couldn't afford a plane). He naturally brings along three friends (played by Seann William Scott, Paulo Costanzo and DJ Qualls) and hilarious complications ensure.I have no problem with gross out humor (which this film has plenty of) but I just ask that it be funny. Unfortunately this film fails in that. The humor is gross but not funny at all. Joke after joke falls flat. I don't think I even smiled once let alone laugh. Even worse we have the endlessly annoying Tom Green serving as a narrator. If you're watching this for female nudity dream on. There's some but VERY little and it just seems to be done in an obligatory manner. Worst of all they start throwing in little moral messages at the end! There's nothing worse than a gross-out film that tries to pretend that it's a nice film! And Amy Smart is on hand giving a dreadful performance.The only thing that made this bearable were two good performances by the very likable Meyer and Scott (playing down his goofiness). But, all in all, I was either bored or disgusted. You can safely skip this one. "},{"Title":"Okay, I refuse to believe anybody can be this STUPID!","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" IDIOTS!!! IDIOTS!!! IDIOTS!!!Okay, trying while the movie is still fresh in my mind, I wanted to make this review quickly in a fit of rage since I've got more important things to do, I have to say I felt like PUNCHING or STABBING someone in this movie! Now there were some redeeming moments like the humor with the well-known American pie Stifler guy - he's perhaps the only one in the whole cast who can be likable & funny.With that said, the bearded guy (Tom Green, who told the story), oh my, was he stupid & annoying as HECK! Never have I hated a character in such a long time - he always, I mean, ALWAYS acts socially awkward, to the very end when he starts stupidly kissing a random woman! For no reason. So much so you keep questioning your faith in humanity, and you feel like hunting down this awkward %#!@&%$ and bludgeoning him to death. Plus, the skinny guy was just weird & awkward too, and makes you wonder why his parents didn't just abort him at a much younger age?? Concerning the plot of the movie, through a series of *ridiculous* circumstances, they keep trying to in & out of their way to get back the wrong VHS tape before it gets to the protagonist's ex-girlfriend - hey, mail travels faster than you could - you keep expecting them to be too late. But no, they're on-time. And when they're still on-time, they're still utterly & ridiculously clueless as to when she pops it in the video player!Just....... AAAAaaaaaaargggggggghhhhhh!!!!!!!!!! No wonder half of the cast in this bad, horrendous film didn't go anywhere - 'cause quite frankly, nobody WANTS these bozos to go anywhere. Quite frankly this film ruined their careers... Thankfully.What stupid, incoherent mess! Please save yourself from watching this crap to save on therapy pills!4/10 for some funny effort with Seann William Scott "}{"Title":"Quite a disappointment","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This 2000 comedy directed by Todd Philips, before he made comedy gold like Old School and Hangover, was made to grab cash from teenagers, in the wake of movies like There's something about Mary and American Pie. And thus it has everything a young male adult would want to see in this type of comedy. Or may, I say, something a person would expect in a movie which is trying to be next American Pie, but set in college. It has got nudity, sex, sex tape, drinking, toilet humor, four friends and Stifler!!! Yes, the Stifmeister himself!! And I am not saying this because the actor who played Stifler is here, but because he is basically the same character. Only difference is the name and that he has no Finch to humiliate or pick up on. So, is this movie next American Pie? Not at all. I desperately wanted to like this movie but I didn't. They forgot that it was clever writing that made Pie and Mary awesome and not the nudity, foul language and bodily fluid itself.First let's talk about the main characters. I have already talked about the Stifler , so let's move on to other characters. The characters are pretty much forgettable and have no personality, except Tom Green's character but not for a good reason. He is there because the director thought Well, people nowadays like funny scene which have shock value, so why not hire a guy with weird face named Tom Green since he already has a lot of fans on MTV. But he is neither shocking nor funny; he is just creepy and illogical like a psycho killer in dark alley, which appears in your nightmare. Then there is a skinny guy named Kyle who is a no-risk-taker nerd. Anyone who has seen a lot of comedies know that this type of character becomes brave by the end of the movie and we root for him when he stands up against bullies, just so director can show that he cares about something called character development. But unlike Harold of Harold and Kumar Goes to White Castle or any nerd from Revenge of The Nerds, this guy has no personality and it is difficult to root for him. Then there is our lead character, Josh who like Kyle has no personality and it is difficult to care for him since he is so bland. The only character I liked was Rubin since he makes the nerds look cool and you come to care for him. Not even the Stifler like character was funny, since he was underused.Unlike American Pie, which was feminist since it had a few male characters who respected women and had some well written female characters, this movie makes mistake of being misogynist. When you are making a sex comedy with heart, you can't make it misogynist. This movie is misogynist because the characters of Stifler/ Sean William Scott and Tom Green treat women like sex object and are often not punished for it. It is misogynist because female characters are underwritten here. And this makes it less feel good.And finally, the funny scenes. The only time I probably laughed was when car crashed. And maybe a few more scenes. But most of the time I didn't laugh. There was a scene in which one of the character politely asks a waiter to change his food since it contains sugar and he did not take sugar in the mornings. The waiter not only gives the same food but also makes it dirty with his farts before Kyle thinks he is eating different food. This is supposed to be a hair gel moment but instead of being memorable and funny , it is just gross. It fails due to two reasons - a) We can see the joke coming since it is so predictable, thus it loses its shock value and b) There was no logic why waiter behaved rudely. Hair Gel scene worked in real life, this could actually happen. And then there is Tom Green who is never funny even when he is eating rat or showing his butt. I am not saying I was bored by this movie, but this was something I could have avoided and may not see again in my life. Only thing worth seeing in this movie is nudity.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Everybody is a Stifler in this one","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Josh Parker (Breckin Meyer) and Tiffany Henderson (Rachel Blanchard) have been sweethearts since they were kids. They go to different colleges, but she keeps blowing him off. He's frustrated and sleeps with Beth (Amy Smart). They make a sex tape that his roommate accidentally sends to Tiffany. Josh and his friends (Seann William Scott, Paulo Costanzo) rope Kyle (DJ Qualls) into going on a road trip to see Tiffany and get back the tape.Director Todd Phillips is putting in a lot of crazy stuff in this. The only thing missing is a truly great friend for Josh. The road guys can be idiots, selfish, cruel, and rude. But Josh really needs one true friend. Then there is the wacky Tom Green. I'm willing to accept his outlandish hijinx, but it would be better if he isn't alone for so much of the movie. This is inevitably compared to 'American Pie'. They both have the gross out humor, the sex subject, and craziness. What 'American Pie' has that this movie doesn't is true gang of friends. In this one, everybody is a Stifler. And there's no iconic phrase in this one. "},{"Title":"Nothing Inspired But Just Fun To Watch,","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip is a good movie with a decent storyline that is certainly a cliché college movie but a lovable cast and enjoyable characters make it more watchable that most immature college movies.Its nothing close to a fantastic comedy and certainly not Todd Phillips finest work,but there are still plenty of funny scenes to make this a short fun movie to watch,preferably with friends.The best part of the movie was definitely Breckin Meyer and Seann William Scott,I always enjoy these two,even when I see a movie with them that i'm not particularly enjoying,they make it more bearable,and they both worked really well with each other in this.If your taste in comedy is fussy,I wouldn't recommend Road Trip,but if you want a short movie to have a good few laughs at,it will definitely deliver.Four college students set of on a road trip to stop their buddy's girlfriend from receiving an explicit home made video tape of her unfaithful boyfriend in action. "},{"Title":"Too crude, but good characters and really funny","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip (2000) is a school comedy and road trip movie about a likable college guy who wants to stay faithful to his long-time girlfriend. Unfortunately he gives-in to temptation and accidentally sends her a video of him making out with another girl. He and a group of friends rush from Ithaca, NY, to Austin, TX, to recover the evidence before his girlfriend receives it.I initially saw Road Trip on TV while on vacation a few years ago and liked it enough to purchase the film recently. Viewing the uncut version, I was turned off by the crude humor (in the manner of, say, American Pie), but have to admit that I busted out laughing numerous times, plus the characters are really fleshed out, like the protagonist (Breckin Meyer) who really does want to stay true to his long-distant girlfriend; the I'm only in college for sex dude who you can't help but like for some reason (Seann William Scott); the geek whom the 'cool' dudes befriend for selfish purposes (DJ Qualls) and more.Amy Smart also co-stars as the protagonist's new girlfriend.FINAL WORD The only thing that prevents Road Trip from achieving A-grade status like, say, Fast Times at Ridgemont High is the unnecessary crude parts. If you can look past this flaw, it's consistently funny and has great characters. The women aren't all that great, although Amy Smart is solid.The film runs 95 minutes and was shot mostly in Georgia & Tennessee, but also includes an aerial shot of Harvard (Massachusetts), as well as footage from USC and the University of Texas in Austin.GRADE B "},{"Title":"One of my most watched films as a teenager","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie far too much as a teenager, before i had a DVD player i only had a handful of VHS tapes. This was one of them.The story is simple, the main character Josh sleeps with a girl at a party and records it, he then accidentally posts the video to his girlfriend who lives in another state. Then the road trip begins. Josh and his 3 friends set off in a race against time to get to his girlfriend before the tape does!This film is a real American teen type of film that follows the pattern of many in that genre. It has plenty of laugh out loud moments and a very likable group of characters, (bar Tom Green)Definitely worth a watch if you have a couple of hours to kill and fancy an easy watching film with many laughs. "},{"Title":"A decent road trip comedy with a bunch of subplots","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is basically a road trip comedy with a lot of sexual humor. In fact a lot of the sexual humor takes up a lot of the movie, it can even come off as just random at times. Anyways there is a lot of subplots in this movie while a group of friends try to reach there destination, which is alright. Seeing it now, the movie felt a bit dated and not as funny or entertaining when I saw this movie when it first came out. But for the time it came out, it was a lot of fun to see it with friends. Of course I was young back than and had a bit more of the immature humor. And this is what this movie basically is, it's a immature comedy with a lot of fart jokes and sexual humor. The plot of this movie is this, a guy and a girl that has been together in a relationship for a long time ends up being a long distance relationship while in college. Anyways the guy makes a tape for that girl but ends up sending the wrong tape where he screws a blonde that has a crush on him. I have no idea what that blonde saw in that guy that attracted her and it isn't explained. So the four friends go on a road trip to retrieve that tape before the guy's girlfriend sees it. And a lot of random and ridiculous stuff happens during the process. The movie is random at times and a lot of the stuff that happens just doesn't make any sense but it's a comedy your just going to have to go with or it can come off as a bother. Not good as I remembered it but it's a decent comedy, not great but decent.6.4/10 "},{"Title":"The first of many fun original stories from director Todd Phillips","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a fun original movie that is the debut of director Todd Phillips. He shows us that all you need is a good script and actors that can give believable performance to get a good movie. Breckin Meyer stars as Josh Parker, a college student in upstate New York who fears that he may have accidentally sent a sex tape of him and Beth, played by Amy Smart, to a girlfriend of his who is in college in Texas. He makes it a mission to go to Texas and retrieve the tape before his girlfriend gets it.Three of his buddies E.L., Rubin, and Kyle go with him on this trip as they feel they need to be with their buddy. They are all good in their own ways. As previously mentioned Amy Smart plays Beth, a college girl who takes in interest in Josh.Phillips takes us to many places with new turns in the story. He makes every stop interesting and something that we can relate to. This is the first of many times where director Todd Phillips shows us that he can tell a good story, have believable characters, and take an old idea that many would think of and make the story his own. "},{"Title":"Deliciously irreverent","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although 'Road Trip' is a mainstream film, I cannot help thinking that it displays some kind of very refreshing 'political incorrectness' that could be found in this type of film in the 90's America, like for instance, despite their subject being different, 'Threesome', or 'The Faculty', featuring unusual,well, not-so-ordinary individuals in a rather positive way. The jokes and the situations may not always be hilarious, but at least, there is some kind of freedom of expression in 'Road Trip' that seems to have disappeared from today's US comedies. But... If we look at the release dates of the movies I quoted, we have 1994 (Threesome), 1998 (The Faculty) and 2000 (Road Trip), that is to say, BEFORE W. It really seems that since him, there is a terrible downfall in the making of comedies and other genres in the US, which definitely gives me some nostalgia, for what affects American cinema, for the Clinton era... "},{"Title":"Comedy for young and...well, only for young","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A movie that I will never forget. It was the movie that somehow made me watch more comedy without huge IMDb ratings or famous actors and actresses. A movie that made me think that American Pie isn't the best teen comedy ever made. A movie that convinced me that Brecking Myer could me a main character in a teen comedy movie. A movie that made me think that adventure element is so god damn good, that it could be put in a teen comedy. So what is the plot about. Our main character Josh Parker gets drunk and makes sex with Beth Wanger that gets recorded on tape. There is one more tape that includes Josh playing with a guitar and he wants to send this tape to his girlfriend but accidentally, the other tape is sent to his girlfriend. So our character has got to stop his girlfriend from watching the tape. So he picks some of his friend and they go on a trip to his girlfriend's place/city. The movie includes great comedians, such as Sean William Scott and Tom Green. Amy Smart, sexy as always. We have other chicks that are going to turn you on, if you watch the uncensored version. Funny jokes, romance, great characters and lots of fun with Road Trip. Much more than the average comedies that we watch for killing time purposes. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Personally, I think Road Trip is a good film. It would've been at lot better, in my opinion, with seeing slightly less of Tom Green. I think his character is an idiot and the film could easily have done without the pointless snake torments. That aside, the film is good; especially when at the frat house, when Kyle (the skinny one) scores, and the fraternity members pull out a Ku-Klux Klan hood as a joke (it's a black frat). Seann William Scott is good as E.L., the token arrogant, immoral jerk (Who else would stoop low enough to steal a school bus from a blind school?). The film does tend to end in an anticlimax - the part of the film that showed Josh cheating with another girl had been taped over!!! "}{"Title":"Very good comedy and very funny","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" great film and has laughs right the way through the best bit of the film was when they ended up at the all black college house and they didn't realise. the DJ quallis dancing was amazing and the sing was just right for the film scene. Sean William Scott was obviously the funniest dude there since American pie 1 he has become funnier and always has the most laughs. tom green wasn't at his best in this film and often lost the plot and had some weird moments e.g the mouse in his mouth. breckin Mayer was very good at playing the lead role as much as i would have love to of sen Scott playing it breckin mayer wouldn't of been able to to the job Scott did as e.l Paulo costanzo career took off after this film and will become very good "},{"Title":"A laugh riot.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was so damn funny it's incredible. It ranks as one of the funniest movies i've ever seen in my life. The entire cast had their shining moments to crack a joke or two. Sean William Scott was totally hilarious, and this was the only film in which Tom Green was actually funny. The script is filled with so many funny setups, you'll have tears running down your eyes before this movie ends. This movie is definitely not for everyone, and some people will not find the humor very funny in this movie, because it does become alittle gross sometimes. But if you want 90 minutes of nonstop laughter than this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"An hilarious college buddy film","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love Road Trip. It's such a wonderful and delightful comedy with hilarious lines by Tom Green, Sean William Scott, DJ Qualls, and Anthony Rapp. It's just an entertaining movie. You don't have to worry about the acting or the story, just have a fun time and watch Road Trip on a Friday night with a pal or your boyfriend/girlfriend. Before I saw this movie, I thought it was going to be just a silly college buddy film, which it was, and have barely any funny lines. Well I was wrong and had a hard time being calm because there was to many funny lines avoiding you from not laughing. Overall, a great and silly college buddy movie with hilarious performances such as Tom Green as Barry Manilow. Great film.Hedeen's Outlook 9/10 ***+ A- "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the coolest movies ever. I'm a 14 year old, and when this movie first came out.. i was there to watch it. Okay i was kinda young, but i had my sources and got a burned DVD. This movie was hysterical. It kept me laughing, even when some of the scenes didn't even make any sense. I recently saw it again a couple months back. And once again the laughs came back. This movie was made to be a college comedy and i think that was accomplished. Every time i see this movie, i feel like buying it. Maybe to those strict elders, it isn't appropriate but now a days you can flip the channel and see more un-appropriate things.If you are one of those people who want/ need a good laugh. i guarantee you, this movie will do the trick. WATCH IT ) "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm going to be totally honest here I saw the film for Anthony Rapp (you know, the creepy TA?). I bought the DVD, feeling disgusted with myself for buying a Tom Green movie (which I swore I would never do), and sustained myself with the knowledge that I would get to see Mark from RENT being creepy. I proceeded to surprise myself by really enjoying the movie. I didn't even fast forward the Tom Green scenes! (waits for applause)Oddly, I found pretty much the whole thing really, really funny. It's strange for me, because I live right next to Ithaca and KNOW that Ithaca University doesn't exist (it's Ithaca College), but that actually just made it funnier for me.See it with friends; college friends, preferably. "},{"Title":"May be too good for Tom Green fans... Wait a minute, it IS too good for Tom Green fans!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" (**POSSIBLE SPOILERS**)One day a college tour lead by Barry(Tom Green)gets really boring, insipid, and uninformative. Suddenly, this annoying tour guide decides to go into a more personal story about the life of some of his fellow students, which he's convinced is the greatest story ever told. As he's telling though, his guests and even viewers of this movie realize this is not really a Tom Green movie. It's much too good to be one. Yes, Tom Green is his usual annoying self in this movie, but it isn't all his, despite what the excessive promotion indicates. If you hate Tom Green so much you'd deliberately avoid it like the plague, you're missing out on a good movie, even if it's not the greatest story ever told.The main character in this is actually Josh Parker(Breckin Meyer), who has had a steady relationship with Tiffany Henderson(Rachel Blanchard) since early childhood. This long-time friendship turns to love, which is threatened by the fact that Josh and Tiffany are attending college in two separate parts of the country. At his college, he has nightmares about some guy stealing her away from him, while he faces a girl named Beth(Amy Smart), who's trying to steal him away from her and dodge a pushy pseudo-Christian teacher's aide named Jacob(Anthony Rapp) who wants her, and an arrogant roommate named E.L.(Seann William Scott) who's urging him to take advantage of the girl with a crush on him. If you haven't seen enough Seann William Scott movies, which I confess I haven't, you'd think the only character he can play is the American Pie trilogy's Steve Stifler. Scott's E.L. is really the only connection between American Pie that could possibly be considered appropriate, and understandably Scott has grown tired of playing characters like him. His other roommate Rubin Carver(Paulo Costanzo) is a self-proclaimed genius who's a heavy pot-smoker, and dedicated to keeping everyone as high as he wants to be. He also does one of the better imitations of Dee Snider from Twisted Sister, but that's something you'll find out later on. Due to Jacob's relentless stalking of Beth, our hero is coaxed into a temporary date with her that gets hotter and heavier than he planned. Heavier than that, their get together is videotaped. Even heavier than that, it's mixed-up with a sappy video Josh wanted to send to Tiffany, and now the title of the movie is officially appropriate.DJ Qualls eventually steals the show. As geeky Kyle Edwards, he goes from being a pawn of the three roommates' scheme simply because he has a roadworthy car, to the life of an all-black frat party...so much so that he charms the socks off of one of the girlfriends of the frat members(Mia Amber Davis) and gains the sex life he's only been able to dream about through....well, you could probably guess.Finally they arrive in Austin, and after a big fiasco in her college post office, Tiffany almost sees what Josh has been trying to keep from her, when it's interrupted by Barry's idiocy. I would've told her that I had a special romantic message for her, but my dorm-mate Barry taped this garbage over it. It may've been a lie, but I'd be able to keep the relationship I wanted. Bear in mind that road trips are not necessarily the guarantee of a quality movie, but this one deserves your attention, with or without Tom Green. "},{"Title":"Unleash the fury, Mitch!...","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best movie!  It's so funny!  I love this movie.  I will never get tired of watching it.  I love Tom Green, he's my favorite comedian, and Paulo Costanzo is so hot, it's not even funny.   But, the movie is.  Amy Smart and Breckyn Meyer's first movie together (second Rat Race), they work really well together, but the guys scenes together are just hysterical.  I think the best part is between when the skinny kid from The New Guy is at the sperm bank, or when Andy Dick and Costanzo have a scene together at the hotel, when Paulo is asking for drugs.  It's just a really funny movie and one of the few movies that has come out in the past few years that is a teen movie, that's really worth watching and you don't get sick of seeing it.I love it and that's my review 10/10. "},{"Title":"Great fun from Tom Green and co.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  POTENTIAL SPOILERSRoad Trip is another excellently funny, laugh out loud teen flick which follows Josh (Breckin Meyer) and his gang as they make a 1,000 mile road trip to rescue a video tape which will have disastrous consequences if it falls into the wrong hands. Look out for Tom Green with the Salmon Song too, hysterical!! If you like the American Pie trilogy then this is a must. "},{"Title":"it's funny","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and what's more to a comady than that?!? It's surely not for everyone, but hey, what is? To the buttf-ck that compared this to American Pie, how do you even figure the comparison, AP had a point, albeit not much of one, RT was just funny, no point, just gags... like Van Wilder kinda thing - remember that, kid, national lampoon...? I do... I laugh while you masturbate, I guess the movies did have a point...... "},{"Title":"I loved it!  Except for the Tom Green parts (SPOILERS)","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barry is giving a tour of the Ithaca University campus in New York state.  He's not very good at it.  He does, however, have a fascinating story to tell.  In flashbacks, we see how Josh and Tiffany met, became close friends, and began going together.  At the beginning, the story is told with what appear to be home movies (nice touch!) but there is little detail.   Once Josh starts college at Ithaca, the flashbacks take precedence, with narration only occasional.  Josh has three roommates--E.L., Rubin and Barry.  He is obsessed with Tiffany, who has gone to the University of Austin in Texas, phoning her constantly and sending her videos.  Josh fears Tiffany may be cheating--though he is not exactly innocent himself.  He likes Beth (and so does Josh's philosophy teaching assistant Jacob, unfortunately, though she does not like him).Josh asks his roommates to mail a video to Tiffany.  However, when the roommates find out he has a video where he and Beth ... maybe I'd better not say what's on the video.  Just know that if Tiffany saw it, that would be the end of the relationship.  Josh is horrified to learn that the video he thought he sent Tiffany is still in the room.  So where is the other one?  Tiffany won't be at school for another several days to pick up her mail, so...ROAD TRIP!Nerdy and timid Kyle has a car and a credit card.  Barry does not want to go to Austin, so Kyle takes his place reluctantly. The four guys begin a series of comic misadventures (including stealing a bus from a school for the blind), while Barry must feed a snake who eats live mice (this results in some pretty gross gags).  Beth wants to know where the guys went.  Barry says Austin, Massachusetts.  You mean Boston, Beth replies, and she goes there and has her own adventures.I didn't care for Tom Green, but I'll bet a lot of people would consider his performance to be a highlight of this movie.  I found most of the movie very funny, though some gags were quite naughty.  This movie is not for children.  While I saw an edited version, even I saw quite a bit of sexual humor and several incidents where it was suggested that the deed was done.This was a lot of fun.POSSIBLE SPOILERSJacob, being a teaching assistant rather than a student, was not allowed to have the winning bid  (on Beth) at an auction of girls (for companionship, not sex) at a party.  He got thrown out!  That was great.The guys had to cross a bridge that had partially collapsed.  Make that totally--one of the guys spit on it and the rest of it fell down!  So Rubin, a physics expert, figured out how to get across the Dukes of Hazzard way. Neat.Kyle's father was not too happy when he found out his credit card was over the limit.  Then he got really bad news about his son.Xi chi is a BLACK fraternity.  People uncomfortable with interracial romance should be warned  it does happen in this movie.  The actress playing the black girl gave one of the better performances, in my opinion.    Jacob pretended to be Josh's philosophy professor and claimed to be granting him an extension when Josh realized he couldn't get back for the upcoming exam.  If Josh didn't get a B, he would be thrown out of school because his grades were terrible.Who would have guessed?  At a college in Boston, there was another Tiffany Henderson.DEFINITE SPOILERSThe car made it over the collapsed bridge and the guys were fine.  Then the wheels fell off.  Then the guys got out of the car, and...Tiffany No. 2 was not happy to hear her boyfriend was cheating.It was a wild scene at the college attended by Tiffany No. 1 when the guys finally showed up.  Lots of comic violence. VERY DEFINITE SPOILERSKyle's car BLEW UP!  And his distraught parents had to go to the scene and find out all the terrible things that could have happened.Tiffany saw the incriminating video anyway in front of her friends.  Then Josh woke up.Kyle's parents were there when Josh and friends showed up at Tiffany's school! "}{"Title":"Vacation for your brain","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lighten up, people. Road Trip isn't supposed to be a historic piece of filmmaking -- it's just a hysterically funny movie. This is the kind of DVD you pop in when you want to A) laugh a ton, and B) turn your mind off. Take it for what it is a stress reliever. I have probably seen this movie at least 10-15 times, and I still love it. And I'm a twentysomething professional female, not a prepubescent boy -- so there!Tom Green, may your genius live on forever.  "},{"Title":"Very Amusing","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just like American Pie 1 and 2 this is a Feel-Good-Movie! If you're down, just watch this movie, and you will cheer up! I've seen it a lot, and it's also one of my favourits -) Shame on you if you didn't see this movie yet! It's also funny for girls to see too. "},{"Title":"nonsense","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really have nothing else to say, but what I have already said in the summary. Well, Road Trip has some funny stuff in it, but other than that the movie isn't very good, nothing too appealing about chasing down a sex tape across country 1which isn't even one anyway when it comes down too it. I would stay away from this unless you like those Animal House wannabe movies. I advise you to avoid Tom Green at all costs! the only character I liked was Seann William Scott aka Stifler from American Pie, other than that I really didn't care too much about this piece of nonsense. "},{"Title":"Hit the Road, Jack!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Starring Breckin Meyer, Seann William Scott, Amy Smart, Paulo Costanzo, DJ Qualls, Tom Green, Fred Ward, Anthony Rapp, and Andy Dick.A tour guide named Barry who is very familiar with Ithaca College tells the story to visitors about a wild adventure. A boy named Josh Parker has been best friends with a girl named Tiffany for many years, and they are very disappointed that they have to spilt up when they go to college, but they try to keep a long distance relationship. Tiffany goes to the University of Texas. In college, Josh meets the beautiful Beth, who starts to hit on Josh. In one of Josh's classes, he must get a B+ on his mid-term in order to stay in college. His best friend in college, besides Beth is E.L., the guy who acts cool about anything. He has a party that nights and he invites Josh. Josh meets Beth at the party and they go to Josh's bedroom. Beth decides to videotape Josh telling what he likes in a girl. It ends up that he does it with Beth on the camera, and the next morning it is accidentally mailed to Tiffany by Josh's roommate, Rubin. Josh plans to hit the road in search of the tape, with the help of E.L., Rubin, and his geeky friend Kyle. Barry stays around because he wants to feed Rubin's snake. The movie had many laughs in it. Tom Green is really entertaining and fun, although he can be a bit boring at times. It isn't as good as American Pie or Animal House, but this can be a funny movie. And even if it does have some sick humor in the movie, it can be hilarious.2.5 out of 4. My IMDB Rating 6.6/10. "},{"Title":"Trips not as good as pie","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is an excellent teen comedy with a decent plot and some good spoofs. I liked this film but felt that it fell short of being a classic, this is mainly because at around the same time American Pie was released and i felt that this in comparison was not as good and therefore was 2nd best. Although all the actors play good parts in the film and legend sean william scott plays a role of his usual persona, he isnt as good with E.L as he is with Sifler and i think his character is surrounded with more talent in American Pie too. However Road Trip is definitely one of the best of its kind alongside the likes of 10 things i hate about you and say it isnt so. Definitely worth a watch even a few times. i rate this movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"Mission Accomplished","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie accomplishes exactly what it sets out to do - entertain its viewers. Although the plotline is quite overdone and predictable (college kids and their misadventures), it's also very refreshing. The characters are all likeable, and very few parts of the movie aren't enjoyable. For me, this is simply a fun movie to watch with friends, and shouldn't be missed for anyone who's a fan of Seann William Scott (better known as Stifler, from American Pie) and a healthy dose of childish humor. "},{"Title":"Teen Movie action at it's best","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you don't like Teen movies, then just click off this page now!This film is very funny, with a decent casting as well. Tom Green is my personal favourite character in the movie, and as ever, he adds his very own strange Tom Green style to the role....(What is the mouse thing all about?!)Anyway, if you like light hearted funny flicks, then this one is for you, I enjoyed it lots.9/10. "},{"Title":"Taking the Lowbrow Road","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is not a nice movie.  It's full of rude, disgusting humor.  And what surprised me most about it is how much I liked it!  Road Trip is part of what I call the third wave of teen slob comedies, the first beginning with Animal House, the second with Porky's, and the third with American Pie.  Breckin Meyer is the lead character Josh, the nice guy Everyman who makes a few mistakes.  And Tom Green stands out as oddball Barry, narrator of the tale and dorm weirdo.  If you're not into the teen slob comedy genre, do yourself a favor and stay away.  But if you are, have a look and a laugh! "},{"Title":"Can't be compared to American Pie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why can't it be compared to American Pie? Don't get me wrong it's worth seeing but it's not funny enough.Someone mentioned in a review that you feel more for the characters in American Pie than Road Trip and it's true. The only character I had any emotion for is Kyle when the car explodes and that's about it. In American Pie I felt sorry for Jim with the pie incedent, the shirt falling off the webcam and being tortured by everyone in school the next day. I felt sorry for Finch with the bathroom incedent, wasting a lot of money and having no date. I felt sorry for Kevin when he said something in front of the cruel Vicky which made her dump him. I felt sorry for Ostreicher when Stifler showed him up in front of Heather. I even felt sorry for Stifler when his girlfriend said she couldn't go to the prom with him. EL is Road Trip's version of Stifler but isn't as funny though it was another good performance by Seann William Scott but he was far better in American Pie as Stifler. Josh I would say if any character out of AP he was like it would be Oz but Oz is more faithful. Rubin is a pot smoking weirdo that is nothing like the characters in AP. Kyle is a geeky version of Jim. He makes a fool of himself but Jim at least got a nice girlfriend but Kyle did not. Road trip even fails to be as dirty as AP. There isn't as many jokes.The plot is Josh tapes a message to be sent on to his girlfriend Tiffany in Austin. He also tapes himself being unfaithful with Beth. He gets Rubin to send it to Tiffany but he sends the wrong tape and its a race against time to get to Austin.Well worth seeing but if you haven't seen American Pie see it. "},{"Title":"Another copy of American Pie","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A story about four boys going on a Road Trip to see someone's girlfriend, how original is that? I mean  can the story be anymore lame. This movie would only be funny to teens, but I thought it was just stupid. Tom Green was very annoying, and the rest are just stupid. It had some funny parts to it, and maybe some hot girls, but thats it. I would say American Pie is way way better than this teen film. I give this movie a C "}{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film on TV last night after wanting to see it for ages and I wasn't dissapointed. I enjoyed it immensely and am now going to go out and get it. It really made me crack up. I'm not sure that it's quite as good as the two American Pie films that it's pretty similar to but I'd definitely recommend it. The Seann William Scott character is pretty much exactly the same as Stifler, his character from Pie, but that's ok cos he's a great character. Paulo Constanzo is divine and Tom Green is hilarious. Kyle, the nerdy one is also hugely funny. The main character Josh is a bit dull but not so much as to ruin the film at all. I loved it, watch it! "},{"Title":"Fairish addition to the teenage gross-out comedy stable.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Road Trip' is another teenage gross-out comedy, from the genre that was reinvigorated by the decent `American Pie' series.Unfortunately `Road Trip' cannot lend itself to being a particularly worthy addition &#150; instead it's a by-the-numbers average feature.The plot's simple, as such things are. Josh Parket (Breckin Meyer) must stop his girlfriend receiving a tape showing him having sex with another girl. He can't afford a plane to intercept the video so he goes on a road trip, with his buddies, to stop it. Cue a string of `hilarious' situations along the way, with an obvious final resolution. Yawn.What's wrong with `Road Trip' is that the characters are unmemorable. They're a thin one line idea, based on stereotypes and other movies. Sean William Scott's E.L. character is a pale imitation of his much funnier Stifler character in the American Pie series. There's the drugged-up-smart guy who is duller than stagnant dish-water and contributes nothing to the movie. There's the geek who only proves himself in the most obvious way, and serves his stereotyped role with a few cheap gags. The main character is a weak Jason `American Pie' Biggs flavour. Only Tom Green's Barry character shows a flare of creativity, and he is left drastically under developed.The actual comedy pieces are okay. There's too much a feeling of `been here before' taste to it &#150; the French Toast guy for example barely raised a quivering of my lips. It just seems a little forced. The old couple, grand parents of one of the kids, were just groan worthy &#150; I guessed their `one joke' nature before they were even introduced. That's not to say the movie won't amuse you &#150; you'll be entertained enough along the way that you'll never be bored. It's just there's nowhere near enough substance to make this movie memorable. Much like `Scream' spawned a slew of weaker imitators, `American Pie' is now responsible for a plethora of similarly themed flicks. OK, but nothing special. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Road Trip is a must see!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first person who commented on this should have not compared this to American Pie. Pie, left me asking for more funny moments instead I got stuck with a movie that was trying to be serious because all the guys were in love with their chicks. Road Trip is one of those movies that cracked me up but Tom Green was great as the narrator but some of his scenes should have been cut out. This movie is what would happen if a group of guys go traveling around the country and all the mishaps that would happen .I have to say Seann William Scott stole this movie with his E.L. character. So if you want a good laugh, skip the pie and rent this out if you want comedy not romance "},{"Title":"Very funny and amusing...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never went on a road trip myself, but, wish I had.  This movie was fantastic.  Tom Green has his fans, and I'm one of them. The sperm bank scene was great.  Could you just imagine being an innocent bystander in one single scene of this movie, you'd be cracking up.  I almost wet myself while watching this movie, and you will too, so, go out and get it, don't forget your depends! "},{"Title":"Let's get serious","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The last comment I submitted for this film was rejected by the editors of IMDb, so I'll try and be a little kinder this time. I won't focus on the poor acting, the silly storyline,or the fact that it is supremely unfunny. I'll instead focus on its more positive aspects. Um, well there was a brief nude scene which wasn't bad.But let's get serious. Without trying to enter into any debate what is the message that this film is sending? That it's okay to cheat on your partner, that it's okay to lie to and deceive people, that being stupid is cool, that adults are always wrong? Even if one accepts film as purely an entertainment, and that it mirrors rather than influences our society, this film still fails miserably in that, as a comedy, it simply does not register on the laugh-o-meter. It's a trip to avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ostensibly, Road Trip seems like the typical movie that appeals to the iconoclastic youth by deriving its primary humour from beer, partying, and women.  While these aspects are definitely present in the movie, they're never exploited to the point that the movie loses its humour (i.e the Saturday night live dilemna) which normally happens to movies in this genre. In fact, I found Road trip to be absolutely hilarious.  I don't have a penchant for this type of movie, but Road Trip manages to put its own unique twist in every single scene which adds to the general spontaneity of the movie.  This genre is full of movies that try so desperately to be spontaneous, that, ironically enough, they end up becoming even more predictable;  Road trip is an exception to this.  Without delving into details, I found the car scene (those who saw the movie know what I'm talking about) to be the zenith of the film; itt portrays exactly the type of unpredictability and uniqueness this film is all about.  Do yourself a favor;  go to the video store and pick up this movie..you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"oh my garsh, this one is hecka good!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ok peoples, we need to STOP comparing every teenage comedy to american pie. sure, this movie might REMIND us of american pie, but it just needs to stop. this movie is great!  funny!  creative!  just wonderful.  the characters are real!  i think i have met every single character in my 24 years of living!  this is a great movie. did i say that already?the best parts in this movie are the little ones.  the ones that people may not remember becuase they are two seconds long.  like when tom green, giving the tour of the college him and his friends attend, laughs sarcasticly at a father who pokes fun at him, or when kyle is driving the bus, and a foam football hits the horn and kyle jumps.  this movie is filled with funny expressions, great lines, and its just got it all.  plots you can relate with, characters you can relate with, situations you wish you could forget happened to you....THIS IS A GOOD ONE, RENT IT TODAY!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Late night, nothing else to watch on satellite, so we switch over to this movie. I must say it was quite hilarious for a college type movie. Tom Green as the eternal student was brilliant. For me, he's the pick amongst the male actors. I can relate to his character since I spent 10 years at university myself !  The best scene was of course the anal induced orgasm brought about by the super-dexterous sperm bank nurse !  Amy Smart is the pick amongst the girls, and she can act as well. Hope to see more of her acting in future, that is, after we've been blessed with seeing her body in this one. The message of this movie (if there is one...) Enjoy your varsity years to the full, i.e. play hard and study hard !! "},{"Title":"the greatest movie of all time","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is simply the best due to it's excellent actors, scenes, storyline, and the uncontrollable humor. most people would look at this movie as foolish, but it isn't. I rank this movie from a scale from one to ten, a hundred... oh yeah, check out amy smart half naked !!! "},{"Title":"Put on your seat belt and hang on...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you send a tape to your girlfriend having sex with someone else by mistake...funny things are about to happen. So hang on tight because you are about to meet four guys who are going to take you on the ride of your life. Josh, E.L., Rubin and Kyle are going to face with you  life in very delightful way. So just sit, relax and jump over the bridge of excitement. Tom Green in this movie is very unique at telling you this fabulous story. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"I was expecting so much more.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When i sat down to watch the movie, i real thought Hey, there's another American Pie Clone, maybe it'll be funny!. Oh how i was disappointed. At the end of the first hour, i realized that this movie is not going to be funny, at all. The only remotely funny part is the one featuring Tom Green and the mouse. Seriously, WHAT was funny in this movie?The actors are horrible, you can basically imagine them reading from a card, and the jokes are so childish, they seem forced. I mean, a full nudity scene? What was the point in that? It was just plain stupid to include that part, takes out at least 2-3 points from the score. People, if you want to know how to make a successful teen movie, go watch American Pie - at least there are no idiotic nudity scenes in it. "},{"Title":"not successful on all levels","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meyer stars as a college student on the verge of flunking who embarks on a cross country road trip to retrieve an illicit sex tape accidentally mailed to his girlfriend. More than enough gross-out gags to be funny, but the film suffers from a cliched story, and characters that are either stereotyped or too thin. A good time for the teen audience. 2/4 "},{"Title":"not successful on all levels","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meyer stars as a college student on the verge of flunking who embarks on a cross country road trip to retrieve an illicit sex tape accidentally mailed to his girlfriend. More than enough gross-out gags to be funny, but the film suffers from a cliched story, and characters that are either stereotyped or too thin. A good time for the teen audience. 2/4 "},{"Title":"The only gem to be found in the crap-pile of modern teen movies.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It may be sexist, racist, and as politcally incorrect as it can be, but if you look at it from a different viewpoint, this one of the funniest comedies in years. Road Trip, which follows the tale of 4 young college students as they travel across the country to get a tape and corrupt A nerd until he turns into a total badass is a very fun and exciting adventure. Although this is a gross-out, it doesn't overdo it and make you shut it off and it isn't one of those lame comedies where the jokes dont make you crack a smile. As that girl from that fairy tale who got eaten by those bears would say this one's just right.  "},{"Title":"Road Trip is soo good that you get depressed when its over!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is way better then American Pie.. I saw American Pie at home. From when it was released in theaters until I saw it, I heard nothing but raves about how good it was... When I watched it, I said to myself, Are you kiddn me? Am I missing something? Cuz I forgot to laugh There was nothing but dull moments the whole movie. Road Trip on the other hand is the movie that had characters that you remember and want more of. So many times, I would see a friend wearing a wacky shirt or crazy outfit and I would say, Thats an E.L. outfit I kid you not. The characters Josh Rueben and Kyle were incredible. I seen that movie so many times. I studied it. Im constantly checking up to see if theres a part 2 in the works. I have the screenplay, other promotional stuff from the movie. Id really devalue any comment boasting Pie and bashing Road Trip  "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film may not match to american pie but theres funny scenes in it like the french toast bit and sperm bank scene funny or the pro wrestler now if they were to make a seqel it would be plain becase the road trip was just 1 timer but im not saying it cant be done amrecan pie did it see it and laugh "},{"Title":"nice little comedy","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that this movie is better than 'American Pie'. The script isn't that great and has tons of cliches but the acting is pretty good. Don't rent this if you hate guy flicks. Its really not for most women. Two thumbs up to the director for getting the incredibly gorgeous Miss Amy Smart half naked. Hot.Rent this film if you have nothing better to do on a rainy weekend and need a good laugh. 6/10. "},{"Title":"why i loved this movie","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie.  Sure, it is like the thousand other teen retard movies that have been made in the last four years.  But I really don't care because this movie is really funny so who cares if it isn't very original.  All that matters is that when you watch it, you have a good laugh.  It wasn't made to win an Academy Award, it was made to make people with an actual good sense of humor like myself laugh.  I loved this movie, just like I love most of the other brainless teen comedies. "},{"Title":"Funny but not that great","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was about something that every college student wants to do or thinks about doing and that is having a road trip across the country.  In this instance the main character is going to visit his girlfriend 3000 miles away to reclaim a video of him having sex with another girl that was sent to her by accident.  The plot itself was predictable and the acting was pretty terrible.  But that doesn't mean the movie wasn't enjoyable.  It had its funny moments like when the dog starting talking after a few characters started smoking some weed and when they tried to jump over the gap in the bridge and the car collapsed then exploded.  The movie itself lacks originality any technical merit.  If you just want to laugh at a stupid movie that is typical of the teenage movies coming out today then this one would be a good choice.   "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start this review by asking ...  Is it possible not to cut and paste from another movie?  This movie ranks down there with The Mummy Returns as being completely awful and not in the least funny.  The cast was perfect, not one actor was believable.  Stupid is actually a much better word.  Anyway let's get on with it.... Video accidentally mailed to girlfriend and the guys need to intercept it.  Why not just call the Post Office??  Stealing a van for the blind.  They went through several states.. Where were the cops?  Bomb threat to postpone a midterm?  Can we just say distasteful?!  Ugh and good grief... EBay is spelled eBay.  That was a note to the nice people who really messed up on the Closed Captioning portion of the program.  Out of 10 stars, this one gets close to The Mummy Returns, as -1.   "}{"Title":"overrated comedy","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When they hype up a movie where Tom Green is the main character in all the trailers, but is only in it for about 25 minutes, you know you got a problem. This is the IMDB, so I won't bother explaining the plot. You have the stereotypical nerd who ends up cool, (DJ Quall) the cool guy (Sean William Scott), the evil teachers pet, and others. The pointless nudity, which seems forced, like in the shower, is just to show you Hey, we can get away with nudity in this movie! Isn't that cool? I liked Breckin Meyer in Go and Clueless, but he's dull in this movie. Tom Green spends most of the movie obsessing over a mouse, which is funny on paper, but not on film. Amy Smart just seems to be used for a nice boob shot. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Funny! Funny! Funny!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That word describes this movie. It has everything that you need to make a good teen comedy slapstick humor, nudity, fart jokes and Tom Green.Josh is in college in New York. He holds a long distance relationship with his girlfriend in Texas. But as we all know what would happen, Josh meets someone else, Beth, and they do you know what. But it was taped and accidentally mailed the tape to Tiffany and with the help of his friends E.L., Ruben and Kyle, Josh needs to get the tape and get back before finals.This movie was hilarious. Breckin Meyer, Seann William Scott, Amy Smart and Tom Green were awesome. Horatio Sanz also has a really funny appearance as a chef.Funny, funny stuff. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Crude!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Road Trip is a great an hilarious movie that will keep you entertained. Beckin Meyer, Seann Willaim Scott, Amy Smart, DJ Qualls and Tom Green are drop dead hilarious. If you are looking for a good comedy with loads of crude humor and laughs, you definetly should rent Road Trip. I give Road Trip a 10 out of 10!!!!!  )   "},{"Title":"okay for a guy movie","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its a pretty good movie for a guy movie. It's funny and so is Tom Green who is now married to Drew Barrymore. I give this movie 6/10. I felt sorry for the guy that ended up with the fat lady. I wonder if they are thinking about making another one? Who knows , i hope not.  "},{"Title":"Much Better Than American Pie!!!!!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are a lot of people who believe that American Pie was by far suerior to Road Trip, but I heartily Disagree. I admit that American Pie was funny, but i honestly didn't find it as funny as i was expecting. The funny parts of the film were to few and far between and the rest of the film was filled with romance and your basic teenage film dribble. Even though, admitidly, Road Trip's funny bits weren't as side splitting as American Pie, there were more of them, and they were consistant throughout the film.  Oh well, just thought i would share that thought with you lot! bye for now, louise. "},{"Title":"Fun...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Of all the recent teenage comedies, ROAD TRIP is the first one I'veseen. I did see SCARY MOVIE but didn't like it.Road Trip was good though. The story moved at a nice little paceand it never became too bizarre. However, during the course of thefilm things just don't make sense anymore. In one scene, this guytries to buy marihuana from a hotel clerk because he doesn't haveanything anymore. In the next, he is smoking marihuana with anold guy.Tom Green is pretty funny, but his crazy antics aren't as funnyaround professional actors, as they are around unsuspectingbystanders.Still, a nice rent and a good laugh. "},{"Title":"A sweet R","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's give writer/director Todd Phillips the benefit of the doubt here - instead of a poor man's AMERICAN PIE or SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, ROAD TRIP plays out more like an adult STAND BY ME. It's actually a sweet and benign movie - there's practically no swearing and if aren't offended by essentially non-sexual nudity or mild drug use, it's not a hard-R movie and amusing.The problem does lie in the fact that the four leads don't do much with their roles or characters - they pretty stay the course of their characters. The director/writer also doesn't really explore the comic possibilities that he sets up - they wind down fairly harmlessly - which isn't necessarily bad - it's just not that great.The four leads should've taken a clue from Andy Dick and Fred Ward to see what you can really do with just a small part and character. Even Tom Green is amusing and almost attempts to actually act.Don't expect a huge gross-out fest of crude laughs - Every character is treated with dignity and respect - so, if you're looking for a something a little more benign, not really very crude but you want nudity and frat boy humor - this is an innocuous 90 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"An Unsuccessful Tribute to Past Era's Of Easy-Going Male Contempt","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip would have worked more succesfully had the plot and premise been finely tuned to the point where the stories and the characters would have been so densely and irreconceivably intertwined that their inherent bonds could not be severed by a thousand unperceived plot elements, which, when undetected, bring down an otherwise erudite entrepreuneareal effort.  Road Trip, see it if you belong to a member of that class that enjoys debauchery as if it were not a sacred act between two fixated lovers, but instead an opiate of the mass people, meaning that the luxury comes in the exclusivity that only certain persons, be it those who undertake movies with a vigorous investment, will understand.  Don't give up on trying to spot the ironically inter-laden jabs at upper crust sensibility, you will not be too far off on noticing that the bourgeois mentality of free times as a means to express inner turmoils better saved for a mind changing psychoanalytical session, can be better dealt with in free time, with the desirable effect that sexual copulation can be the outcome of years and years of fidelity, a notion so ironic in and of itself that it lends itself to parables that give the intellectuals a chuckle, but leave the commoners out in the rain. Rating 7/10 ( Ivan Reitman contributed his experience and use of cajoling to get women to undertake this very risky venture, a sexually obsessed male-dominated fantasy world, a world of females who look good and constantly flirt, in a lurid manner that lends itself to a stomach ache, and a desire to rewatch the masterpieces of Pier Paulo Pasolini.) "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is much better than it has any right to be.  It does not star Tom Greene.  It is not a gross out comedy as the trailers made it out. It is funny, tight, has heart and is just generally a well-done solid comedy. Definitely worth a rental.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A mouse-lickin' good time! NOT!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are among that special group of comedically challenged individuals that find Tom Green's nauseating brand of on-screen behavior remotely amusing, then perhaps you will enjoy Road Trip. More on him later.First the plot... boy cheats on girl, girl tapes the event, boy's college pals mistakenly send porn tape to girlfriend, boy and pals travel cross-country to intercept said tape prior to delivery and viewing.  Hmm, ever seen Overnight Delivery?  Yeah, it's pretty much the same movie, but at least it has the redeeming value of Reese Witherspoon in a major role. Here, the prodigious acting requirements are pulled off by Breckin Meyer whom you may have seen in Go or Josie and the Pussycats, Seann William Scott(no doubt cast to remind a stupified audience of his earlier Stanislavsky-esque work in American Pie), and Amy Smart of TV's Felicity fame.Road Trip fails on multiple levels. As a love story, we never understand Meyer's affection for his long-distance girlfriend, nor can any sane individual concoct a rational explanation as to why Amy Smart is so taken with him.  As a buddy picture, there are a total of three laughs between the four guys during their 50-minute on-screen road trip.  That works out to roughly one laugh per 17 minutes if my math is correct.  As a bawdy sex flick, sure there are few topless moments, but even they seem uncomfortably staged.What prevents this foray into vapidity from being a total loss is a well-disguised Andy Dick in a role as a sarcastic motel clerk, and one sight gag involving a Ford Taurus.Then there's Tom Green, a fellow student who narrates this rubbish in flashback fashion to a group of potential freshman.  If this is the poetic thread holding the fabric of the screenplay together, then somebody better buy E.P. Ivan Reitman a new suit. I don't think this qualifies as a plot spoiler, but if you want to preserve all the shock value of the 100 minutes you will invest, nay, waste, watching this, then stop here.  Okay, still with me?  The highlight of Green's performance involves licking a live mouse, then inserting it fully into his mouth.  If this sounds funny to you, I wish you all the best next year in 5th grade.  Where's PETA when you need 'em?  2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A great tradition.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green is extremely funny and crazy, by far the craziest comedian ever. I'm so glad they put him in the movie, anyway Road Trip is especially good because of it's stereotypic theme of all long-distance relationships. It reminds me a lot of me and my friends and I couldn't go without 5 minutes not laughing. Anyway a guaranteed laugh from me. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Road Trip was way cool.  Hilarious.  It deserves a 10 on a scale of 1-10!  I loved Barry's grandpa, he was hilarious. I would advise everyone to check it out, if you haven't already; if you would like see a good comedy. "},{"Title":"Much better than American Pie","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Forget what you have heard. Road Trip is a million times better than the vastly overrated American Pie. Hilarious from the start, Road Trip manages to mix crude humour with 'professional' humour as well resulting in a final product that is hilarious to all with a sense of humour and not just a fraction of the market. "},{"Title":"SURPRISINGLY GOOD","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is a surprisingly good comedy that is surprisingly restrained for a raunchy teen comedy. It has heart, which is uncommon, and is sympathetic towards women, which is even more uncommon. That's why it stands out.The plot of Road Trip is inspired. You probably already know it thanks to the marketing geniuses that give everything away. But it is clever and well executed. Since I didn't know much about the plot, I think I enjoyed it more.Most people will think this is a Tom Green Movie. It is not. Green is in a supporting role as the narrator and is good here. It's a shame he has to go overboard to get laughs now, because with restraint he is much more effective. Sadly, his fans don't like restraint. Also appearing here is Seann William Scott, who is establishing himself as a top comedic actor with such credits as American Pie, Evolution and the wonderful Dude, Where's My Car?. He is someone to watch out for.There are a lot of laughs in Road Trip (especially the dream sequence)but what I liked about it even more was the sentiment. Most characters in youth comedies are more preoccupied with doing disgusting things. While there are moments like that here, this is a surprisingly smart and sensitive film. I'm glad it did well because this can pave the way for sensitive and intelligent comedies to be made.*** out of 4 stars  "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining teen comedy","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Obviously an appeal to those who fell for AMERICAN PIE, this film actually is better in some ways then the aforementioned PIE.  When a college student accidently mails his girlfriend a tape of him with another girl, he grabs his friends and goes on a road trip to try to intercept the package.  Of course, the group runs into some trouble on the way, and the results are comedic.  Tom Green steals the show as a student, and the narrator of the story, and has some funny scenes with a snake and mouse.  If you like these kind of things, and don't mind all the sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll, then you'll probably enjoy this one as well. "},{"Title":"A silly adventure that is a lot of fun!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't go into this movie expecting to like it. I expected it to be brimming with nothing but pop culture Mtv nonsense. I didn't expect much interest nor did I expect much genuine ha-ha comedy. However being the huge film buff that I am, I decided to give it a shot at the 2 dollar second run theater. I was pleasantly surprised. I found myself often laughing out loud (something I hardly ever do). When they try to ramp the broken bridge and the wheels fall of their car, I thought I was going to bust a gut.All in all, I was pleased with the crazy adventure the story provided. A young freshman mistakenly sends a cheating sex video to his long distance girlfriend, so he and his friends have three days to drive across the US to retrieve before she sees it. The movie details the trip and the crazy situations the boys get themselves into. This plot, while not the cleverest, has a lot of comedic potential and the writer/director/actors take pretty good advantage of these opportunities. Sure the characters aren't that deep, but in a comedy you don't need deep characters, you need funny ones. This movie provides many to laugh at and with.   FINAL RATING 7/10 A great comedy genre film that is genuinely laugh-out-loud funny in many parts. Characters are interesting and most importantly, they are FUNNY! Well worth my time and 2 bucks.Noob Aalox "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Knowing that Tom Green was in this I waited for this one on video.  My mistake--it was a good movie and would have been worth seeing in the theater.  There were some great scenes, I especially liked the scenes with Tom guiding the students around campus and the snake feeding scenes (ironically the same ones that I thought were going to ruin the movie). "},{"Title":"Really funny","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though for the most part this was a rip-off from Overnight Delivery, the not so famous prequel from 1998 starring Reese Witherspoon, Road Trip was funny to watch and had some very memorable moments.The cliches used - the nerd, the junkie, the madly in love boy-friend and his cool pal - are thrown into some new surroundings like an all black fraternity and laughing is guaranteed when the guys are doing a Wayne's World karaoke routine in their school bus. Add Tom Green who is doing his very weird part with great enthusiasm, and you have a good movie to have fun with watching with friends. Not an evergreen, but certainly enjoyable.    "},{"Title":"Trendy crap","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip would never have seen the light of day if it wasn't for American Pie. The movie inspired a dozen imitations and this is one o them. Not to mention it has the talentless Tom Green stinking the movie up but a cast of trendy college cliches. I've learned from movies like this that anyone could get laid just by being in College. A guy cheats on his girlfriend and accidentally sends the video of it to her. Him and his friends go off to her college to retrieve it. A few funny moments with the black college and the diner but over all the jokes get old quick and the banter isnt that good. It's good to see Stifler from American Pie play the same role over and over. Must take great talent.** "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip was VERY funny & entertaining.  I was laughing throughout the whole movie and I thought Sean William Scott was terrific on this movie.  I don't really like Tom Green that much, but he was funny too.  I really liked the plot and the ending of the movie.  So far all my friends liked it too.  I gave it a 9 out of 10.  Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"The best and funniest film of all time","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film has it all, beautiful women, great and funny actors and loads of laughs. The plot line is better than most 'teen' comedies and there are laughs right from the word go. There is great acting by everyone but the two greats who steal the show are Tom Green and Sean William Scott. Tom Green deserves it for his Salmon song and the line UNLEASH THE FURY! While Sean William Scott shines as he has done in all of his other films (American Pie, Final Destination and Dude, Where's my car?) and has a great future ahead of him. This film is an absolute must and a 10 out of 10, if you miss it you must be crazy. "},{"Title":"tom green is sooo boring","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  all the actors and jokes were ok but what really annoyed me was tom green what a waste of time, it would of been better without him. unnessasery nudity but that was o.k!, simple storyline which is ok, cos sometimes when storyline/plots get to complicated it ruins the movie. the boston thing wasnt really needed, ummm i give it a 7 or 8/10 "},{"Title":"Somewhat entertaining.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A somewhat entertaining comic adventure about a college student (Breckin Meyer) who takes three other friends (William Seann Scott, D.J. Squalls, and Paul Constanzo) with him on the road from New York to Texas to retrieve a tape before his longtime girlfriend receives it.  The film tries to be both American Pie and Animal House at the same time.  I like the idea, but how it's presented ruins the movie.  Despite that, the movie has assembled a fairly good supporting cast (Rachael Blanchard, Amy Smart, Fred Ward, and Tom Green, who is the film's goofy narrator).  The performances by Qualls, Green, and Ward, make the movie worth watching.   "},{"Title":"This movie reminds me of my cousin.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie did exactly what my cousin did!! LOL.  Some college guy and his buddies accidentally mail a sex tape to one of the guys girlfriends of him and another woman.  They set out on a hilarious road trip adventure across the country.  WATCH IT!!   "},{"Title":"Laughed My Butt Off!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Todd Phillips has created in Road Trip, a movie that hasn't only grasped the comic genius of American Pie, but a film for teenagers that directly relates to teenagers. The gags flow throughout focusing the comedy on the strange period and learning process that is coming-of-age. Seann Scott is hilarious as E.L. once again proving himself as a great deliverer of comic lines as he did as Stifler in American Pie. Great performances and well paced. Tom Green shows once again why he is a natural generator of comedy. If you liked American Pie and Dude Wheres My Car, you'll love this. I give it ***** out of ***** for making my laugh out loud all the way through. A great movie to rent when you've got a bunch of friends around. "},{"Title":"Boring with a capital b","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a waste of celluloid.  The movie is devoid of any humor in the movie, and it wasn't vulgar enough by any standards.  Do we find Tom Green eating a rat so vulgar that its funny?  No.  It is just plain boring.  He is much funnier on his TV show.  This movie was trying so hard to be a gross-out movie, and I wanted so badly to like it, but I think there was only one scene that makes this movie rank above Chris Farley movies, and that was the **SPOILER** mistaken girlfriend car beating scene.  **END SPOILER**  The rest of the movie had all the boring elements of Farrelly brothers movies and American Pie and any other recent teen party movie (Can't Hardly Wait) while not taking any humor from any of it.  Andy Dick was also kind of funny.  The movie is so unoriginal that it doesn't even mind ripping off other movies.  The talking dog was directly from Go which was taken from Cheech and Chong but at least that was more than 10 years ago.  So, don't rent this movie unless you want massive amounts of T&A.  Which was good.  But, I would still recommend Animal House for humor, Porky's for humor, The Last American Virgin for humor.  But, for humor or grossness, this one needs a lot of work.  I suggest they look to the Farrelly brothers for crude humor.2/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite comedies. I loved Tom Green and Seann William Scott the best out of the bunch. Scott was great as Stifler in American Pie, but was even funnier as E.L. in Road Trip. Great movie all around. "},{"Title":"Great Flick!!!!!!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just like American Pie, this is a very enjoyable film! I especially liked Tom Green and the scene in which he gets bitten by the snake. I knew it would be coming, but that it would be that fast and direct, excellent! I further liked the ATARI T-shirt, where can you get such a shirt?! They really have to make a lot more of these good screwball-movies! A 9 out of a 10!     "},{"Title":"Tom Green is insane, as usual...","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Actually, Tom was pretty toned down for this. I enjoyed the mouse and snake routine and in the end, the mouse walks away! This movie also has a bit of the Man Show influence. Showing nudity for the sake of nudity- good enough reason for me, I like nudity that's done just for the fun of it! Amy Smart is stunning to look at! Story line is old but good plots are highly overrated anyway. This was just plain good fun! "},{"Title":"the greatest road trip ever","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was a great movie whit some cool actors. specialy tom green and the guy that acts in american pei and final destination to, a great cool actor. The story was great to. Now you can see how boring your school days is -) "}{"Title":"The funniest film of 2000","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is probably the funniest film of 2000.  The acting is good and the cast is diverse, especially the four who take the road trip.  There are few movies that are funnier than this one.  Enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"RUDE TRIP!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ROAD TRIP (Unrated! Uncensored!)In the tradition of Animal House, Porky's and American Pie, this  rowdy, bawdy, crude, rude, lewd, tasteless and often hysterical comic adventure delivers on its promise of low-brow, sophomoric laughs when  four college goofballs hit the road on a mission of dubious merit.Here's the premise. In Ithaca, New York, when collegian Josh (Brecken Meyer) thinks his long distance girlfriend Tiffany, (Rachel Blanchard) attending college in Austin, Texas, has shined him on, he allows himself  to be seduced -- on video -- by sexy Beth (Amy Smart).  When Josh discovers Tiffany was attending to a family tragedy and not avoiding his calls, he realizes that the hot video was accidentally mailed to her and he has only three days to drive to Texas to retrieve the tape and salvage his childhood relationship.  Naturally Josh takes three of his friends along to help.This first feature by award-winning documentarian Todd Phillips aims low  and scores with a series of gross out jokes that involve everything from a stolen school bus for the blind to a prostate massage.  In between there's toe sucking, nudity, eating live mice, Viagra, doing disgusting things to French toast, more nudity, and so on.   Road Trip is and exuberant misadventure that will connect with that inner 15 year old that lurks not so deep within most movie buffs.Besides Meyer, Blanchard and Smart, the cast includes Sean William Scott, DJ Qualls, Fred Ward and Tom Green.  The cool sountrack includes Kid Rock, Run DMC and Buckcherry. The Unrated! Uncensored! DVD includes even more gratuitous (but funny) nudity as well as deleted scenes, a behind-the-scenes featurette, an Eels music video "},{"Title":"Yes!  Someone finally recaptured the 80s!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They made many, many poor attempts throughout the 90s, but it took till the 00's for someone to recapture the great raunch comedies of the 80s.  In the spirit of Revenge of the Nerds and Police Academy comes this laugh-fest dealing with four college guys going from New York to Texas.  One buddy videotaped himself gettin' jiggy with a girl and the tape has been accidentally mailed to his girlfriend.  So, it's off for your not so usual misadventures as these guys really run into some craziness.  A dopey motel clerk, sperm bank madness, and the destined for classic status car jump over a small stream.  The film HEAVILY relies on wince-filled, over the top sex jokes, but I kinda feel like, if you can deliver the giggles, then why carp about the content?  The cast is well rounded, right down to veteran actor Ward, who I haven't seen in anything big for years.  The four leads are fun as well, Scott given a lot more zaniness than in American Pie, and Qualls is great as the token shy nerd.  Meyer I didn't enjoy as much simply because he looks too old, like early thirties, and Costanzo doesn't get much to do. The oddest actor to pop up in this is Anthony Rapp, who 13 years ago was playing a high school student in Adventures in Babysitting, and is now a college student here!  Talk about a long leap in schoolastic status.  More importantly, the film provides a great deal of fun, missing perfection by just a little, with some scenes lacking a much needed punchline.  Two scenes with Qualls come to mind the French toast moment, and the one with the big mamma from the sorority house.  Aside from that, this is not just 80's comedy refound, its the first comedy I've liked in years.  I'm very particular about what was the last good movie I saw in a certain genre, and I haven't laughed this much since, honestly, City Slickers nine years ago. And, yes, that means I didn't go for the same kind of silliness here as in the humorless There's Something About Mary or the only slightly amusing American Pie.  Scary Movie came close, but couldn't sustain itself as long as this film.  So, if you yearn for creative, and that's the key word, gross jokes, look no further than Road Trip. "},{"Title":"What about Rachel?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a little bit surprised that in the 7 1/2 months since Road Trip opened, nobody has mentioned this.  But, do you know what it is about Road Trip that I find so utterly disappointing?  Rachel Blanchard's role.  So much so that not only did I decide against seeing it in the theaters, I rented it on video and only viewed Ms. Blanchard's scenes.  That's right.  As disappointed as I am about the role of the former star of TV's Clueless, I also harbor a great deal of jealousy towards her co-stars (most notably Amy Smart) at the same time.  Why Amy, you ask?  For one thing, she's the only female with a sizable amount of screentime.  And if it was up to me, Rachel and Amy would have traded roles.  I might be exaggerating a little bit, but if you ask me, Rachel is 100 times sexier and more talented than Amy. There's just no way I could have seen the rest of the film without feeling sore.  I just could not stand to see Amy and the rest of her co-stars have all the fun, while my hero is saddled with such a lousy role.The bottom line is that Road Trip was a hit, no thanks to my hero.  And that, I just cannot accept.  "},{"Title":"Crazy and hilarious","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road trip is a Pretty damn good movie, i don't usually buy movies because i never watch them more than once or twice, but road trip was a must buy movie and I have watched it several times in the last week. Everyone I know loves the movie and say its the best movie they have seen in a long time, i highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly watchable...and funny!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was not my turn to pick at the video store...so we went home with Road Trip.  Certainly not my first choice.  Much to my amazement....I enjoyed it.  I laughed out loud....on several occasions.  A feat that the much higher acclaimed Meet the Parents was unable to accomplish. I won't go on and on raving that it is hilarious, brilliant and a classic teen-flick.  It isn't.  It's certainly not up there with the teen movies of the 80's - Ferris Bueller's Day Off it is not.  But fun and laugh worthy nonetheless.  The first hour of the film was pretty slick and rich with unbelievably disgusting jokes.  The last half hour was definitely the film's weak point.  But since I wasn't expecting a lot, this is not too much of an issue with me.  Tom Green held it all together with his over the top narrative.  (Is he really that CRAZY in real life??)  Seeing the film through his eyes often proved to be a joke in itself (ie.  the gratuitous nudity in the girls locker room scene).  Well done!  I'm not a teenage guy, or a sex-crazy college student....but I can admit that the film was a guilty pleasure!  Lighten up and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Bad ending!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had so much potential! It started off great with some funny quotes, and Ween and Twisted Sister songs (the mark of quality!) and went downhill beginning with the visit to Grandpa Manilow and his boner. The ending was so bad it nullified the good beginning. What were they thinking? "},{"Title":"Appealing Comedy Driven by a Couple Wacky Characters","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The thing that people fail to realize, when they discuss the great youth comedies of the past, say, twenty-five years, is that we really only remember four or five of the really good ones, while there were several thousand that have just fallen through the cracks. For every delightful Meatballs, there are a dozen Poison Ivys (that would be the one with Michael J. Fox and Nancy McKeon). For every 16 Candles, there are dozen Career Opportunitieses. And most importantly, for every Animal House, there are countless PCUs (And *don't* go trying to think that PCU is actually a good movie. If you ever get that idea say ten Hail Belushis and watch the true classic over and over until morning). And what makes the great movies funny and the mediocre (or horrible) movies forgettable is character. All the gags in the world don't make a good movie if the people at the center are unappealing and underdeveloped.On the other hand, it's an accepted truth that one or two flamboyantly fabulous supporting turns can almost make you forget a bland leading man. Or two. Or three (Animal House, of course, is a success because of Belushi and not because of Tim Matheson, Tom Hulce or Peter Reigert who, while fine actors all, mostly just move the film from classic Belushi moment to classic Belushi moment). Road Trip is another film in that mold.Josh (Clueless's Breckin Meyer) has always loved Tiffany (the Clueless TV show's Rachel Blanchard). But now they're at different colleges and fidelity just isn't so easy. When a video of Josh's liason with sexy coed Beth (Amy Smart) accidentally gets sent off to Tiffany, Josh, two friends, and the pale guy with the car have three days to get from upstate New York to Austin, Texas to beat the video. Naturally, things don't go exactly as planned.At the center of Road Trip is Josh. Conflicted. But basically underdeveloped and relatively uninteresting. Left on his own, we really wouldn't watch this movie. Meyer is an appealing enough actor, but if his career has shown anything, it's his own awareness that he fits in best as part of an ensemble. Fortunately his back up is very capable. DJ Qualls, in his first film, is hilariously awkward as Kyle, the guy with the car. Almost against all odds, Qualls creates a character who matures and becomes increasingly funny as the film goes along. Seann William Scott, the only holdover from 1999's similarly marketed American Pie, has a role that couldn't possibly have been interesting in the script, but Scott's line readings are enthusiastically wacky. However, Paulo Costanzo's Ruben shows where Scott's character could have been without that actor's energy. Ruben is mostly just along for the ride, smoking pot. Though his true use is only evident in the film's final scene, he's mostly just along for the ride.One their own, the movie with those four guys would be amusing enough. There's a sperm bank joke, some nastiness with French Toast, and a scene at a black fraternity which plays off the dorkiness of the characters perfectly. However, with only these things Road Trip would still fall short. You'd wonder what on Earth Fred Ward is doing as Quall's strict father. And you'd wonder about the ten minute interlude where Beth goes to Boston, which adds nothing to the plot.But holding everything together is Tom Green, playing the seventh year student narrating the story as a way of goosing up a college tour. Even though Road Trip is trying really hard to be risque in the Something About Mary/American Pie mode, it always feels like it's playing it a little too safe, like everything's a little too calculatedly for effect. But when Green is on screen, Road Trip feels dangerous, like it's holding on by the same thread that Green's MTV show always has. Everything he does feels improvised, or just slightly askew. One more time, it's hard to image how the role was scripted, but in anybody else's hands, the entire movie collapses. Instead, like Danny DeVito in War of the Roses, Green sells his unreliable pitch completely.Because Road Trip basically falls into that space well below Animal House, but still well above PCU.I'd give it a 6.5/10  methinks. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie!!!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It was really funny. I liked the soundtrack as well. I like comedy movies and this is one of the best I have seen. Really good!!!! Go and buy it!!!!!! I haven't seen a movie this funny in ages!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"Not as funny as American Pie","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip, like American Pie, has a few teenager characters in trouble. They set out to do a certain task, and get into lots of funny episodes along the way. The story itself is told by one of the guys in the gang who does the tour on campus for new students, and the story is told in retrospect.Road Trip was surely funny, but its not as funny as American Pie. It had a few strange and funny characters, but the plot in Road Trip didnt have as many openings for as much funny things to happen as American Pie. Still, its pretty cool and you'll have a great time in the theatres watching Road Trip "}{"Title":"The best teen comedy ever.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is brilliant. At first I thought it would rip off American Pie and Porky's, but I went to see it anyway and found it hilarious.     It centres around Josh(Breckin Meyer), a boy with a life-long relationship with Tiffany(Rachel Blanchard). However when she moves away he is saddened and sends her videos every week. But at a party he makes an X-rated tape with Beth(Amy Smart), and accidentally delivers it to Tiffany. So two of his room-mates (Seann William Scott and Paulo Costanzo) and a geek whose car they borrow(DJ Qualls) embark on a trip with many occurences. The car blows up, two of them donate sperm, they steal a bus from a blind school and even go into a home full of black people. It's so funny. Tom Green(who has his own show on MTV) narrates it brilliantly, and the jokes all hit the spot. Better than American Pie, I'd like them to make a sequel.   "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this at a drive-in in Georgia when I was on vacation with two friends of mine, James and Sam. I was in love with both of them and this proved to be a memorable night at the drive in. Road Trip is so funny. It made me laugh so much. Tom Green is funny. So funny in fact I started laughing so hard I spit up my mixed drink. I tell all customers about it at the liquor store and I'm so excited that it's coming on video! All customers want to rent it now. This is comic genius at it's finest. And I saw it where it was filmed which makes it even more extra special. Thanks to IMDB for letting me let everyone know how much I love this film. Go Tom Green!!!! "},{"Title":"A New Kind Of Gross-Out Movie...But Where Can You Go Now?!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie and they were fulfilled. I found Road Trip to be consistently funny, with just the right amount of gross-out humour and sex. Tom Green...where has he been hiding?! I saw his show on MTV and I thought it was totally pointless. But he rules this movie from the beginning and had he not been it, I think it would have been a totally below-par 'American Pie' rip-off. The mice and the snake? They will never be forgotten. The four lead males were hilarious and honest, equalling those in American Pie. I hope to see them all going somewhere from this they deserve to. I hate to keep referring to American Pie because you might think it's just a carbon copy of it, but please don't be fooled into thinking that. It's hard to know which is better, but let's just say that both have totally outstanding scenes...and both have some that are not quite so brilliant. Road Trip is unique. Funny. Gross. Sexy. Different. I just wonder where teen gross-out comedies can go from here. One last thing...did I mention Tom Green?!!  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie after two weeks in the cinema. Although the story is a bit short but the beginning and ending are match. We all know what happened.It also fills with mild nudity and high level of humour which do not necessary offend people in many ways. Some movie which i saw are not make to it's sense, in other words any how produceThe best part that i like is how the story begin and end, it really reflect the way the film supposed to be produced. Anyway, i can say the script is quite good. It can be make longer and better. "},{"Title":"93 minutes of hilarious fun!!!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There was something about Road Trip, something that I can't explain, that I fell in love with it the first time I saw it in the cinema. So I went to watch it again. And then once more. And I plan to buy it on DVD as well! So what's so good? Granted, this is not an inspirational film which delivers a powerful message, and I can't imagine it sweeping the board at the Oscars. But that's not why it's here. It never takes itself too seriously once, and leaves the audience in absolute tears! As far as I am concerned, this is up there with American Pie in sheer comedy greatness of our time! The laughs are fresh, at times disgusting, but constantly in your face and down-right funny. The cast, from the smoulderingly sexy Amy Smart to the wicked Seann William Scott to the bizarre yet unquestionably hilarious Tom Green, are absolutely fantastic. The writing is witty and sharp throughout, and a pumping soundtrack as well makes this film one not 2 be missed! Go and see it now. Right Now! 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"So funny it should carry a health warning","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the funniest films that I've seen in years.  Forget American Pineapple or There's Something About Margaret(a statement of how far better this film is), because this is far funnier.Without complicating the gross out plot with the so many men fall for one woman or the 'Let's have sex before leaving college' (I don't say Prom because it's an American thing and I have no idea what it is, you should explain these things in Films, the rest of the world is daft) type of plot, the writers come up with a simple cross country drive with vomit inducing laughs.The four main characters are so funny in either their dead-pan or over the top reaction that the entire cinema was laughing, something that I have never witnessed before, the supporting cast are also brilliant especially Tom Green, who is so under used that its a sin (he is by far the real star and funniest in the film), the psychotic Fred Ward, whose growing insanity is a joy to watch and the pervy motel clerk who just had me rolling on the floor.The sex humour was far (I say far an awful lot, don't I?) more beyond that of any resent film that I nearly had to throw up (you'll never look at a hospital nurse the same way again).This is a laugh every fifteen second (never mind a minute) film you'll love it from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Gross Movie of 2000","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is REALLY funny, but it's totally a guy movie. The cast are great. They can really make the audience laugh and laugh all the time. The nudity is not necessary but they're having it anyway. It makes this movie the funniest gross movie of 2000! Guys, don't bring your girlfriends along or you'll be embarrassed! "},{"Title":"Good fun especially for the lads","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A modern version of the Animal House type films, very silly in parts and laddish throughout.  The story of a journey across the USA (the Road Trip of the title), how it came about and how it was concluded.  The Animal House humour updated now resembles There's Something About Mary, it is however much funnier than the aforementioned films in that the humour is much more constant throughout the film,  an excellent combination of verbal and visual gags and with a fair smattering of the gross as well. To the films credit although the more gross elements may have to be there for this type of film it does not rely on them,  do not be disheartened by a slow first five minutes from the on it is laughs to the end mostly full laugh out loud hysteria.  Even though it is seen from the lads point of view I am sure both sexes will appreciate it. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Fun but no classic","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Since There's Something About Mary (1988), Hollywood has been desperate to cash in on the youth market with a series of ever more outlandish comedies.Oddly enough, the more film-makers try to be disgusting, the more they actually endear themselves to Joe Public.Well, at least some of them.American Pie (1999) proved that there is a rich seam of gags to be mined from a teenage lad having sex with a pie.That was a fun enough diversion but AP was a little too safe for my tastes.Me, Myself and Irene (2000) proved that the Farrelly Brothers really know how to strike comedy gold and while this doesn't reach the same delirious highs, it certainly has a good go. Todd Phillips' movie centres on four heroes who have to travel from Ithaca to Austin.  Most people in Blighty have not a clue of US geography so it could be in the next street. However, we soon realise that the distance is enormous and our heroes have three days in which to make the journey.Very little happens for the first 20 minutes as characters are introduced and developed.Student Josh (Breckin Meyer), is going through a romantic crisis.  Tiffany (Rachel Blanchard), his soul mate and girlfriend, is attending the University of Texas - on the other side of the planet for the sake of the story. When all goes quiet from her, Josh gets worried and believes she's got a bit on the side. He has a one night stand with the gorgeous Beth (Amy Smart), a girl who is more than just a fling from her point of view. She fancies him rotten.  With a video camera in the bedroom, you don't need to be Barry Norman to realise that their carnal activities will soon be caught on tape and to provide the hook in which the movie is hung on, will be mailed to our hero's girlfriend by mistake.In an attempt to get the tape and save his relationship, Josh and three mates (Sean William Scott, DJ Qualls, Paolo Costanzo) embark on a three-day, 1800-mile trip.What develops is your typical tale of guys on the loose in America with too much testosterone.So we are treated to a close encounter with the chef from Hell, loads of female nudity, a trip to the sperm bank to raise some much needed cash, a gorgeous blind woman has one of her buses nicked and there's an old man with the sex drive of Warren Beatty.  Added to the mix are the parents of Kyle, one of Josh's friends, who believe their son has been kidnapped.  A Ferris Bueller-style subplot in which Kyle's dad (Fred Ward) sets off for Austin on a rescue mission.Meanwhile, the lovely Beth incurs her own brand of chaos after going to Boston instead of Austin.  Then there's Barry (Tom Green), one of Josh's mates who stays on campus and spends most of the movie feeding a live mouse to a snake who isn't too bothered.This is no classic and sticks in the mind for at least an hour after the closing credits have rolled. Conversely, Irene still had me laughing three weeks later.However, on a grey October Sunday, it lifts the spirits a treat. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but Tom Green stole the show.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A pretty good film with quite a few funny moments but Tom Green was without a doubt the funniest person in it. Though he's not in it much, when he is it's hilarious. A good young cast however who all did well with a storyline that's impressive. Worth seeing if you're into American-college-teenagers type of movies and want a good laugh. "}{"Title":"It was a good movie, but still a rip off!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is such a rip of Overnight Delivery.  The basic plot line, guy must get to sexually provocative package sent to girlfriend before she gets it in the mail....Overnight Delivery was a great movie too, but a little more of a chick flick than Road Trip.   "},{"Title":"Four college student's takin' a trip to texas to find a girl.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was amazing. I never thought it was this good until I saw it. It was one of the most funniest movies I have seen till now. This movie surely deserves at least a 9 out of 10 on the rating scale. I thought that American Pie was funny but this is even better. I think that for people who like comedies this is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Why this is not as good as American Pie","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip... very excited and much anticipated as regular readers know I am about a lot of films, so with images of American Pie in my head, which are very high standards you understand, I went in to the cinema...      First off, don't think that the laughs will be as often or as raucous as the Pie although they do quite well.  The cast are excellent, and the set pieces do them justice, especially Tom Green, who I HATE on MTV, but he was surprisingly funny here.  You know the story so I won't bore you, but the guy who plays Stifler in the Pie was not as engaging as usual, and the script could have been more packed with the gross-out humor that we all know and love.  Apart from that, go and see it, but don't expect a laugh riot, just a mediocre, enjoyable film.Neil "},{"Title":"Extremely hilarious","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, I haven´t seen American Pie or There's something about Mary, so I can't make comparisons, but I can tell you this movie is very funny. I just couldn't stop laughing!! Since the beginning, you could see the movie was very good. The only part I didn't like was Barry. This character was unnecessary, and was annoying. But everything else was PERFECT!! "},{"Title":"A Positive Experience","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great Laugh, after seeing this at the flicks i had to get out American Pie on video for a comparison. That was great too, but Road Trip, while being a simple plot still carried it out marvelously.I found it dropped off a bit towards the end. Also a bit predictable ending as well. But if you enjoyed the sort of humour that went down well in Animal House then this movie will appeal to you.Being from NZ we get to see the latest movies six months after the rest of the world...but i thought i would add my two cents worth anyway. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Hilarious","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far the best comedy of the summer.  I was incredibly surprised, too, since it didn't really get any good reviews.  My expectations were low, so I was blown away.  I thought that it was far superior American Pie, and is probably the best teen comedy since Clueless.  I understand why it got some bad reviews since it has a paper-thin plot and lots of gratuitous nudity and the really funny parts are pretty far between.  It's an all around fun movie, though, and I'm definitely going to buy it when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"This is a Road Trip that's worth going On.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is an enjoyable yet crude teen-age comedy. It tries to follow the success of last years American Pie and succeeds, although not as good as American Pie. Sean William Scott again proves to the audience that he is a good actor with great comical skills. There are many funny gags for a wide range of audiences. Tom Greene's Madness brings a lot to the film and was a good idea for him to narrate the story. There are many clichés in this film but there is also a sense of originality. I have seen this film multiple times and am still not bored with it. I would give this film 8/10  because it manages to pull of some good jokes.  "},{"Title":"Hated it, from start to beginning","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the kind of movie they seem to make over and over again and that never dies down for at least twenty years like westerns did. Four students try to cope with their disturbing hormone levels. Follow jokes of mixing up videotapes, the one with a very romantic monologue, the other with the recording of a steaming hot love scene. Or a joke about the wrecking of a car that was borrowed. Or the outmaxing of a borrowed credit card. Tears rolling down your cheeks by now? If it is because of laughter, then pay your nine dollars to go see this one. If it is because of disgust, stay at home.Hard to believe this movie is from Dreamworks.  "},{"Title":"Good but nowhere near American Pie...","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip started off very slowly until the characters get on the road, then things start really rolling! The overall style of film as been done to death but for some reason I always find crude jokes somewhat satisfying although there was some truly tasteless moments.I sort of see why Tom Green is appealing, but at the beginning of this film I thought he was downright annoying until he started his so-called 'sacrifice' where he ended up being quite funny! Breckin Meyer was okay but it was Seann William Scott that stole the show for me considering he had once of the most funniest scenes in the movie and some funny dialogue!! The goofy looking guy who played Kyle was also pretty good, and Andy Dick had a great cameo which was funny compared to the one he had in Loser! Anthony Rapp (Dazed and Confused) as Jacob was also good, I would like to see more of this actor in films!I enjoyed this film but Road Trip has s typical predictable formula that seems so apparent in not only teen, but most comedies in recent times. American Pie dealt cleverly with teen sexuality in a crude manner but at least it had an overall theme and people could relate to the main characters. There didn't seem to be much of a theme in Road Trip and my guess is, that it won't be a cult classic but will end up along many comedy flicks that were good but not excellent.  *** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Everyone saves Breckin Meyer's ass","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an excellent comedy, particularly if you try and ignore the film's main character, played by Breckin Meyer.  I'll give Meyer the benefit of the doubt...the movie has no plot without him, and he is certainly playing the straight man.  However, every time he opens his mouth, you feel like yelling shut the f*k up and quit getting in everybody's way!!!  This movie would have been a lot better had he been given at least a little personality. And what is Amy Smart's obsession with him?  HE HAS NO PERSONALITY!!  I found that the best way to enjoy this film is to pretend that Breckin Meyer doesn't exist.  Take him out, and this is a great movie. "}{"Title":"The funniest movie of the year","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every year there is an outrageously funny movie, and this year Road Trip takes that place. If you thought American Pie was funny, well you haven't seen nothing yet. Road Trip is a lot similar to American Pie, but it isn't all wound up around 'morals', which allows the comedy to fly fast and fun. Tom Green was particularly funny as Barry, so was Breckin Meyer. Even the old folks will be laughing! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Road Trip is a crowd pleaser","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is a hilarious comedy about four college students.  When one of them inadvertently mails a tape of himself sleeping with another girl to his girlfriend, he and three friends must drive from Ithaca, NY to Austin, TX to retrieve it.The four guys' trip is anything but easy.  They encounter many troubles along the way, including something all too common among college students  running out of cash.  But they always rebound and find a way to get back on track.Loaded with hilarious jokes and sick & twisted humor, Road Trip is a crowd pleaser for anyone.  If you liked American Pie, you'll love this one too!  Just don't bring the kids. "},{"Title":"Strong in all categories. American Pie-esque humor.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The previews for this had me shuddering. I can't stand Tom Green or his show, and was prepared for yet another Tom Green crapfest. I was pleasantly surprised when I saw the film and found myself laughing out loud throughout, which is something I rarely do in theatres. All of the actors are very well cast and proficient comedic actors, and the storyline is truly hilarious. A special note is that Anthony Rapp plays the evil Teachers Assistant who is spurned by the main characters love interest. He's one of the most underrated actors in the business, and I wish he would be given more roles. He has the tools to be an exceptional character actor. All in all, it's a wonderful film, full of silliness and laughter that is sure to brighten all but the worst work-weeks. "},{"Title":"one very, very, very long trip","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I looked at my watch 15 minutes into this film.  This tells you something right there.  It is a lame, pointless, forced exercise in boredom.  I can forgive much in film called road trip.  It's crummy attitudes towards the actresses in it, Amy Smart is relegated to stripping in the first half of the film while the male counterpart stays clothed, of course she jumps on him offering herself.  She really is very very pretty, it is sad the producers of this thought so little of her.  More girls undress in front of fully clothed male actors for no other reason then to have naked girls.  I like naked girls, really I do, but this was insulting and pointless and crude without being funny.  An overweight girl makes love to a skinny guy, why is this funny?  Because she is big?  Is it such a hoot that someone who does not look like the topless bimbo's from central casting would have sex? This is sad, it speaks volumes about the people making this dreck.  It would all be worth it if it were the slightest bit funny, just the slightest bit.  The gags stretch on for eternity, a disturbed man holds a mouse over a hungry snake over and over and over again, telling it how it is going to die.  Why is this funny?  It's not.  The whole cast seems to be on a forced march with full pack through one unfunny, pointless situation after another.  After a while I felt like that mouse, I was held captive in this theater for 90+ minutes, it seemed like forever.  I am surprised this waste of film got so many good reviews. I highly recommend a film from the very early 80's for those of you who enjoyed this.  It is called Porkeys, after suffering through Road Trip I am reminded of what a great film it really was. "},{"Title":"Hilarious but not for everyone","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a total gutbuster from start to finish. Tom Green really stands out as the guy who narrates the movie and the guy who tries to make a snake eat a mouse. DJ Qualls also stands out and is hilarious. Everyone else, Breckin Meyer, Sean Willem Scott, is hilarious and the girls are hot. And the cameos by Andy Dick and SNL's Horatio Sanz are the best! (Especially Sanz's) However it is not for everyone. Like people who enjoy French Toast. And people who are sensitive to nudity. There's a lot of it. It is not at all Pollitically Correct. But it's a riot. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****; Grade C+","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Raucous comedy about four college students on a wacky (note the quotation marks) road trip to recover a mistakenly sent sexual videotape.  Filled with nice sight gags and a few hilarious set pieces, but lacking much in the way of character or depth.  Granted, this film was made to garner laughs, which it does, but the characters are so transparent they make the four males in American Pie look like pinnacles of character development. The lack of a true rooting interest reduces this film to a handful of disconnected smiles and not much else.  "},{"Title":"American Pie is no longer the top teen comedy!","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip will make anybody laugh! The funny but sick comedy is told by Tom Green's character in the movie. Alongside him, Breckin Meyer and Seann W. Scott act out some of the funniest roles in year 2000 movies. When a videotape of Breckin and another girl having sex is accidentally sent to his girlfriend, a road trip is in order to stop the tape from getting to her. Along the way, adventure, chaos, and mayhem strike constantly while Tom Green is making desperate attempts to watch a snake eat a mouse. This teen comedy shows what can happen when you cheat on a girlfriend. If you see this movie, beware that you probably won't stop laughing for the next week! "},{"Title":"Tom Green shines without taking over","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is the essence of what college is all about. While many aspects seem farfetched, the acting and writing were superb. While Tom Green was up to his usual over-the-top gross out routine, it was kept in check for a hysterical performance. Other highlights included DJ Qualls breakthrough performance. Great flick to see with the guys!  "},{"Title":"Other than Green, a boring movie","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green's parents will be happy to know that he has a future in movies. The psycho-eyed testimony to the downside of shock therapy is definitely the life of that college comedy romp known as Road Trip.That's quite an achievement considering the pride of Ottawa plays only a peripheral role, as Barry Manilow (yes, that's right, Barry Manilow) a bizarre college slacker in his eighth year at the University of Ithaca who somehow landed a job as a campus tour guide for the summer.When it becomes apparent to a group of visitors that he knows absolutely nothing about what he's talking about, Manilow falls back on a story about Josh Porter (Breckin Meyer) and Tiffany Henderson (Rachel Blanchard), a couple who've remained true to each other since they were toddlers.When Josh enrolls at the University of Ithaca and Tiffany at the University of Texas in Austin, they face the `most challenging challenge of their lives,' a long-distance relationship.Despite Josh's best efforts -- phone calls every hour on the hour, sappy videos in which Josh professes true love -- things go awry as one thing leads to another between Josh and Beth (Amy Smart). Not only is the whole liaison caught on video tape, but said tape is mistakenly mailed to Tiffany.There is only one answer to this predicament A road trip to Texas to retrieve the incriminating evidence before it gets into Tiffany's hands.Alas, Josh and his buddies are no Delta House alumni -- they possess all the personality of well, college types delivering their lines in the listless manner of a tenured professor. Moreover, their trip features little more than the requisite college hijinx -- destruction of a small car, a stop at the sperm bank, disgusting acts involving food.About the only relief from this hodgepodge of banality are the cuts back to the home campus. Manilow has been left behind to make sure the pet python is fed, a task he tackles with unhealthy enthusiasm. Green also continues to portray the other side of Manilow's two-dimensional character--that of the deranged Kipling guiding his audience through his ripping yarn about four college shmucks.Seeing Road Trip is much like watching minor league baseball or major junior hockey It's a chance to see the stars of tomorrow today. Green, who started on community cable and is now among the biggest personalities on comedy television, has shown the kind of promise that should land him bigger and better roles. As for the rest of this bunch, boring is an understatement. Evidently, whatever spontaneity they may have possessed was educated out of them.  "},{"Title":"WOWZA!!!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  fun. this is one fun and hilarious picture here with that one fellow Breckin Meyer, eh? but what is the deal with that one guy....Mark Wahlberg. I can understand his work in Boogie Nights but Road Trip?? Well, I recommend this one too. Read my other reviews by clicking on my name up there. "}{"Title":"Road Trip has it's moments but doesn't beat There's Something About Mary...","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip has some very funny moments, yet there were also some pretty awful jokes in it too.  It was a bit like There's Something About Mary, and American Pie, and would appeal to teenage viewers.  I thought the two aforementioned titles were a bit better though.  Road Trip also reminded me of another movie, Overnight Delivery (guy thinks girlfriend is cheating, guy sends girlfriend package of him with another girl to break up, realised girlfriend isn't cheating, tries to stop package).  Road Trip is generally a pretty ok movie. "},{"Title":"Same-ol' same-ol'","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Riding on the coat-tails of American Pie and There's Something About Mary, this film is completely about gross-out humor and not much else.  A couple of hilarious scenes fail to save this movie from its pointlessness.  The joke just seems to be wearing thin already. "},{"Title":"One Funny Film","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the tradition of Animal House, Porky's and American Pie comes Road Trip, one darn funny movie. Now I've heard this compared to There's Something About Mary. The only connection with that film is the gross out gags part. Mary and Dumber and Dumber get the award for gross out gags. This and American Pie put semi-normal people in crazy situation and lots of comedy takes place. So far, this is by far the funniest film of year. Tom Green steals the show with his outrageous antics that just go way over the stuff seen on MTV. At it's core this one funny film that uses situations at the most part to get it's comedy across. I give it a 9. Make sure if you go see this film, go with a bunch of friends like American Pie, it's much funnier with an audience. Road Trip is a trip worth while.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, but I didn't know this was a children's film - Go Figure!!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie every Saturday for the last 6 weeks.  It's awesome. Destined to become a classic for sure.  I plan to see this movie as many times as I can in theatres and I can't wait to buy the DVD!!The movie has a young, talented cast.  The casting directors did their job well.  Amy Smart is a babe!!  DJ Qualls steals the show as Kyle (Go Kyle, Go Kyle -).  Seann William Scott will always be Stiffler (from American Pie) - He's great.  And what can I say - Tom Green has grown on me.  I laugh more and more at his scenes each time I see the movie.  I liked Breckin Meyer as well but each time I see his face, I think of Travis Birkenstock from Clueless.  Paulo Costanzo has great facial expressions.It was very disturbing to see the number of children that were brought to this movie by ADULTS!!  This movie is rated R (for good reason if you have seen the film) and if adults continue to bring children (as young as age 4!!) to see movies such as this one, there will be little innocence left in their young lives.  Adults should be more responsible regarding the movies they let their children watch.Please note, this is not a reflection on the film.  It's great. Highly recommended (for age 17 & over -) "},{"Title":"Another View of Road Trip","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a 58 year old male and would like to add additional comments for this film. I saw this film expecting to see a raunchy,tasteless film. I have to admit I walked away pleasantly surprised. I enjoyed this film quite a bit. As a matter a fact I went back recently to see it again. What I've discovered is that this film is a genuinely sweet look at four college friends. If you watch and listen closely you will note very little profanity. You will also see that when these four friends encounter an unexpected environment (the black fraternity scene) that the whole scene is handled in a very deft manner. No racial overtones, no bigoted displays. I thought the Director, Todd Phillips, for a first time film maker handled this film in a great fashion. Watch it closely. These are four college buddies, having harmless fun, at no one's expense. Is it a great film? Maybe not! Is it a very good film? It certainly is! "},{"Title":"MUCH BETTER THAN AMERICAN PIE!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was laughing my head off when I saw this movie it was soo much of fun and gross.The plot involves a group of college buddies taking a trip and to save a relationship.What happens from there onwards are a series of funny incidents.This film has a touch of the 80's with nudity and gross out characters which makes the film very watchable.   "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the funnier movies out right now.  However, I think it was somewhat too exaggerating at times and it was just plain silly as well.  It's a good movie if all you're looking for is a good laugh. "},{"Title":"And this movie was funny why?","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I'm reading all these reviews and must of missed something. The funny part.  Now, I must say that there were a few very humorous scenes. I am exaggerating somewhat with my summary title.  But overall this movie was not even close to the two movies that everyone is grouping it with, There's Something About Mary and American Pie.  I don't get it.  This movie contained the typical poor acting, but that can be made up for with hilarious events that push the envelope as the two previous movies most certainly did.  I don't know, I'm a big Tom Green fan so maybe I expected a bit more then I got.  Or maybe I was just too sober.  But I walked away feeling like I should of had a few tears falling from my eyes or pains in my stomach.  Instead, I left tired and ready to go to bed.  Personally, I've seen funnier movies.  I've also seen movies that shaped a generation or marked a funny new low in buying cheap laughs.  But this movie didn't demonstrate either to me.  I gave it a 5 out of 10.  I don't know if people are saying it was funny because their friends thought it was, or what, but if I were you, I'd wait for it to come out on video or cable. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You will love this film.  Some of my favourite parts include the point where Josh and his friends are stuck in front of a broken bridge, and when Tom Green is distracted by the TA Jacob while trying to feed Mitch.  There are lots of good jokes, though not all of them are tasteful.  Beware of the scene where Reuben takes Kyle and Josh out for breakfast.  It's pretty disgusting. "},{"Title":"Road Trip, a Comedic Classic","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  The entire cast was a riot to say the least. The writing was sophisticated and befitting for the audience.  The characters were all very dynamic and humorous. It made me want to go to college at Ithaca.  So get out there and see it, and if you have seen it already, go see it again.  I know that I will. "}{"Title":"ROTFLMAO... Literally!!!!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you don't know what the internet acronym stands for, then you need to go see this movie.  You will find yourself forevermore using the acronym.This movie is so funny that I was crying, and my wife was begging me to be quiet.  Never fear, everyone else was laughing as hard as I was.  When the dog got the munchies, the whole auditorium erupted.This has been equated to 'American Pie'.  Well, it is the same genre, but that is as far as the comparison can go.  This movie is head and shoulders above it's predecessor.  Now granted, I loved 'American Pie', so much so that I saw it several times at the theater, and have rented it at least several more.  I WILL OWN, 'Road Trip'.The characters are hilarious.  And I absolutely love Fred Ward.  So when he shows up for his son.... you just have to see it, but it is true Fred Ward acting.  The guys are raunchy, and the girls righteous.I can not tell you enough times... GET UP, AND GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Bare Bones Entertainment","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is nothing at all redeeming about this film.  Overall, this movie was entertaining and contained some truly hilarious moments.  But the one thing it was missing (and in a film like this who really cares), was backbone.  American Pie had backbone and that is what made it a better film than Road Trip.  But Road Trip was strictly created to entertain and make you laugh, and that it does for the most part.  It has no real story behind it and it's rather inconsistent, but it's a lot of fun, and also, it's a summer movie.  This isn't Academy Awards time and if you're looking for a fun brainless movie...Road Trip is the answer. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip was by far the funniest movie I've seen this year. I loved the supreme cast (esp. Tom Green), the outrageous plot, and the supreme comedy included! They need more teen gross-out comedies like this. This movie rocked! "},{"Title":"Gross-out movie can't quite compare with American Pie","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I admit it; I laughed at American Pie.  I laughed at the recognition of the humiliation the characters put themselves through, the exaggeration of the basic, over-the-top approach teenagers can take when they deal with the topic of sex.  I laughed even at scenes that I found disgusting, perhaps because they did what Mel Brooks always claimed his movies did, when he sniffed They rise below vulgarity.  Yes, indeed I laughed, because the material isn't what counts as much as how it's presented.**(Mild spoilers ahead)** Road Trip also made me laugh.  I laughed at scenes involving a snake and Tom Green, a manic, flaked-out guy who tried desperately to get the snake to eat a mouse so that it can experience what it is to be at the lowest rung of nature.  I laughed at how this scene played out, and chucked lightly at the way he handles a campus tour after explaining that he has been attending this college, Ithaca University in New York state, for 8 years.  He knows it better than anyone, but still claims the library was built in the 1600's even though the cornerstone plainly reads 1951.I also laughed at other scenes, involving the doomed trip of a Ford Taurus and the way the characters have a sort of natural, unforced way of talking that still seemed funny.  I did not laugh at much of the movie, which at times seems lost in a wasteland of strange characters, weird situations, and really gross ideas that didn't seem to fit with it's overall tone.  I will say that it will be a while before I will eat French toast again, and that a scene with a talking dog is too creepy to be truly funny.The movie's plot is set in motion by a videotape made by Josh (Breckin Meyer) with a girl he met at a campus party, Beth (Amy Smart) as they have sex.  He sleeps with her because he thinks his longtime girlfriend, Tiffany (Rachel Blanchard) is blowing him off by not returning his messages, but in reality her grandfather passed away, and she was staying at her mother's house.  He discovers this after the horror of realizing his tape of him and Beth was mailed to Tiffany in a mixup.  He has three days to reach Austin, Texas, where Tiffany is attending college, to get the tape back before she gets it.  This is really just a setup for a road movie and a clothesline on which to hang all the gags.I guess I got what I paid for.  The movie doesn't aspire to be any more than this year's gross-out flick, a tradition started by the Farrelly brothers in There's Something About Mary.  I liked that movie a lot, because it had the bravery to go for broke, and had a sunny disposition that allowed the characters to wade through it's mire of grossness cheerfully.  Road Trip is too aware of itself, too dependent of disgusting sight gags to be considered really original.  By the time a character waggles his bare butt in front of a video camera, I was marvelling at how creatively bankrupt the screenplay was.The movie isn't all bad, it just doesn't try very hard to be good.  It doesn't rise below vulgarity, it remains firmly mired in it.  Gross gags can be very funny, if presented in a way that focuses on the irony, rather than how disgusting it is.  The beer scene in Pie was funny even though I gag just thinking about it, because the characters' reaction was funny.  In Road Trip the gags come by themselves, mainly; the characters are largely unaware of how nasty a situation they've gotten themselves into.  It's not how disgusting it is that makes a scene funny, it's how it affects the characters.  Without that payoff, you may as well stick your fingers down your throat; at least that won't cost you eight bucks.The movie is confusing in some scenes and there is one in which we are left to wonder if an event occured or not, based on whether or not you understand if it was a dream (or not).  I couldn't piece this together until the end, and still can't be sure.  I wonder if the filmmakers realized what they were doing here, and how empty it. But I admit I'll remember the sight of Tom Green with that mouse in his mouth.  Maybe they should just go ahead and give the guy his own movie. "},{"Title":"equal screen time","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i would have had no problem with the female nudity in this film had they only given equal screen time to the boys, and allowed paulo costanza to walk around naked the whole time.  then i could watch this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"It's good,and you'll like it because of that goodness","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say?It's obviously meant not to show intelligent, caring teenagers,not to show respect for love,not to be sophisticated,but to have memorable,funny moments and to make people laugh their ---es off.For me,it succeeded!Even now I'm going over my favorite moments-the talking dog (Hey old man,I got the f---in munchies),the blind(or is she?)lady,the sperm bank(could you give me a little.... professional help??),the cringe-inducing fate of Kyle(quite possible the funniest character)and his French toast,and of COURSE,Tom Green's character Barry Manilow(?)and his morbid fascination with informing his pet snake's mice meals of their fate(you're about to experience first-hand what it's like to be in the low area of the food chain).I expected laughs,and I got them.My friends also loved the movie.There's plenty of crude humor and language that'd make Redd Foxx blush.There's also a few nudity scenes,but their handled with enough humor and style to be passable and not gratuitous.A quick exampleBarry is telling the story to interest some future students,and tells them about the lead guy Josh's one night stand talking to her friends-and they're all topless.One lady listener interrupts,saying women don't just stand around nude.Barry's reply?Hey,it's MY story.I also liked the first joke in the movie-for some reason,it stayed with me.Barry's telling his group about the campus,and informs them that one building was built in the 1600s.One member says Hey,it says on that sign it was built in 1951!Barry looks around,sees it,and promptly says No...umm,that's the address,wise ass.See it with some friends (NOT your girlfriend),and look for the director Todd Philips as an afro-clad foot fetishist on Amy Smart's bus(prompting the best line-Are there any guys out there who are JUST NORMAL?!??). "},{"Title":"As Good As American Pie","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  AMERICAN PIE was one of the summer's biggest hits last year, mixing raunchy teen comedy with a hilarious script and up and coming young stars. Without worrying about Oscar Nominations and thumbs up from all major movie critics, they served it to us and won big time.This summer, ROAD TRIP, featuring Tom Green and Sean W. Scott (from American Pie) among a handful of other rising faces, proves to do the same. It's obvious the director, producer, and so forth were not worried about obtaining an Oscar when they did this, but more worried about their audience just kicking back and having fun. And boy, if you don't have fun and enjoy this film, then you are a stuck-up, nerd.Not since DUMB AND DUMBER has a movie come along that was really pretty bad, but was so funny that you forgot how bad it was. ROAD TRIP is probably the best film to come out since AMERICAN PIE and should be treated as being as good, cause it is. Overall this movie is the best summer movie you can see...**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Some serious chuckling but not busting up laughter","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't go into this movie expecting the same level of hilarity as in American Pie.  Don't expect it to be 100% Tom Green all the time (he doesn't even go on the Road Trip).  But this is a very funny movie with moments that are purely hilarious--the funniest being when a shortcut doesn't work out exactly as planned.  Not for those seeking political correctness in their humor-duh  ) "},{"Title":"Stupid... But I really LOVE stupid....","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is DEFINITELY NOT for everyone.  But if you like mindless humor and can sit back and watch a film without trying to analyze every scene, then this movie is for you. It's a bit risque at times and you can't be offended by sex or nudity.  But I laughed so hard I walked out of the theater with tears in my eyes.  Some of the sight gags where just outrageous. My favorite scene had to be either the old man on viagra or the sex in the frat house. If those descriptions raise your curiosity, then grab a ticket and get ready to laugh. "},{"Title":"I laughed out loud several times druring the movie.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie very funny and well worth the matinee price that I paid to see it.It was by no means a classic. I found the plotline to be sub-par compared to many other rowdy, raunchy, college comedies. However there was enough to the humor that I could overlook the plot and just have a good time laughing.I'll rate it an 8. Not a classic, but it made me laugh and feel better. "}{"Title":"Better than There is Something About Mary Funnier than American Pie","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay first off I am sick of hearing all these people trying to compare this movie to There is Something About Mary and American Pie.  I only did it to state a fact.  First off, its just a movie made to make people laugh and all these people are getting worked up about how it doesn't live up to the above mentioned movies or how its too gross.  This movie is hilarious hitting just the right buttons.  The actors are perfect and deliver outstanding material.  The characters in this movie are also people you can see yourself hanging out with in college or in high school.  If you go into the theatre expecting this oscar worthy, Titanic like movie than you'll be disappointed because you can tell from the previews that it is just meant for fun.  You can't take this movie seriously just enjoy it because its a step away from the boring drama of a lot of movies they got out there today. Its funny, and I laughed on every seen. And all these people saying Oh there is too much nudity, a no good-done before plot all I have to say is there really wasn't that much nudity (not compared to some movies out there) and well the plot may have been done before but not this funny! I truly recommend this movie for a night full of laughs.  If you'll notice a lot of people giving bad reviews are still saying that they laughed in a few parts.  Thats simply because no matter how you try and twist it, this movie was funny and enjoyable.  Paulo, Breckin, D.j, Tom and Scott I applaude you all on a job very well done. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but funny","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip, hmm what can you say about this film.  Well dont go if you're looking for a really great interesting movie, just go if you want to laugh a lot.  The premise and the plot are quite stupid, however the characters pull off quite a funny performance overall, especially Tom Greene (bong unleash the fury mitch) "},{"Title":"Road Trip Scores Big!!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an extremely funny movie that feeds up to the college stereotype. Four guys go on the road to stop a sex tape that Beth(Amy Smart) and Josh(Breckin Meyer) made one night from reaching Josh's girlfriend in Austin, Texas(Rachel Blanchard from tv's Clueless show).  Along with Tom Greens' ever so crazy antics and a little help from one of the guys from American Pie and an unknown actor helps the movie score big with laughs. If you are in the mood for an off-the-wall road trip of your own then go see this hilarious movie! "},{"Title":"Edgy and Funny","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip, what can I say, it was a trip.  So far it is the best comedy of 2000, but it still doesn't beat out American Pie or There's Something About Mary.  I was happy to see the return of Sean William Scott (Stifler) as the sex driven, comedian that he plays very well.  And DJ Qualls kept me falling out of my seat, it was great! "},{"Title":"woohoo","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i didn't ever plan on seeing this movie, by the previews i thought it looked pretty dumb. there was maybe one funny scene in the previews. i had been hanging out with some people and they all forced me to go see this movie with them and it ended up being really funny!! i DO like the tom green show, but i didn't think he was too funny in this so i'm glad he wasn't in it very much.. an actor from road trip that i'd like to see in more movies is paulo costanzo. i didn't even notice him in the previews but if there's one thing i'm happy about, it's going to the movies and discovering this lovely man!!  "},{"Title":"Good rowdy, raunchy fun.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip doesn't aspire to be the next big thing in filmed entertainment, and one shouldn't  walk into the theater to be amazed.  You should just go in and watch four guys try to get from  Ithaca to Austin in three days.  Narrated by the insane Tom Green, Road Trip offers up some  really good laughs that involve a car explosion, a donation at a sperm bank, a wild frat party and  a scene that will have you watching short order cooks very carefully.  Road Trip is gross at  times, vulgar, a bit naughty and when Tom Green tries to feed a snake, it is utterly bizarre.   But, it will have you laughing all the way through.     "},{"Title":"Tom Green is excellent.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A college student videotapes an after hour liaison with a fellow student, but the problem is he has a girlfriend and a friend accidently mailed it to her. Very, very funny with a breakout performance by Tom Green. The rest of the cast isn't so bad either. A Road Trip you'll want to take, but you may hate yourself in the morning for liking this so much. Rating 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A recipe for comedy","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Start with the setting and characters of Animal House, add the humor and pacing of American Pie, and stir in the style and flare of the Farrelly brothers.... Sound like a good recipe?...then you're going love this movie! There's some really funny stuff in this one that's perfect for the summer fare, and Seann William Scott is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors. He's got a certain comic style and charm that is very appealing. Now...having said all of that, I will close by saying the movie wasn't as funny as I thought it would be...go figure! "},{"Title":"watchable","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll give this movie *** out of 5 stars.  Roger Ebert was pretty dead-on with his review of this movie, although I can't say I always agree with him on films of this sort, he's pretty condescending towards the genre (probably with good reason).  This movie was head-and-shoulders above last summer's clunker American Pie, mostly because it plays it closer to the vest.  Its best moments are when Tom Green is onscreen, because while his brand of humor is unabashedly juvenile, it's different than the kind of straight-ahead sex humor that movies like this too often rely on.  The scenes dealing with his morbid fascination with the snake break up the monotony of this movie just when the road trip scenes are getting into a rut.  The movies worst moments, on the other hand, is when it will go to ludicrous lengths just to make a cheap joke about anal sex or a fat person.  In regards to the latter, I thought it was the movie's lowest point.  Until then, no character in the movie had been completely written off just because of a physical or mental handicap--  even the blind woman had momentarily outsmarted the boys.  Overall, I thought the acting was slightly above par... Tom Green was perfectly cast as, well, himself, Breckin Meyer (who seemingly hasn't aged at all since Clueless) actually convinced me that he was genuinely a nice guy and didn't want to hurt his girlfriend, Sean William Scott basically reprised his character from American Pie and had a few good lines until he descended into mindless self-parody, and DJ Qualls has to be the weirdest looking kid I've ever seen, which is all his role really required (I'm wondering if DJ is his initials, or if he is involved in techno music? that might explain his appearance).  As for the actresses in this movie, it's kind of hard to evaluate their performances when their sole purpose in the film seemed to be to take their shirts off.  And as for the setting of the film, I thought it was probably the most accurate college movie I've seen in a while.  There are actually students on campus who don't live in frat houses (unlike every other college movie), and the parties are crowded without being unreasonably wild (I always wonder about college movies... if the party destroys the entire house every time, which seems to be the case, don't they eventually run out of houses?).  Another thing that I took note of was the amount of marijuana use in this movie.  The increasing presence of pot in movies seems to be a trend recently, and although it's relatively true to college life, it's screen time here is usually reserved for strictly stoner movies like Friday.  Anyway, if you're in college or even high school, you'll probably want to go see this because all of your friends will talk about it, and you'll probably end up enjoying it despite its shortcomings.  All in all, a pleasantly forgettable release. "},{"Title":"Woohoo!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good movie. I guess I'm expected to enjoy it, being a teenager. I have to agree with whoever it was that commented on DJ Qualls's strange appearance... but there was good acting. Tom Green's character, Barry Manilow, was kind of frightening at times. I have to sing the praises of Paulo Costanzo, though. I noticed he didn't get a lot of publicity. I personally think he did an outstanding job for his film debut. ) "}{"Title":"Who'd have thought that Mr. Steven (I Discovered American Beauty) Spielberg...","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...would be in the business of worn AMERICAN PIE retreads like this one? Not to mention that PIE was itself a saggy stitch-together of SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, PORKY'S, and a handful of other lowbrow hits. This one produces more gags (as in tongue depressor) than gags (as in har-de-har). As the smartass good-looking guy, Seann William Scott, who played the smartass good-looking guy in AMERICAN PIE, suggests a big-time burgeoning talent Aaron Eckhart piled on top of Jim Carrey. And as an oddly obsessive motel clerk, Andy Dick, a fellow known to me for much Behind the Music-like carrying on but not for his talent, struck me as a major mastermind of the Robert Downey, Jr., calibre. The rest of the movie is below the level of an early-eighties horny-teen comedy--and to those who remember JOYSTICKS, that's damn low. "},{"Title":"Very funny...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a much funnier movie than I thought it would be before going in to see it. I thought the previews held the best shots, but luckily they didn't (thank you Mr. Phillips, because I really hate that). It is quite enjoyable, and the characters are nicely laid out;  the four main characters have a realistic bond that you would find among college buddies.  Tom Green was great, he was solidly funny, but didn't go over the top (as he tends to do) and therefore didn't take anything away from the other actors.  Go see it if you want some great laughs. "},{"Title":"Pretty good fun","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was pretty funny, I was surprised, Its not as good as something about Mary but was funnier than American Pie I found myself laughing out loud.  It wasn't too gross which is good. "},{"Title":"Road Trip- Not Brainy but Really Funny","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Written and Directed by Todd Phillips (Frathouse, Screwed) this film rocks. Clearly this is not an Academy Award contender by all means. But for a summer movie, which it clearly is, Road Trip wins all awards.  It does the zany and the stupid better than Something About Mary or Keeping the Faith. And in the vain of Meatballs and American Pie, is just plain old funny. Breckin Meyer is Josh Porter a mediocre college student with a long-distance girlfriend.  He is pursued by Beth (Amy Smart) who is much too good looking for him.  After succumbing to her seductive techniques and producing a video that evidences their love-making session.  Barry, the seventh year moron and narrator of this story (played perfectly by MTV's Tom Green) sends the wrong tape to his long-time and long-distance girlfriend Tiffany in Austin, Texas. There is nothing that can be done to remedy the situation, unless Josh is able to recover the cassette before Tiffany can see it.  ROAD TRIP!!! Josh is accompanied by the stoner/genius Paul Costanzo, the guy who played Stickler in American Pie and the very freaky looking DJ Qualls (the best actor in the movie by far). They get up to the usual stuff on the way there, and without spoling the ending, they reach Austin in time to stop Tiffany from viewing the tape. Silly things happen, including a house-party at an All Black Fraternity house in Tennessee, some scenes at a Sperm Bank, and a car jumping like you haven't seen since the Dukes of Hazzard. Check this movie out.  Top Recommendation- 4 fishies out of 5. "},{"Title":" There's Something about Ferris Bueller's American Pie!!!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My one line summary is basically just a sum up of what everyone out there is going to compare this crap flick too. Everything, I mean everything about this movie is recycled!!!! I know there are some people out there who believe that Tom Green is the funniest thing in the world. These are probably the only people that may enjoy this movie. The characters are all cliches and the acting is terrible. Can someone ask Fred Ward why he signed on for his completely unecessary cameo? I have nothing at all against low brow humor but this is just stupid. If you must see it, wait for he video release or see a bargain matinee. Paying nine bucks on this would be a complete waste!!!  "},{"Title":"Tom Green = Genius","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so hilarious.  All I had to do was just look at Tom Green's face and I burst out laughing.  Everything about this movie was great.  DJ Qualls was really cool, I hope his career goes up and away.Do yourself a favor and go see this movie, 'cause after all, Road Trip-It's Good! "},{"Title":"It's Good.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As the trailers say, Road Trip -- It's Good!What I found quite enjoyable was that for the most part, the writers of this film decided to venture out to tell a story... and they did just that.  No side story lines... no confusion... a clear cut story with a beginning and an ending. Was the payoff great?  Well, I'll let you decide for yourself.  However, I will say the ending was slightly cheap, and feel that there might have been some backroom hacking in response to audience testing prior to the show, because while the story does get a nice, rounded ending, some things leave you going huh, gee, yeah, I guess that's an ending, but without giving away any of the story (a requirement of IMDB reviews) I will say that it seemed too convenient as to how the Road Trip ends.The gold star in this film definately goes to DJ Qualls -- a bright young actor who seems like he has a promising future... As usual, our favourite Canuck Tom Green strives to gross out, and hits a home-run... Finally, in an age where there seem to be a plethora of teen flicks/college flicks (just look at what's due this summer with Boys and Girls, Loser, and the already released Gossip) Road Trip is poised to be this year's Outside Providence in that its probably not gonna pull down a HUGE box office, but will entertain those who venture inside the tent. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie this year","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from Road Trip. I remembered the hype surrounding American Pie and how the trailers spoiled the funniest scenes. This movie has received a minimal amount of hype but blows American Pie out of the water. First of all the actors were excellent in their roles. The main character is easy to sympathize with and you actually care about what happens to him. His cohorts do a good job and show good depth for this type of movie. The characters were well drawn and didn't fall into stereotypes. The marijuana smoker is portrayed as an intellectually instead of a burn out pot head, which I was very happy to see. TVs Tom Green plays a character not all to different from himself but does it very well.Some of the comic situations were not wholly orginal but the formula works and you laugh. The dialogue isn't cliched and has alot of great humor.This movie is definitely the funniest movie since There's Something About Mary. The audience loved it and I know I did. Its easy to relate to the characters which makes the adventure of the Road Trip all that more enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Slacker's Odyssey","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  AMERICAN PIE meets Socrates on this Holmeric journey to manhood and happiness -- at least as far as four young men are concerned. This is going to be a real sleeper because it doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is -- a funny, sexy romp.Breckin Meyer is sweet and vulnerable enough here to be truly appealing in the lead part he deserves after all his supporting work in films like CLUELESS, 54, and GO. Seann William Scott gives us another variation on his classic Stifler from AMERICAN PIE. He has enough goofiness to make us love him despite his character's crudeness, and just as in AMERICAN PIE, he gets the raw end of the deal -- but seems to love it this time.The rest of the cast is also delightful in their various shades of the dark side of human nature. This is a raunchy, funny coming-of-age flick that should be enjoyed for being just what it is. "},{"Title":"FUNNY AS HELL!!!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the first thing I have to say, it was better than American Pie and the same as Something About Mary.Just to look at Tom Green was funny.I was in the aisle laughing when they went to stay at Tom Green's grandparents (no spoilers).For one thing it wasn't as drawn to sex as American Pie.So all you people who say they were the same shut up. And it wasn't as sappy. Seann Scott Williams is definitly going to make it big after this movie.But I really don't see how Drew Barrymore can keep Tom Green toned down. For one thing the gratious nudity was good. And the fat lady...ha ha ha ha.GO SEE THIS MOVIE THIS INSTANT "}{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wasn't sure what to expect out of this flick but it was pretty much non-stop laughs.  I thought Green was well placed as the narrator--provided a comic anchor for that part of the story, plus the whole road trip might have been less believable if he had been cut loose and allowed to cut up the whole time.  "},{"Title":"Funnier than it has any right to be","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It takes about 20 minutes to get going, but after that this movie is consistently funny, goes easy on the gross-outs, and even has a couple belly-laughs in it.An amiable attitude, a relatively understated Tom Green, and a willingness to give every character something to do make this flick stand out from other toss-off flicks passing for entertainment (read Screwed). "},{"Title":"Better then expected.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.  I found it really funny.  I must confess that I never liked Tom Green very much, but I think he and the other young actors in this film did a very good job.  If you are looking for some summer fun, you will not be disappointed by this movie.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good, but could have been better","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie at the sneak preview on May 12, 2000, and I felt that it was a rather funny movie, but that it could have been better.  I say this, because I went expecting the movie to be dominated by Tom Green and his hilarious antics, but was disappointed to find that Tom did not go on the actual Road Trip, but stayed behind at college.  Thus, he is not present for a large portion of the movie.  The producers missed a great opportunity to make this movie more hilarious.  Other than this, there were still some very amusing parts in the movie, plus some good one-liners.  There is an abundance of nudity/sexual content, so taking young children is a bad idea. However, if you're just looking for a good time with a decent amount of laughs, this movie is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Animal House For the Next Generation","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      A beautifully crafted college-comedy film that made me think back to the John Landis days of Animal House.    Tom Green is the John Belushi of this picture. Sure, nobody will ever have the comic genius of Belushi, but Green makes you remember the old days.    The plot involves a guy accidentally sending a tape of him having sex to his girlfriend, and the 3 day 1800 mile trip that results from it.     The 4 characters are each given equal time to blossom and all of the supporting players were hilarious. If you enjoyed Dead Man on Campus then this is for you.     My one complaint is that at times, it did feel a bit awkward, but this is relatively minor.    A strong 8/10. "},{"Title":"Aims low, and hits there too.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While this wasn't a horrible movie, it wasn't that good either.  There were some funny parts to be sure, but a lot of it is just plain dumb.  And not funny-dumb either, just dumb.  Lots of cheap jokes and gross-out humor that just doesn't hit.  I didn't really care about any of the characters and a couple of them were down-right annoying.  Seann William Scott plays exactly the same character he played in American Pie and was one of the few bright spots of the film.  Tom Green was funny as always too, but he and Scott were simply not enough to rescue the film from just being average.  If you loved American Pie, you'll like this. "},{"Title":"I saw an advanced screening, and this is a very funny movie!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw an advanced screening of this movie and it was very funny.  Well worth the time to see.  The characters were actually believable.  As a college student, I could identify with the characters, and their situations.  Very well done!  This is the best college movie in years. "},{"Title":"American Pie on the Road","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny movie.  If you liked American Pie, you'll definitely like this movie. I was laughing all the way through.Breckin Meyer emerges from the tag-along character to mainstream hunk. Tom Green is hilarious as an quadruple-super-Ithaca University student.  Bit of insulting humor, but nonetheless great enjoyment.  "},{"Title":"Road Trip is AWESOME!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see an advance screening of Road Trip last night and laughed harder than I did for last summers American Pie.I loved American Pie and I love ROAD TRIP! The cast is great. DJ Qualls and Paulo Costanzo will be made by this film, Brechen Meyer and Seann William Scott are hilarious. Tom Green was himself and he was great at it.I was surprised and refreshed by the best comic use of nudity since Meatballs, Porky's and the other great sex comedies of the the early eighties.Todd Phillips did a great job in his feature film directorial debut and is quickly building a name for himself.I cannot say enough about this movie. I really loved it. See it It's good and you'll enjoy it because of that goodness! "},{"Title":"NOT better than American Pie or Mary, but still very good","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While this film does NOT outdo American Pie or Something About Mary, it is still a very good sex comedy.  With Mary and Pie, I laughed all the way through them.  This film was much weaker on the plot, and had a few really good laughs, but not all the way through.  I still had quite a few good laughs from this film, and it does a good job, but its no Mary. "}{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen...","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is honest-to-god one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Tom Green is hysterical as a warped tour guide. Sean Scott will be a comic movie star and Breckin Meyer held it all together. They screened it here in Miami and said it was a work print and not finished yet-- but they better not change a thing. The only thing is there is A LOT of nudity (although it's often times part of the joke) and besides the guys in the audience seemed to like it... but for me there could have been less.However, I was truly surprised that I liked the film as much as I did and will see it again when it comes out. I thought it was going to be an American Pie clone and I was wrong. It's smarter, raunchier and less sappy!!There are parts of this film where the audience just goes crazy-- laughing as loud as I've ever heard an audience laugh. I highly recommend it (as if you didn't realize that already) "},{"Title":"Road Trip It's Good, and Hysterical!","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       Take the dirty and disgusting jokes of AMERICAN PIE, and cross them with the funny misfortunes of NATIONAL LAMPOON'S VACATION and put them together, and you've got the formula for ROAD TRIP.  I would rank this film with MIDNIGHT RUN, VACATION, and PLANES TRAINS & AUTOMOBILES as one of the most funniest and enjoyable road comedies in recent time.  Like AMERICAN PIE, SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, & SOUTH PARK, the jokes in the film are gross and crude, but they do manage to keep one laughing and never resort to the routine potty jokes like many films do.      ROAD TRIP is about a young couple who have been boyfriend and girlfriend for a very long time.  The boy, Josh (Breckin Meyer) is attending college in New York, while the girl, Tiffany, is going to college in Austin, Texas.  Josh keeps in touch with Tiffany by sending her video mail, with messages and songs on how much he loves her.  One weekend, when Tiffany didn't respond back, Josh has a passionate evening with Beth (Amy Smart) one of his classmates, and Josh has this eveningvideo taped.  When Josh's friends want to see this video, Josh discovers that the wrong tape got sent to Tiffany!  Now Josh has three days and 1800 miles to travel to intercept that video from Tiffany.        Going along with Josh is his drug influenced roommate (Paulo Costanzo), his sex obsessed and egoistical friend (Seann William Scott) and the only guy who has a car and money (DJ Qualls).  From New York to Texas, these four guys experience a trip that is both unfortunate and very funny for anyone to go through.      I highly enjoyed ROAD TRIP a lot!  It was a film that I wanted to see, but when I saw it, it was a lot funnier than I expected.  The acting is good, Meyer makes a reasonable lead, Scott is more likable and just as funny as he was in AMERICAN PIE, and Qualls is the funniest and unluckiest guy to come on  the screen since  Dian Squeak Bachar in BASEketBALL.  And of course, Tom Green is in the film, but he's not in the film that much.  But the scenes that he is in, are very funny.      Director Todd Phillips is a great director, maintaining a good pace with funny jokes that are indeed a howl, instead of resorting to tasteless jokes.  TRIP is going to be another successful comedy that is aimed for the teens and college crowds.  Like the ads promise, it's good but I wouldn't call  it good, I would call it awesome!  It's a hysterical comedy that I would highly reccommend to anyone who enjoys watching a funny movie.  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"This is what American Pie tried to do!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought AMERICAN PIE and SOMETHING ABOUT MARY were funny...until I saw this movie.Tom Green was hilarious, Rachel Blanchard was hot, and the rest of the casting was superb.The best part?....  The trailers didn't kill the best scenes.I can't wait to see it again in the theaters. "},{"Title":"Did you really laugh?","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, I must have a problem with comedy movies. This was supposed to be fun, I've seen lots of reviews affirming it was fun, but I don't remember laughing even one time. Of course it had it's almost funny moments, but not enough to make me laugh. I was gonna rate it lower because of being similar to many other movies like American Pie, Eurotrip, Sex Drive and Dude Where's My Car... but hey, all these movies came after, so it was refreshing when released. A great point of the movie was showing that there is no soulmate, our feelings for other people can change not so rarely. Also was nice to show that inside all the geeks, there is some coolness hidden. Also interesting showing that behavior and personality CAN change, just like happened to Kyle. Worth watching but didn't work as laughter for me, maybe next time. "},{"Title":"road warriors, and rightfully proud of it","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One might say that Road Trip was the culmination of college movies - e.g., Animal House and Back to School - and of plain old gross-out movies - e.g., There's Something About Mary and American Pie. The official plot centers on some buddies in a college in Ithaca having to drive down to Austin to prevent one of them's girlfriend from seeing a snuff film accidentally sent her. Of course, this is an excuse for a series of disgustingly hilarious situations. Anything that you expect in a college/gross-out movie, it's pretty much guaranteed that you'll see here.While this was advertised as a Tom Green movie, he actually narrates more than anything. Unless you count his experience with the snake. But no matter how you approach the movie, just understand that it's a litany of everything gross that you can imagine. And it comes out a laugh riot because of this. There's no pretense about the movie's general idea. Also starring Seann William Scott, Amy Smart, Fred Ward, and even a brief appearance by director Todd Phillips as the foot fetishist. "},{"Title":"True to life","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is hilarious. I wonder if the producer has actually been to Bedford Pennsylvania, because he was right on the money. Everyone in Bedford Pa. is a total jerk, just like the movie portrays when the guys make a pit stop there. If you ever pass thru, don't get a motel and don't eat anywhere because people treat you like dirt. I know, I lived there for a few years. I found it so hilarious when the movie made jokes at Bedford's expense. AWESOME!!!! I think this movie gets a 7 rating on the funny scale. Definitely worth checking out, but for a mature audiences. Or should I say, an immature but adult audience? Check it out if you want some laughs. By the way, sorry Bedford, but you deserve the movies put downs! "},{"Title":"Any frat boy will find crude but hilarious lunacy in 'Road Trip'","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip (2000) Breckin Meyer, Seann William Scott, Amy Smart, Paulo Costanzo, DJ Qualls, Tom Green, Rachel Blanchard, Anthony Rapp, Fred Ward, Andy Dick, Horatio Sanz, Jessica Cauffiel, D Todd Phillips. College guy suspects his girlfriend is cheating on him, so he takes free time by settling down with another girl, makes a videotape of them having sex and mails it to her . . . but after realizing he made a big mistake, he and his buddies go on a wild road trip to retrieve it. Wild, raunchy teen-sex comedy is surprisingly funny and entertaining; it has enough gratuitous female nudity and lowbrow frat-boy humor for its intended audience crowd to howl over. 94 min., rated R. ** ½ "},{"Title":"Road Trip","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think Road trip is one of the finniest movies i have seen in a long time - whenever i feel bored or down, i watch Road Trip and the comedy brings me to life. Also, one of the funniest actors Seann William Scott is in it, and his humour and the script are a good combination.I am a fan of the directors movies (apart from Road trip Todd Phillips has directed Old School, another comedy gem of a movie)Keep up the good work dude!!In my opinion this movie, along with the American Pie trilogy has boosted the 'Teen Comedy' movie genre, and it is now a popular kind of movie people want to see. Road trip deserves credit where it is due.Overall a great comedy movie!! "},{"Title":"Not the best teen comedy, but a very good one","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The R-rated teen comedies is a fairly new genre, that has created numerous films of varying quality over the past few years. The best of them is arguably American Pie, and while this one comes close, it just doesn't reach the same high level of quality. It is, however, very close. The plot is very good; it's based on a mix-up(an uncommon mix-up, but not an entirely unbelievable one, I suppose), and on various situations that most teen guys could definitely relate to. The acting is good, all of the leads give pretty good performances, as well as most of the supporting characters. Of course, a somewhat well-known teen-movie actor Seann William Scott is expected to be good, but Amy Smart, Paulo Costanzo, DJ Qualls and Breckin Meyer impressed me, partly because I hadn't seen them in any other movies. The characters are well-written, credible and you can mostly relate to them. The humor is great; it's typical R-rated teen comedy humor, and it's really done great. It's hardly ever overplayed, and there aren't really any of the gags or jokes that fall flat. What puts this slightly below American Pie on the overall entertainment scale is the way this seems to be in a rush to get done with many scenes, and just squeeze as many jokes and gags out in as short time as possible, in order to get to the next scene; American Pie mastered the art that is pacing. It was laid-back, calm and easy to get used to. This has so much stuff crammed into it in such a short amount of time that if you don't pay attention you might miss something. It also has fewer situations that you can relate to than American Pie. One thing that this film has a great amount of is re-watch value; I've seen it no less than ten times now, and I'm not the slightest bit tired of it, which is more than what I can say about American Pie. All in all, a pretty good R-rated teen comedy, but not the best. I recommend it to any fan of teen comedies. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Road Trip is my FAVORITE MOVIE!! WOOT!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woot!  Holy carp this movie kicks total arse.  I've watched it how many times since I got it?!  Haha.  Every guy in that movie is gorgeous too, even Kyle--he's cute because he's so innocent!  Amy Smart is so pretty too.  Ah, I just love that movie.  Just finished watching it again actually =).  Tom Green is a genius, I'd just like to add that.  The Tom Green show was my fave show when it was on and I would watch it every day it was on.  I love that man, he is hillarious.  I've seen all his movies and stuff too, gotta love the Green =P.  I voted the movie 10 star rating.  This movie is so funny (can you tell I'm trying to fill up the 10 line minimum here?).  I'd like to see more the actor that played Rubin.  He's really talented!  Congrats to everyone who was in the movie!  When are you guys coming out w/ a Road Trip 2?!???!I WANT A ROAD TRIP ENCORE!! "}{"Title":"This movie is just plain dumb","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Admittedly I am not a teenager, so who knows, maybe if you are a teenager this movie is funny!I thought American Pie was pretty funny, and I laughed at Something About Mary, so that should give you some idea of my sense of humor.This movie is just plain un-funny. Tom Greene adds nothing to it, in fact, I could not understand why they even wrote in his part. He has a running gag throughout the movie which is so NOT funny, it isn't even funny!The premise is okay - a guy has to go cross-country in order to intercept a sex tape with some girl (Amy Smart) before it gets to his girlfriend where it was mailed by mistake. Seeing Amy Smart get topless for 10 seconds or so was pretty much the highlight of the whole movie.The plot gets dumber and dumber towards the 2nd half; it seems like the writers were going Okay, we've got these guys running across country in a mini-bus, now what can we have them do that would be funny? They came up with some ideas, though none of them are very funny and none of them make any sense. There are a couple of funny scenes, but nothing worth wading through all the bad ones to get to.Don't bother with this movie. It sucks. "},{"Title":"Wow, sweet movie dude, sweet movie.","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Forget all other comedies for now, since this one has everything, a really f**ked up Tom Green, some sick scenes, breasts, very nice I might add, some excellent bums too, and the most amazing big black girl I have ever seen. She is hot, and she is huge. There are a lot of funny moments in the movie too. Its is a blokes comedy though, although for some bits, women watch and learn. This movie rules. Maybe leave your brain at the door though. Also to make clear how good this movie is, I saw it in German, and it was still funny. This is rare for any joke to be funny in German. "},{"Title":"doesn't quite rise above the premise but still pretty funny","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A comedy that can be viewed as hilarious and offensive at the same time. A harried college student in upstate New York struggles to maintain his grades, and a long-distance relationship with his high school sweetheart who's enrolled at the University of Texas. After having a one-night stand with a sexy co-ed, he and his buddies embark on a cross-country road trip to intercept a tape of the incriminating footage that he accidentally mailed to his girlfriend. Enough gratuitous, gross-out, drug-related humor to satisfy the target audience, though some viewers may be offended by the film's racy content. Doesn't revolutionize the college film genre, but it isn't mean and is often very funny. **½ "},{"Title":"hilarious rip off","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll be very brief here, what can I say about this film. Yes its funny, yes its witty, but as for originality this film is the ultimate in ripping off other films. I have just been brought to the attention of a film called 'Overnight Delivery', and after having watched this film which incidentally was made in 1996, I began to think that there needs to be some serious injection into the creation process of these 'teenie' movies,as Road Trip was literally the tail of this movie, and for this reason i give overnight delivery a poor 5/10 and road trip a 7/10 for comedy and 0/10 for originality. Admittedly I am probably not extremely accurate with my facts but even still, watch and see. "},{"Title":"American Pie-ish, but not up to it","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The jokes in this film are very good and very much up to American Pie, considering the laughter and all. But it was not up to American Pie, considering the grossness and the crudeness of the jokes (except a few really good ones), which are actually not visual ones. So far so good, but what really f..ks up this movie is it's frame story (the high school tour) and Tom Green. Not that Tom Green does not play the character good. I just feel that the whole character kind of sucks, except for one o two things. I mean the thing when he's like, can I feed the snake is cool and when he goes on about it, but that's basically it, he is not funny!Also I do not like the interruptions in the film, when they jump back to the tour. They kind of hold you back, while you are trying to get into the story. Best character in this one is E.L. played by Seann &#145;American Pie' William &#145;Final Destination' Scott.In the end this would have gotten an 8. But you know of a movie I think the ending is very important for my grade and as the ending sucked (the end end with Tom Green (again!)) it's only a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Decent adventure but not funny in comedy","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip takes place more on the road than in the college and this can be seen as a good thing. The adventure was okay but the movie really wasn't that funny. Im a fan of the American Pie series (first 3) but this movie just wasn't all that people were saying about it. There were many unnecessary stops along the way. Most of those detours involve the Sacred Duo of Collegiate Intemperance mood-altering substances and sex. There's a stop to make deposits at a sperm bank when they run out of money. There's a stop at a college where they end up partying with members of a black fraternity, and where Kyle loses his virginity to a larger woman. And there's an overnight stay with an elderly couple (Barry's grandparents) where the grizzled man of the house gets stoned and hallucinates a conversation with his dog. However none of this things were as funny as it sounds. The group of friends were okay with the exception of Rubin and Kyle (they were both utterly annoying, specifically Rubin).Only it's just not all that funny. Unlike the pointlessly message-mongering American Pie, Road Trip never pretends to be anything more than a cesspool of moral depravity. It's even refreshing in a twisted way that the girl who seduces Josh -- inspiring the cross-country recovery mission in the first place. But Road Trip's singularity of purpose doesn't translate into much manic energy. Its low-brow set pieces are pitched at obvious incongruities the pairing of rail-thin Kyle with his substantial ladyfriend, an old man sporting can obvious erection, the macho E.L. delighting in a prostate massage. There's not much of a sense of comic discovery to Road Trip's gags; they're the gags teenagers are expected to laugh at. I did like the ending, the way they showed the friends lives in the near future. That was one positive thing about this laugh-free comedy "},{"Title":"Engineered","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The substance of this is the same old stuff. Tired, unreachably stupid. Juvenile. But its been engineered with a few folding tricks to make it palatable. Folding is a collection of narrative devices that place the viewer in the story, thereby engaging us more deeply. Its clear that the authors of this are just dummies who brought to an advanced script lab and they fixed it so that it would make money.Look at two devices here. The first is that they story we pay to see is told as a story by Tom Green to a bunch of hapless innocents. They become entranced as we are supposed to. During the telling his own notions distort the story. There's a particular scene early in the thing where this is burned into us. He describes a simple conversation among some girls. But in his version, they are nude and topless, and it becomes in the folded reality.The other device is that while we watch a video, the plot revolves around attempts to keep someone from watching a video. She's a pretty redhead, as any solid narrative engineer would have it. Everyone else isn't.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Inverse Homer","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Road Trip' is a much more satisfying version of Homer's 'Odyssey' than the Coens' latest film - its irony is smarter, as Ulysses and his warriors leave Ithaca to find (and deceive) faithful Penelope.  A gallery of grotesques and threats punctuate the frequently hilarious adventures one unnerving sequence bravely tackles the teen movie's tacit racism head on.  Of course, this is yet another story about puberty - Josh must leave behind the remnants of his past to begin his life properly; his friends have similar albatrosses - mad fathers; sexual identity crises; fears of failure and madness.  Unlike the 'Odyssey', appropriate to its 21st century setting, it is adultery, sirens and lotus-eating, not fidelity and ascetism that are celebrated. "},{"Title":"Funny DESPITE Tom Green","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Four friends must make a road trip when a home-made sex tape is accidentally mailed to a girl one of the friends still loves. What follows is madcap hijinks This is the only good movie that Tom Green will EVER be in. Mainly because the film never centers on Green himself. And all the parts of the film that he is in fall flat. Whenever the movie focuses on the trip itself it's pretty funny. And at just a smidgen over an hour and a half it doesn't overstay it's welcome, I mean besides Tom Green of course. Man oh man do i hate the douche.My Grade B-DVD Extras Behind the scenes featurette; Eels music video; cast and crew bios; deleted scenes; Teaser and Theatrical Trailers DVD-Rom Screensaver & Trivia gameEye Candy Aliya Campbell, Amy Smart, Bridgett Wise, Aerica D'Amaro, and Jaclyn DeSantis all get topless "},{"Title":"This movie makes me want to take a road trip!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If only real college life could be this fun. I totally think that it is a lot like American Pie because of the humor style and the fact that it has Seann William Scott in it. But I definately wish they would come out with a sequal to this movie. I own this movie and actually watch it like once a week. I even bought the sound track. Also, I thought it was cool that the group of Road Trippers ventured off into the deep south and visited a black college campus. That was probably one of the funniest scenes in it. The guys may not look like Justin Timberlake but by the end of the movie women will definately come to lust over these characters.  "}{"Title":"Utter Garbage...","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While there are scenes that do provoke mild laughter, this movie ultimately has no reasonable plot, if it had any kind of plot at all. It doesn't have any real point at all, and I won't even bother going into detail with this picture except that it deserves to be left forgotten in the film vault. Let the damned negative deteriorate, or incinerate it even! If this movie had no vulgarity, profanity, and crude sexual implications to support it, it would not have been a movie at all, which shows just how hollow the story and production really are. Now, I don't mind a film that would have any of these characteristics if it helps to supplement the realism of the story, but if those three things are all that the movie has to rely on, or if any of them are overused, the film will end up becoming crap-o-vision, and this film qualifies as crap because it doesn't really have a story with any kind of depth, only a way to satisfy perversion. This film is not art, it is a repulsive waste.  If this film, and Scary Movie are any indications of the kind of direction the American cinema is headed towards, then we are producing ourselves to self-destruction. Whatever happened to a presentation with intelligence, or does Hollywood think the audience is too lazy and stupid to think intelligently? A two thumbs down accompanied with two middle fingers up. - Reinhart (And this is all coming from an American 19 year old, so all is not lost for teens.) "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood Eyesore","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, so my friend rents this with the intent of us both being drunk and watching an apparently funny film that he has seen and has assured me I will like.  On beginning the film, I start to make fun but then I see Ivan Reitman directed the film, the director of Ghostbusters surely can't make a bad film. Now I admit, I laughed a couple scenes. Mainly only at Tom Green and the mouse interacting. The mouse was definetly the best actor in the film.My question now is WHY? Why do Americans keep spending their hard-earned bacon to watch such trash? Are they so incapable of entertaining themselves that feel the need to watch this flotsam? I am sick and tired of pop-culture teeny-bopper films. We have seen a glut of these in the past couple years.Now back to my comments on the film. Ivan, if you happen to read this one day, what happened to you man? You go from directing what is possibly the best comedy film ever conceived (Ghostbusters) to a product of the Hollywood factory, just the same and as unmemorable as everything else out there.I feel that I lost 1.5 hours of my life and I want them back. Sadly, that will probably not happen. I got more laughs out of Battlefield Earth which was meant to be serious than this piece of celluloid that will hopefully fade into oblivion as so many other films of this type already have. One last parting thought Whatever happened to teen films like The Breakfast Club and Animal House? Have people forgotten how to make films like those? "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie ever made. It has all the lameness of American Pie and more. The plot is lame, the acting is atrocious, and it's not even funny. Even Tom Green couldn't save this pathetic excuse for a movie. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. It is extremely boring and the plot is really f*cked up. I'm sorry I wasted my time on this movie. Don't make the same mistake I did. DO NOT see this movie!! You will regret it forever. My rating 0/10.0/10 "},{"Title":"Ouch, I'm glad I didn't pay to see this.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes I feel guilty about watching an MPEG rip, but in this case I'm very, very glad that I didn't pay money to see this insipid reworking of Animal House / Caddyshack.  It's a joyless grind, and don't watch without an umbrella because it practically hisses and spits its contempt of you out of the screen.  There's no joy or originality in here, just cynically calculated formulaic sex-pain-gross fest.  You don't even get the feeling that it might have been fun to shoot, like American Pie.If you liked this film, well, then I hope you paid money to see it.  You deserve to get screwed. "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Comedy","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the University of Ithaca, while showing the campus to the new students and their relatives, the veteran Barry Manilow (Tom Green) tells the love story of his friend Josh Parker (Breckin Meyer). Josh had a girlfriend, Tiffany Henderson (Rachel Blanchard), who went to the University of Austin, and they promised to be faithful to each other. However, Josh has an affair with the delicious Beth Wagner (Amy Smart), and they taped it. One of his friends sends the tape to Tiffany by mistake, and Josh decides to travel to Austin in the company of three friends to retrieve the videotape before Tiffany sees it. Road Trip is a very funny comedy. Using the same storyline of Overnight Delivery (1998), with Paul Rudd and Reese Witherspoon, Road Trip is so hilarious that made laugh almost uninterruptedly with the humorous situations created by this group of students. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Caindo na Estrada (Going to the Road) "},{"Title":"Hilarious Road Comedy","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip was another outrageous movie written by Todd Philips and Scot Armstrong. You may not think, but this movie contains a lot of hilarious moments. It is almost like twenty years after the 80's ended we got yet another movie that seemed like the 80's era, but this was actually very funny. You might not think so because most movies that spin off like an 80's movie normally suck, but this was very good. Breckin Meyer was moderately funny for a change starring alongside Seann William-Scott among others. This is really worth checking out because it was a outrageous road movie that really delivered in the laugh department. Very funny stuff.7/10 "},{"Title":"This is very funny!","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Going on a road trip would be an adventure of a lifetime. However, if something you sent to someone is inappropriate and want it back, then it can be totally hilarious. In Road Trip you got a guy who has a long-distance relationship with a long time friend. They go to different colleges after high school, and then then try to move on into the future. I can understand something like that. But when a new girl comes into his life, and makes a very explicit film, that was meant for him, not to his longtime girlfriend. So when he and his pals go all the way from Ithaca, New York to Austin, Texas. It was going to be the trip of a lifetime for everyone! First, the car goes to pieces after a long jump, then the credit card gets maxed out. The crew goes to an all-black college in Tennessee when the frat brothers there play a Klan joke on Kyle(DJ Qualls). In return, he gets lucky with a plus sized girlfriend. WHOOOAAAA! Getting flipped off by a blind girl is unbelievable, and being at a diner can be a scary thing for anyone. Tom Green did a very great job being the TA and trying to get the python to eat a mouse. Great movie, great fun, this is an improvement from TomKats! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"American Pie meets driving","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although this has the exact same plot Overnight Delivery had, and roughly the same plot every other road movie had, I'll let it slide because they've found a good use for it. Actors like Breckin Meyer, Paulo Costanzo and DJ Qualls (yet another comedy face trying to get into serious stuff) may not be all that great but they're perfect teen hijink comedy material. You could say Seann William Scott sleepwalks through another Stifler performance, but he cleverly tones it down a bit so you care this time. Once it gets on the road, the fun you'd expect from the plot really does begin. Comedy set pieces start piling up, each more unpredictable than the last, except for the obligatory car troubles and the pretty obvious conclusion. The major plot is the achilles heel of this movie, which isn't as bad as it sounds. Most of all, it's just really funny. It all just works, whether it's stupid and obvious or slightly less stupid and obvious, it makes me laugh. Also contains a topless Amy Smart, which I didn't boo either. "},{"Title":"More Tom Green would of saved this movie","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i thought this film could have benefited from having more Tom Green moments.As he is the only person in the film worth watching and i am not just saying that as a Tom Green fan. I like Amy Smart and co and i think their acting is better in so many other films. but this...oh dear. i can;t believe they stooped this low.The film is very dry and boring (if you understand what i am saying by that) the only thing that kept me watching was to see if Tom Green did anything outrageous or even saved the dying film. But i may as well have watched the Tom green Show. It was;t a good movie it was;t even an average movie. In my opinion very poorly written and money was wasted for this is a cash in on the American pie genre of films that have drowned the film industry since it's creation. "},{"Title":"Road Trip Rocks!","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the best road movie for teens. It's one of my favourite road movies since Thelma and Louise. Josh Parker goes to a different college from his childhood/highschool sweetheart Tiffany. So Josh's friend E.L. says that the only way Josh is gonna get laid, is to go to a party at his house and hook up with a chick, Beth. So Josh goes to the party, and he ends up having sex with her, and they videotape it. Josh also sends his girlfriend in Austin, TX video messages, but his roommate accidentally ships out the video tape. Oh man, what's our boy Josh going to do. Well, he might take 2 of his friends and a nerd DJ Qualls, to help him out with the cash, as the 4 college freshmen go to Austin, Texas to attempt to try and get the video back before it reaches Tiffany. Will they succeed? One things for sure, it's going to be one heck of a party! I loved this movie, I thought it was really funny, and was very happy to see Seann W. Scott in this flick. Keep in mind though, that it does have some humor that teens and adults mostly male will enjoy. Me, I'm a female and I still loved it, because it was pretty funny, the cast was pretty well chosen. Oh, did I mention that Tom Green is in this movie to, and his name happens to be Barry Manilow. Wow..., no he doesn't portray the singer, it's just a name that they have in common.I'm giving this movie 8 out of 10, because yes, it was funny, it had some tender moments, mostly big laughs, the cast was well chosen, the lines unforgettable (my brother and me still repeat some of them to this day). Unfortunately I was a little bit disappointed that Tom Green doesn't have a bigger part, because I think he's something. However, yes it is a pretty good movie if you love potty humor and sexual jokes. "}{"Title":"As Cartmen would say That was hella cool","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ummmmm, what can i say about Roadtrip?, this movie was extremely funny. It brings you non-stop laughs. This is a movie about a dude named err, i forget what he was named but whatever, he has been love with a girl named Tiffany Henderson since he was like 5 years, after high school they both go to their separate colleges. Josh (I remember now) goes to Ithaca, New York and Tiffany goes to Austin, Texas. This is going to be there most challenging...challenge? yet; A long distance relationship. Josh is unable to get in touch with tiffany on a weekend they were supposed to talk on the phone and he thinks that she is possibly cheating on him. So he goes out and scr*ws some other chick (Amy Smart) and in an attempt to show Josh how wild she is, She decides to tape it. In the morning, Josh awakes to a terrible surprise, his friend Ruben mailed it to his girlfriend thinking it was a gift for tiffany. This is where their adventure begins.So off Josh goes to Austin to get the tape before Tiffany gets it. He brings along the usual suspects in this type of movie 1)E.L, a man on a mission To have s*x with as many girls as possible before graduation. 2)Ruben, a pot smoking genius 3)Kyle, a loser who has a car so naturally, they bring him along in exchange for the car.All the way they encounter lots of different things Car blows up, donating sperm, stealing a bus from a blind chick, a pot smoking gram pa and getting laid.When you go into the theater, you do not expect this to be very good, you think this is going to be all about s*x, drugs, and alcohol, but guess what? its not, its much more than that, it has friendship and whatever.WARNING I do suggest that you see this movie on a guys night out, this is not really a movie to see with your girlfriend as there is a lot of nudity (female) and sex. (unless of course she likes that kind of stuff, then by all means bring her too. ;) )So all in all this was an extremely funny film with loads to laugh about. GO WATCH IT!! "},{"Title":"the hemp smoking dog","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" what kind of a dog is that? i've been looking all over and can't find what kind of breed it is. can anyone help me out? what kind of a dog is that? i've been looking all over and can't find what kind of breed it is. can anyone help me out? what kind of a dog is that? i've been looking all over and can't find what kind of breed it is. can anyone help me out? what kind of a dog is that? i've been looking all over and can't find what kind of breed it is. can anyone help me out? what kind of a dog is that? i've been looking all over and can't find what kind of breed it is. can anyone help me out? what kind of a dog is that? i've been looking all over and can't find what kind of breed it is. can anyone help me out? "},{"Title":"a film everyone should watch","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" may contain spoilers this is a film you expect within the first ten minutes is all about drugs, sex and partying, but it isn't. this is truly a great film about friends and other important things in life. now there is nudity, drugs and heavy sex, but who cares. its about a guy named josh parker who is dating this girl named tiffany Henderson in Austin Texas. while in the university of Ithaca, josh's friend EL convinces him to sleep with a hottie on campus named beth. one night on a party, josh and beth have sex and record it on tape. Josh is the kind of guy who sends video tapes to his other girl friend tiffany to tell her how much he loves her. well there was a mix up and the sex tape is sent off to tiffany, so josh, El, Kyle and Rubin all go on a ROAD TRIP to get it back. on the way they encounter a semi blind woman, sperm donations, a dope smoking grandpa and A lot OF LAUGHS!!! ENJOY 10/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know why, but I was looking forward to this one. I'd read the premise and I just liked it. And none of us were disappointed.It's not great cinema; it's not supposed to be. Just remember what it's supposed to be and if you're all right with that you'll have a good time.This has Tom Green so you're going to see some really wild and weird over the top stuff - and again, if you're all right with that you'll have a good time.Several scenes had us yelping 'gross' and others had one or another cheering.There's a lot of nudity and what may be called 'extremely soft core' sex but it's cool. Some of the girls are hot - especially Smart who just does a very good job. Look for Fred Ward as well and your life won't be the same after doing business with Andy Dick.And no movie of this type would be complete without a contribution by Dee Snider, even though there is more from our own generation. "},{"Title":"A Trip of a Lifetime..","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the grand tradition of teen comedies such as American Pie, Porkies et al, this film has a simple sex-based plot.Josh has remained faithful to his girlfriend throughout his time at college, despite her residing 2000 miles away, until one night of passion with the delectable Beth. As any normal bloke would do, he videotaped this act for prosperity. Unfortunately, his roommate accidentally sent the tape to his girlfriend!This is the cue for Josh and his mates to embark upon a road trip across America in order to intercept the tape. As with all these types of films, there are great comedic moments one after the other. The actors are perfectly cast, with Tom Green (from MTV fame) as the narrator providing some excellent gags, especially with the snake!I rate this movie as a lot better than most of the recent gross-out teen comedies - just remember to never swallow mice! "},{"Title":"great movie!!!","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK. so i am a (strait) girl with a lot of guy friends. Needless to say, i spend a lot of time watching guy movies. And I mean a LOT of time. But out of all of the millions of these kinds of movies that I have seen,Road Trip was definitely in the top five. I loved it and was laughing for like hours after the movie was over, but even though this movie doesn't have a lot of it, if you're a girl watching the uncensored version and you don't like partial nudity...this movie is definitely not for you. And if you are a girl and you don't want your boyfriend seeing other girls naked, make sure he doesn't watch this movie. Though it's not at bad as EuroTrip... "},{"Title":"The best teen movie!","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is, in my opinion the best teen movie ever made. It's stupid, simple and crazy, but it's never too far from reality. This could have been a true story- it could have happened! And that's only one of many reasons to why I like it. Another reason is the acting and the unforgettable characters. The casting is flawless. Seann William Scott-What a delight! Perfect bad boy and very, very funny. DJ Qualls is the PERFECT nerd, and Anthony Rapp is also good as Jacob, the butt-licking teacher student. But one actor steals the show- Tom Green! You can't get more crazy than that guy, at least I hope not! The script is nice, the plot is simple but good and works all the way. The unrated version is the only version you should see- nice chicks and, as Tom Green puts it..Naked..really naked!! "},{"Title":"Hamlet, Ibsen or Bergman it ain't!!!!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Many of our younger friends thinks that the elder (over 30) gives their kinda movies bad votes! So when I now had the chance to see this movie I will try look at this with a fresh look! With all the twists and turns of the story it could have been much more funny if they had made more of the Boston Episode. The blind buses episode! As it is it just end with a finger! (As it is it shows that it's OK to steal a buss from disabled!) Could have been made much much better. One guy smokes Maurijahna! and it's cool! and that rocks the movie in the downwards direction. There is a talking dog!!! that doesn't reason with the rest of the movie! But the story in itself about a guy wanna travel faster than US. mail is still a good story!!!! "},{"Title":"Horray For the Road!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ahhh, the college road trip. A rite of passage to be sure, and to make even more money, Road Trip features a road trip involving a sex tape. That's what will get the teenagers in the door. The movie is funny at times, grotesque at others, it's a mish-mash of sketches pieced together as a group of four freshmen go from Ithaca, NY to Austin, TX, which is not near Boston which is one of the more perplexing mix-ups that occur, seemingly to add 10 minutes to the movie, and nothing more. Seann William Scott, of Stifler fame, plays Stifler in a car, while he and Breckin Meyer (I believe he turned 32 during filming), Paulo Costanzo, and required dork-character DJ Qualls all pile into a car and head out on the road player characters who have names, but they don't matter, it's just the stereotype they play that helps us keep the characters straight. The Meyer character has a girlfriend that goes to some school in Austin, Texas (though not the University of Texas), and after one lonely and beer filled night, he hooks up with Amy Smart, and sends the video evidence to his girlfriend. Regretting that decision, he has to get to Austin before the mail does, so they drive. When you think speed, you think driving from upstate New York to Texas. Anyway, there are interesting people and interesting sights along the way from point A to point B that amuse or disgust, depending on who you are. I will say, if I see Horatio Sanz as my waiter, no French Toast for me. For reasons that aren't fully understood, Tom Green is in this movie, seen putting a mouse in his mouth. Whatever, it does have a little bit of humor, some breasts, so boys 14-20 will like this movie. The rest of us? The few jokes that do come along are often countered by the gross jokes that fail as humor. "},{"Title":"Trashy but fun","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just can't appreciate Tom Green's humor that much. Though he's not as corny as Austin Powers, his comedy is just not my cup of tea. That scene where he licked this white mouse is rather sickening.The real fun was brought by Seann William Scott, and I liked that dialogue of his when he was frank enough to say to the nerd guy that yeah, just lend us your car, something like that. But what I didn't like in his part was that gross alternative for sex which he asked to be done to him in the sperm bank.Breckin Meyer was the serious, suave character here, and I guess he carried out his role pretty well.The juicy part was not the locker room scene, but the scene where Amy Smart went topless and had sex with Breckin Meyer, which was thought to be videotaped. But I wish she had just worn a polo or blouse and unbuttoned it in front of him, but braless is still the way to go!Overall rating 5.5/10 "}{"Title":"Good for what it is.","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Josh and Tiffany are the perfect couple. They have been together since they can remember and nothing seems to be able to come between them, except when they get accepted into separate colleges (Josh at Ithaca, Tiffany at Austin (not Boston)). Things get complicated, Josh thinks Tiffany is done with him, and hooks up with campus hot-stuff Beth -- on videotape. Morning after, it turns out that Tiffany had not blown him off, but it's too late, as this videotape was accidentally mailed to her. Now the Road Trip begins. Josh and three of his friends hit the road to Austin to get to the tape before Tiffany can see what is on it, thus horribly ruining their strong relationship. Road Trip pretty much goes for some cheap laughs, but it doesn't matter because this movie is funny all the way through. This movie came along right after the American Pie craze, and it's easy to see that in the movie. The humor is very similar, and even stars AP star Sean William Scott, who has more than a few memorable lines/moments. Breckin Meyer (Freddy's Dead, Rat Race) plays Josh, DJ Qualls plays the horny geek Kyle, and Paul Costanzo plays Rubin, the insightful pothead of the group. Also joined in the cast are Tom Green, Amy Smart, Andy Dick and Horatio Sanz (The French Toast Guy! You'll never go out for breakfast ever again after that). Favorite moments include the sperm-bank and the stoned grandfather talking to his dog. If you want some good, cheap laughs, take a Road Trip.7/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How anyone cannot like this movie is beyond me.  While its no Godfather, its an excellent movie.  Its sad to see that people would actually give this move a 1 or 2 rating, I say these people have no sense of humor, and they should not even be watching this movie.  I give this movie 8 out of 10.  I tell everyone I know to watch it.  Go rent this movie, no dont rent it buy it, you will be happy you did. "},{"Title":"I think this movie is better than American Pie","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many people seem to think that American Pie is funnier that this, but I think it's only because it came first. I have watched this movie ~10 times, but I couldn't watch AP more than two times. I don't really know why... "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  so-so, college/teens only","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip contains a few bits of comedy, but overall is rather sedate.It's really geared towards the teenage and college crowd.Despite the promos, comedian Tom Green is hardly in the film.There's a little nudity to titillate the hormonally challenged, and that's about it.Who should see this film-- teens / college types with nothing to do on a rainy day-- I can't think of anyone else.I'll give Road Trip a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, this movie is inspired by American Pie but it's definitely better. Even though it is a modern comedy, its humor is based on 80's films like Porky's and this I believe makes 'Road Trip' a winner. The cast is great, especially Seann William Scott who does a great Jim Carrey impersonation throughout the whole movie. Paulo Costanzo's acting reminds me a lot of Jeff Goldblum and Tom Green is totally crazy! There is great balance between a quite strong storyline (well, it's a race against time) and the jokes, which makes 'Road Trip' the best comedy around since the first Farreli movies.Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Diminishing returns","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nothing really wrong with this film, but it's not as funny as American Pie, which wasn't as funny as Something about Mary etc, etc. When the next one of these gross out movies comes along, and we're saying it's okay, but it's not as funny as Road Trip then we'll be in trouble.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant cast in a brilliant movie.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you've got a cast off such talented people Breckin Meyer, Seann William Scott, Paulo Costanzo, DJ Qualls, Amy Smart, Rachel Blanchard, and of course Tom Green. (Barry Manilow-LOL.) Not forgetting Grandma Manilow-Ellen Albertini Dow who always puts on a cute and very good performance in a film. Road Trip was bound to be brilliant and of course it was. The whole film-From  beginning to end was absolutely great and so VERY funny. You just have to love it. Road Trip is one of the best comedies you will ever see. So, if you haven't seen it. You must. It's a great film. 10/10  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the greatest! I am a woman and still enjoyed this movie! It is so hilarious! Ruben the pothead is awesome! E.L. is hilarious! I recommend this movie to everyone who liked American Pie! What'd you do, skin a cheetah?  "},{"Title":"If you're looking for a real road trip, try Overnight Delivery","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not denying the movie had its moments. The different characters in the movie (i.e. tense pothead, nerdy type kid, and Tom Green who deserves a category of his own) gave the film a nice blend of comedy..BUT the whole plot has been done before two years ago in Overnight Delivery starring Paul Rudd and Reese Witherspoon. This movie relies way too much on sexuality and nudity to draw an audience (therefore mainly consisting of male adolescence). I found the nudity to be unnecessary and at times disgusting. I recommend Overnight Delivery to the younger teens before they see Road Trip. "},{"Title":"For some reason i feel like hitting tom green over the head with a 4x4","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  oh my god what a waste of time.  Tom Green is so stupid, and he looks ugly as hell when he makes them animal noises.  When he put the rat in his mouth, i felt so sorry for the rat, since now its all nasty cause of tom green's mouth. Josh was cool, but thats about it, and that blonde girl looks good, but thats about it.  Lame ass story line, and almost everyone else in the movie made me want to crucify them. i hate movies like this, because i wish they spent the money for this movie on saving the rainforest of preserving wild eagles or something.  But thats about it on this dumb ass movie "}{"Title":"Funny, but nothing special.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is nothing special, but it has its moments. Tom Green is easily the best and funniest thing in the movie. There's some nice unnecessary nudity in it too. The Sub-plot with Beth traveling to Boston was pointless. Plus Some of the jokes were obvious. Overall, its nothing special, but its funny. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Crass but funny college lampoon","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Road Trip' is sometimes funny, occasionally hilarious, but mostly puerile and sophomoric.  It is yet another boorish lampoon of college life that relies on heavy doses of outrageousness, crassness and crudely sexual jokes to lure its audience.  It was successful in this regard, grossing (no pun intended) close to $70 million on a meager $15 million budget.  The film clearly targets MTV males and it knows its audience, offering plenty of gratuitous female nudity and chauvinistic aphorisms like, `It's not cheating if you're not in the same area code.'  I really don't have a problem with nudity, but having half a dozen scenes that linger gapingly on topless women who don't contribute anything to the story is nothing more than tasteless voyeurism used to pump up the testosterone factor.The story itself is a flimsy and predictable excuse for a sitcom.  Writer/Director Todd Phillips throws so much outlandish foolishness at the audience that he can't help but get a laugh every few minutes.  In this regard, I have to give him credit for a job well done.  He manages the actors and the comedy bits well and keeps the pace up.The acting is probably the best part of the film.  Breckin Meyer is excellent as the tortured hero trying to beat the videotape of his indiscretion to his girlfriend's dorm room.  Meyer has a dry and deadpan wit that works well with all the inanity around him.  MTV veteran Tom Green is so far around the bend in this film that he can see his own derriere.  Green is a master of shock comedy and will do or say anything to get a reaction, including eating a live mouse.  My favorite newcomer was DJ Qualls who played Kyle, the bashful geek whose looks alone provided continual physical comedy.I usually enjoy lowbrow slapstick comedy but this was zanier than even I could handle.  I rated it a 6/10.  Add two points if you are in college and another two points if you are a male 25 or under.  This film is not for the genteel or for those offended by vulgarity, nudity or promiscuity. "},{"Title":"Yet another waste of money...","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, it was an 'ok' film... but I just cant understand why so much money is spent on films that are more to 'make' money rather than quality.Few cheap laughs, few good laughs, but it's all been seen before - got the 'Can Guess The Ending' feel - which doesn't leave you unhappy.See it if you must, if you miss it - don't worry, you haven't missed much apart from saving yourself some money. "},{"Title":"Good 'oh my godscenes on an Animal House Road Trip.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK. Let's make a movie about college kids... oh make it boys, who have trouble with their girlfriends. Now, they do a lot of drinking and there's more sex than anyone really experiences in this life. Then, they talk their nerdy friend into letting them use the car he has on loan from a relative to take a wild trip to help straighten out their heads. Somewhere let's have all these white boys get into an all black establishment, and get some mileage out of their paranoia. We can call it...Animal House!  Alright, so there are many plot similarities, but what is original any more? As a friend of mine said to me about Animal House...Oh, well, you like that, don't you. Road Trip has the requisite male sex jokes to bring groans, enough but not too much sex, and a road trip that's pretty fun. I saw it with my brother-in-law and it helps to see it with another guy who can appreciate stupid and gross. Seann William Scott is engaging as the wise guy friend and instigator, and the plot elements vary enough from the Animal House similarities to make them interesting. I laughed enough to make it worth the $2.00. And yeah, I did like American Pie. It's a better film than this as far as young male sexuality goes. Now, I have never seen Tom Green on MTV. I understand he's pretty wild and sometimes entertaining. He's just kind of weird in this movie. He didn't show me anything special. I did know guys like him in college, and they bugged the living hell out of me. But, that's me. Some good Oh my God scenes here that make the movie fun enough.  "},{"Title":"I was surprised...I usually hate this kind of movie","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And I don't usually care for Tom Green either, but he's pretty funny here (much more overstated than usual).  Also, Road Trip is less gross than most movies of its type.  Though there are a couple gross parts, the film usually goes for humor in its dialogue, which is always the best way.  Not an instant classic or anything, but an entertaining diversion, I'd say.  7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was  great! It  got such great funny gags. The scene with the old man was extremely funny. Tom Green was great. He was great in this movie, but I think he should appear more often in this film. This film is right up there with American Pie, in my opinion. I give this film 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sperm donors, tasty mice, and stolen buses, oh my!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Picture Porky's, that 80's bastion of teen raunch comedies and bane of parents. Now picture Porky's - and all of its rotten ripoffs and knock-offs - with an actual plot, one that's full of raw wit, unbridled enthusiasm for just having fun, and a genuine love for shocking its audience with intelligence. That's the heart of Road Trip, this year's American Pie.Oh sure, there's a lot of salty language. Oh yes, and some damn good nakedness too. And there's fun with animals, and voyeurism, and frat parties, and anal pleasures, and more nakedness, and...and...and...Ooops! Sorry, got carried away for a moment there. Not everyone's going to like this movie, but I sure did. While I watched it in the theatre, I actually said to the guy next to me, This is the funniest movie I have ever seen. Well, I might have exaggerated that a little bit, but there are a lot of masterfully funny scenes. So what's the plot, anyway? Seems Josh made a pact with his girlfriend to not see other people while each is away at college - and they're not at the same college, either. Well, here it is, the end of the semester, and poor Josh is weakening. When E.L. throws a massive end-of-the-year party, Josh goes and has a wild time with a gorgeous, sensitive, damn-fine-catch named Beth. Which wouldn't be so bad, maybe, except Beth wanted to VIDEOTAPE it. And that in itself might not be so bad, either (you kind of have to leave your morals at the door here, folks), except Josh has been sending these I Love You (no, not the virus) videos to his geographically displaced sweetie. And earlier in the day, he had been taping just such a message, then asked his pal Rubin to mail it for him when it rewound, since he (Josh) was late for class. Well - enough exposition - you can see what happened! Rubin mailed the illicit Beth video!And there you have the premise of this Road Trip. You see, Josh's darling doesn't go to a local school - he's in a school on Long Island, New York; she's in Texas. So Josh decides to drive there. You may ask, as pal E.L. did, why not fly? Well hey, we're talking college kids here. They don't exactly have the disposable income of a plane ticket. So off he goes, in a car provided by another pal, the geeky Kyle, and accompanied by E.L. and Rubin.So what develops is an endless supply of hilarious I-Love-Lucy situations, the kind of situations that normally seem incongruous with real life. You know - something wacky happens, then something WACKIER happens, and you see this in a movie and think, Hey! That would NEVER happen in real life! This movie sucks! And you know what? A lot of the stuff that happens to our fearless foursome does seem awfully odd; but oddly enough, it doesn't seem contrived. I could actually picture a lot of that happening to me.Oh, I knew there was something else I needed to mention - Tom Green's in this. If you're a fan of his show, you'll enjoy his completely deranged performance. If you're not a fan, you'll still love it. Green seems to fit in perfectly in this movie, with those doleful eyes belying a sensitive wit and razor-sharp mind.If you watch this movie, prepare to laugh your <bleeping> ass off. But only if you're open-minded about it. Then again, I guess there won't be too many straightlaced, proper-and-prim folks in the theater ogling all the hot women in the movie, either. I'd have to think the same hipster set that loved last year's American Pie will be all over this gem. "},{"Title":"The writers managed to copy a little about 20 different movies..","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've seen Animal House, Overnight Delivery, PCU, Can't Hardly Wait, or just The Tom Green Show on MTV, there is no need to watch this movie.  I caught myself laughing at least twice, but only at the same parts I saw in the previews.  The writers could easily be accused of theft for their copying of other people's material. "},{"Title":"Not quite worth the viewing.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Juvenile antics at its best (or is that worst) since Animal House?Not even close. Although there are some genuinely fun moments in this movie, and some of them not even performed by Tom Green, this film just doesn't quite stack up to its potential or to the enthusiasm of some other reviewers.The story is simplistic (as it needed to be) Boyfriend foolishly puts friends in charge of mailing a videocassette tape-they send the wrong one, and the road trip begins to recover the incorrect tape before it arrives in the hands of the girlfriend.You can see where this is leading, don't you?  I did.  Even with some performances that are on par with other like-fare, the movie doesn't really grab you.Tom Green, MTV nutcase, normally known for his antics, is rather subdued in his role. Probably so as to not overshadow what's really going on.  Too bad he does overshadow everything else. Hello?!  He's Tom Green, his job is to be overbearing&#133;did nobody consider that when casting?  I mist admit, I dislike Tom Green.  His humor is not funny, he's annoying, and too in your face for me; but with that said, I would admit that Tom's role is perfectly portrayed. Best line comes from Tom UNLEASH YOUR FURY, MITCH!  (You have to see it for it to be funny.)But, the rub is, this film is not quite worth the viewing. It could have been awesome, but instead it mires itself in age-old leftovers.  But if you're looking for extremely light viewing, the kind of turn-the-brain-off-and-have-popcorn-movie then you're in luck, this is exactly what you're looking for.  "},{"Title":"Repulsive, offensive and worst of all utterly unfunny.","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK I watched this film after seeing American Pie 1-3 and loving all of them very much and wanting to see something similar. This film is NOTHING like those films in ANY way unless you patronizingly call it a 'teen film'.Tom Green...how I hate him. I live in the UK and have NO idea what he has done before this film other than the opinion of American friends who despise him apparently, but he was incredibly annoying. There is a huge running 'joke' about him sadistically feeding a mouse to a snake. That IS the joke - it is supposed to be hilarious. He constantly talks to the mouse to show his control and mastery of this creature (wow - how he has evolved) and his sadistic pleasure in seeing this creature eaten alive and suffering. It is sooo hilarious don't you think? It's even funnier 'cos he's a stoner! Yes he amazingly is off his head on marijuana while torturing (literally) this animal that he controls...this is so pathetic and made such a focus of the film it spoils whatever else happens.Unfortunately nothing much else happens anyway. I have to say I was also kind of sickened by the 'milking of the gland' through the anus of the otherwise mediocre Sean William Scott who absolutely stole the show in American Pie as a likeable antihero! In this film he just coasts as a character who is almost likeable amongst the rest!I was really impressed with Sean William Scott in American Pie but if you were too, forget this, really. No-one else has anything to offer either and the whole film in every way is just utter crap.Do yourself a favour and watch American Pie 1-3 or Something About Mary, all of which which I would highly recommend, for a real laugh. Anything but this sorry non-effort.And as for taking films too seriously, don't take this film any way. I find it hard to believe this sh*t was actually filmed and thought to appeal to anyone. "}{"Title":"Minor College Comedy","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you really have nothing better to do, and you are up for a college comedy, 'Road Trip' is not the worst offer you can get. It is sexy without being too vulgar, it has some fair comedy moments, and I have certainly seen many movies that were worse directed, worse acted, or just bad taste. There is no great cinema here, just an amusing proposal to spend the 95 minutes watching a youngish sit-comedy. 5/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"The meeting between American Pie and a trite road-movie","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If I had to give my opinion on Road Trip, I would say that it's a comedy that ranks in the tradition of American movies such as There's something about Mary, Election or American pie. It means that it broaches trendy subjects of adolescence sex, drugs and girls on a comedy tone. Unfortunately, as in the quoted movies, it's a heavy and vulgar humor introduced here and as a consequence, this movie doesn't really make me laugh.Nevertheless, the movie enjoys a positive side Todd Philips, the film-maker keeps an attentive eye about the management of his actors. He makes them nice, friendly and these last ones can avoid third-rate acting. DJ Squalls is particularly irresistible in his role of shy and wavering teenager. He makes me remember of Mark E. Smith, the lead singer of the British band, The Fall.At last, I find that the screenplay isn't very inspired and it even appears conventional by moments, especially the evolution of Kyle shy at the beginning of the movie but this road-trip will make him bold and confident. moreover, the philosophy teacher's assistant is introduced as someone sly and dishonest who eager to go out with Beth.It's just an average comedy.     "},{"Title":"Not without it's funny moments.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On the cover of all the sell through DVD's and Video's it has plastered all over the cover What you didn't see at the cinema  Unseen & Explicit well after just watching this i am at a loss to as what they cut out when it was shown at the cinema. As far as adult humour goes Road Trip is quite tame compared to recent American college movies. That is not to say this film does not have any funny moment's because it does . Not enough for my liking. It has the usual college romp feel about it which is a shame because there are far to many of these type of films and i hope this is the last for a very long time. This stars Tom Green who is aparently the next big thing in the States. He obviously had an off day when he decided to star in Road Trip.Not a bad film but we have seen it all before. 6 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Tom Green Fans Steer Clear","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING  Spoilers Ahead!Tom Green is one of the funniest comics to come around in a long while.  His unconventional approach at comedy has led to his phenomenal success.  However, this film is a manufactured shell in which Green is more of a narrator rather than a real actor in the story.  In short, the joke is on you the viewer.In Road Trip, Green plays the eighth year college student who opens the film giving an orientation tour of mythical Ithaca U.  During the tour he relates a story which becomes the basis of the movie.  Apart from that involvement, Green has little more to do with the film despite occasional cameos.  I was shocked that Green wasn't even on the road trip in Road Trip.The rest of the story is okay for late night friday movie cablevision, but nothing worth paying for.  The funniest scene occurs early on when our intrepid road trippers decide to jump a downed bridge in their Ford Taurus.  While funny, the scene appears heavily borrowed from 1985's Fandango.Three out of ten is generous.  Beware Tom Green's next release it may be the same formula con. "},{"Title":"Take a full toke . . .","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At the UK premiere, the director asked if any of the audience were high. That almost, but not quite, sums up the movie. There are many college-dating-mix-up movies like Road Trip, but few pull off the comedy potential as such a gutsy accomplishment. Hilarious in your right mind, it is probably worth seeing again stoned. "},{"Title":"Disappointed silence...over-rated and a big deception","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I sat and watched the first 45 minutes in silence.  This movie disappointed me greatly and is not even close to American Pie or Something About Mary. This is a soulless barage of gags that are thrown at the audience.  One in four scenes are funny...and only worth a chuckle.  The coming attraction for this flick were WAY funnier than the real thing and some scenes weren't even in the film?!  I'm positive most of Tom Greens scenes were added WAY later to pad the running time and are alot funnier than most of the film.  Wait till it comes out on video and keep your finger on the fast-forward. "},{"Title":"Average teen comedy with little real spark to it","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Josh Parker is separated from his childhood sweetheart by college, they vow to stay together over a long distance.  When he doesn't hear from his girlfriend for a while he sleeps with another woman who, in a kinky fit, films the whole thing.  When his friends post his latest video diary to his girlfriend, Josh realises that they have sent the wrong tape and are forced to set off on a road trip to get the tape before it is collected from the college mailroom.There was a period of a few years where teen comedies were doing good business, which led, sadly, to a good few of them that weren't very good. Road Trip is very much one of the latter, it takes a silly set up (which takes far too long to get going) and doesn't do a great deal with it apart from making sex jokes that aren't that funny.  The film supports this lack of substance by showing breasts for no reason and having titillation as it's selling point rather than anything else.  As a man, of course, I appreciate the pointless appearance of naked women but I am not so shallow to assume they are anything but a poor attempt to get the audience of teenage boys to be happy while not laughing.The cast try hard enough but they can't get out of the teen moulds that they have been set into.  William-Scott plays Stifler as he always does, Meyer is the plot device, DJ Qualls is funny as the geeky and skinny one and so on. They are reasonably funny but not really that good.  Green's narrator role is quite amusing and he actually overcomes the fact that he is an annoying fool!  A strange cameo by Ward is good value.The film has plenty of energy and lots of titillation but without consistent laughs it just can't cut it.  The thing with teen sex comedies is that the laughs need to keep things enjoyable.  Here the material is too average and has been seen before, it is not a bad film but it has nothing that really makes it stand out as worth hunting down. "},{"Title":"Tom Green destroys this film. ** (out of four)","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ROAD TRIP / (2000) ** (out of four)When you're in a committed relationship and have sex with another person· It's not cheating if you're in different area codes.· It's not cheating if you're too wasted to remember it, because if you can't remember it, it never took place. · It's not cheating if you're with two people at the same time, because they cancel each other out.Interesting perspective, but Road Trip also makes clear what does qualify as cheating. The main character, a college student named Josh (Brekin Meyer), videotapes a wild night of sex during a party and accidentally mails the tape to his girlfriend. Luckily, his girl lives 1,800 miles away from Josh's Ithaca, New York residence. He gathers some of his good school buddies and heads to Austin, Texas to intercept the mail destined to destroy his relationship forever.Road Trip contains an enjoyable setup, developing the situation's urgency and the character's frenetic behavior. Everything that happens here makes perfect sense, and it isn't done in an excessively exploitative or exaggerated fashioned. During the convincing first twenty minutes, my hopes were sky high for this traditional road movie.After the intelligent first act, however, Road Trip becomes very content with itself. The humor takes a nose dive into sludge, upchucking ample amounts of crude humor, gratuitous nudity, and unfunny sight gags. Really a shame, because when the jokes are developed through character, comic timing, and unlikely situations we indeed laugh our heads off. The film does have a decent understanding of what makes for effective humor, but its desire to satisfy the target audience ruins much of that potential comedy.Let's look at the film's use of a mouse. Movies have used mice-or any small critter for that matter-effectively in the past. Just look to the energetically hilarious Mousehunt, for great fun with a mouse in drastic circumstances. In Road Trip the circumstances don't matter because this film thinks it's funny to watch Tom Green licking a mouse. The visual sight of Green placing his tongue on a furry little critter is not remotely funny. We're no longer watching great comic circumstances. We're watching an actor licking a dirty rodent.Opps. I'm sorry. I made the dire mistake of calling Tom Green an actor. Speaking of Green, the movie's production notes made me laugh hard. I think the thing about Tom that is going to amaze some people is just how good an actor he is, explains director and co-writer Todd Philips, whose Frat House won the Grand Jury Prize at the 1998 Sundance Film Festival. Um, is he talking about the same Tom Green that I'm thinking of? The one who plays the same irritating version of Tom Green in every single role? Oh, sure, he is a terrific actor. Move over, Anthony Hopkins. Take a seat, Tom Hanks. The almighty Tom Green is on his way!!!Ivan Reitman, who directed Ghostbusters, one of my all-time favorites, even praises the imbecile. I think Tom has extraordinary abilities, Reitman adds. He's a real original with a very offbeat quality that surprises you every time you watch him. He's also extremely brave. What in God's name do these talented filmmakers see in such a lacking, bumbling, untalented man. I believe he has talents elsewhere, like flipping burgers at McDonald's, but he is wasting those talents acting in Hollywood.I apologize for my distraction, but I take advantage of every possible opportunity to bash Tom Green.Green aside, Road Trip carries an entertaining style, pleasant charisma between most of the actors, and even kicks out a few very funny moments. There is intelligent humor here, and the movie proves immature humor can be hilarious when the filmmakers take proper calculations. Unfortunately, the film also proves the disastrous results when proper comic calculations are not taken.  "},{"Title":"Another Immature Sex Movie. Hooray for Pop Culture!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I scorned my friends for seeing this movie before I had seen it myself. I had seen the previews and I thought that would be enough to make any freethinking intelligent human want to vomit.  Unfortunately they insisted that I would love it if I just saw it for myself. So I did. And I want those two hours of my life back!Nothing here is new, it's all the same raunchy juvenile sex humor you all got from the likes of American Pie, Porky's, and every 80's B-movie soft-porn most of us look back on with disgust (hopefully the same fate which awaits this movie).Just go ahead and turn off your brain while viewing this movie.  You won't need it. "},{"Title":"Horrid Piece of Filmmaking","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night, and I am absolutely agast to see the positive reviews here. I love comedy, but this movie was only unintentionally funny. There was not one redeeming joke in the entire movie, the characters were dull and underdeveloped (not to mention, I both despised and couldn't relate to them, no matter how hard the director tried to get me to)I can't think of one time I honestly laughed. I like Tom Green, but his talents (such as they are) are wasted here. Juvenile gross-out humor only works when it's funny and/or balanced out by other sorts of humor. Neither of this happens in the putrid claptrap of a movie. I hope the makers of this monstrosity are prevented from making another movie. I mean, seriously, when are they going to make a movie about/for teenagers that is smart and worthy of our viewing time. Hollywood really thinks teenagers are stupid and unable to be entertained by anything but farts and fingers up the bottom. I hope they are wrong.~ "}{"Title":"Road Trip a flop to some, but a great hit to others","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well to me this movie was a terrible waste of time.  I hardly laughed, and the humor was very dry and repetitive.  Tom Green was his usual self, making faces and saying cryptic things, but his performance isn't much different then his tv show.  This film was reminiscent of the movie PCU with similar humor and stuff.Others I saw the film with LOVED the movie.  Lots were laughing through the whole thing. So I guess that just goes to show you that a sold out crowd of college age students can have very mixed opinons. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly boring","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The typical cliché American college movie, though much worse than Eurotrip. In the whole movie, I found only two funny moments (the receptionist in the motel was hilarious in his dignified anger at the guy's question about weed, and also when that girl put her finger up the other guy's ass, AND he loved it haha).Oh well, on the overall quite boring, but if you have nothing else to do, might as well watch it. (Tom Green is quite dull in this one, really the movie is something of a surprising bore since those comedies usually have some real funny jokes, beit sexist and racist most of the time.) "},{"Title":"I Wonder if They used Diesel?","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a regulation teen/college student flick that supplies enough laughs to be successful. Tom Green was however the star of the movie. His scenes would generate a smile from the audience in anticipation of what was about to happen.These American movies with lower budgets than most the Hollywood big budget trash seem to produce better results as well. "},{"Title":"Road Trip","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Road Trip is about a kid named Josh(Breckin Meyer) who has been in love with Tiffany(Rachel Blanchard) since he was a kid. Then when they went off to college, the two faced their first major challenge, maintaining a long-distance relationship. Lately she hasn't returned any of his letters, fearing she may have dumped him, or is cheating on him, he sleeps with Beth(Amy Smart) all the while video taping there encounter. The next day, Josh discovers that one his roommates mistakenly mailed the sex tape to Tiffany. So he takes off on a 3 day road trip with three other guys from his dorm. His pals are the usual college buds E.L.(Seann William Scott), a rule-breaking sex freak, Rubin(Paul Costanzo), a pot-smoking genius, and Kyle(DJ Qualls), the innocent nerd who the other guys make fun of. Tom Green also has a small role in this movie as Barry Manilow(no kidding, that's his real name!) who is obsessed with feeding a rat to Rubin's snake.Road Trip also contains a lot of sexual humor and a lot of female nudity. I mean three women get down and dirty in this movie and that's just in the first 30 minutes and there is also a scene inside of a women's locker room where they expose everything.Road Trip gets a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Fabulous movie","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm almost 50, a female, love Seinfeld, and this movie. I compare Road Trip with Seinfeld because they are both on the idiotic side, reveling in silliness.There is no need to go into the plot, as it is stated and restated. If you are looking for something deep, this isn't the movie. And I understand that people have different tastes. For my part, I love almost every minute of this movie every time I see it. This time around, the character who has stayed with me and cracked me up ALL DAY is the hotel clerk that shows everybody the hand. That is one of the things about this movie, is that EVERYONE was cast well. It also doesn't have dull spots, it flows from funny to funny to funny, all the way through to the end of the movie, there are no sections to get through, which is amazing in itself. The (intentionally) obnoxious, cocky guy was the hardest sell for me, and I even like him, and he seems to be the or a favorite of most of the reviews I've read. The snake and mouse scenes are priceless. I couldn't begin to even pick a favorite scene, because every scene is a favorite.Whoever made the film seems to have been giving in to having fun as opposed to creating contrived funny scenes. Like Bob Hope, it is said that humor came bubbling out from inside of him. This movie was made with hilarity bubbling out from the inside. That is what makes it good, and it most closely speaks to character of Kramer in Seinfeld.Another funny movie I would compare it to is the animation Open Season. This was definitely my favorite of any animation ever. In Shrek, for instance, the donkey was hilarious. In Open Season, just about everybody (who is meant to be funny) is about as funny as the donkey in Shrek. And the energy is sustained throughout the movie, moving from funny to funny to funny. All clean humor, too, which is right for that movie. Off-color humor, on the other hand, works nicely for Road Trip. "},{"Title":"Gen Y's desperate attempt for its own Porky's and Animal House; sporadically funny sophomoric romp","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ROAD TRIP (2000) **1/2 Breckin Meyer, Seann William Scott, DJ Qualls, Paulo Costanzo, Amy Smart, Rachel Blanchard, Anthony Rapp, Fred Ward, Andy Dick, Horatio Sanz, Tom Green.  (Dir Todd Phillips)Tom Green, MTV's resident side-show attraction, the uber-geek bastard child of David Letterman and Andy Kaufman, brings his slacker on amphetemines schtick to the big-screen with predictable yet funny antics that regulate the pace of the new millennium's first official `Animal House' by way of `Porky's' college sex comedy that desperately wants to be `There's Something About Mary' but winds up a close second to `American Pie' in its outcome. Green - who really is an incidental second character - plays Barry Manilow (not THAT Barry Manilow, but now you have an idea where this will be going for chuckles) a college student at the University of Ithaca on the ten year plan apparently (`eight years') who narrates the sordid story as he acts as tour guide for new recruits and their family strolling along the campus. (When a sharp observer questions his history on the institution's history  - `1951?That's the address', he casually replies after insisting several hundred years of existence). The plot has four friends en route from Ithaca to Austin, Texas to stop the incriminating sex video Josh (Meyer, uncannily resembling a younger version of Bill Maher, who also co-starred in `Clueless' and `Go') made with Beth (the wholesomely sexy Smart late of `Outside Providence' the last flick unleashed by the Farrelly Brothers) after his friend Rubin (Costanzo) accidentally mistaken for a home video of Josh to his miles-away childhood sweetheart Tiffany (Blanchard) .  Along for the ride with Josh and Rubin are the Tim Matheson-like E.L. (Scott from last year's vulgar-fest `Pie') who thinks with his little head and Kyle (newcomer and scene-stealer Qualls, who makes Anthony Michael Hall in `Sixteen Candles' look like Arnold Schwarzenegger) who is bullied into using his father's car for three day voyage west. Along the way the foursome encounter many hilarious and grody pitfalls including a daring leap of faith off a rickety bridge, the loss of their car, the single-handedly worst grand slam breakfast served by `Saturday Night Live's current fat boy Sanz who proves the urban myth consequences of sending back an order to be corrected; an all black fraternity Rubin swears he knows how to get into for a pit stopover;  major attitude from greasy-haired dork motel clerk (Dick barely recognizably sleazy); the stealing of a bus from a school for the blind (acutally one of the funnier sequences with the handicap get even for being taken advantaged of); and a resourceful way of earning some quick income via a sperm bank (with one of the most riotous sequences involving a prostate-induced .specimen!) If you're with me so far (and I'm sure you all are), then the film works on its own sophomoric level with some gut-busting moments largely due to the Keebler elfin Kyle - who fears for his life when he realizes it's only a matter of time his no-b.s. militant dad (Ward in another patented head-case hot-head) catches on to what's happened to his car - who gets some of the better scenes including his inspired Riverdancing to the frat's rap party and arguably one of the funniest sex scenes resulting in his virginity loss to a zaftig sorority sista. Green provides more of his gleefully moronic stunts including the running gag of his character's obsession in watching Josh's pet boa constrictor's ritual feeding with another memorable moment of physical gross out humor as the end result. While it certainly is nowhere near the anarchy rich brilliance of `Animal House' it does surpass the let's get laid one-note tone of last year's cult hit `Pie' (which I still think is overrated) and has its built in audience of 14 year old boys (and some who've reached adult hood but still remain a 14 year old at heart) lining up for the perfect summertime laugh.  "},{"Title":"For the immature viewer.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This isn't really a movie for anyone over 21.  At that point in your life you should stop finding immature stuff like this entertaining. There's nothing really new about his film- we've seen a hundred variations of this theme.  The acting isn't bad and there are a few chuckles, although the Tom Green segments look like they belong in another movie.  There are a lot worse movies than this but overall it isn't even worth a rental.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If Only Sorry Teen Films Were Gold Bars.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The teen genre will never die because these films cost nothing to make and always turn a profit. Road Trip has some good moments and is not terrible for the genre, but in the end accustomed obscurity always wins in films like this. College freshman Breckin Meyer is in Ithaca, New York and missing girlfriend Rachel Blanchard (who is attending college in Austin, Texas). However his loneliness disappears temporarily when he has a hot night with fellow classmate Amy Smart. He figures that Blanchard will never know, but dim-witted pal Tom Green accidentally sends a video tape of Meyer's lustful night to Blanchard instead of sending a friendly greeting. This is when the fun starts. Meyer, along with friends D.J. Qualls, Seann William Scott and Paulo Costanzo decide to literally out-run the mail to Austin and retrieve the tape before it falls into the wrong hands. Fred Ward is priceless as Costanzo's father, a man who believes that his son has been killed in a car wreck (a funny situation in the film). Tom Green is a great scene-stealer as the narrator, but he is not around enough to save Road Trip in the end. Watch if you want, but some will wish they had found the exit ramp more quickly. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Lame!!!!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the typical college/teen movie.  Sex,nudity,sex jokes.  I realy didn't think it was all that funny.  Tom Green has serious issues and I only laughed at 1 part of the film with him.  Other then that, the message is lame, but the plot is pretty bad.  Lame movie. "},{"Title":"Check out the dvd","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This DVD actually does feature some nude footage thatw as cut to avoid an NC-17. The basic plot is that Josh videotapes himself cheating on his girlfriend. He and his buddies Seann William Scott(E.L.), DJ Qualls(Kyle) and Paolo Costzano(Rubin) take a trip from New York to Boston to get the tape back. The film is very funny and has great acting. All of the actors stael almost every scene there in. But the standout is Tom Green, I don't want to spoli it for those who haven't seen it, but it's a great comedey to watch with your boys or your girl.  "}{"Title":"Road Bust!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Please do not pack your bags and check out the latest teenage flick `Road Trip.' Use your vacation time instead on some witty and funny teenage films such as American Pie, The Breakfast Club, or Valley Girl.  `Road Trip' is just one dead-end film that you will not enjoy! That is a guaranteed statement, and it is definitely not refundable. This ludicrous film is about four college students who embark on a road trip to help save the romantic relationship of one of the roadies. The screenplay, direction, acting do travel on a direct route to nowhere. So listen to Tattoo's advice `The plane! The plane!' Instead of going on this road trip! ** Needs Improvement  "},{"Title":"Porky's of the new millenium","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After enjoying some 'juvenile/stupid/questionable taste' comedies like Ace Ventura, There's Something About Mary, and American Pie, I decided to give Road Trip a chance.AWFUL is the only word I can use to describe it.  1 star out of 4, due to the only laughs coming from Tom Green--and he's only in the film for 20 minutes or so.It's like Porky's--a stupid story built for one excuse after another to see naked girls.  There are plenty of movies with naked girls, why waste your time on a film with stupid characters who you don't care to watch?Waste of a group of usually-watchable young actors.  If you want an 'on the road' movie that delivers more than one big laugh, go rent National Lampoon's Vacation. "},{"Title":"Even considering its extremely modest aspirations LOUSY!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Winner of the trailer-was-better award for 2000.  There are extremely long and boring stretches between the hi-jinks shown in the trailer and this thing has the affrontery to make a claim for some kind of, well, meaning too.  Ugh!  You want a real Road Trip -- funny and scary and artfully-done? Check out Doug Liman's GO (also with Breckin Meyer). "},{"Title":"Not worth the $14","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although Road Trip is amusing (The Xi Chi house dancing is hilarious), it isn't worth the $14 spent for you and a date.  Just wait for the video, you'll save your money and you can just turn it off after that scene. "},{"Title":"Trip to the Rental Store","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK comedy about Josh who accidently mails a video cassette of him cheating to his girlfriend. He and his friends have three days to catch the package before it reaches Austin. It reaches its target audience and the funny parts are good, but don't be fooled. Tom Green does not show up as much as you want him to and 90% of the jokes are the obvious sexual innuendo that many teens will cringe and laugh at. Many highlights of this movie are must see, but you can wait for the video release. If I knew eleven bucks would have given me a bunch of gross sex jokes, I would have looked somewhere else. "},{"Title":"One of the better teen-film homages in recent memory","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hollywood likes road trip movies. Ever since films such as Planes, Trains and Automobiles and Midnight Run hit theaters back in the 80s, Hollywood has liked to bombard us with films about people on road trips doing funny things and getting caught in odd situations. Kevin Smith even paid his homage to John Hughes (Planes...) with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, I suppose.Road Trip is a disgusting and insulting film, but also an occasionally very funny film, cashing in on the Farrelly Brothers and American Pie. It is directed by Todd Phillips, whose 2003 comedy Old School was about a bunch of guys in their 30s who decided to open up an off-campus fraternity and re-live their old college glory days, despite the fact that they had families to care for.As Old School was an homage to Animal House, Road Trip (2000) is an homage to just about any crude film about sex-crazed teenagers you can think of.The formula was done already in Overnight Delivery, but it is done better here. An Ithaca college-goer named Josh Parker (Breckin Meyer) misses his girlfriend, who is going to another college far away, and caves in to pressure and has a one night stand with a fellow classmate, Beth (Amy Smart). They tape their intimacy, but the tape is mistakenly sent to Josh's girlfriend.Sent on a road trip to retrieve the tape before his girlfriend receives it, Josh and his band of pals, E.L. (Seann William Scott), Kyle (DJ Qualls), and Rubin (Paulo Costanzo), all experience some humilating moments along the way, including a French toast incident and lots of talk about nothing but what we'd expect from a film like this.Meanwhile, the narrative device of the story, and the major comedic relief, is MTV's Tom Green, who plays Barry, a quirky guy who gives tours of the campus even though he has absolutely no knowledge of its past whatsoever. What does he use as a time waster? Josh's story -- every single time a tour group comes around the campus.This is as basic as crude sex comedies get, but it has its highlights. Some of the scenes, such as the French toast and mouse eating bits, have become pretty infamous, sorta like the hair gel in There's Something About Mary and the beer bottles in Dumb and Dumber. If you like crude, irreverent comedies, Road Trip is a safe bet for a night in. I enjoyed it for what it was, although I have seen much better, and Todd Phillips' Old School was a step above this material, making me think that perhaps his next film, a remake of TV's Starsky and Hutch, with Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson, might be really good. And, after that, The Six Million Dollar Man with Jim Carrey. Reviving old TV shows might not be the best bet for an aspiring director, though. And every time he releases a film, he puts it onto unrated DVDs, which more or less just add a few deleted scenes that weren't necessarily too raunchy too include in the final cut, but just too long. What's with that? "},{"Title":"Dumb, Already Done Better","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yet another stupid sex crazed college movie. Sorry guys, this wasn't even a poor man's Animal House. The cast could have been used so much better if there actually was a script and the challenges on the road trip were even remotely believable. But this whole movie felt like an over the top B-C grade movie. Almost every gag was completely predictable, the geek ends up doing the exact opposite of what his personality would suggest. How surprising. The attempt to throw in some character development was laughable.Now I'm not saying this is to be taken as a serious movie, but even to be mildly amusing... it sucks. Why so harsh? The joke are so cliché and predictable that you know what will happen and be said. The film completely relies on the charm of the actors, whom I'll give credit are good but cannot save a pathetic script. The road trip consists of contrived convenient situations that are absurd.Want to watch a much more clever movie? Watch Harold and Kumar Go To White Castle. I went in thinking I would hate it and was pleasantly surprised that someone made effort into writing that script instead of the pathetic C formula and C-movie high budget film this was.Oh yeah. And enjoy the oh so obvious plug for e-bay at the end of this film. Pathetic. "},{"Title":"I laughed once","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of Breckin Meyer since he first hit the screen. I've seen some bad stuff just because he was in it, but NOTHING could have prepared me for how mind-numbingly, stupifyingly, baaaaaaaad this movie is. I laughed once. *Exactly* once, and that was in the brief moment when one of the characters leaves the frat house after losing his virginity, but only during the brief moments when he was high-fiving extras. The moment he began interacting with the leads the film turned south again. Tom Green was so stupidly unfunny in this movie that he could have been replaced by a marionette operated by a mute with no decrease in the quality of the performance.Even Breckin's most ardent supporters should avoid this piece of dreck. People who don't know who he is, but who see this film, should take my word for it that he IS a funny actor. Unless he is in an appallingly unfunny movie ... like this one.  "},{"Title":"The DVD was just resting there on the shelf at my public library...","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I had no plans to see Road Trip. Tom Green is way up there on my list of 'actors' I'd prefer to never see again. In fact, he probably would be at the very top. But here was this copy of the DVD at my library, so I took a peek. Tom Green is orienting a group at the university and he tells this tale, which we see dramatized. It involves a girlfriend at a distant university, a videotape in the mail, and a subsequent road trip to intercept it before girlfriend gets it. There are a few laughs here and there, but the story hardly sustains a comedic tone. Tom Green does the 'mouse fed to the snake' bit which is fairly dumb, and not quite disgusting. All the nudity is gratuitous.  Basically, a movie for teens, and with no redeeming qualities. Still, for decent production values and some nice scenery, I rate it 4 of 10. The critic Ebert has a complete and accurate review, but he rates it a bit higher than I do. I'm glad I watched it. You can't fully appreciate truly fine movies unless you see a real 'clunker' here and there. "},{"Title":"Another addition to the Teen movie franchise","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this film isn't bad. it just came out at the wrong time because the other teen films that were released at the time were a lot better such as American Pie, Faculty, Idle Hands, Scary Movie and the Scream films. there really was far too many teen flicks at the turn of the millennium. this film was far from the worst. just think how stupid that Dude Where's My Car film was. there's quite a large cast in this that includes Breckin Meyer (Go), Seann William Scott (American Pie), Amy Smart (Butterfly Effect), Paulo Costanzo (Joey), Ethan Suplee (American History x), Fred Ward (Short Cuts) and the ultra stupid Tom Green (Freddy Got Fingered).the film sets around Breckin Meyer's character thats having a very long distance relationship. So he makes a video tape of him saying a lot of romantic gestures so he can post it to her. later on that night he sleeps with another girl that funnily enough gets recorded. that tape then accidentally gets sent to his girl friend so then he has to travel across America with some of his class mates to retrieve the tape before his girlfriend views it. it isn't a bad film but it really is set just for teens to watch it.on a whole i'd avoid this movie if you've seen the other teen comedies of that time because you ain't missing much. but worth a watch if there isn't anything else on TV............ 4.5/10.............j.d Seaton "}{"Title":"Stupid, dragging, dull, save your time, you'll get a lot more out of Freddy Got Fingered!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Road Trip last spring thinking it was going to be funny. I thought this movie was actually going to be somewhat funny. It lacks the humor and inteligence that made movies in it's area so great. Director Todd Phylips just tries to imitate the Great movies like Animal House and Porkys, but only comes up with a sappy doofus cast and a crappy script. Tom Green was pathetic, only having a small and uneeded character in this movie, he was very unfunny and overrated in this film particular. This movie made him look bad. If flashing and repeating the same scripts on relashionships and sex is funny, I feel sorry for the future of raunchy comidies. I have always been a huge fan of raunchy humor but this movie was just plain dull. The whole movie has pointless dialoge that dragged on forever. I'm not even going to bother with Eurotrip, his movies are so obvious. Don't take this personally if you really like this movie, but that's my 2 cents. "},{"Title":"worst movie of all times!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  what a crap film! Not only was it a waste of valuable time and money, but also I found it an insult for my intelligence!Cheap jokes, bad acting, ridiculous plot that's a movie I won't be seeing again, not for a million pounds! "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Predictable.   Average.  Frequently unfunny.  Childish.Some bloke travels across the country to save his girl from viewing a video that she shouldn't be.  His friends go along.  They get into all kinds of hilarious situations.At least there could have been some imagination to it! "},{"Title":"Mindless Drivel","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie. I've heard people compare this to National Lampoon's Animal House (which I thought was quite funny - or maybe I was just younger?), and it was produced by Ivan Reitman, who has a fine sense of comedy (at least I thought he did until tonight.) My high hopes were dashed. This movie is nonsense in the worst sense of the word.A 14 year old boy might enjoy being titillated by the unnecessary nudity (it usually had nothing to do with the story, and was best summed up by one of the people listening to Barry's - Tom Green - story, who said girls don't go around topless all the time.) So true. I'm tempted to say that the movie featured sophomoric humour, but that would be unfair, because it would imply that there was humour involved in this. OK, OK. I chuckled - softly - twice I think. But still, sophomoric humour doesn't quite sum this one up. Perhaps mindless drivel suits it better.2/10 "},{"Title":"A sophomoric nonsense for the immature palate.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is just another lousy piece of film-making of the Animal House wannabee genre and will have little appeal beyond college age audiences. A story of four guys in a race to beat the mailman, not unlike Overnight Delivery, and their escapades and misadventures during the sojourn. A mindless romp lacking in sophistication, flair, and intelligence for the less than jaded palate. "},{"Title":"How sex can lead to great comedy!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When i went to see this movie, people said to me that i would laugh from the beginning to the end of it. I thought they were kidding. They were right and i was wrong. When i got out of the room, my stomach was aching like hell.If anyone saw 'American Pie' and thought that was good, you must go and see this. There are really some good sequences, and the ones that aren't good, are very good.Todd Phillips has made three movies so far, and with such little experience, he managed to make such a good job. I congratulate him for the amazing movie he has done.And the actors... are just fabulous.I can only say one thing, go and watch it NOW!It doesn't get 8/10 because it's based on easy laughs, non-intellectual comedy...7/10 "},{"Title":"Ahh, Tom. I expected so much more from you...","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip is unmistakably about the greatest college tradition, but there is no reason to watch it other than to see a snake latch onto Tom Green's hand with lightning speed. His subsequent scream is by far the funniest part of the entire film. As a whole, Road Trip was a bitter disappointment. It was a desperate attempt to recreate the tremendous success of American Pie, and although it did have a few hilarious scenes, everything was too obviously thrown in to get a specific reaction. The nudity, in particular, was meaninglessly added, which leads to the questioning of the maturity of the producers as well as the director. Besides that, the majority of the jokes were also obviously calculated and artificial. I find it hard to believe that Rubin felt that the people of Earth would need him someday, and that he also seems to have an extensively detailed knowledge of historical philosophy, and yet he didn't understand that a Ford Taurus would not survive a JUMP over a RIVER!! Come on people, even an audience composed mainly of young people deserved to be served their laughs with a little dignity. Furthermore, many of the gross-outs were thrown in for no apparent reason. The I-can't-have-too-much-sugar-in-the-morning scene in particular offered no other explanation for the slob chef's anger toward Kyle's request for no sugar, other than the old pick-on-the-skinny-kid routine.Road Trip is meaningless drivel, it is worth nothing more than a few mindless laughs and some brief peeks at a few naked college kids. The film was thrown together with virtually no structure at all, a detriment which is weakly covered up by telling it from the wacky and sexually charged point of view of Tom Green who, in my opinion, should win this film a Best Product Placement award. I can just hear the writers, Well, we have no story, so let's have that nutty popular guy from MTV tell the story, that way when the pathetically cliched plot is realized, people will just think that it's crazy ol' Tom Green, and not a bunch of greedy and untalented Hollywood executives putting forth a desperate attempt to fatten their wallets...Road Trip, despite my comments so far, was an entertaining enough film, if you like this kind of smart-ass college kid film (a sub-genre which has unfortunately been done to death for decades). Just don't expect to make any use of your brain at any point while you are watching it. "},{"Title":"Usual Feminist inspired garbage","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It has been a sad fact of reality these past 3 decades that demonising the entire male gender in the West, especially white males, has become the norm and frequently used as entertainment whenever possible. Brainless films like this pollute the minds of young women and men by promoting the idea that all men are perverted pigs who only think about or care about sex. While it is true due to thousands of years of evolution that men are inclined to wish to copulate with more than one female, it is seen fit by the monstrous feminist dominated society of self-centred sexist sows who feel they are the victim no matter what. to scorn and mock this fact by brutalising men and showing them off as spineless, wussy perverts. Naked women standing in the showers going on about how no man can be trusted and how they all cheat and how they can never trust another man again. Feminists will be wetting themselves with delight as their victim status in society is lionised to gargantuan proportions. And this type of film is the norm these days! No wonder men are so violent in the US when all they ever see is hatred of everything male and being born with a penis. In this horrible excuse for a comedy chick flick or what ever the hell it is, we see a woman behaving extremely irrationally by decimating her boyfriend's car and then continuing to beat him nearly to death while the other students on the campus watch in amusement - the idea being that this was the wrong boyfriend as the 4 targeted men are on a road trip to Texas to stop a tape of one of them having sex with another girl to his former girlfriend. Is it even possible to imagine roles being reversed and a man beating a girlfriend he has no proof of cheating on him nearly to death and wrecking her car? We see the pathetic, insane and pitiful Tom Green having a sadistic excitement in seeing a mouse being eaten by their pet snake and of course contributes greatly with his scene stealing moments towards the main goal of this film which few men will ever see until the Men's Movement finally arrives. That is to demonise men. The only use this film will ever has is as solid proof of how men are treated in todays society. Words cannot describe how pathetic this film if it can be called that is. "},{"Title":"Road Trip","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you like teen movies, or if you like road movies, then the title speaks for itself. The film begins with the quite sensible but later quite mad Barry Manilow (Tom Green) showing some visitors around the University of Ithaca, then he tells them a story about his friend Josh Parker (Breckin Meyer) and his journey. Basically Josh makes a video of him having sex with the rather attractive Beth Wagner (Amy Smart), and he put it on a video. Instead of sending his own personal tape for his girlfriend Tiffany Henderson (Rachel Blanchard, now in TV's Peep Show), he sent the sex tape! He luckily finds out that his girlfriend is out of her University in Austin for three days. So Josh, E.L. (American Pie's Seann William Scott), Rubin Carver (Paulo Costanzo) and Kyle Edwards (DJ Qualls) go on a road trip to retrieve the video. Also starring Anthony Rapp as Jacob, Fred Ward as Earl Edwards and My Name Is Earl's Ethan Suplee as Ed. The story may not be absolutely fantastic, but most of the slapstick and gross comedy is enough to keep you interested. Okay! "},{"Title":"Shame on me","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Shame on me for wanting to watch this stupid american movie!! Just america would do this kind of (beep). You can do some great movies, but sure some times it feels like making money is not enough. Treat the audience like they are stupid. Not even a simple gag was funny. What a waste of time!Be reasonable, don't watch it and if you did, I'm sorry. "}{"Title":"I thought American Pie was unimaginative tripe, but now Road Trip has beaten American Pie for complete badness","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film is just about 50 sex jokes one after another, and if you are a stupid teenager there is some toilet humour there as well. The plot is as unimaginative and limp as American Pie. A guy has a one night stand and it is caught on video tape (hahaha!). Thats about it really.  "}]