[{"Title":"Another stealth drama?","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On the basis of the preview I'd seen, I went to Shower expecting a sweet little comedy; what I found was a profoundly touching drama of family life told in some of the most lush photographic images I've ever been privileged to see.  In addition, later reflection made me appreciate the abrupt cuts to scenes from the past (in the arid countryside of Northern China, and in the high plain of Tibet) isn't this how memory often works?  One moment I'm here, the next I'm in a landscape from the past, just like that....I would not only strongly recommend this film, I would place it among the two or three finest films I've seen in my 60 years.By the way, a couple of years ago another Asian comedy was released in the United States as Shall We Dance? (Japanese).  Just as with Shower, the preview gave not the slightest indication of the depth of that film, which turned out to be a subtle psychological study (albeit chock full of funny moments).  Is there a fear, on the part of distributors, of making films appear too important or deep to appeal to U. S. viewers? "},{"Title":"Good Old Days vs. Shopping Centres","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Shower is an story about loyalty, about the unstoppable advance of modern world in the detriment of rather traditional and more human ways of life. A man forced to choose between his successful career in business, his big-city life, his wife, and his retarded young brother. The eternal doubt between what we WANT to do and what we SHOULD do. The modern China versus the ancient one. The public baths with its gatherings, its cricket fights versus the shopping centres and the skyscraper. Lots of old men and women that are no longer needed. China, one country, two systems, as Xiao Ping said ... though one of them is killing the other. Tender, moving, full of funny moments, and of bitter-sweet ones.The sensitive ones will cry and laugh equally. The actors are enormous, especially the one who performs the role of the retarded boy; and Yang Zhang makes a good job, easy, simple, letting the story just flow by itself.My rate 8/10  "},{"Title":"Sacrifice and soul as well as humor characterize this beautiful film.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just returned from seeing Xizhao and am still under its soulful spell. How rare to see a film of this calibre, unafraid of tenderness and caring, but at the same time not maudlin or overtly heavy-handed...and particularly rare when this feeling is among men...in this case, a father and his two grown sons, one retarded, the other estranged and ambitious.  How these relationships, and others, unfold, how one son's willing sacrifice brings deep humanity into the limited life of the other is a joy to behold. In among all these machinations there is delightful humor in and around the bathhouse setting.  I recommend this film unreservedly. "},{"Title":"Just a wonderful story","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is moving without being sentimental - meaningful without being pretentious.  It tells a simple story of a family in danger of falling apart as the encroachments of technology and an advancing society make the family-run business increasingly untenable.The acting is wonderful - though none of us in the west are likely to have heard of these actors, we should have long ago - they play their characters with honesty and reverence - these are flawed characters, each with major weaknesses, but with such utter humanity and kindness that it's impossible not to become engaged in the story.We need more films like this - we need more western filmmakers creating films such as this. "},{"Title":"A beautiful moving story of family","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This beautiful story of an elder son coming home, and learning to love and be a part of all those things that he left home to get away from, is poignant and moving. It shows a society that is perhaps strange to us in the Western world, with a sense of family that we have lost. The story is beautiful, sad, and at times funny and comic. It has a feeling of realism that we don't seem to see any longer in our western movies.The acting is unusual, in that as the movie progresses, it almost gives the impression that it is not acting, but a documentary of ordinary people. This is brilliant directing and movie making.Would love to see more movies by this director. "},{"Title":"Call me old-fashioned but.....","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a refreshing film.  Da Ming, the eldest brother returns to his fathers bath-house business because he thinks his father is ill.  When he finds out the contrary, he wants to go back to the big city, but soon realizes that his family is more important than making money.Millions of people are flocking to see Hannibal disembowel and eat people. How nice to see a film about people who love each other and are NICE to each other.A funny, touching, heartbreaking, wonderful movie that will make you feel better about the human race, rather than want to retch.  "},{"Title":"Chinese Beauty","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How powerful and captivating simple quality filmmaking can be. This film tells it's tale with everyday scenes that manage to revel the poignancy hidden within. It's true as others have stated, how this film really makes it glaringly obvious how lost Hollywood is in it's special effects, overblown emotionalism and over the top climatic endings and have forgotten the essence of a meaningful story told with simple realism.  So much of what these characters are going through is implied by the scene rather than spelled out in wordy dialogue. One aspect that I really enjoyed about the film was the contrast of the two brothers, one so very openly expressive in his childlike way and the other completely stoic but both able to evoke deep emotion. The older brother needed to say little, as he usually did, it was all there in that deadpan face of his!  Beautiful cinematography, wonderful acting, great direction!  Not to be missed!  "},{"Title":"A little slice of a fading Beijing","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Shower keeps within itself in so many ways. Almost all of the movie takes place in an old- time bathhouse, with the denizens supplying the humor, pathos, and emotional touches. The  love and friendship between the proprietor and his retarded son is deep and moving. The  way the older brother is drawn into this tiny world seems unforced and persuasive. The plot  is meandering, full of surprises and ironies, and touched overall by a sense of what I'd have  to call neighborliness in the relations and conflicts of the performers. This is a film I pull out  when I want to believe in the world again. "},{"Title":"A joy to watch","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable film.  A humorous, but poignant look at family, and the obligations that come with it.  The story of a man who comes home from his life in the city to his fathers bath house in a small Chinese village.  There he learns to appreciate, even cherish the very things he left home to get away from.  The film is as visually beautiful as it is emotionally beautiful. "},{"Title":"DELIGHTFUL!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I LOVE this movie! Beautifully funny and utterly believable characters. Each scene richer and more wonderful than the last. Every aspect of this movie is filled with wit and humour and love and depth. A complex and engrossing story, too. This movie is filled with love, humour, and intelligence. Totally great! "}{"Title":"The story illustrates the meaning of life, amazingly well!","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The key to the joy and beauty, the pain and sadness of life is our ability to accept that life basically is what it is so we don't constantly struggle against that single compelling truth. In so doing, we find peace. Elegant in its simplicity but so hard for most of us to grasp.In this film, the director shows us this truth but allows us to discover it in our own way. This is a beautiful yet simple story, more of a fable, which is played very well. Watching the actors is more like being in a room with real people than it is just watching actors.I struggled with how to write a review of this fine film so others would be motivated to see it. I'm at a loss. The story is about men in a bath house. Sounds like a real turn off, right? But, nothing could be farther from the truth. The American title for this film is The Shower but that is almost an antithesis to a major thematic element in this film, which is the bath. I'm still at a loss. Talking about the story or the characters will not do them justice.So, I'll just tell you how much I enjoyed watching this movie and how touching and moving the experience was. I was also quite entertained. I cared deeply for the characters and I cared deeply about what happened to them. For any story, that is the highest form of praise.If you were moved by movies like The King Of Masks or Not One Less, then make sure you see The Shower. Netflix has it and the DVD video and sound quality are excellent. I watched it in the original lanquage with well done and well placed English subs.  "},{"Title":"Shower is a touching story of the meaning of family","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I happened on Shower in the foreign film section of my local video store and passed it over several times since from its cover it looked like a farce or comedy. I then lucked into a copy to purchase at economical price and am happy for my luck. Shower is the story of three(3) men, a father and two(2) adult sons, each coming to terms with life changes as the world around them also continues to change in modern China. As with many foreign films, the Chinese culture itself is one of the most interesting facets of this movie.Beyond the fascinating characteristics of the local, Chinese color giving the setting to this story, is the difficult yet touching relationships between the men and a sole woman involved in the story, all set against the backdrop of a village bathhouse.The family's story moves from estrangement to understanding and made me glad I came to know these people. Added to the main story are the numerous small characters, bathhouse customers, and their individual conflicts and friendships. Shower is a film one walks away from smiling and touched by its warmth and humanity. "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly amazed.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Expecting to see a cute little film from mainland China, I was ill-prepared.  Family dynamics, community and the inevitability of change have rarely been explored so expertly on film.  Every character is solid and I was completely drawn into the story.  The organization is much more complex than American audiences will be accustomed to.  Yet, there is no difficulty following the progression, even while reading subtitles.  Jiang Wu, as the retarded brother, is a constant shining light.  Leave your cynicism in your locker.  It will be there when you check out. "},{"Title":"A funny and touching story about a father and his two sons","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had the privilege to see this movie at the Intenational Film Festival of Rotterdam.'Xizhao' or 'Shower' is a $200.000 lowbudget movie about a father and his 2 sons. The father has a traditional bathhouse somewhere in a traditional Chinese village where local, mostly aged men, come to relax and to go bathing. The father has to sons a 'retarded' son who lives with him and a son who lives in a big modern city and who comes to visit him. To this son  the traditional village, the bathhouse and his 'retarded' brother seem strange and annoying, but this changes along the movie.Though the story may sound cheesy or cliche, it's not. With really great performances, especially of the father and the 'retarded' son (sorry, I don't know their names) and a great story the movie was touching and funny at the same time.If you got a chance to see this movie do it. It's a great alternative to mainstream Hollywood cinema. "},{"Title":"Unpretentious family dramedy","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A businessman visits his father and retarded brother, who run a bathhouse in their town.  It's filled with all sorts of characters, who play Chinese checker, sing grand opera, set up cricket fights, or simply relax.  It's a character study and a look at a disappearing way of life -- minor incidents culminating in events that change all their lives.  A likable film, with a cultural flavor that turns out to be its greatest asset.  "},{"Title":"On my Top 5","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie took me by complete surprise. I watched it 2 or 3 times. I really liked this film. There were many truths this movie brought up. I love all the characters in this film as well. This movie makes a lot of sense because as society becomes more advance What does the culture loose? Not to sound preachy. I can really relate to this movie from my child hood and loosing apart of my life that will never come back or ever been the same. This film is on my top 5 movies I have ever watched. There is just such a raw truth that I feel when I watch the movie and its not the kind of truth that you have to dig for its right in front of your face. The creators of this film did a great job and I enjoyed this movie very much. This movie may not be for every one but if you have an open mind I think you will love it. "},{"Title":"The magic of Chinese traditions","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very different topic treated in this film. A straightforward and simple description of local Chinese customs, by looking at the daily operation of a public bath, run by the old owner and his retarded son, when older son returns home, wrongly believing his father has died. How every man in town makes his daily visit to chat, play games, discuss personal matters and get honest advice, besides the usual spa-like therapies. When old man dies, strong and loyal family ties make older son take charge, so public bath operation is not disrupted. And finally, the arrival of modernization to end this way of spending relaxed hours and getting along. The public bath has to be demolished, making place for a commercial complex to be constructed. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is simply wonderful! It's got it all laughter, sorrow, beauty, poetry, truth. All in a simple yet intense story--like life! You won't get distracted for a second.10/10P.S. Somebody tell Hollywood you need a good story to make a good movie, and there are so many good stories out there. "},{"Title":"Another fine Chinese film.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Have just seen the Australian premiere of Shower Xizhao at the Sydney Film Festival. The program notes said it was - A perfect delight -deftly made, touching, amusing, dramatic and poignantly meaningful. I couldn't agree more. I just hope the rest of the Festival films come up to this standard of entertainment and I look forward to seeing more Chinese films planned to be shown in Sydney in the coming months. "},{"Title":"A Rich Film About Shared Humanity Friendship and Family Bonding","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a film about family bonding, about the necessity to cherish traditions, about the advantages of long-held friendships, and about a public bath house in Beijing. One cannot imagine what a sleazy wallow American film makers would make out of such a milieu, but director Zhang Yang obviously loves his characters and by the end of the film we have learned to do likewise--including the two old gents who treasure their cockroach fights, the shy stubby guy who belts O Sole Mio under the shower, and the main characters, the owner father and his two sons, one mentally challenged, one estranged; the film is perhaps predictable in its outcome, but who cares? Shower is an appreciation of the richly human in all of us; its heart is in the right place. "}{"Title":"Not Gonna Tell You Nothing' - Quit readin' & Go hit The Shower.","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If The Shower fails to touch your heart in some way? Yeah, you maybe wanna go down hospital there, get yourself one them EKG's, see if your heart still beats, not. Why? Because The Shower tells a simple story of family and dear friends in same manner that Hollywood did many years ago, yet has not for some time due to its standing infatuation with the gods of efficiency, PC, and the same old leftist drivel.The Shower is one of the sweetest, most powerful films to grace the screen here at Casa d'Amplitron. Having watched it again recently, it's all the more poignant as the cancer of centrally-planned New World Odor efficiency spreads like a syphilis rash across the globe and devours every last bit humanity, including the oasis known as The Shower.You'll recognize The Shower's protagonist as one of the most expressive actors on the planet, who played lead in King of Masks. Unless, that is, you were busy watching high-grossing sensible films from Hollywood whose themes concern proper subjects such as surfboard decapitations, exploding helicopters, and face-booted bimbos barking like rabid Teamsters at geek-voiced capons attired sensibly in black rimmed glasses and Gothwear for the Young Condemned.No, my review The Shower don't tell ya much, there, 'bout the it, see? And that's 'cause maybe you wanna go rent it, download it or whatever everybody's does their computers these days - which is not the case here at Casa d'Amplitron, where The Shower graces the below decks film library in respectable VHS format.You want hi-tech vapid entertainment? Go watch some machetes-for-machismo-morons film, something like that. Wanna see if your cardiac T-waves are still capable of breaking over beautiful stories of life, family, and friends? Go hit The Shower.Paul Vincent ZecchinoAristocrat of Film AuteursManasoviet Key, Florida13 September, 2010 "},{"Title":"Heaven Shower's Us With Blessings","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one of the fastest growing areas of the world, the burgeoning metropolis Beijing (like many places in the world), many past facets of life are being replaced to make way for modern conveniences. In the movie Shower, from mainland China's Xian Film Studio directed by Yang Zhang (Spicy Love Soup), this dichotomy of the new and the old is symbolized by the shower and the bath. The shower is a fast convenience that takes water for granted while the bath and especially the bathhouse is a tranquil way of life. Master Liu (Zhu Xu also in King of Masks) is owner of such an establishment where you can bathe, get a massage, get treatments like cupping, get a manicure, play Xiangqi (Chinese Chess), or challenge local patrons to cricket fighting. It is analogous to a men's club (or Cheers) where regulars come to relax as well as socialize (and everybody knows your name as well as your problems). Liu lives with his mentally slow son Er Ming (wonderfully played by Jiang Wu) who helps out with the daily chores.Shower starts off with an idea by bathhouse denizen He Zheng of an automated shower (reminds me of the automated restrooms in large cities like San Francisco or the suicide booths in Futurama) where you pay your money and get put through an automatic human wash that sprays soap, water and scrubs you to a healthy clean. It is a clever idea by a slacker whose entrepreneurial ideas tend to fizzle and who still needs to fix the neon sign for the bathhouse. It is entirely appropriate that he is telling this idea while relaxing in the caldarium.The drama begins when Da Ming (Pu Cunxin), son of Liu, comes to visit from Shenzhen after an extended absence. He came after misinterpreting a postcard that Er Ming sent that seemed to show the death of his father. While Liu was happy to see him he then realized the only reason his son came to visit because he thought he was dead. Da Ming decides to stay for a few days though his faster pace existence is evident by the fact he only takes showers now and not baths. Things have changes so much between them at one point that Liu wishes his son had not even shown up (though at this point Da Ming had lost his younger brother while buying a ticket home).The distant relationship between Liu and Da Ming is counterbalanced between the beautifully simple and close relationship between Er Ming and Liu. Liu takes care of him but allows Er Ming to help out with the business and even exercises with him. It is a touching kinship that seems realistic and not forced. Da Ming is awed by this bond. He has spent so much time away that he is an estranged prodigal son. The biggest strength of this film is it's characterization. There are many wonderful supporting roles in this film. There is the impotent Zhang and his shrewish wife. There are the bickering cricket trainers and fighters (including Mr. Wu who has possibly used illegal substances to beef up his cricket.) There is Miao Zhuang who loves to sing Eduardo Di Capua and Giovanni Capurro's O Sole Mio in the shower. And He Zheng the daydreamer who owes lots of money. I am quite impressed by how well all of their lives are interconnected throughout many of the subplots.Small spoiler in this paragraph I do no have much to complain about this film (other than the multitude of men's buttocks shown). It would seem that the impending doom of the district, including the bathhouse, to be replaced by a shopping mall would seem a contrite stereotypical plot device but for Beijing and the surrounding areas it is really happening. I did think one scene involving Er Ming and a hospital felt forced and tried to be too emotionally manipulative, but that was probably the only moment that I felt was mediocre..The central theme to this movie is water. There is an emotional flashback scene where Liu talks about Er Ming's mother from the northern province and how much families had to sacrifice just to get enough water for the daughter to take a bath before her wedding day. Water is a purifying force. When Mr. Zhang had problems with impotence it was solved with a special potion and a bath. When Miao Zhuang could not sing in front of the neighborhood, water was used to cure this disorder. Water is also a destructive force. The only death took place in water. Er Ming used a water hose to disrupt a moving party. It is also a healing force Liu and Da Ming made peace during a storm. In the film water is analogous to life. The wooden plaque at the end of the film sums up the movie with the aqueous statement Heaven Shower's Us With Blessings.Shower is one of my favorite mainland Chinese films. It is bittersweet, poignant, funny yet emotional complex movie I have watched several times. There is no sugary-sweet ending so it feels more natural. What stays with me though is the memory of the characters and how they remind me of characters that frequent every archaic establishment. Personal note I may be biased for this film in certain aspects because I used to manage an arcade that was eventually torn down to make way for a larger parking lot. The amount of diverse characters there, like in Shower, was immense. "},{"Title":"well acted and very delightful","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like another reviewer said, this movie is not a heavy melodrama, but it deals with harsh realities. A very very playful movie that does not dwell for a moment. Some very good acting and some wonderful smiles as well. "},{"Title":"Moving without being cloying, funny without being silly","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For a movie with a plot like this I would normally smell tearjerker in the first ten minutes and turn it off, but this was very well made, with emotional subtleties, great acting, and some genuinely funny moments. It was also interesting to see a different culture - a vanishing one at that. My wife and I both dug it! "},{"Title":"Poignant","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found it highly interesting that the film actually managed to bridge the gap between my own american culture and that of the originators, i.e. chinese.  It becomes a story about values, and causes the watcher to reevaluate their own choices in life, and loyalties toward institutions.  Amazingly enough, it managed to do this in a gentle, mildly humorous manner, which only in retrospect seens threatening to one's status quo.  I enjoyed the movie, and would watch it again if I could. "},{"Title":"Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great story of family loyalty which, thankfully, doesn't resort to the usual tricks (or at least the ones I'm used to seeing in American and European films) of supersentimentality or high dramatic tension.It's very watchable and very lovable. It has some beautiful cinematography, but doesn't rely on that alone to entertain. "},{"Title":"A good movie that tells you about today's China","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I often felt troubled when people asked me to recommend some Chinese movies, not because there weren't any good ones, but because those good ones did not depict today's China. Some of Yimou Zhang's and Kaige Chen's movies are not only good, but also, in my opinion, among the greatest ones that the world has produced. However, the stories in those movies happened many years ago; and these years are the ones that have seen the most dramatic changes of a country in history.My trouble ended with the introduction of Xizao (Shower) in North America.The humors are Chinese styled, but the emotions are, as someone has said in his comment, universal. The values on intimate family relationships, genuine friendships, and concerns for the general public are exemplified in a society that is trying to find a balance between modernization and tradition. When economic development and new technologies menace thousand-year-old lifestyles, people, especially the elderlies, become ambivalent towards them.A country with an extraordinary history and tradition experiencing the most rapid development in the world, today's China can be a perfect set for many more good movies. I often wonder why there are so few movies like Xizao. As it has proved, you don't have to touch heavy politics to depict an authentic picture of today's China. (Kaige Chen's Together is disappointing.)One of the commentators said the movie is uneven at some points. This is probably true, and unsurprising, given that the director is not as experienced as Zhang or Chen. However, I didn't notice the unevenness because I was captured by the actors' wonderful performances. You will be easily amused by Wu Jiang's performance as Er Ming; you would be more impressed by Xu Zhu's Master Liu and Cunxing Pu's Da Ming if you understand Chinese. These are the finest Chinese actors of their respective generations.I noticed that some commentators thought the story happened in a small village. This is a misunderstanding. The set is actually Beijing. Although bathhouses like the one in the movie exist in many Chinese cities, you feel more amazed by the changes that China is experiencing when you know this story happened in a metropolis, right?If you want to understand today's China, watch this movie. If you want to understand the China before and during the Cultural Revolution (1966 to 1976), you should check out Huozhe (To Live) and Ba Wang Bie Ji (Farewell My Concubine). Artistically, Xizao may not be a masterpiece compared to the latter two, but it is definitely worth watching. In today's world, movies as warm as this one remind us of the beauty of life.  "},{"Title":"Most artistically Daoist movie","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My choice for greatest movie ever used to be Laughton's Night of the Hunter which remains superb in my canon. But, it may have been supplanted by Shower which is the most artistically Daoist movie I have seen. The way that caring for others is represented by the flowing of water, and the way that water can be made inspiration, and comfort, and cleansing, and etc. is the essence of the Dao. It is possible to argue that the the NOFTH and Shower themes are similar, and that Lillian Gish in the former represents the purest form of Christianity as the operators of the bathhouse represent the purest form of Daoism. I would not in any way argue against such an interpretation. Both movies are visual joys in their integration of idea and image. Yet, Shower presents such an unstylized view of the sacredness of everyday life that I give it the nod. I revere both. "},{"Title":"Funny, gripping, beautiful, sad, rewarding...so overlooked","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Xizao is a rare little movie. It is simple and undemanding, and at the same time so rewarding in emotion and joy. The story is simple, and the theme of old and new clashing is wonderfully introduced in the first scenes. This theme is the essence of the movie, but it would have fallen flat if it wasn't for the magnificent characters and the actors portraying them.The aging patriarch, Master Liu, is a relic of China's pre-expansion days. He runs a bath house in an old neighbourhood. Every single scene set in the bath house is a source of jelaousy for us stressed out, unhappy people. Not even hardened cynics can find any flaws in this wonderful setting.Master Liu's mentally handicapped son Er Ming is the second truly powerful character in the movie, coupled with his modern-life brother. The interactions between these three people, and the various visitors to the bath house, are amazingly detailed and heart-felt, with some scenes packing so much emotion it's beyond almost everything seen in movies.With its regime-critical message, this movie was not only censored, but also given unreasonably small coverage. It could be a coincidence, but when a movie of this caliber is virtually impossible to find, even on the internet(!), you can't help getting suspicious.So help free speech and the movie world, buy, rent, copy this wonderful movie, and if you happen to own the DVD, if there even is one, then share share share! "},{"Title":"Simply Beautiful!","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Xizao, is the tale about the clash of modern life and ancient traditions, and its effects on a family in China. Da Ming (Quanxiu Pu), is a businessman who returns home when a letter sent by his brother Er Ming (Wu Jiang) makes him believe that his father Liu (Xu Zhu), has died. He founds that his father is still alive, as well as his old neighborhood and his father old business, the public bathroom.The movie centers around Da Ming's family, and how he has to learn the importance of his father's job, something he always had considered an old tradition that had to die soon. Also, the movie explores his relationship with Er Ming, who is mentally challenged, and the problems of the small community and how the bathroom is a place that purifies not only their bodies, but also their souls.The two main themes of the movie, the family and the problems of progress, are incredibly well handled, and the movie never loses the point it is trying to make, both themes are very good developed and we get a glimpse of Chinese society and customs.The director, Yang Zhang, tells his tale in a simple way, letting the characters characters do the job. It is a very simple approach, but it fits the movie perfectly, and I highly doubt that another style would fit the movie this good. Zhang has enormous potential, as he can tell a story without the aid of visual flare or camera tricks.The acting is outstanding in its naturalistic approach, everyone acts in a very natural way and it almost looks as if they were real persons being filmed. The three lead characters give remarkable performances, and Wu Jiang as Er Ming surely steals the show.Even when the movie could had sticked to a patronizing old days were much better message, instead it takes an attitude of equilibrium, like saying that progress is good, and we must move on, but we must not forget where we came from, and keep an equilibrium between modern life and the traditions of old.An awesome, and touching film. 8/10 "}{"Title":"The simple life is truly the best life...","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another outstanding foreign film which thoroughly trounces the never-ending crop of crud emanating from Hollywood! This is a story of life and living. No, definitely not the perfect little life so often depicted in the totally artificial Hollywood movies but rather, the real life complete with real characters each with strengths and weaknesses just like real people in our lives and ourselves.The dynamics of all of these lives, intertwined within the walls of this bathhouse, and particularly its aged owner, are magnificent, heart touching and highly thought provoking.Sit back, relax, and be carried away into the simple and beautiful life. There is real wisdom to be learned in this movie if you only open yourself up to it.You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"the film does a lot without fancy sets or a huge budget","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Almost the entire film takes place in a public bathhouse in China. There are no fancy sets, explosion or glamorous people--only fine writing, acting and direction (Hollywood, take note!).An estranged son returns home when he believes his father is dying. He is surprised to see that Dad looks fine and is going about running the family business as usual. In fact, he notices that his father and his retarded brother have really forged a close and caring relationship and it soon becomes obvious that he is out of the loop! Dad is very traditional and this visiting son is from the big city and doesn't really see the value of the old bathhouse. How their relationship changes and where the plot goes from there is exceptional and believable.I was happy to see that not every Chinese movie is an action picture (such as those starring Jet Li or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon), as I don't particularly care for these frenetic films. The Shower as well as Springtime In A Small Town are two wonderful examples of good Chinese films about PEOPLE! "},{"Title":"Powerful little movie","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This Chinese movie made me feel so many similarities with members of a culture I don't belong and are far from.  In an almost Buddhist approach, the film helps one to relate to each character, and to the happiness of doing the simple routine things. All actors are brilliant, and Xu Hzu exudes kindness and wisdom, yet also vulnerable and mean. Er Min, the retarded brother, shows us that intelligence and wisdom are not equal, and that wisdom comes to and from the most disparate persons in this universe. A different China, this is far from the Chinese realism, yet, it has lots of humanity and realism of a different kind.Get it. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Did I see this before?","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My wife figured it out.  This is a Chinese 'What's Eating Gilbert Grape'. The sentiment about caring for a disabled sibling in a small town atmosphere is very similar, not that this is bad.  The film is very enjoyable on its own merits and the traditional bathhouse details are dead-on if you've ever been in one.  The cricket warlords were my favorite. "},{"Title":"Poignant","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was an impressive one.  My first experience with a foreign film, it was neither too long, nor too complex.  I myself enjoyed the subtitles; and the plot was surprisingly fresh.  The story of an adult son visiting his elderly father and retarded brother after a long separation appeared cliched at first, but it proved to be very touching and realistic.  There was also some subtle humor so as not to depress or bore the audience. "},{"Title":"A sweet film...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like this film a lot.  It has a wonderful chemistry between the actors and tells a story that is pretty universal, the story of the prodigal son.  The aspect I like the best however was the way that the bath house was more than just a background for the story.  As the father told the son the story of his wife's family in the northern deserts of china, the element of water and bathing becomes an almost sacred ritual.  Water was so scarce that a simple bath had profound depth and meaning.Overall the film was very effective.  There were moments, however, when it verged on too sweet...bordering on cloying during the park recital scene.   But overall, I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A little corny but wonderful all the same","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This delighted audiences at a number of film festivals, and it is not hard to see why. Director Yang Zhang, with the help of some very nice work by the three principle actors, Xu Zhu as the father, Master Liu; Quanxin Pu as the elder son, Da Ming; and especially Wu Jiang as the irrepressible and lovable younger son, Er Ming, spins a tale that will warm the coldest heart.The film starts with a man taking a shower in an automated booth in the middle of Beijing. He puts some money in a slot, opens the door, takes off his clothes and puts some of them on a conveyor belt to be cleaned, steps into the shower and gets cleaned with brushes and squirts of water and soap as though he's a car at the car wash. This is the future symbolically speaking, and the old bathhouse we will see in the next scene is the past. Agrarian China is giving way to industrial China.Pollution? Cultural revolution hang-over? Industrialization blues? No way. What we have here is a celebration of people and their kindness and love for one another, a celebration of goodness in the hearts of men. Yet I wonder how the Chinese government views this film. On the one hand, it clearly presents a pleasant view of China and its people. It is stringently nonpolitical without criticism of the present regime expressed or implied. Yet there is the slightest sense that the good old ways are going to be replaced by something that may not be as good. I think Yang Zhang had the wisdom to just let that be as it may. Tell a story about old men at the bathhouse where they get back rubs and massages, where they tell tall tales and reminisce about the good old days, where they can relax and play Chinese chess and stage cricket fights, where the Master is a spry and wise old guy and his assistant is his son, who may be retarded or autistic, but who does his job with glee and an infectious spirit of fun and good will.Enter back on the scene the older son, Da Ming, who is polished, well groomed and taciturn. He is uncomfortable with what he sees as the unsophisticated behavior of his father and brother. He represents modern China with his tie and his briefcase, his cell phone and his education. He has only returned because he thought his father was dying. When he sees that this is not true, he packs his bags and is set to return to his wife and his career. But then a crisis ensues and it is during this crisis that Da Ming sees the value of the natural, people-centered life that his father and his brother have been living.And so Yang Zhang reconciles the old and the new, and does so in such a charming manner that I will not object, especially since his style is so neat and so carefully expressed. One of the nice things he does that I miss in most movies is the way he dovetails the subplots within the larger story so that they are resolved before the picture ends. The bathhouse regular who sings O sole mio in the bathhouse as the water showers down upon him, much to the delight of Er Ming, finds that he can't sing in public because of stage fright. Near the end of the film he loses his stage fright and sings thanks to some inspired help from Er Ming. And the bathhouse regular who is losing his wife because...well, he tells a tale to Master Liu before he confesses the real reason. But Liu understands and again before the movie is over, husband and wife are reconciled.This kind of happy ending movie-making is unusual in today artistic and international films, or in almost any film directed at adults. Some happy endings are so contrived as to embarrass not only their contrivers but their audiences. And some are so blatantly condescending that the audience is offended. Here however the audience is delighted.See this especially for the comedic performance by Wu Jiang whose warm effervescence overcomes any handicap his character may have.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"community","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My favorite part of this film was the old man's attempt to cure his neighbor's ills by putting the strong medicine in his bath. There is more than a sense of family, there is a sense of community. "},{"Title":"Gentle slice of modern Chinese life","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're interested in China (beyond its history, politics, and suffering) this film will be a revelation.  The plot is a simple slice- of-life comedy.  The characters are a father who is very much Old China, an elder son who symbolizes the go getters of the new middle class, and a retarded younger son who lives with the father and helps him run an old-fashioned bathhouse populated by men of the father's generation. The fascination of the movie for me is simply in how lives are lived in modern China and how universal the family relationships are. "},{"Title":"A sweet tale of the undying love between family members.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to Blockbuster and was browsing the new releases. A video cover featuring three Chinese men wearing towels caught my eye, and I knew that this was a film that I would enjoy. This film was Xizao (US title Shower), the story of an aging man who owned an old-fashioned bath house, who was simultaneously raising his mentally retarded son, Erming (infectiously delightful Wu Jiang). Everything was fine, until his estranged son showed up. He disregarded everything his father believed in he was a serious young man who lead a modern life, and considered bath houses to be passe. When Erming gets lost in town one day, he realizes how much his father and even himself, love him and rediscovers the importance of family.He also realizes that the bath house is not solely for relaxation it is the refuge for several lonely men. One is a portly man who constantly belts out Oh Sole Mio every time he enters the shower (who's voice constantly delights Erming). However, he is unable to sing them in public. Erming's constant approval eventually allows him to do so. Another prime example is a man who is unsatisfied with his marriage. He is told that there is an additive to one of the baths that will cure his impotency... instead, he finds his wife.Soon after, their father takes a turn for the worse, and suddenly dies. His son has to care for Erming and eventually finds the importance of the bath house and assumes responsibility. This is the only place where Erming feels at home. Although he faces a change of heart, the entire town will eventually be torn down.I thought this film was a beautiful portrayal of the magnitude of the love that a family feels for each other. Although Mandarin Chinese, this film's message and issues (caring for a retarded brother, etc.) are universal. The performances were all of the highest quality, especially Wu Jiang's Erming. He had an infectous smile and was a pitiful character, yet symbolic of the world's innocence. I loved this film and recommend it to any one who loves fine cinema. "}{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never before become so totally enthralled in a movie... The simplest story told ever so elegantly. Great story, great acting, and great sets! 'Shower' is by far one of the best films I have ever seen. DEFINITELY worth watching! 10*'s! "},{"Title":"Cute and Heartwarming","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By no means is this movie the greatest Chinese Cinema I have seen (the current winner is Farewell My Concubine) but what it does, it does extremely well.The plot of the movie is the well-used man who comes back to the small town he came from and makes amends with the family he tried to forget.  What is special about this movie is the utter simplicity in which the director and actors tackle the story and characters.  This is a movie about simple people and the simple facets of life, and the actors and director do a wonderful job of convening that.In the same way Eat, Drink, Man, Woman left you hungry at the end of the film, so will you yearn for a bath at the end of Shower.  "},{"Title":"Poignant, touching, funny, a great film to watch","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Da Ming is a businessman who works in the big city, and returns to see his father who runs a bathouse.  In this bathouse is also Da Ming's younger brother Er Ming who is retarded and works at the place as well.  We later find out that Da Ming returned only because he thought his father passed away from a post card his brother sent him depicting his dad laying down.  The father does not think much of his son since Da Ming feels his profession is less than worthy.  But his father is  proud of what he does, he is happy, his retarded brother is happy and taken care of, and why should things be different??  But somehow Da Ming still feels ashamed not just by his father but also his brother who spend nothing more than cleaning and scrubbing patrons backs all day.In this unexpected visit we also meet the many characters that frequent the bathouse who have been probably going there for ages.  They provide much comic relief, and alternate stories to the film one of them being 2 old men that raise and fight crickets, and have constant arguments as one accuses the other of putting his crickets on steroids.This is a great film that, has such a simple story line and fine acting.  Er Ming is a scene stealer with his broad smile that fills the screen, and all the characters joke and laugh, bitch, and cry about their lives, and then finally come to some peace and resolution as the old neighbourhood is about to be bulldozed and the possibility of  the bathouse being torn down.  Sometimes the movie is a little slow but nothing to get tired over.  Hollywood can make good films once in awhile, but they can never make a movie so good and simple as this.Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"United We Stand","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Shower is really about a bathhouse.  And the bathhouse is a mere introduction into an intimate male Chinese community where a supposedly better-off son can come to terms with his alienated father and brother.  What makes the movie even more enjoyable is the heartfelt message it conveys about the erosion of shared lives in favor of a social fabric that separates one another.  In America, such a message would fall on deaf ears - we shun families eating together, PTA meetings, and even going to church.  But in China, this profound warning about how fast-paced societies can tear apart families and friends may still find a receptive audience.  Shower deliberately understates its main characters and then slyly gives us glimpses of who they really are. The affluent and estranged son comes home thinking his father is on his deathbed because of a postcard drawing by his retarded brother.  His aloofness seems odd till we find out more about why the father and his younger brother share such a close bond.  We also share in the amusing lives of some of the bathhouse patrons  two elderly men who squabble over the fairness of their 'cricket matches', a man who loses face and his potency as well when his wife scandalizes herself in public, an aspiring baritone who sings 'O Solo Mio' so badly it sounds good, and a fledging entrepreneur whose capitalistic ideas are more than his friends can handle.  The Chinese filmmakers wanted to get their point across in such a gentle yet deliberate way that the film sags, at times, from redundancy.  There are one too many scenes of the bathhouse closing, the bad singer singing, and the remorseful son trying to do good.  That aside, Shower has remarkably good actors who must span the range from stoicism to deep love and sorrow.  It is also a good parable about the price societies pay if they want to keep up with the fast-paced world - losing their close-knit interdependence for an isolated independence.      "},{"Title":"Touching, funny, somewhat uneven...","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I admit it... this is the first foreign film I've ever watched all the way through (at age 36).  I found many scenes to be funny, touching and poignant, with absolutely none of the slick commercialism of Hollywood.  I have no standard on which to judge this film since I've never seen a foreign film before (let alone a Chinese film).  The pacing seemed very uneven at times, and I had a problem with the sudden flashbacks (Huh?).  Also, I find it difficult to read subtitles and still pay full attention to what's happening on-screen... I really prefer voice-overs since it allows the eyes to stay focused on the rest of the screen.It was difficult for me to stay interested at some points in the film, and I found myself getting sleepy.  However, I recognize that as my problem and not a problem with the film.  I've been conditioned (brainwashed?) to megabudget Hollywood blockbusters all my life, so what to make of a film like this?On the positive side, some of the camera work was amazing(ly different).  The scene where the neon light finally gets fixed and turned on shocked me in a very unusual way I can't put into words.  Although much of the movie was predictable, that one scene crept up on me and shocked my awareness with its simplicity and beauty.  Overall, I enjoyed the movie on several different levels but found it to be uneven, predictable and  somewhat 'primitive' by Hollywood standards (the nursing home scenes toward the end come to mind).  I imagine that I would appreciate it more upon a second viewing.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Little flick takes on huge challenge.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Want to watch a bunch of old Chinese men taking baths, a couple of dimwits, almost no women, bug fights and all with no huge stars, special effects, stunning costumes, great orchestration, big budgets, etc? Shower takes on this challenge dauntlessly a comes up with surprisingly good results. In spite of the film's touching and poignant story it remains severely handicapped and will likely have only limited appeal. "}]