[{"Title":"Realistic and by most part very accurate display of urban warfare","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"54 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" As someone who had lived through this war I live in Osijek, town frequently mentioned in the movie, only 30 kilometers from Vukovar and have seen the atrocities first hand, I'll start by commenting the realistic value. To my surprise, the Harrison flowers turned out to be very accurate in portraying what it was like. The details, such as locations, army uniforms and equipment, names, places, scenes and the geographic and historic facts, are pretty much all spot-on true. There are few barely noticeable mistakes, but it'd be nitpicking on my behalf even mentioning them. So, to anyone interested in seeing what the end 20th centuries warfare really looks like, I highly recommend it. It's miles ahead of Holywoods cheezy Rambo-style war movies and by it's ruthless realism it really is a visual kick in the gut.As for the plot - the love story that serves as a guideline seems pretty much unnecessary and hard to believe. It has occurred to me that it'd be far more believable if Andie MacDowel was the photojournalist lost in the war-zone and her husband goes to get her out, not the other way around. So, those looking for a warm love tale, this will hardly be the best choice. Those interested in seeing the insanity of the easter-Europe 1991. war conflict, the cruelty and danger of modern photojournalism - I can hardly think of anything better than this. "},{"Title":"Brody blossoms in a gritty war drama, once you get past the contrived set-up","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 'Harrison's Flowers' is a harrowing drama set during the 1990s Balkan wars, seen through the eyes of war photographers and correspondents. I don't recall it getting a cinema release here in the UK - but caught up with it on DVD.The 'hook' of the story is that Sarah Lloyd (Andie MacDowell) travels to Croatia in 1991 to try to find and rescue her husband Harrison, a prize-winning journalist who is missing, presumed killed. (The flowers of the title are those in his greenhouse - tended in his absence by their young son). It's a contrivance - indeed, because we don't see the characters together for long, it's difficult to invest much in their relationship - but functions as the plot mechanism (however creaky) to get the heroine away from her safe life in the US into the war zone, where her adventures really start. So it's essentially a classic quest-and-rescue narrative - unusually, with a woman doing the seeking. (Hence, I suspect, some of the criticisms about Sarah's search risking orphaning her children; I'm not sure this would be raised if the sexes of missing person and seeker were reversed.)The film does not glamourise the realities of late 20C Balkan warfare, graphically depicting the atrocities perpetrated by all sides in the wars which engulfed the former Yugoslavia. The story reaches its dramatic climax with the siege of Vukovar. Adrien Brody gives an outstanding performance as the bitter, troubled but brave young front-line photojournalist Kyle Morris. Like many in his profession, Kyle takes drugs and swears like a trooper - but he also has courage, integrity, and the face of an El Greco saint. He is the real hero of the story, and Brody, a truly remarkable actor, comes to dominate the film. Brendan Gleeson is also excellent as his older colleague, Stevenson. It is refreshing, too, to see Andie MacDowell in a role in which she is not simply eye-candy/cute chick-flick heroine. The fact that Sarah is not always likable is one of the strengths of the film, and surely a sign that it is a European production Hollywood films seem too hamstrung at times by worrying about making their protagonists 'likable' - flawed, difficult characters are more human and more interesting. Gerard Butler and Alun Armstrong, among others, provide good support.As to whether Sarah finds Harrison, or if she and her friends make it home in one piece - I'm not saying see the film! All I will say is, it did not turn out how I had expected, and my h/c complex kicked in significantly at one point.On DVD, get the French 2-disc Special Edition if you can. There are deleted scenes (mainly Sarah and Harrison, family and friends in the US), cast interviews, a digital effects feature, theme song video, & c.. Sadly, the only UK release was a single disc with just a trailer. One of the deleted scenes addresses an issue which concerned some reviewers - Sarah's guilt-feelings about leaving her children. The interview with Adrien Brody (looking very handsome) is interesting he discusses how he sees Kyle's relationship with Sarah, and also how he drew on his photographer mother's colleagues in portraying the character. "},{"Title":"A Journey into the Journalist's Personal Hell","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Harrison's Flowers is a journey into a journalist's personal hell. While some may feel that the premise of the story is rather lame and confabulated, it serves a purpose. To show the human side of the photo journalists who bring the horrors of the world to those of us who, as they noted in the movie, are just worried about getting a parking ticket.Too often when we non-journalists see photos of war zones we are horrified and, at the same time, we are dumbfounded as to how someone could be so inhuman and unfeeling as to photograph such graphic examples of man's inhumanity to man. Harrison's Flowers is excellent at showing us that just as a reader we can't stop looking at the horror even though we are revolted, the journalist cannot stop photographing and documenting it even though the human side of them is revolted as well. As for Andie MacDowell's so-called wooden performance, one must remember that in this film she is seeing her husband's and his colleagues' world through their eyes for the first time. How quickly would any of us be able to break out of our shock-like trance and be totally outraged or emotional if this were the first time we were seeing it? Even the veteran photo journalist portrayed by Brendan Gleeson was paralyzed with shock more than once in the film. Andie MacDowell's character came from such an insulated world that seemingly emotionless shock was the perfect way to portray Sarah, who simply cannot fathom what she sees unfolding around her.Harrison's Flowers is an excellent portrayal of the Serbo-Croatian hell that descended upon that part of Europe and irreparably tore apart the life of anyone in its path. "},{"Title":"Its a matter of feeling","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I just saw Welcome to Sarajevo, a film that got a lot of press and positive remarks when it came out. I only suspect that much of the press was based on the fact that it came out only a couple of years after the end of that terrible war in Bosnia. Just as in Welcome this film also depicts the life of journalists, trying to understand and convey the happenings in a country once believed to be almost western. (Which, I suspect, is the reason that it had such an impact on the western psyche.) As everbody else has pointed out this is where the best characters are found, especially Adrian Brodys character.Several others have already pointed out that the main story revolving around a lost love and an heroic wife trying to save her husband is really awkward. But since you need somekind of story, that might just as well be it. I saw this film a second time just recently and actually managed to ignore the plot and focuse on the description of the madness that was eastern Croatia in the early 1990´s. This film has an incredible feeling, the settings, the photography and the score makes it come really close to being in an actual war. I cant really praise this enough. Compared to Welcome this film hits you in the guts as it shows the brutality of urban warfare and the senseless killings that occur in all wars.Other films about Bosnia that are recommended if you like this one, No mans land, Pretty Village, Pretty fire and Savior. And why not give Welcome a chance too.  "},{"Title":"Works as a love story...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"27 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie must be seen as a love story more than anything else, and it works as a love story. However, to get an accurate picture of the war between Yugoslavia and Croatia, Harrison's Flowers is not suited. Those familiar with the history of the former Yugoslavia know that war crimes took place in and around Vukovar, and in 1991-92, Serbian nationalist paramilitaries of Arkan were responsible for heinous crimes. However, the movie is very one-sided, and Serbians are presented as half-drunk criminal villains while Croatians get the image of brave freedom fighters. In fact, the vast majority of movies portray Serbians as the villains, but I would claim that Croatians are maybe even more nationalistic than the Serbs. Those who watch the movie should know that Croatians were also responsible for killing civilians, especially during Operation Storm in 1995.I have gained operational experience myself as a war correspondent, and I know what is like to be under fire from mortars, artillery and snipers. Therefore I was very surprised to see how the reporters and photographers from the movie entered Vukovar wearing military camouflages trying to hide from snipers. I don't know any reporters who would do it like this because it makes you a legitimate target, and I doubt experienced reporters from Newsweek would do it like that. The goal of a journalist in a war area is to be seen. Yes, sometimes you have to avoid checkpoints to get to the other side, but to wear a military uniform is very, very stupid.Now it has been a couple of days since I wrote my review, and there was another thing that bothered me in this movie. Sarah lands in the city of Graz in Austria making her way all through Croatia to get to Vukovar. If she really wanted to save her husband, it would have been a lot easier to get to Belgrade. From Belgrade there is only a two-hour drive to Vukovar, and the city was controlled by the Serbs at this point. I just spoke to a friend of mine who was an officer in Vukovar, and he said it would have been no problem for the character in the movie to get to Vukovar. Even if there were some paramilitaries present, the Yugoslav army, JNA, was in control.For more about the Battle of Vukovar, Wikipedia has an interesting article, http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Vukovar "},{"Title":"Andie MacDowell in a warmovie ? Yes and one of the better warmovies you'll find !","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I doubt very many will ever get to see Harrison's flowers. This is really the most misleadingly titled movie i can recall. The title and the fact that it stars Andie MacDowell reaks cuddly romantic girl movie. Nothing could be farther from the truth !Instead this movie turns out to be one of the better warmovies i've seen in recent years.The story is actually similar to that of saving private ryan and it's portrayal of war as griping and realistic. Only this time we're not put into the shoes of soldiers storming up a bulletsprayed beach but in the shoes of the civilians that cover the wars the photojournalists. And the heroics is not killing the enemy but simply to bring the world a glimpse of what goes on inside a the chaotic inferno that is a warzone.Andie MacDowell plays Sarah Lloyd a suberban mother of two and voted most unlikely to be found inside a warzone in her highschool yearbook. When her husband Harrison (a roughneck newsweek warphotographer) goes missing in wartorn Croatia 1991. She basicly picks up a camera herself and goes over there to find him. Rather unbelievable but it works well to set up the real story. "},{"Title":"I've never seen any other movie like this before!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I've never seen any other movie like this before!  Granted, my exposure to movies where photojournalists are in the midst of war, it gave a stunning portrayal of how these levels of violence affect the people who take the pictures that we see in magazines.If you want to read about the plot, then you should read the other comments about this film.  However, if you want comments, then consider these While the movie does have a love story plot (wife tries to find husband in war-torn Eastern Europe), the presentation of the war scenes within the movie are phenomenal, giving it a Saving Private Ryan feeling.As Sara (the wife) and the photographers look for Harrison Lloyd, not only do you see how far a wife will go in order to find her husband, but you also witness just how far photojournalists will go in order to save their own.And if you ask me, the Hollywood Ending was absolutely necessary in order to justify showing the rest of the grim war scenes throughout the movie (they can be disturbing, but they aren't gory).  Had the movie ended any other way, I think that the majority of the viewers would feel extremely depressed after sitting through a two-hour movie.Definitely a great movie!  This is one that will get a lot of playtime in my DVD player. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, but worth your while","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie is simply made for watching on video or DVD. Here's the plan--the first time through, watch all of it.  But on subsequent viewings, just watch the stuff that happens in Yugoslavia. Except for the men's room scene after the Awards Banquet.This movie is really, really frustrating to watch because you can't help but feel that the directors and other creative parties associated with the actual film were very dedicated to telling the story of the journalists and photographers who were trying to bring the truth of what was happening in the early days of the ethnic cleansing in the former Yugoslavia to the screen.  They were fascinated by the people who would willingly risk their lives to obtain images of the horrors and atrocities being carried out to the rest of the world, and what motivated them--made them tick.  And they were enamoured of the character of Kyle Morris, as portrayed by Adrien Brody, and wished to showcase him in some way in order to drive the point home--that people like him were brave and admirable, no matter what their personal demons and failings.Unfortunately for those of us who were hooked on this POV, they were also hamstrung, utterly, by the source material, which was a love story about a woman who would not believe her husband was dead, and whose dedication to finding him and whose devotion to him was convincing enough to cause persons such as are described in the preceding paragraph to risk life and limb to try to reunite this couple.I don't want to use this space to snark.  It's unseemly, given the seriousness of the subject matter.  What I want to highlight is the way in which one of the performances affected me.  The central figure of this movie from a standpoint of character arc is not Harrison, or his wife, Sarah, but Kyle Morris.  We first see Kyle at a Pulitzer Awards dinner, where a grief-stricken, coke-addled Kyle Morris goes off on the Harrison Lloyd character. It's a show-stopper, and drenches everything else that happens in Yugoslavia with layers and layers of bitter irony. The great stuff in this is movie is all about Adrien Brody's character Kyle Morris. This is probably the sort of character that a young actor just dreams of getting his teeth into. Kyle is one of those bundles of contradictions and contrasts that fascinates endlessly. He is an angry, foul-mouthed swaggerer with the gentle hands and soul of a poet, and a kind heart too easily touched. He is a drug user, which is usually portrayed as a character defect which goes along with being weak or afraid to face reality, but in his case, it is probably more a result of his trying to cope with having too MUCH courage and desire to walk into the bowels of real-life hells, like war-torn Yugoslavia. He is both cocksure and certain, and insecure, terrified he will never get recognized for what he is doing in trying to record the truth. He takes rebellious pride in being an outsider, but he churns with jealous resentment against those who seem to have made it. This character is BRAVE, quick, resourceful, clever, with a crackling energy that suffuses every line, every expression, every move he makes. Brody brings a wild animal's instinctive quickness and 360 degree awareness of the environment to the role; you can almost see his large but sensitive nostrils quiver as he tests the wind for the scent of danger, and the way to safety. If I were going deep into the heart of the battle zone with nothing more than a camera bag and a sense of purpose, I would want no one else to take me there. When he wraps his arm around Sarah, and tells her to move, she obeys. I would, too. He seems to be tapped in to the undercurrents that flow beneath the reality that they see and hear around them, and sense shifts in the flow and direction that the others cannot, and acts on a combination of instinct and intelligence to get Sarah into a city which has become a charnel house where no badge or profession is respected or spared from the snipers and the bayonets.I was fascinated by this character. It was the sort of portrayal that made one want to know more--what drives someone like that? What was his childhood like? Why did he risk all for someone like Sarah?Unfortunately, this portrayal and character threw the whole film off-balance, and made the putative heroine seem self-absorbed and unlikable in the end. I recommend this movie for the brilliant footage of the journalists and Sarah working their way through war-torn Yugoslavia, for the harrowing urban combat scenes, and for Brody's performance.I can't, however, give it more than 8 stars, since it committed the primary infraction of rendering its heroine unlikable in certain ways, without redemption or the change brought about by a true character arc.Also, Harrison and Sarah's son was sort of creepy.  Sorry, but there it is. "},{"Title":"Great acting and cinematography, but a implausible story","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I'm really torn about this one.  On one hand, the performances by Andie MacDowell and Adrian Brody are very good, maybe even Oscar quality, and the cinematography is truly excellent, capturing the horror that was Yugoslavia.  Unfortunately, the story line is really kind of ridiculous.  First, is there ANY mother that would intentionally orphan her children to go to a warzone looking for a likely dead husband?  Second, it is VERY unlikely that anyone as naive as she is could make it through to Vodrosnik, regardless of who was helping.  Third, the opening scenes in New York/New Jersey are not very watchable, with most of the actors trying too hard.  It has a Lifetime movie feel to it.  Once the film gets to Europe, however, a different sensibility takes over and it becomes riveting cinema, if you can suspend your disbelief of the general concept.  Overall, I thought it as a good, but not great movie, certainly worth the price of admission if you can get by the premise.  I give it an 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Embarrassing on every front","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Harrison's Flowers is one of the most remarkably bad films to date. The Balkan Conflict is treated like an unfortunate backdrop for a much more important yuppie love story. The film is shameless in this regard, allowing MacDowell to blather through 3/4 of the movie while there's this inconvenient war thingy going on. The makers of this embarrassment should be helicoptered in dropped off in the middle of a civil war after this misguided Lifetime movie. Also, and I checked her filmography to make sure that I was right, MacDowell's pinnacle performance occurred in Groundhog Day. She has consistently proven her inability to pull off even the simplest of dramatic performances. It is, at times, excruciating to watch her fail. MacDowell has been tolerated because she's easy on the eyes, and, like Julia Roberts, she just seems like a nice person gosh darnit. Hardly reasons to cast her in dramas ever, ever again.  "}{"Title":"War reporters aren't the first victims but the first helpers (DVD)","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I was taken aback by this movie the stupidity and craziness of war is all around young, old but all innocent lives are terminated by the fury of men. It made me cry.But above the sounds of firing bullets, snapshots can be heard. At first, i found that indecent until i realized that running under fire to take a shot is the only solution to have all those lost lives remembered. For sure, the question of the future of those shoots will arise after can publishers decide on a artistic taste ? Unfortunately, the movie is terribly insulting on this afterlife the reporter becomes a celebrity, gets prize for the famous photo of this Chinese student stopping the tanks no word about the Chinese! When the family is reunited, the house helper takes the bags! Do they return from war or vacations? The first thanks on the credits are addressed to Chanel and a jeweler is shocking for a war movie! And if Chouraqui found his inspiration for this movie after reading the book, well it's a weak commitment. At least, he found a great cast Andie is love embodied and it's great to see her become a mother as well now. Gleason is touching because his fear is as huge as his heart! And Brody just plays an uncompromising free soul who should have been an inspiration for Chouraqui! "},{"Title":"Left me ambivalent","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I liked this movie a lot but it still seemed somehow 'wrong' to me. The storyline was very stilted and unbelievable (yeah, a woman who knows nothing about photography and war will travel to the Balkans and rescue her husband from those complete animals? No. Even Bruce Willis might struggle -)).I was a press photographer for many years and got into a lot of tight situations (not wars fortunately) and some of the scenes seemed 'real' to me and some really 'unreal'.I thought Andie McDowell did a reasonable job. So Did Aiden Brody but SOMEONE tell me why he stopped being an arsehole and became a good guy? The plot seemed to slip there about the middle. Also the father-son relationship here is so thin you'd fall through it. The kid felt neglected and then and tended his dad's plants for three months? Really? Hey, it's not bad to watch (some good war scenes in there) but this is a way big waste of money. You can try to be 'Saving Private Ryan' and 'Sleepless in Seatle' and expect to either succeed or have film-goers rave about you (well, theoretically you could I guess, but this effort falls way short). "},{"Title":"I didn't like it as much as most people seem to.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I had this movie on my 'list' for a long time, and finally found a free copy of the DVD at my local public library. It had received fine reviews from many, and I watched it eagerly. For me, and for my wife, it never seemed real. I know many have commented on how realistic the war sequences seemed, but to me they all seemed like movie-making. I can't explain it better than that. It seemed like actors pretending they were in danger. Plus, the whole journey into the areas of battle seemed to be drawn out too much. I would have rather seen a movie which shortened the actual battle sequences and focused more on the relationships. The title comes from Harrison's hobby of growing flowers in his greenhouse.SPOILERS follow, for my own recollection. Harrison was a photographer getting ready to quit, but his friend talks him into going to Bosnia. There is an explosion and crumbling of a building, his body is not found but he is presumed dead. His wife (Andie McDowell) refuses to believe he is dead, receives a late night cell phone call with no voice, believes it was her husband trying to contact her. She watches news footage, sees prisoners, one that from the back believes is Harrison from his jacket, sets off to travel there and find him, naive, rents a car, drives into hostile territory, cars gets destroyed by a tank but she is safe, aided by other journalists, she finally finds him in a dilapidated hospital, he is dazed, she brings him home. Fortunately, the long and hard trip back home is left to our imagination.  The movie was somewhat of a disappointment for me. "},{"Title":"annoying movie","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Thank goodness for Brendan Gleeson and Adrien Brody.  Without their performances, this movie would have been a waste of time.  I couldn't stand Andie MacDowell's character.  She plays a totally stupid woman.  Anyone with any sense would have contacted the Red Cross and other international agencies and asked them to look for her husband, but she foolishly marches into the middle of a civil war and risks the lives of her husband's colleagues because she is so deeply in love.  Of course, it would have been a different movie if her character acted with any brains and maturity.  At a time when her children needed her the most, she leaves them and almost gets killed herself.  The audience is supposed to think this is wonderful because it is so romantic.  Give me a break. "},{"Title":"A story which gets buried in rubble","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Harrison's Flowers tells of the wife (MacDowell) of a renowned photo-journalist (Strathairn) who refuses to believe her husband was killed while on assignment in war ravaged Yugoslavia and travels through hell to find him. The film parses into a setup where we see what a loving family life the protag's have; a long stretch in the middle where MacDowell dodges bullets and bombs through Balkan countryside; and the wind-down/wrap-up at the end. The film shows the horrors of ethnic cleansing and the role of the wildcat photo-journalist on the front line of war reporting. However, MacDowell spends most of her time doing little more than running from pillar to post as the family drama wanders into and then back out of a war flick milieu. An okay watch for anyone who wants to revisit combat in the Balkans but a disappointment for those who are expecting a story about an estranged married couple. (B-) "},{"Title":"Realistic and not for the faint of heart","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I don't know what it is that made me decide to give this movie a try. All I knew was that this was some kind of war movie from an unknown French director, with Andie MacDowell - not exactly my most favorite actress - and Adrien Brody - who was excellent in The Pianist, but who I didn't see play in any other movie since. Those aren't exactly strong reasons why I shouldn't miss it and yet I was willing to give it a try, probably because I hoped to be surprised by it. And that's exactly what it did.Harrison Lloyd is a photojournalist who has already won a Pulitzer price with his photographs of several wars. But he now has a wife and two children and he doesn't want to go to another war-zone anymore, because he is afraid that he might die while doing his job. He wants to change jobs, but his boss has given him one last assignment. He'll have to travel to ex-Yugoslavia, where the civil war has just started. What appears to be a small incident at first, quickly proves to be one of the most gruesome wars in recent history and it doesn't take long before Harrison is missing, presumably dead. But his wife Sarah refuses to believe that he's no longer alive and decides to go after him and to look for him. As she penetrates deeper into the war zone, she is confronted with all the horrors that were committed in this war random executions of soldiers and civilians, rape, snipers, the uncertainty of where and who the enemy is,...At first I must say that I didn't like this movie all too much. This seemed to be like yet another Hollywood product about a perfect and happy family who is all a sudden thorn apart by some unfortunate event, who learns to deal with the pain, building up a new life without the missing person and so on, and so on. Nothing new, nothing special. But then it all started to change... a lot. As soon as she is in ex-Yugoslavia, being confronted with all the horrors of that civil war, it was as if I was struck by lightening. Never have I seen so much realistic images in a movie about this war. This started to feel more like a documentary, rather than like a movie. It was all so incredibly realistic and I can't say that they have left anything out. Young children murdered and raped; soldiers and civilians, man and woman, old and young,... executed in front of your eyes; all the explosions and the attacks;... It seems like you're all witnessing it live, as if you are seeing it through the eyes and the lenses of the photojournalists yourself. It was incredible...The performances in this movie are more than OK and Andie MacDowell was a pleasant surprise in this one, although I must say that I liked her performance a lot more once she was the journalist in ex-Yugoslavia. Before that I sometimes found her acting a bit too much and quite unrealistic (take for instance the several scenes in which she is constantly falling when she hears bad news). I didn't really have the feeling that the wife of a war photographer, who constantly lives with this kind of uncertainty, would act and react the way she did. But as I said before, I forgot about that as soon as she was in Europe. However, the best performances in my opinion were those of Adrien Brody - who was excellent as the drug using, alcohol abusing and cynical Kyle Morris - and Brendan Gleeson as Marc Stevenson.In the end this is a very fine movie about the Yugoslavian civil war. It's too bad that the first part of the movie didn't convince me all that much, because in my opinion it wasn't all that strong, but overall I really liked what I saw. That's why I give this movie a well-deserved 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"An awfully one-sided story destroys a rather good movie","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I hardly ever watch movies with ex-Yugoslavia war theme. I know they are always one-sided, and somehow I thought this one would be different. I was wrong.While it rather nicely portrays horrors of war, why does it have to be only one side in the war that does wrong, awful things. There are quite a lot of American movies showing Americans doing horrible things in wars, but when the Serbs are around, nobody else is bad. I'm far from saying Serbs did nothing wrong, but, has any of Hollywood filmmakers ever did any actual research before making a movie about war in ex-Yugoslavia?? There is a moment in this movie when Brody says something like there are no good and bad guys here, they're all the same and it gave me hope that I've actually chosen a decent movie. However, just a bit later I was proved wrong... Awful! "},{"Title":"MacDowell is a revelation in an excellent film","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There are very, very few films that had dared to tackle the controversial subject of wars in the former Yugoslavia and get it right. This is one of them, and done extremely well. Now, if your knowledge on the subject is limited, you may have a hard time following the politics of it. However, you shouldn't let that prevent you from viewing it; because in its core, it's actually a very basic and touching human story. It is surprisingly accurate, moving, harrowing, suspenseful and (dare I say) very entertaining. It's a work of fiction but actually based on some real and well documented incidents (the infamous, bloody invasion of Vukovar, Croatia, and the crimes committed by the Serbs against Croatian people during this time). The acting is excellent all around (Brody, Gleeson and Strathairn especially), but the real star of this film is the lovely Andie MacDowell. The actress (Four Weddings and a Funeral) who has, by some, on occasion been heavily criticized for her 'limited' acting abilities, in this film more than proves her worth. In a very difficult, dramatic role, Ms. MacDowell gives an Oscar-caliber performance that is both heartbreaking and very brave. You should check it out, even if you know nothing about this period of tragic Croatian history. See it for its remarkable story, tight editing, sweeping cinematography and superb performances by Andie MacDowell and Adrien Brody "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Great Dramatic Anti-War Movie","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  In 1991, the Newsweek photographer Harrison Lloyd (David Strathairn) is considered dead, after an explosion in the building where he was. Nobody has indeed seen his body, and his wife Sarah Lloyd (Andie MacDowell) refuses to believe he died. She flies to Graz (Austria) and makes a journey to hell, with some other journalists and photographers correspondents of war though a Yugoslavia in a very dirty war. On December 2003, this film was released on VHS and DVD in Brazil, but I have found no reference about it. Yesterday I had the chance to see it, and it is a surprisingly great dramatic anti-war movie. The cruel story explores and presents very realistic scenes of this very sad war, with its ethnic cleaning, when children, women and elders are executed in a horrible way. In some moments, I recalled the outstanding `Apocalypse Now', not because of the landscape, characters or screenplay, which are totally different, but because of the insanity. Like in `Schindler's List', there is an excellent scene with a beautiful yellow dressed girl. The cast, leaded by Andie MacDowell, Adrien Brody and David Strathairn, is excellent and the unknown (at least for me) director Elie Chouraqui offers a very realistic great production. The story is not corny, and the crazy and sensitive search of Sarah is very touching. I highly recommend this film for any audience. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `O Resgate de Harrison'  (`The Rescue of Harrison')  "},{"Title":"Skip the mushy love stuff...brilliant and realistic hardcore war atrocity film like 'Salvador'","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Forget about all the love stuff...rather thin love story at the most. This movie really shines in the portrayal of the Yugoslavian war. Genocide, nowadays eufemistically named 'ethnic cleansing' (I spit on those two words; only a politician could have used the word 'cleansing' as a substitute for 'mass murder') is very realistically portrayed in this movie. War doesn't get any dirtier than this. The movie focuses however neither on the victims nor the butchers, and in fact makes very little effort to which side is 'the good side'. This is very close to the actual truth, which is that there was no good side. In war there are only two sides The people with the guns doing the killing and the people who want to live in peace who take care of the dying part. This movie focuses on two things; the journalists and the victims. The very natural and realistic acting results in three real, lifelike journalists, much more down to earth than the ones in 'Salvador'(1986) and closer but still better than the ones in 'the killing fields'. There are times when you can almost see them s****ing in their pants out of fear.Only Andy MacDowell character is truly unrealistic in her fanatical search for her lover and should have been shot halfway the movie if she was to have any realism about her. Sorry.Because the journalists are all such real persons the whole movie gets a new kind of realism. Strong acting and grim settings are combined to create a true and realistic atmosphere of desperation, hopelessness and grim determination in the whole of the war zone scenes. Only a few war movies succeed in coming close to showing the truth about war It's mindless, senseless, immoral, clinical, and chaotic way of destroying everything and everyone in it's path, without remorse, pity or hesitation.In the past few years movies are getting better in portraying the true face of war. 'The thin red line' , 'Saving private Ryan' and 'Enemy at the gates' spring to mind. Of pre-1980 movies most american war movies are basically gung-ho crap. Notable exception is 'Go tell the Spartans' (1978) with Burt Lancaster. Remember to watch 'the killing fields' and 'Salvador', as they both center on journalists, just like in this movie.I gave this movie an 8. It would have gotten better if the love story part would have been anywhere near as realistic as the war stuff. But you can't blame the director for skipping on that to concentrate on the realism in the war stuff. It's to his merit that he knew his priorities.PS bad acting by Andy MacDowell. This movie would have been better with a capable but lesser well known actrice in her part. Now her bigger-than-life 'Hollywoodian' image conflicts with the role she is playing, and sharply contrasts with the brilliantly presented, down to earth journalists. She is too unrealistic as a character to play in such a realistic film. "}{"Title":"Tedious love story comes alive only in gripping war scenes...","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" HARRISON'S FLOWERS, a film title that goes nowhere in explaining what this movie is all about, is perhaps an apt title for the aimless storytelling technique that takes up the first forty-five minutes of story exposition. It gives no clue as to what we are about to witness once the heroine decides to trace the whereabouts of her journalist husband in war-torn Yugoslavia, circa 1991.The idea that a loving wife would put herself and everyone else around her in constant danger in the midst of a savage civil war raging all around them, in order to reach the side of the husband everyone tells her is dead, is even more ludicrous on film than it is in the pages of a script. Nor is it helped by the disturbing performance of Andie MacDowell who puts herself in the kind of situations that would turn a normal person into a basket case, but plods on determined to find the missing husband.To make matters worse, her missing hubby is played by David Straithairn, an actor with all the charisma of a wet mop, who has been neglecting his wife and children due to the pressures of his job as a photojournalist for Newsweek. His wife seems oblivious to the danger she heads for, even after a traveling companion is abruptly shot in the head by Croatian soldiers. A more compelling actor cast as the Pulitzer Prize winning journalist might have made MacDowell's mission more credible.Given short shrift are actors in the supporting cast, with the exception of Adrien Brody as a scruffy looking coke-sniffing hipster who is so sorry that he dissed her husband at a social event that he is willing to make up for it by escorting her through battle zones. He uses the f word as an expletive every time he utters a thought. At one point, asked to explain his actions, he says cynically I always wanted to be a boy scout. But short shrift is indeed the fate of Diane Baker as MacDowell's mother and Gerard Butler in a brief supporting role that has no function at all in the plot. No wonder Butler, who had only a few good supporting roles before his stint as PHANTOM OF THE OPERA, was so little known to most film fans.The war zone scenes are gripping and powerfully filmed, but the slim love story that holds all the threads together is a weak one and most of the scenes leading up to the street battles are so poorly paced that tedium sets in and never quite lets up.All of it is handsomely photographed but it seems like so much care was wasted on a story that limps to a less than satisfying conclusion. "},{"Title":"Earnest but implausible and manipulative melodrama","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Harrison's Flowers is a gritty heart felt melodrama about 4 photographers who search for a missing comrade in the early days of the Balkans War.  Sarah (Andie MacDowell) has suddenly mustered the inconceivable courage to track down her husband, Harrison, who is presumed to be dead in Yugoslavia. Harrison raises flowers, but Harrison is out of touch with his son. We know this because, until a final predictable moment, his son (a thankless role given to Scott Anton)just sits around staring at his busy dad like a forlorn puppy. Harrison is brave, but he has lost touch with his inner man.But Sarah stands by her man &#150; big time. So big in fact that she practically becomes Bruce Willis, except that off the set Andie MacDowell has two personal assistants and two hairdressers (Bruce Willis probably does too for that matter). Not that that should matter to the reality of the movie, of course. But the explosions, atrocities, emotion devastation, snipers, rapes, murder, and bad driving do occur, somehow seem just a bit beyond the ability of the average housewife to contend with. And how DID she know where her husband was anyway? I won't give a way whether she finds him or not. Let's just say there are forces at work here bigger than you and me. I don't mean to pick on an otherwise serious movie filled with important issues and concerns. But beneath the gritty realism and jolting camera work is a tawdry and predictable, implausible and manipulative melodrama. McDowell does her best with a poorly written character. The other actors don't fair as well. Elias Koteas as Yeager, the drug addled &#145;second tier photographer who transforms into a hero' is so overplayed as to appear truly ridiculous. The wonderful Irish actor Brendan Gleeson as Stevenson fairs a bit better with the cliché riddled script. As Harrison, David Strathairn - who is always a credible and earnest performer - is reduced to the most maudlin lines that finally topple the film.At one point the four stalwart comrades need to cross a line of rough and brutal Serb soldiers. They decide just to act casual and ridiculous and they might get through. Yeager says, `It's stupid but it just might work'. The same could be said for this earnest and implausible movie. Predictably for our heroes, it does work; unfortunately for the movie, it doesn't.  "},{"Title":"Adrien Brody's Consistently Great Even When The Movie Isn't","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Stirring war drama + sappy love story with a rather tunnel-visioned heroine + powerful performances by Adrien Brody and the always-excellent Brendan Gleeson = a film that's watchable enough on cable on a rainy afternoon, but not 100% satisfying.  Brody practically steals every scene he's in as bitter but dedicated photojournalist Kyle Morris, who's grieving for a friend and fellow photographer killed in the Balkan war yet still manages to help Sarah Lloyd (Andie MacDowell in a nicely understated performance) find her presumed-dead husband Harrison (David Strathairn, who doesn't get much to do except look earnest, but is a likable presence all the same.  My husband, accustomed to seeing him as bad guys in DOLORES CLAIBORNE and others, found it refreshing to see Strathairn in a sympathetic role for a change), who's a prize-winning photojournalist on one last job for Newsweek.  Brody's Kyle is a fascinating bundle of contradictions, in a realistic way.  (For one thing, it's kind of refreshing to see that Kyle is not immediately vilified for abusing cocaine at one point in the film -- although my smart-aleck hubby couldn't resist a wisecrack about the amount of coke needed to fill a nose like Brody's! Men! -)  As a mom, I was troubled that Sarah was willing to leave her two children at the drop of a hat to go to Croatia to look for Harrison.  Yeah, she left the kiddies with her mom (always nice to see 1960s fave Diane Baker get work), but what if Harrison was indeed dead and then Sarah went and got herself killed, too?  I can hear the kids now `So we're orphans because Mom loved Dad so much she went off to the war zone herself instead of getting the Red Cross or something to help her find him? Thanks for nothing, Mom!'  (BTW, HARRISON'S FLOWERS is the second film in a row -- after BREAD AND ROSES -- in which Adrien Brody sports bedhead and a beard, lending him a cuddly look even in his most intense moments, IMO.  If I may allow my hormones to do the talking for a moment, Brody might want to consider playing more roles where he gets to look like that! -)  "},{"Title":"Good movie, as good as Salvador","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  HARRISON'S FLOWERSThis is a pretty good movie, considering that the war movie genre isn't exactly virgin territory. Set in contemporary Yugoslavia (I can't keep track), it is basically about war journalists covering the conflict. A lot better than Welcome To Sarajevo, a lot more realistic than Salvador, I was surprised not to have heard of this movie. Because of dramatic reasons, it has to have a narrative of Andie McDowell trying to find her husband, who has gone missing and has been declared dead. As opposed to Saving Private Ryan, it isn't too far fetched and actually works, because it gives the movie direction and resolution. Otherwise, this movie would just be a litany of war crimes. Unlike many comments here, I think Andie McDowell did a really good job, portraying a woman who is determined, but at the same time still sensitive and feminine. David Strathairn gives a great performance too. I last remember seeing him in a more comedic role as Whistler in Sneekers. Great acting, as well as nice acting from the supporting actor Elias Koteas (The Prophecy). However, the little boy Cesar had me going 'aaaargh...' because of his creepy, smug look I'm on film smile/smirk he doesn't let go of through the entire movie. More acting classes for him...Also, Diane Baker has become really irritating since I last saw her as Senator Martin in Silence Of The Lambs and I kept hoping for Andie McDowell to punch her. Overall, this movie is pretty good. "},{"Title":"Disjointed narrative disrupts truly remarkable war footage!","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Honorably ambitious drama of American war-photo journalist who goes on a last mission to civil war-erupting Yugoslavia in the early 1990s. Being allegedly killed in action, his wife refuses to believe it and decides to follow in his tracks, with a small group of war photographers in tow...The bulk here is the truly remarkable staging and re-enaction of the horrors of the war on the Balkan that left me cringing heavily in its strongest parts. But disjointed narrative (especially those post-interviews) and unconvincing relations and circumstances - a sort of modern Saving private Ryan-ish setup, if you like - make its American-related input curiously uninvolving... Too bad - had all elements gelled, its classic status probably would have been secured. And not surprisingly, Adrien Brody steals the acting show as usual! 6 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"Don't spend your time on this....","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Hum... The story is good... But I think the movie is too long and there's scenes that could be cut... Action is difficult to fallow and the little girl who does the submarine seams really stupid... I didn't like when there is people who talk alone like after the story... But I liked to see Adrien Brody (that's why I watched this movie)! Special effects are great and there is a lot of blood, fire and explosion. Some things are surrealist and I think that is not good...If you like long movies with war and people scared, this is for you! But I don't think you should spend your time on this because it's really long and it seams longer that it is because it's always the same things people kill other people, there is blood and explosion. "},{"Title":"A woman tries to find her husband in war-torn Yugoslavia","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Harrison's Flowers is about a photojournalist (David Strathairn) named Harrison Lloyd who is presumed dead when a building he was in collapses in Yugoslavia. His wife (Andie MacDowell), a journalist for Newsweek, believes that he is alive and goes to Yugoslavia to try and find him. She's not prepared for what she sees when she gets there.This is a good movie about a heroic, determined woman, and what she has to endure to find her husband. The depiction of the warring factions and photojournalists is highly inaccurate, though the actual scenarios of death, bombings, and shootings are probably right for any war.I didn't mind Andie MacDowell as much as some, presuming that any woman thrown into this kind of situation is going to experience some kind of traumatic shock - heavy emoting would probably be inappropriate. Nevertheless, she doesn't have much presence. Adrien Brody is excellent as Kyle, and David Strathairn is wonderful as Harrison. The flowers analogy is quite moving - Harrison is depicted as a gentle man who has a greenhouse, and in his absence, their son works in it. The flowers become a symbol of hope.With some research for accuracy and the casting of a stronger actress, someone like Michelle Pfeiffer, perhaps, this film could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Roamce during war - captivating","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I gave up some sleep time last night to catch an old film that looked really interesting - Harrison's Flowers with Andie Macdowell (Four Weddings and a Funeral) and David Strathairn (Good Night, and Good Luck.). It was a very romantic, if incredibly unrealistic, film about a woman who travels to Bosnia in the middle of the war to find her husband, whom she refuses to believe is dead. It was the graphic and tense depiction of the war and the ethnic cleansing that went on during that war that was so captivating. I have not seen such realistic war footage since Saving Private Ryan. Fortunately, they left out the blood and gore, but they could not leave out the terrible toll that this war and all wars take. "},{"Title":"So VERY good.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one heck of a movie. Everything about it is just so wonderfully put together. The story is about a woman (Andie Mcdowell) and her journalist husband (I forget his name). While on a trip, her husband is reported dead, but Sarah (I remembered her name now) doesn't believe that is true, so, she sets out to find him. She doesn't go along, she goes with some other journalists (including Adrian Brody). This trip is a long, dangerous, and strenuous trip that shows the brutality of war, and the strong love between a woman and her husband. What happens I won't say of course, but the title of the movie has to do with the ending.The acting is phenomenal and the direction of the movie is superb. The script is great, however I found the dialog to be bland and had a little bit to much profanity, but its a really minor turn off. But the movie is a movie you can't forget, and its a must see for war fans and for fans of anyone in the cast.I rate it 10/10 (excellent) Rated R-Strong War Violence and Gruesome Images, Pervasive Language and Brief Drug Use "},{"Title":"blown away","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I picked this film up in my local charity shop and bored with what on the t.v. I placed it in my video....I can only say I was blown away by its stark and unyielding realism. My husband died in war zone and seeing this film brought home the reality of how war far to easily produces monsters out of the normal everyday men caught up in it. Out of all the performances, two were outstanding, Brendan Gleeson showed fear so tangible, that I wanted to reach into the screen and rescue him. Adrien Brody's portrayal of a man hooked on something to ease his pain, help him sleep or take his hunger away was also a superb performance. I would recommend this film. "}{"Title":"an excellent movie","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" usually i don't like the war movies because are very exhausting but this i like very much for the fact of the love of the wife for his husband all the things that she do because she knows that he isn't dead. the love that the father have for their beautiful kids, who are performed by amazing young actors. the role of all the actors are amazing and wonderful all know how to react on every scene o f the movie even the kids that i think that both will be amazing actors in the future. the story that is based on a book is beautifully told in the movie and fabulously directed by the director. the movie isn't be popular in the us than in other cities but i guess that is a movie that was a movie that could be nominated to the Oscars specially Andie Macdowell. "},{"Title":"Modern War finally filmed the way it really feels","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  After 8 years in the military I cannot express how poorly most films portray modern war. This was not one of them. The confusion, the uncertainty, the senseless brutality.For the plot most films show those warm moments between action scenes where humanity shines through. What crap. This film showed the truth, the fleeting moments where people were just a little more human while existing in an environment where they remain s*** scared and on edge. Those that are not scared are just better at hiding it.The most captivating feeling that I recognized in parts of the film were those places where most people wanted to just get out of there - but that every direction was worse than the one you were in, and the look on their faces that staying put was not a good option either.Excellent Job.  "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie was unbearable to watch, except for the scenes in Yugoslavia.  The scenes in Yugoslavia were very moving, disturbing (in a good way) and gripping.  They should have developed the characters more in Yugoslavia rather than wasting our time on petty forced wanna-be witty dialogue.  I know they had to set up the story in the beginning of the movie, but they could have done it without trying sooo hard.    "},{"Title":"not too hot","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I did not consider this movie to be very good. I found that the acting left something to be desired (from certain people, though). Some of the actors did a good job though. David Strathairn did a fairly good job (I was not as impressed with his acting job in this as A League of Their Own and The River Wild though). Adrien Brody also did a good job. I didn't care for his character though - every other word out of his mouth was some form of expletive (frequently the one beginning with an f), but he did play his role well. The thing that I didn't care for about this movie though is that it was very anti-climactic, and was not very believable (like Andy driving her car directly into the war zone). However, if you are interested in a slow war movie that has a bit of a love story, this would fit in that category. Overall, I give Harrison's flowers a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"this movie is awful and  incites hate","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The plot of the movie is the following. The beautiful wife of a super-famous and handsome photo-reporter (who won the Pulitzer in the past) leaves family and children in America to look for his husband lost in the middle of recent Yugoslavian civil war, She refuses to believe in  CNN (called here ICN) who reported her husband as dead. Together with three other friends-reporters (one of them is another Pulitzer prize), she gets inside Vukovar exactly during the final Serbian army assault and, while Serbs are  massacring and raping everyone all around (her friends-reporter taking picture in the meanwhile of  these super-cruel facts), she gets inside the city Hospital well in the middle of a bombing. Of course, she finds her husband and saves him. I think that this movie should not deserve any comment. The story is mostly unrealistic and some times absolutely ridiculous. But beyond this, the movie is also actually inciting to hate. So something must be said. Every time Serbs appear, they  always do a lot of extremely nasty things, while our brave quartet, during its journey towards Vukovar, passes several time through a benign, or at least not malign, Croatian army (the one with the red and white chessboard flag). This manicheistic  vision, Serbs are the bad guys and Croatians are the good guys, reflects the West version of the conflict. Indeed Serbs were responsible for terrible massacres, including in Vukovar where they were accused to take away and kill more than 200 people from the city hospital, but  Croatians were also accused of mass killings (e.g. , the facts  of Paulin Dvor  and Gospic in the same year of Vukovar, 1991).For people interested in the Yugoslavian conflict, I suggest to avoid this and watch instead two great movies, namely Vukovar by Boro Draskovic, and Bure baruta by Goran Paskaljevic and the  good movie No man's land by Danis Tanovic.  The first two are from Republic of Yugoslavia while the third is a French-Bosniac coproduction. "},{"Title":"A Question of Miscasting","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When her photo-journalist husband is reported killed during the Croatian-Serbian war, an American woman refuses to believe his death and sets out to find him. Ill-prepared, she very quickly encounters the depravity and horrific violence of the events of Yugoslavia 1991-92.Harrison's Flowers plays like an uncomfortable hybrid between a gritty European film, and a rather crass US TV movie. Whilst the scenes of war, and the experiences of journalists on the front line are captured to astonishing, and frequently devastating effect, the very notion of MacDowell wandering through the carnage looking for her husband approaches the ridiculous. MacDowell isn't necessarily a bad actor, and has often been shown to good effect in a number of funny and successful comedies. However, she just doesn't have the chops to carry such a brutal and shocking story, and as such is the film's central flaw. This viewer can't help wondering what kind of movie it would have been had, say, Cate Blanchett played Sarah. Other performances are excellent, and deeply credible, and asides from a frankly unbelievable ending, this film sears its way into the memory and reminds how shocking this period of history was. "},{"Title":"As war movies go, pretty good.","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of the better war movies. I am surprised it didn't get more play in the theaters.It does show the blood, filth and hell of war-torn Yugoslavia in quite a realistic way, not quite as internally gutsy as Saving Private Ryan but real enough.From an artistic point-of-view I enjoyed the movie and I can see the reality of love trumping danger as a women clings to the hope of finding her husband in the inferno of a combat zone.Andie MacDowell is excellent in this role. This very attractive actress is not afraid to go grubby on camera in portraying the part of the determined wife.Adrien Brody, in a pre-Pianist part is superb as an unorthodox, somewhat off-the-wall supporting role as a press photographer.Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Brutal realism of war.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The director achieved a remarkable sense of realism in the war scenes. The tension builds as Harrison's wife, Sarah together with the other photojournalist's, journey through war torn villages of Yugoslavia. You get the ominous feeling that something terrible is going to happen. "},{"Title":"A strong film with the caracteristics of non Hollywood production","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Anyone who likes to see a film without the caracteristic Hollywood family filter, you have to see this one. It's a film about the horrors of war. It is a cold and naked story. You can not prepare yourself for what's gonna happen with the mood.music because there is no warning. The actors are great and I really hope ou get the opportunity to see this film. "},{"Title":"Pushing Up Daisies","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  In spite of the rather contrived setup, the scenes in former Yugoslavia were some of the most horrifying and realistic war scenes on film.  These photojournalists had nothing to protect themselves but Nikons and good luck.  Just as the photojournalists used their cameras to record the atrocities, director Elie Chouraqui unflinchingly captured the war crimes committed by the Serbs and the chaos and meaninglessness of war.  Adrien Brody showed his Oscar worthiness as Kyle Morris, the coke-head, jealous, unaccomplished photographer with a chip on his shoulder.  His was the most mesmerizing performance, because it lacked any pretense.  He looked scared to death.  Brendan Gleeson was also exceptional, wavering between frozen panic and dedicated war chronicler.   Andie Macdowell was pretty lifeless, yet she seemed convincing as a woman unprepared for such an undertaking.  David Straitharn had a thankless part as the eponymous Harrison.  Elias Koteas was underused as well, and his narration was unnecessary.  His part was underwritten, but he managed to give it life nonetheless.  The title may have hurt this interesting and eye-opening film.  It sounded like a show on the Gardening Network.  I would have eliminated the last 10 minutes, (as well as the whole flower analogy- Ugh!) sinking the film into melodrama, but this was a good one to catch on Starz.   "}{"Title":"Love and war","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  In Yugoslavia 1991 a Newsweek photojournalist is declared dead without proof. His wife journeys into the heart of the war to see if she can find him.A painful and beautiful story; great actors, direction, and production value.  I can see why it had such a tough marketing job.  The title is not descriptive although apt.  I'm awed.  A brilliant film of our United States, our world and our times.  Thanks to all.  "},{"Title":"Must be seen","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Astonishment- The movie had quite a profound effect on me. Wars that are going on and have been going on over in Europe and the Middle East over the years, it all seemed so distant and  surreal - Maybe its because Im seeing it from a distance or there's some sort of emotional guardin place..but I went in to the theatre - my guard down. To be honest, i just wanted to see Gerard Butler, but from the moment Sara is driving in the small town with her passenger and the gunfire and  explosions rip thru the small neighborhood, I felt something rip thru me also. From that point on, viewers, to me anyway are seeing an incredible -account of what goes on during such savage and all too common attacks. - I've appreciated news journalists before for their brilliant, tragic images they ve been able to capture , but this gave me a new found respect for them. As for the victims, my head always thought it sad , but this just put me over. I feel the director did an absolutely brilliant job. "},{"Title":"well-done film; when does the source novel emerge in English?","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I liked the film a lot - I thought it was well-done in numerous aspects, including the casting of the leads. Some might say the coincidences in the film were too incredible to be believable but 1. Truth is often stranger than fiction; 2. This film *was* based on a work of fiction, Isabel Ellsen's Les Fleurs d'Harrison which I have not yet been able to find in English, and my French isn't up for a novel. It could be an English language paperback has been/will be released and just hasn't made it into the library databases yet. It would be interesting to do a comparison/contrast and to find out her source material for the novel. I noticed in the film's credits (although not listed in the IMDb) that Isabel also was responsible for some of the still shots in the film, and at least one other area of cinematography/photography which I don't recall.The major cinematic resonance I felt with this film was THE KILLING FIELDS - another harrowing account of man's inhumanity to man, this time in Cambodia. "},{"Title":"Gets it Right- Harrison's Flowers shows war's toll on Civilians","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Costa-Gavras would be proud of this poignant and moving visual diatribe against the horrors of war and the savagery perpetrated on civilian innocents.  Romeo and Juliet X Private Ryan, it is both sad and necessary, and should be compulsory as an accompaniment to all video games.  At least shown in schools on a regular basis.The risks journalists take seem particularly topical today. "},{"Title":"I needed half an hour to get my self back to reality","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Just one thing. I've seen many movies about war. But most movies had something about herorism. They showed things in this one we actually don't want to see... but these things just happen and we want to shut our eyes before them. The last time I was stunned by a war movie was The Dear Hunter. I don't think it will happen again soon. I also needed to see the making of. It was just so real and chaotic that I thought where are the camera's? Giving a 10 is high. I'm aware of that. I've seen a lot. Had some bad experiences myself. Being stunned for half an hour was really scary. This movie deserves far more publicity on one hand. On the other hand I think it's better that people need to find this movie among all those hero movies.  "},{"Title":"Powerful and shocking film","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw this movie on a French airline and I thought the movie was very good. The images of war are disturbing but quite powerful and effective.  It's easy to ignore war when it is somewhere far from your home but this film illustrated the horrors of war.  The acting was quite good as well. I would recommend it but be prepared for graphic, disturbing images. "},{"Title":"The ultimate war movie","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie has shocked me, like no movie has done in years. It shows us the insanity of war and the extreme situations journalists are working in. The obscenity and at the same time the necessity of taking pictures of dead, raped or mutilated people is very well shown. This is the ultimate war movie without being  a typical one "},{"Title":"Gripping, but fails to deliver","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  With the recent brutal murder of journalist Daniel Pearl, the motion picture Harrison's Flowers hits painfully close to home.  Amidst the current abundance of war movies (Hart's War, We Were Soldiers, Black Hawk Down), this film reminds us that soldiers aren't the only ones that go to war. It paints journalists as warriors with cameras instead of guns.  They, too, often they are casualties of war.The mortality rate among journalists is high. The International Federation of Journalists reports a total of 91 journalists killed in 2001, and at least eight have been killed in Afghanistan.This is the premise upon which Harrison's Flowers is based.  The film is a love story set against the backdrop of the 1991 war in the former Yugoslavia.  Unfortunately, the filmmakers fail to deliver on the premise.The film opens with Pulitzer prize-winning Newsweek photojournalist Harrison Lloyd (David Strathairn) returning home from an assignment in Africa.  In the opening few minutes Harrison appears rough-housing with his two children, is captivated by a television news report from Africa, tends flowers in his greenhouse, and presents an award to colleague Yeager Pollack (Elias Koteas) at a Pulitzer awards ceremony.Yet, Harrison is not content.  He's dissatisfied with his distant relationship with his son Cesar (Scott Anton) and he tells his editor, Samuel Brubeck (Alun Armstrong), that he's giving it up.  `I never used to get clammy hands, and I wasn't afraid of anything.  All I can think about now is Sarah and the kids.'  At the request of Brubeck, Harrison agrees to stay on a while longer.At the awards ceremony, a bitter, foul-mouthed, drug-using Kyle Morris (Adrien Brody) confronts Harrison in the men's room.  Morris explains that his colleague, `a tiny little photographer in a tiny little country with a tiny little war' was recently killed overseas while `you are giving each other awards.'When a conflict breaks out in Yugoslavia, Brubeck asks Harrison to go for what is to be a one-week assignment, introducing the viewer to a war we never fully understood and that we would rather forget.  The film taps into that when while watching the first footage from Yugoslavia, the newsroom staff misunderstands the conflict.  `It's just an ethnic skirmish,' Brubeck remarks.Brubeck later informs Harrison's wife, Sarah (Andie MacDowell), that he has apparently been killed when a home he was in collapsed.  `We were wrong,' he admits.  `It's not just skirmishes.  It's a filthy war.  We were all wrong.'Sarah, however, refuses to believe her husband is dead.  `Something would have broken inside if he were dead,' she tells her brother.  Becoming self-absorbed, and ignoring her children, she sets up camp, living and sleeping in front of two television sets hoping for help from the footage. It is there, during a news report, that she thinks she sees Harrison among a group of refugees headed toward Vukovar.Leaving the children in the care of her mother, she heads to the war-torn country, picking up a Croatian hitchhiker heading home to his wife and child on the way.  Shortly after they cross the border, she receives a brutal introduction to war. Their car is shelled, the Croatian student is killed, and Sarah is nearly raped by a band of Serbian rebels.  Here the focus of the story shifts to an action film, with Sarah saying little.The film makes it virtually impossible to distinguish between one side or another in the conflict, suggesting there is little difference between the two.  After being rescued by a TV crew, she is introduced to Morris.  He tells her, `You can't stay in this country.  No one knows what this country is.Serbian, Catholic, Croatian, Orthodox. there's no bad guys, there's no good guys.  They'll shoot you first and think about it later.  This is no place for the living.'  In doing so, the film attempts not to take sides. Yet, the gruesome atrocities which are apparent at their every turn makes everyone in the film seem like a `bad guy.'Sarah will not take `no' for an answer.  This sets up a series of narrow escapes as Morris, Sarah, and Marc Stevenson (Brendan Gleeson) make their way toward Vukovar, where the fighting is fiercest.  At one point with tanks rolling toward their car and shells flying, even the optimist Morris admits, `We're dead.'  In the next scene they're shown driving the car, with never any indication of how they made it out.  Such scenes make the film seem both unrealistic and unbelievable.In yet another unrealistic scene, the four don camouflage to hide from and outrun Serbian snipers.  When they finally reach Vukovar, Pollack explains, `It wasn't fighting that was going on, but extermination.'  While everyone around them is being massacred, the journalists wave their cameras like passports, and endure one casualty as they make their way to the hospital.The film is one of contrasts.  On one hand we are treated to the atrocities of a civil war.  Yet, amidst it all is a woman who will seemingly stop at nothing for her husband.  Unfortunately, it's less than convincing and not worth spending $8 to see.The film tries too quickly to establish a loving relationship between Harrison and Sarah.  In the only way that Hollywood seems capable of portraying intimacy, Harrison and Sarah make love.  However, in the absence of any real communication, the attempt is unsuccessful.  In addition, the viewer fails to truly identify with any of the film's key characters. Lacking that, it is later difficult to become emotionally vested in Sarah's overriding passion in her search for her husband, or Morris' desire to take up her cause.Had the film spent more time up front developing the characters and establishing a truly intimate (emotionally and intellectually, not just physically) relationship between Harrison and Sarah, the rest of the film might have been more believable.Pervasive profanity distracts from the film's dialogue.  It's as if the journalists, faced by the chaos of war, know how to do little else but swear.Co-written by French director Elie Chouraqui and photojournalist Isabel Ellsen, the film accurately captures the realities and dangers of photojournalism.The film also captures the chaos and the gruesome senselessness of war. Fortunately, unlike the Daniel Pearl story, this one has a happier ending.  "},{"Title":"Real, Authentic, Cruel...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  If you thought the war was what we see on the news on television, you are mistaken!  Watch this film and you shall see the truth about war in 21st Century Europe is really like.  Perhaps a bit crueler than what one would wish, however the film makes one think deeper about war in the modern 1st World!   "},{"Title":"A good and realistic war movie","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Harrison's Flowers breaks away from the typical 'sweet' war movies Hollywood has gotten us used to see. This is probably due to being a French film. It's raw at times, which won't probably meet kudos from most of the people, but who cares?Just like other users have written, Harrison's Flowers must be, if not the first, one of the first movies that shows properly journalists' job in the middle of a war. I was hooked on it during the whole movie. Certainly it leaves you with a bitter taste in your mouth, but that's war and the marks it leaves on people who've been there.I can't help commenting the good job by all involved, especially my dear Andie MacDowell (Well, in fact she is the only cast member I know, so...).I'm pretty sure this kind of material wouldn't fit Hollywood standards. That's their loss.A believable war movie, uncensored.I gave it nine when I voted for it, but now I believe I could give it the highest score (10). "}{"Title":"Bad picture of people","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" At firs i must say this I did not see the movie.I read some comments about movie and i will explain now why i wrote without seeing the movie.I will watch it later for sure bur comment first. I vote with 5 because there are some elements which are very wrong.Sorry for my English.I am from Belgrade and i think that there were many wrong things in that war but not all of them are done by Serbs.There is other side if the war.They done things too.I think that the Croats are more nationalist now,especially then,then the Serbs.I am tired of watching this kind of movies.1 sided an pretty untrue.Sorry thats my opinion.Also i think that it is very stupid to go as a reporter in military uniform,especially at the time and place where is a lot of snipers. "},{"Title":"Really unrealistic!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The love story of this movie is so silly (someone already wrote it in previous comments). Also, the story about war in Yugoslavia, about Croatian and Serbian people is so wrong. It can't be that only Serbs did things that are shown in the movie. The truth is that Croatian people did the same awful things and they are not shown in the movie in the right way. Do you know how many innocent Serbs, women, children, were killed by Croatian army in so terrible way?If you decide to see this movie i would like to recommend you first to inform your self about this war and to find out a true story about it. I wouldn't recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Dramatic","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A wife searches for her photojournalist husband in war-torn Yugoslavia. She has the help of some other journalists who had left her husband for dead. We see the Serbian army killing anyone and everyone in its path, and even the destruction of a hospital. I guessed the movie must have been filmed in the Czech Republic, and I was right. Sad to say, some of the scenes probably did not need much dressing to suggest the utter destruction wrought by the blood-mad Serbs. Andie MacDowell is the determined wife and David Strathairn is the missing husband. They are supported in their efforts by gifted actors like Elias Koteas, Adrian Brody and Brendan Gleason. Based on a book, this is a compelling love story using modern war as a backdrop. "},{"Title":"Riveting, informative and brilliant performances all around!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Brilliant foray into the horrors of war with gutsy performances by Andie Macdowell, Adrien Brody, and the rest of the cast.  Direction is fantastic, and certain scenes serve as precursors to Brody's performance in The Pianist.  Absolutely recommended! "},{"Title":"Love transcends all","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Great movie. A great testament to what true love is all about....I'd go through that plus more to find my wife, if I have even the slightest hunch that she's missing but alive and in danger.Well acted....great to see Adrian Brody in yet another fantastic role. NO short-coming to this film at all, IMHO. Will buy it on DVD as it's worth seeing again and again.For those who say the movie shamelessly uses the Serb conflict as a backdrop...pshaw! Go get a documentary about it. At least this movie acknowledges a conflict that too many Americans never paid any attention to at all, thus sparking interest and hopefully more attention to future/current world events. "},{"Title":"Spectacular, spellbinding","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Excellent acting talents adjoin this film that is reminiscent of Proof of Life, but a hell of a lot better.  Andie MacDowell gives IMHO the strongest dramatic performance of her life as a woman stretched to her limits hunting for the love of her life in war-torn Eastern Europe. Classic scenes, excellent special effects, a great war movie for those who can take the brutality and can accept its message. "},{"Title":"Get ready for modern day Hell on Earth.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Nobody had warned me about the film Harrison's Flowers by Elie Chouraqui. It makes me wonder why such trash as Behind Enemy Lines was ever made -- why it mocks the deaths of thousands in the name of entertainment. Yes, Harrison's Flowers gives you the unimaginable hell of modern day civil war right in your face, and minors should stay well away from it, but what the f*** is war anyway? If any one film deserved to come to a screening where I live, it would be Harrison's Flowers, but instead I got to see big buck, sweet ass, easy morals Behind Enemy Lines on the big screen - and to tell you the truth, that just plain sucks! I had to se Harrison's Flowers on DVD, witch isn't half bad, but the 2.351 ratio doesn't quite come to it's right on a small TV set.First of all Harrison's Flowers is a remarkably well told story about photo journalism, all though I doubt it really is as violent an occupation as depicted in this film (although people like Frank Capra prove otherwise). Second, the film paints the violence of the Yugoslav conflicts in a way I find similar to the insane portrayal of Vietnam in Apocalypse Now (although without Lt. Col. Kilgore), and that's pretty good. What can I say? If you plan to see Behind Enemy Lines, don't bother. Rent Harrison's Flowers instead! "},{"Title":"Excellent Photojournalist film","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is an excellent film.  I really enjoyed Adrien Brody's performance. It is a strong film about photo journalists.  It did borrow a bit from The Killing Fields with the scene in the Men's room after an awards show that was kind of just thrown in there as an homage, it didn't work for me.  The ending needed work.  but I did like the contrast between the first part of the movie and the last part of the movie.  I saw the American ending, so if there is a different ending, it might have worked out better.  Good movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing and chocking movie...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Harrisons Flowers was a horrible movie. Not in the sense of a bad made movie. No no. This movie will get to you. Grasp you in tight. It's about a photographer, named Harrison Lloyd. He sets of to, what then. was Yugoslavia. At the same time his wife and two children is back home worrying. His wife, Sarah Lloyd, comes to work one day, and gets the horrible news. Harrison is missing, and pressumed dead. Sarah wont accept this and sets of to Yoguslavia in search for her husband...The movie gives you a perfect view of the horror, that hunted the country at the time, 1991. Soldiers, tanks and people in war. Some scenes made me shut my eyes, it was just too much. Aspecially a scene where a little girl is found nearby a destroyed buss. And soldiers have tainted her body. Very shocking, but just one of the shots of what it was like down there.See this movie, not for the movie itself, but to remember the terrible acts of human nature, learn from them, so that it will never happen again. Never.  "},{"Title":"A movie which change our mind forever!!!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I can't really explain why this movie is so wonderful... The best thing to do is to see it, and then you'll be able to understand why this movie is so particular...I've never been so touched by a movie since The thin red line. Harrison's flowers gives us a new point of view about war, about war reporters, who are (unfairly) ignored, because of medias who concentrate on the people who give the news on TV or in the papers, and not the ones who risk their life to show us how awful is a war...This movie is probably one of the best of this beginning of the 21st century... It would be a shame not to see it... People who haven't seen this movie yet must do it... Because it's one of the only movies which are so wonderful that, after you've seen it, the pictures are printed in your memory forever...(Please forgive me my bad English...) "}{"Title":"Why didn't I hear of this one before?","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Extremely powerful movie. This film does what all good movies should do, and that is to convey an important message. The message is the chaos and brutality of war, in the formerly rich and civilised country of Yugoslavia. This war was so close to home, both literally and figuratively, that its hard to understand how it has been largely forgotten. The best war movie since Saving Private Ryan. "},{"Title":"Shocking but true.","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the first movie where reporters are correctly and very well described. I am not (yet ?) a reporter, but my father is one of them. He did run through the missiles and the bullets to report to us what really goes during wars. By what he described me, I can tell you that Harrison's Flowers is very near from reality. Also, the place of reporters' children and family has been really well directed and written. My brother who saw this film too thought it was about me, and I thought it was about him. At the end of the movie, I was disappointed for about two hours. This is not a Hollywood blockbuster. This is a fresh and true horrible movie. I hope you'll enjoy as I did. "},{"Title":"Serbian Atrocities Revealed at last!!!","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Harrison's Flowers is one of the rare movies which shows the reality or rather truth of the Serbian siege of the proud Croatian city of Vukovar.While the story of the film is OK, the reality and savagery of the attack on Vukovar nearly brought me to tears. This once beautiful and proud city was mercilessly razed to the ground in 1991 by the Yugoslav National Army and their cohorts, the Chetnik irregulars. Chetniks being nothing but lowly murderers of the innocent.Whilst the movie holds the savagery true to life, the story needed more development from the War aspect. I think that some film maker may want to take this subject in and of its own and develop a film about the demolition and siege of the city itself.In the area around Vukovar there were over 600 tanks and armoured carriers, as well as several thousand well-armed Chetniks and mobilized reservists. There were large numbers of all kinds of artillery weapons, the enemy had an abundance of ammunition, and there was no way to stop the Serbian warplanes.On the other side, Vukovar was defended by several hundred Croatian Guardsmen and policemen, as well as about 1000 volunteers with no military experience. The defenders had modest weapons semi-automatic and automatic guns, several machine guns and artillery guns, and some simple armour-piercing weapons. Weapons, food and medical supplies were brought in for a time through a narrow corridor through the maize fields near the villages of Marinci and Bogdanovci.Data of military statistical character help to explain the contribution of Vukovar to the defense of Croatia and illustrate why Vukovar was in the focus of media attention from all over the world and why it is being studied as a special phenomenon by military therorists.About a 1800 defenders took part in the defense of Vukovar while it was under siege. About 60% of these were citizens of Vukovar, while the rest were patriots from other parts of Croatia and from Bosnia and Herzegovina. A third of the defenders managed to break out of Vukovar in small groups, about 500-600 were killed, while the rest were imprisoned or wounded. Fascinating results were achieved in battle using the meagre weapons described above over 300 tanks and armoured carries were destroyed, about 25 warplanes were shot down, while the number of dead Chetniks is estimated at 5000 - 7000, with 20000 - 30000 wounded.Vukovar and the rest of the aggression was Serbia's version of The Final Solution as far as the Croats were concerned. A little known fact about this city is that the Serb had bombarded it with the destructive force of the atomic bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima in 19445. Can anyone imagine the destruction?!!!One of the reviewers on the page said Army men don't shoot at the sky when they are working (that is what they do when they're bored). Nobody commits rapes in the streets where soldiers are fighting.  And you know this because you were in this war and have sen the ravages?The Croatians were not angels and I don't approve of any atrocity.  It seems to me that the Serbs always portray themselves as the victims and the angels  when in fact they are the ones who always start up the trouble and never have the balls to finish.  Oh, they are a brave bunch when there is no opposition and when there are only women, children and the elderly opposing them.  When they are met with a real force, they cower and run like the cowards they are.I am rambling. Andie MacDowell did an excellent job. Her acting was superb. Save for some plot holes, it was a good movie.if anyone in Hollywood reads these reviewed, please consider making a complete story of the sad story of Vukovar and her proud and brave defenders. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is one sided story, filled with hate, and misleading information. If you want to see what Croatian army is really like, rent Saviour, Oliver Stone's movie. I give to Flowers 2- out of 10, since Andy is a nice looking girl. "},{"Title":"Very realistic movie!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I come from the war in ex Yugoslavia, movie is so realistic, only is confusing for others who don't understand who was chetniks and croatian soldiers, Nustar, Vinkovci or Vukovar. Thanks to this movie to showing the rest of population how bloody that war was, thanks to the journalist who was there to witnessing the killings of the innocent people, making that movie it's just one step to leaving the message please, to never happened again! Rest of the world was quiet watching the news, silent, without any help. Who was the victims, civilians on both side, movie didn't say that many of the people from hospital, wounded, chetniks kill them after occupation of Vukovar. The theme of the movie is love. I like the movie, first movie what showing the part of reality what really happened there, but really victims was croatian what movie didn't say. Serbian attack the Vukovar, still now Croatia looking for many of missing people. Milosevich free many criminals from jail in Serbia to fight against innocent civilians, this was the reason why terrible thinks happened. Thanks for this movie! "},{"Title":"GOOD MOVIE BUT A LITTLE FAR FETCHED!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Overall I enjoyed the movie but the story was a little far fetched. A woman who is married to a war photographer, goes into the battle after he is reported dead.  People being shot all around her and yet outside of a beating she takes, she dodges bullets, bombs and tanks, and as all Hollywood movies turn out, it has a happy ending.  More than I can say for the war. I would wait for this one on tape. "},{"Title":"Simply a beautiful, beautiful film","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If you are watching this movie to watch one or another of the cast members, or because you want to watch a war movie, or because you want to see the story of a woman tragically trying to rescue her husband, you'll have to change your expectations when watching this film I know I had to. Andie MacDowell, David Strathairn, Brendan Gleeson, Adrien Brody, Elias Koteas, and all the rest of the cast, are marvelous, of course, and ultimately the way they threw themselves into their characters made the movie what it was--stunning.Harrison's Flowers is not just a love story, a war movie, or a point-blank tragedy neither is it simply an explanation of why photographers aren't as insane as we think. Certainly it contains elements of all those ideas. The incandescent relationship between Harrison and Sarah Lloyd is beautiful in its simplicity, though it is certainly not the main thrust behind the movie, as the title might suggest; war is obviously portrayed as bloody, destructive, and painful; the photographers/photojournalists focused on in the film are gorgeous characters, all with intense motivations and ideas. But Harrison's Flowers goes beyond any of that, becoming--I think--one of the best films ever made about a civilian's perspective towards war. Because it primarily concerns civilians, it doesn't follow along the lines of Behind Enemy Lines or Saving Private Ryan or even The Thin Red Line, which all concern the soldier's perspectives watching your comrades die, following orders or doing the right thing, living as a coward or dying heroically.... No. Harrison's Flowers has nothing to do with fighting for a cause, or with warrior-bonds between men, or even a statement against war. It is a beautiful, graphic, tragic explanation of why photographers and photojournalists do and should continue to do what they do capture the world of war in Kodak, to remind us of it when it is gone, to remind us of destruction in times of peace, to remind us why war between men happens, to remind us of who really suffers during war--not just the soldiers, but the civilians, as well. The film's dedication (to the photographers and journalists who died in the former Yugoslavia between 1991 and 1995) reveals this further. If you're anything like me, after seeing this film you'll feel motivated to better the world and reveal evil, not matter if it means starving, freezing with fear, being wounded, and perhaps even dying--like the very, very human photographers and journalists in this film do. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Anti-War Films of all Time.","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  MAXIMUM recommendation. As a war photojournalist in my past years. This film captures the agony and pain and truth of life in War. Better than any yet. sure some things are manipulated and fudged, but for the most part everything is pretty much real. And thus totally Heatbreaking all again. The Moral poverty of mankind is well portrayed. Camera and Direction are Magnificent, really Academy work. I have a feelling Chouraqui knows the meaning of Tragdey and War. Watch this film. It's very REAL and that is my highest commendation. A Very Beautiful Film. "},{"Title":"unrealistic war movie","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I have never been in any war but I'm sure this movie cannot show what war is. A photo-reporter doesn't see all the horror of the war in the same time. Army men don't shoot at the sky when they are working (that is what they do when they're bored). Nobody commits rapes in the streets where soldiers are fighting. Elie Chouraqui wanted to show all what is really war, but I've seen nothing but a musical promo much alike Johnny Halliday's oh marie. You don't know who Johnny Halliday is ? Well good for you, I wish I had the same luck but I don't. Elie Chouraqui's intention is maybe ok (even if he maybe ignores that the Croatians were not angels) but the result is not worth watching. Try better  three kings, apocalypse now, the bridge over kwai river or even Pierre Shoendorfer's stuff. "},{"Title":"extremely unrealistic, naive, and offensive","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"13 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The plot is terribly unrealistic (read earlier comments, they are understatements) and designed for naive idiots, for whom the director is taking his audience. None, absolutely none of what happens to the main characters was possible. Their fancy, clean yuppie love, was put in the context of endless innocent deaths without much respect. Might the blind man in the wheelchair have two kids too? No help for him. Yeah, you'll say, he's not her loving husband. Stupid film. Full of historical and factual war goofs. "}{"Title":"An excellent film!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw Savior a few years ago while in Beograd and felt it was an excellent film. A film which one should see to get a perspective on the civil war in Yugoslavia. This film is equally good and brings home the horrors which Milosevic perpetrated upon his country. I urge it's viewing to help understand the atrocities which occurred. "},{"Title":"Best film I've seen all year","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  When Sarah Lloyd goes to find her photo-journalist husband in Yugoslavia in 1991, she doesn't know the hell she's let herself in for.The film starts quietly with scenes of their home-life in New Jersey, although it's obvious that their son, Cesar, is not happy with Dad being away most of the time in war-zones.Harrison goes away for one last shoot in Yugoslavia and is soon announced as dead by his magazine, because witnesses saw the house he was in in Vucovar being blown up. Sarah refuses to believe it, and decides to go and find him against all advice. After picking up a young Croatian in Graz, Austria, who is returning to take his wife and baby back to Paris with him, they head for the rapidly imploding Yugoslavia, with its multi-ethnic hatreds and centuries-old strife. Once they are over the border, they run into a patrol (I don't even know which racial group they belonged to), and hell opens up for them.The movie is relentless in it's realism of civil war where everybody is considered fair-game by all sides. Young and old women raped and killed, men of all ages slaughtered in firing squads, the barbarity of this conflict is hard to watch at times, but it should be seen by as wide an audience as possible.I won't give away the ending, but it is a truly remarkable film and should have been given more publicity. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"a movie or a documentary?","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Many comments have already been made about this movie here, so I will try not to repeat what was already said. Therefore, I will only say this If I had entered a room where this movie was playing and caught it in middle and if there were not a few well known Hollywood faces on it, I would have easily believed this was a (very good) documentary about the civil war in former Yugoslavia.I have never heard about this movie before - I suspect it didn't entered the Portuguese cinema circuit, and if it did, it passed unnoticed - and I bumped on it quite by chance at a store and bought it mostly because it was marked with an irresistible promotional price (about 3 euros) so it was worth it to take the risk. Well, I have to admit that while watching it, I become totally amazed by it's high quality! Very well directed, amazing shots - angles, sound and light just perfect - and a great realistic depiction of the human atrocities committed in this war.A must see movie for a lot of good reasons! "},{"Title":"One of rare movies about horrors in Vukovar and Croatia","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Reading the other comments I have come to an understanding that very few people know the truth about the war in Croatia. Especially idiots from north and west Europe.One of rare movies about horrors in Vukovar and Croatia.Reading the other comments I have come to an understanding that very few people know the truth about the war in Croatia. Especially idiots from north and west Europe.One of rare movies about horrors in Vukovar and Croatia.Reading the other comments I have come to an understanding that very few people know the truth about the war in Croatia. Especially idiots from north and west Europe.One of rare movies about horrors in Vukovar and Croatia.Igor, Croatia "},{"Title":"A Must See!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A real eye opener on what went on In Yugoslavia war, and the peril Journalists and Photographers go through to bring the war to us back home. I hope they do a film like this on DAVID BLOOM's sacrifice he make in covering the Road to Iraqui Freedom! Thank You! "},{"Title":"Best war movie about balkan conflict","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie really depicts the atrocities that occured in late '91 in Vukovar. It tells how it really was in the way the Serbs invaded the town and the resistance the Croatian people offered in protecting their town for three months until they were eventually overran. Hopefully this movie will open up people's eyes to this event which was largely ignored around the world at the time it was taking place. The director did a fantastic job in settting the atmosphere and creating realism which really added to the movie. Vukovar was a symbol for the croatian people and their resistance against the advancing Serbian invaders.  By the way, if you were curious to know what the Serb army was singing at the end of the movie it was - bit ce mesa, bit ce mesa, klacemo hrvate (meaning There will be meat, we are slicing up the Croatians!) "},{"Title":"A war movie without a soul or a sympathetic character.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Andy McDowell can't seem to portray sympathetic characters. In Four   weddings and a funeral I wanted Hugh to dump her. In Sex, lies and   videotapes I knew she was frigid before they told us. It has something   to do with those intense brown eyes being too close together, and her   pent up, whiny angst.    Now she plays a woman so obsessed with finding her (given up for dead   famous war correspondent) husband that she roars off to a war zone   without a backward look at her children. She then allows her husband's   fame to sucker 3 other reporters into acting as protectors and guides,   and when one of them gets killed she watches silently as another   reporter apologizes for the death. She doesn't have a clue that her   irresponsibility is the root of his death.    This is supposed to be a love story but how can one tolerate a love   from a mother who never shows any concern for the consequences to her   children and those around her?    Who needs another soul-less war movie these days anyway. They have so   ground into the dirt the images of hell that they appear dispassionate.   The hell of war is the damage it does to the human soul not just the   damage it does to the body. When you show only the latter you're   showing off technique and side stepping creative bravery. "}]