[{"Title":"Believe it or not, this is a movie to think about!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"95 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Surprisingly, this was an excellent movie and certainly one that extends beyond simply being in the action genre.  The 6th Day grapples with the ethics behind cloning and the broad spectrum of implications cloning could have on our everyday lives.  While yes, the movie near the end becomes pretty action-oriented, it is a very smart movie overall, and it certainly merits one's attention.Don't let the concept of Schwarzenegger with guns make you think that this movie is brainless...you'll be grossly underestimating it. "},{"Title":"A movie that deserved a more mainstream release","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"68 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a pretty big flop when it came out, it's actually better than half of Arnie's movies, the storyline is very unique & has some credited actors, such as Michael Rapaport as his best friend, the movie is a little harder to understand than most Arnie movie's but makes perfect sense at the end, this is not a great movie & its certainly not a bad movie. There are a few similarities to Total Recall, both sorta in the near future but at the same time they cover different issues, but the subject of Human Cloning is probably a little more realistic & actually is becoming an issue in the world now. If your an Arnie fan you should like this, even if your not a fan of the Big man you probably would appreciate this. A fairly decent movie that deserves a second viewing. 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Decent sci-fi flick with failed potential","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"59 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently had the pleasure of teaching the wonders of film criticism to an English composition class at Marietta College in Marietta, Ohio. The experience was enjoyable, and the class posed a number of questions. One of the more interesting questions concerned the films I had seen that I believed had potential, but ultimately failed in execution. While I have seen a number of films that fit into this category, I couldn't think of a decent example. This was because I hadn't seen The 6th Day yet. What could have been an interesting and exciting look at the evils of cloning was a B grade action film at best, despite an above-par script and one of Arnold Schwarzenegger's better roles to date.The film's premise is heavily based in TRUE science fiction; that is, fiction having its basis in scientific truth, using projections of the future to fully examine some aspect of our society. Sorry to go into such an elaborate definition, but I believe a lot of stuff gets swept into the category of science fiction simply because it has a robot, or takes place in outer space. But I digress.This fictional reality here deals with cloning. In the film, which takes place in the near future, cloning is an every-day practice, but only with pets and animals. Cloning people has been outlawed, as the original human cloning project went horribly wrong. Schwarzenegger plays Adam Gibson, a decent family man and helicopter pilot chartered to fly Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn), a rich businessman who owns Replacement Technologies. This corporation is at the height of cloning technology, running everything from a fish cloning company to help repopulate the oceans, to RePet, a company that clones dead family pets. There's even a rumor that the company's head doctor (Robert Duvall) is experimenting with illegal human cloning. Something goes terribly wrong on Drucker's first flight, and before he knows, Gibson discovers he has been cloned. Its up to him to discover the secret controversy, and get his life back.With this premise, the film is wide open to make many social observations, and does so very well, on occasion. Much of the legalities concerning cloning, as well as the ethical concerns, are discussed and examined by the characters. Even though the technology exists in the future, it is not widely accepted. Some of these observations are stated with all the eloquence you could expect from an Arnold/action film, but others are done so subtly, and surprisingly, with biting humor. Much of the concept of RePet is quite amusing.However, if science fiction is the film's basis, lame action sequences are its filler. In between these intriguing dialogues are shoddy, cookie-cutter action scenes one should expect from a made for TV film. No matter if it's a car chase, a laser gun shoot-out, or a helicopter battle, it all feels very dull. It's not that I'm knocking these things, because they have to appear in action film; I just wish they were done well. Ultimately, the action suffers from a lack of creativity, which ironically, is where the rest of the script excels.And one can't blame Arnold for not trying, as he is both charming and believable in his part. His is a performance with a surprising level of humanity, especially in scenes where he's going about his daily life. One almost forgets he's an action star and begins to take him a little seriously. But don't worry, after the first half-hour he's picked up a laser gun and is fighting and one-lining his way to the climax.I guess my one qualm with The 6th Day is its failed potential with some better action sequences (like those found in The Matrix), this could have been a very decent film, one I would be sending you to right away. Instead, it's simply a wait-for-video flick, and by my guess, that wait won't be long.  "},{"Title":"check this movie out ASAP","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"50 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day marks the return of Arnold Schwarzenegger to a role that seems to be second nature to him action. This time there is an added twist; there is actually a decent plot attached to it.The 6th Day revolves around a man who has been cloned and ends up on the run from a corporation who wants him dead. Arnold is this man who has lost his family, life and taking on the corporation who took it from him. All the while, Arnold is searching within himself to find a way to get his family back.The 6th Day boasts a cast that includes Robert Duvall, Michael Rooker, Tony Goldwyn and Sarah Wynters. I knew the second I saw these names flash across the screen I was in for a real treat.The best thing about The 6th Day is the performance of Schwarzenegger because he is not only an action star in this film but a dramatic actor as he combines these two talents to pull off one of his better performances of his career.Arnold did not make this film a hit by himself, he had a little help from his friends. From Robert Duvall who played the doctor who performed the cloning operations to Michael Rooker, who was one evil henchmen with his menacing attitude and presence The 6th Day is one great film to see.I enjoyed how the plot of film didn't rely solely on the action sequences. Though, the action is fine and dandy; I believe that a film needs more than just action and The 6th Day has it.The 6th Day is one of the best Arnold films I've seen including the Terminator series. It is filled with action, twists, turns, edge of your seat suspense and drama that will appeal to all movie fans of every age.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent action/mystery in the cloning genre","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Impersonated by Impostor, 2002, this production is far superior in many ways. The casting was excellent; many of the main players having had only obscure parts until now, lent a crisp freshness to the production. Even with a few of them lacking in experience, these performances were completely professional and the characters were developed along the way well enough to enable the audience to care about what events occur.The mental turns this production takes are quite clever and intelligent, and demonstrates a superior directing ability. The scenery, sets, and background content are all quite well done; as if real thought went into each detail and scene, rather than just throwing a house together, decorating it like a mobile home and a hearty, ...send those actors in there! Very nice.The story itself is quite disturbing down on a deeper level where people seldom reach you. It was both thought provoking and compelling. I found this movie hauntingly disturbing. We ~are~ in the age of cloning, after all.This is one of Schwarzenegger's best films, in my opinion; one of many very entertaining, intellectual action films in which he has starred. While there was not much science to this science fiction, it was still extremely entertaining. If you liked Terminator 1 or 2, Total Recall, or True Lies, you will thoroughly enjoy this wonderfully-written, (almost) directional(ly art-house) work of art.It gets a sound 8.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Must for Arnie Fans","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arnies films fall into many categories, he has his best films (Terminator series, Predator, True Lies, etc.) his average movies (Commando, Red Heat, The Running Man, etc.) and of course there's his bad movies (Red Sonja, Raw Deal, Jingle all the way, etc.). The 6th Day is somewhere between his average and his best movies, and is a must for all Arnie fans.The plot is actually pretty good, in a world where you can clone your pet if it dies, and be unaware of the difference, Arnie finds himself cloned, and is left on the run from the people who cloned him, (standard procedure, you can't have two Arnies running about, or can you?) With a pretty good cast, plenty of action and some neat visuals coupled with a cool story, good script and some Arnie one liners. And yes, you've guessed it, you've got yourself a good movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Remarkably good with a few flaws","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised with how good the not very favorably reviewed 6th day was. It delivered in several ways- It has the expected action, stunts, effects.- It has the expected one-liners and humor.- Acting is generally perfectly adequate for the purpose. Rather, it must be pretty good when I never was disturbed by any bad acting.- It is nicely futuristic in a near-future fashion with many perfectly or partially believable ideas (and some that we don't quite believe in, but hey, if we accept hyperspace travel then we can accept this).- It has a message that actually keeps us thinking after leaving the movie. The cloning problem is considered from many points of view (not only as the bad guy's evil plan). How far can we heal, how far can we preserve life, when does it become an ethical problem, when will it clash with religion?That is quite impressive if you ask me.However, sometimes it fails on two points Predictability and suspense. Some scenes, especially involving the bad guy, are so embarrassingly predictable that it makes me wish they could have skipped some clichés just for once. And the movie misses great suspense opportunities on several occasions. I won't tell you how, who or when, but when a guy is assassinated, it should not happen just out of the blue, but we should be led into the situation slowly (for example from the assassin's point of view) so we get the chance to worry about it. That opportunity is missed at least twice, when the movie jumps straight into the kill, giving us momentary cheap shock instead of thrill. Compare it to the killing in, for example, Predator (one of the most excellent Arnold movies). Most kills by the Predator don't come out of the blue, we are warned, and it adds suspense and thrill.Those flaws push the movie down from the top marks, but I still rank it pretty high for the points mentioned above. Quite entertaining and even interesting too, which makes it one of the better Arnold movies. Recommended! "},{"Title":"One of the best action thrillers in years--great special effects, characters and story. **** (out of four)","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"30 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE 6TH DAY / (2000) **** (out of four) By Blake French	Roger Spottiswoode's recent action film The 6th Day is of the best thrillers you will see this year, and possibly the next. Seldom do action pictures have as much thought, insight, and are this well written and developed. With a screenplay by Cormac Wibberley and Marianne Wibberley, the movie takes one of the most controversial current subjects, cloning, and applies it to a time when it may cause discern for public, the near future. This is a movie with ample prominence and proximity, and depending where you stand on the issue of cloning will determine whether or not we will side with the main character here. He is played by Arnold Schwarzenegger, now forgiven for his last several bombs, Jingle all the Way, End of Days, and Batman and Robin. If one thriller can make up for those three hideous productions, you know it must be very good...and it is.	Schwarzenegger stars as Adam Gibson, a middle-aged everyman who has a lovely wife, Natalie (Wendy Crewson), and a young, pretty daughter named Carla (Taylor Anne Reid). Adam and his friend, Hank (Michael Rapaport), are pilots for the Double X Charter Company, a helicopter touring service. While most of society has adapted to the advancements in technology, such as the ability to clone deceased pets and to own a realistic looking and behaving doll, Adam is pretty old-fashioned when it comes branch of knowledge. At least until one night when he returns home to find his family and friends celebrating his birthday with him already inside. Outside his house waits several agents, including Talia (Sarah Wynter), Robert (Michael Rooker), and Vincent (Terry Crews), who attempt to kill him. 	Adam and Hank were cloned by a multi-billion dollar food cloning company, Replacement Technologies. This corporation is run by an individual named Drucker (Tony Goldwyn), who supposedly used his cloning equipment to replenish the world's food supply. While human cloning is illegal, he and his chief scientist, Dr. Weir (Robert DuVall), are constantly cloning for various reasons. After they discover Adam escaped his assassins, they begin an all out scheme to destroy the evidence in which they have created. 	The tedious measures the filmmakers take in development of the characters, situations, events, and motives are outstanding. We get to know the main characters. They are intriguing and the conflict is highly engrossing; even the antagonist's motives provoke thought. The film is engaging throughout because the subject and its execution are so relevant and controversial. The 6th Day does not feel like a high tech action film, although it is. But it also has a very authentic flavor because it uses the special effects to further the story, and the action sequences are all in context of the plot. 	About those action scenes and special effects, they do not distract from the movie's themes or story. Roger Spottiswoode, whose most poplar work consists of  Tomorrow Never Dies, (1997) and Turner & Hooch, (1989), keeps the story fast-paced but finely focused. The futuristic material, so often overused in movies nowadays, is kept to a believable realm here. The film handles the material with delicacy; if the movie was to use too little, its subject matter would be unconvincing; if there was too much, then the film would become too far-fetched. Spottiswoode contrasts just the right amount, and blends the effects with the various character's personalities beautifully. 	What impresses me most of all about movies like The 6th Day is how the writers deny the urge to allow the special effects and action to take place of the passion in characters. In the year 2000, we received big waves in The Perfect Storm, big explosions in U-571, computer animated sequences in X-Men, and all sorts of special martial arts stunts in Charlie's Angels and Legend of Drunken Master. But what those movies were missing is depth and insight of the real world, and the movies that did contain heart, like The Perfect Storm, were contrived and shameless. With The 6th Day we have a movie that contains all the excitement and special effects, but within a story that is character-based and relevant to our times. This is one of the top ten movies released in the year 2000.    "},{"Title":"To Clone Or Not To Clone","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"32 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good movie for DVD with terrific 5.1sound and sharp visuals, this was another entertaining Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle. The action isn't overdone and the humor is subtle.To clone human beings or not to clone is the question here and the topic of the movie. For one of the few times, Hollywood actually gives the right message. Wow, shocking to see Hollywood be on the side of morality for once. No wonder some Left Wing fanatics didn't like the story. The film, however, succumbs at the ending action to the typical Rambo mentality, where the good guys couldn't hit if they threw an H-bomb at them. However, most of the action scenes in the film are well-done with a lot more credibility.Arnold's thick accent doesn't credibility to his characters nor those around him in this story. Sometimes he can get away with it, but not in this movie. The villains in here are all effectively portrayed.Generally, a fun movie....and it looks great on Blu-Ray! "},{"Title":"Science Fiction obsessed by human cloning","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" That film is not a masterpiece, for sure, even as an action film. But this film goes along with many films with Schwarzenegger that are dealing with the future. We of course think at once of Terminator. But it also deals with another theme that is popular with him the use of technology and science to enslave humanity, I mean true real human beings. At times this technology and science is coming from outer space like in Predator. In this case, like in Total Recall or The Running Man it is coming from humans themselves. In this case it goes slightly further than in other cases. We are not speaking of robots, of the misuse of television and so on, but we are speaking of cloning. What happens when the inventor of a new technology that enables the cloning of a man in twenty minutes, including his mind, memories, etc by the recording of all that via an eye scanner, is using the technology to reproduce himself and his associates? What happens if that inventor is able to inject into each clone a fatal disease that limits his life span to five years maximum, and only the very few at the heart of the plot would be free of that fatal gene or could be cloned again without it? The story of course does not answer these questions really because Adam Gibson (a good old name for the one who will regenerate the creation of God, the creation of the first Adam on the sixth day of his work) self-appoints himself as the one who is going to clean up the plate and he does. The details are in the film. The film adds on this plate the fact that Adam Gibson had been by mistake cloned and then two Adam Gibsons have to cooperate and to survive together, a good lesson of humanity for which the family is the inalienable unit that any man in this family has to defend. Slightly man-centered, but that is no real accident. The man portrayed here is slightly old-fashioned. That's why he is against cloning and that's why he is a slight but gallant male chauvinist. Just watch the film for the action and do not compare with memories of yours. This film borrows a lot from various other films or from novels.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "}{"Title":"It's an improvement over End of Days and Collateral Damage","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the least successful movie box office wise out of the three films listed above. But that doesn't mean it's the worst film. It's a lot better than the other two films I mentioned, and the closest thing he made to being a good movie until Terminator 3 came out. The movie is passable entertainment, but nothing more. There is no intelligence in the story to engage your brain, or give suspense. Arnold gives a pretty bad performance in this movie, but he makes up for it with blowing stuff up in the action scenes. The special effects are good, and some decent performances by Tony Goldwin and Robert Duvall make the movie watchable. At least it's better than the other crappy films Arnold made in the last couple of years. "},{"Title":"An Arnold movie everyone can enjoy","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day marks the return of Arnold Schwarzenegger to a genre that is second nature to him action. This time there is an added twist; there is an excellent plot attached.The 6th Day revolves around a man who has been cloned and ends up on the run from a corporation who wants him dead. Arnold is this man who has lost his family, life and taking on the corporation who took it from him. All the while, Arnold is searching within himself to find a way to get his family back. The 6th Day boasts a cast that includes Robert Duvall, Michael Rooker, Tony Goldwyn and Sarah Wynter. I knew the second I saw these names flash across the screen I was in for a real treat. The first time I saw Schwarzenegger's name I immediately knew he is the perfect man for the job.The best thing about The 6th Day is the performance of Schwarzenegger because he is not only an action star in this film but a dramatic actor as he combines these two talents to pull off one of his better performances of his career.Arnold did not make this film a hit by himself, he had a little help from his friends. From Robert Duvall who played the doctor who performed the cloning operations to Michael Rooker, who was one evil henchmen with his menacing attitude and presence The 6th Day is one great film to see.I enjoyed how the plot of film didn't rely solely on the action sequences. Though, the action is fine and dandy; I believe that a film needs more than just action and The 6th Day has it.The 6th Day is one of the best Arnold films I've seen including the Terminator series. It is filled with action, twists, turns, edge of your seat suspense and drama that will appeal to all movie fans of every age. "},{"Title":"Fun Film to Free Your Mind","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When it comes to Arnold Schwarzenegger movies, The 6th Day has a very compelling story with a remarkable plot. It sort of has similar intentions like Total Recall, with it science-fiction hell-bent on confusing its audience based on identity guessing. But The 6th Day exceeds Total Recall in that it emphatically brings up some interesting pondering subjects based on human cloning. But since Arnold's the big man on campus here, and that means profanities are thrown in this movie and in addition to that, the film is not made to enhance your intelligence, it's good for the entertainment purposes. The script offers nothing new as we know all along who's the real Adam Gibson (Arnold) and who's the cloned replica. But the subplots are quite riveting enough to keep its viewer glued to their seats.Directed by Roger Spottiswoode hits the chords perfectly with action and drama and pacing comes across very well in terms of execution. Arnold fanatics might be distraught that the action scenes seemed watered down quite a bit in comparisons to his other films before this one, but the action scenes are still engaging and fans of this genre can still remain satisfied.The ensemble turns in their best efforts regarding the material that was given to them. Arnold still plays out the roles he's good at which is limited dialogue, flexing those biceps and flashing his spaced out teeth during action scenes. His acting has stepped up a tad better than his other films, and character is provided with strength and vulnerability and his stoic expressed tongue in cheek humor is very subliminal. Michael Rapaport has the most comical relief and adds funny scenes involving he and his girlfriend. Tony Goldwyn shines as the villainous scumbag who runs a cloning factory. And Robert Duvall is excellent as the scientist who remains cautious of the crazy things going around.To summarize, The 6th Day succeeds in making the story and the plot very captivating. The idea of cloning should have more further emphasized, but it still makes up for the always popular good vs. evil story. "},{"Title":"Perfect SciFi","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought watching this movie was a waste of time, but as I've watched it through the middle, I knew I was wrong.The movie was quite good despite some goofs that I have noticed; and considering that this movie was released on the year 2000, effects used are good. I also would like to commend the idea of the producers having clones taking over what and who's real.The storyline could have been smoother if the last part (where the real Gibson and his clone exchanged identity) or if cloning was then considered legal, but it was put to make twists and it made the story a lot better. It was a big surprise factor and may have flabbergasted its viewers. I really liked it.They could just have removed some of the scenes in the opening because it has nothing to do with the cloning. It was basically previewed to show augmented reality on a football game which may raise its being futuristic, but I think they could have focused more on the cloning part instead of focusing on the future as whole.How I hope this film would have a remake. Better yet, they could make a part 2 since the so-called near future where the cloning technology will arise is not yet present, it will still look futuristic. "},{"Title":"True Lies + Total Recall + RoboCop = The 6th Day","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE SIXTH DAY (2000) *** Arnold Schwarzenegger, Wendy  Crewson, Tony Goldwyn, Robert Duvall, Michael Rapaport, MichaelRooker, Sara Wynter, Rodney Rowland.  Futuristic sci-fi actionthriller with Arnie in the not-too-distant-future facing his mortalitywhen he discovers he has been cloned by the nefarious  meglamoniacal biotech baddie Goldwyn and well-meaning  scientist/pawn Duvall, who will stop at nothing in taking over whereGod left off.  At least until Schwarzenegger kicks in his kick-assmode which doesn't take long and recycles some of his betterworks (`True Lies' & `Total Recall' off the top of my head) as wellas some other genre flicks yet it works nonetheless for the star'swinning personality, high tech special effects and liberal amountsof welcome humor with spiky deliveries.  Kinda like `RoboCop' butunique with a sharp mind-twisting script by Cormac and MarianneWibberly that punctuates while the mindless action eviscerates. (Dir Roger Spottiswoode) "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite all the bad jokes and partly really bad acting this movie gives you two hours of good action and an interesting story. The fact that you get Arnold times two in this movie is only a bonus since Arnold really knows how to play a good action hero. Opposite to so many other action movies this one really does have a message and a good story that keeps you entertained through out most of the film. I'm not saying that it's a ground breaking movie exactly, apart from Schwarzenegger the acting can seem stiff and boring and all the bad jokes and lines can really get on your nerves, but as an action flick it still delivers and entertains. 7/10 stars for The 6th Day "},{"Title":"Very Interesting Movie covering some controversial subjects.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall, I thought the film was very well made, I liked all the special effects that were used in the movie... all the high-tech futuristic items that we are actually beginning to see here and there....  Its kind of a scary thought to think about something like this actually happening in the not too distant future But, Arnold does a great job, like always, and it has a good story line, and not to mention, I love a good Action/Sci-Fi flick, anyway.  Hey, maybe thats why Dick Clark looks so good..... ) "},{"Title":"Way to go Arnold","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was pretty good.  I didn't expect too much, but it turned out to be a pretty decent action flick.  I don't think Arnold was good in this movie.  I'd rather see him in a movie with lots of explosion and killing like True Lies, Eraser, Terminater....  It was funny to see futuristic helicopter transforming into a jet and flying everywhere, virtual girls that give pleasure, and lots of other cool stuff and on the next scene you see, Pontiac Grand AM, 1990's Ambulance car, and Old fashioned Ferrie.  What was the director thinking??  7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Not an uncharted movie","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At this point in time any movie that Arnold does will be looked at with a skeptical eye.  Non-Arnold fans will not believe that Arnold is back until he makes a uncharted movie, a movie so great that no one saw it coming.Arnold fans however, believed he was back with End of Days saying it was a good movie and Arnold was really good.  The middle ground always rules because it uses the most rationality.  The middle ground fans feel that Arnold is back but aren't sure how long it will last.  I personally respect Arnold as an actor he has got better over the years and has better performances to come.  The movie The Sixth Day as his newest installment like the first line predicted, was looked at skeptically, Unfortuanately for Arnold the world hasn't fully accepted his comeback yet and this movie didn't successfully convert the non believers.  It is this fact that brings the movie down which has nothing to do with the actual movie or Arnold himself.  The movie itself brought a great idea and a great action script with Arnold who plays the part(s) really well.  Great use of comic relief, suspense, dramatic irony, and mystery.  The one item that hits below great was the action, but the movie was so well done that the unoriginal action sequences didn't faze it, but i did like the parking garage decaptiation part.  This movie did NOT SUCK it was intelligent and competent but failed to be the uncharted movie that Arnold was looking for.  Even though it was a great movie and its a shame that it will take an uncharted movie to put Arnold 100 percent back on the map the bottom line is that ITS HARD TO HIT A HOME RUN WHEN YOU TRY TOO HARD.  Not that that's what happend, but it sure makes sense. "},{"Title":"expected","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this film doesn't need a long commentary, you'll get what you expect lot's of action and special effects. a lot of fun to watch, a great movie of it's sort.alex "}{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After this film was released here in the UK it took a massive nose dive and disappeared.  I had seen the trailer recently and purchased th US DVD.  I am glad that I did this as the film is very enjoyable to watch and also good to look at.  It is a no brainer, so Arnie fans will feel at home and he is starting to find his feet again after Batman & Robin.  It has a good story but bad dialog, just like the rest of Arnies movies.  The reason I enjoyed it is because it had  lot of action and you dont know wheather he is cloned or the other Arnie is cloned, so you are trying to work it out.  Not brilliant, not bad but definately better than expected.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Arnold's best work lately","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Remember the good ol' Arnold of yesteryear? Like in T2, or Total Recall? Then look no further! Forget End of Days or Batman and Robin. He's back in his element of entertaining sci-fi.The Sixth Day is very formulaic, but that doesn't necessarily detract from the movie. Michael Rapaport and Robert Duvall provide good support, and Tony Goldwyn is pretty creepy ... Bill Gates, anyone?Overall, it's a movie that doesn't require much thought, which can be nice sometimes. Sit back and enjoy the special effects. "},{"Title":"Jolly good fun","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" MILD SPOILERSI'll tell you what, when I went to see this, I really wasn't expecting much. As an Arnie fan from the old I'll Be Back days, I couldn't miss it, but judging from the dreadful choices he has made since Crusade fell through, and from the fact that Roger Stop or My Mum Will Shoot Spottiswoode was at the helm, frankly this had little going for it.And what do you know, I had the most fun I've had with an Arnie movie since his last teaming with the infallible King Cameron, True Lies. OK, so some plot points were a bit too absurdly convoluted and contrived. So what, can I have a show of hands of people who can make sense of every detail in any Bond movie, please? It didn't matter to me. I just thought it was like a nice riff on T2, with poor Arnie facing villains that could not be killed because they kept regenerating. As expected, rent-a-director Spottiswoode fails to give it the edge that directors with more personality, like Verhoeven or Cameron, would have given to it, but still the story has enough meat to keep you entertained and the effects, while nothing special, do the job. And last but not least, Michael Rapaport makes a great comic sidekick, like Tom Arnold before him. Here's hoping that this film will mark the Austrian oak's return to form! "},{"Title":"The 6th Day  A movie for Oscar?","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course not, but still a movie worth watching? Its theme is simple but attracting, player's great, you know the Big Man(both name and size) and effects are enough OK more than enough for a sci-fi. But it is all... Even the theme with a sentence sounds great, let me make it a paragraph and what I will be reaching will be a wasted theme. No Arthur Clarke's novel or a short story not a sort of deepness. And this is all. But still it is worth watching unless you have brought your girlfriend with you to the movie. "},{"Title":"Cloneing Around","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger apparently believes that you can never get enough Arnie.  From Total Recall to Last Action Hero, he spends a great deal of time playing himself opposite. . .himself.Crazy thing is, it works.  And, by and large, so does this movie.  In and among the bone-crunching and awful wisecracks we are entitled to in any Arnie opus, there are moments here and there where  the screenwriters seem to ponder the implications of their tale.In the movie, Arnie is a helicopter pilot in a sooner-than-you-think future society.  In a bizarre collision of covert villainy and bureaucratic incompetence, he is cloned while still alive, and the Bad Guys have to kill him, since he is evidence that they have cloned humans in violation of the 6th Day laws.The story takes some twists and turns, some more predictable than others, and the pace is fast enough that you don't notice the plot holes here and there.One of the most entertaining aspects of The 6th Day is its portrait of a future that is an extension of our relentlessly interactive society.  This is a world where CNN is beamed to your shaving mirror, your refrigerator nags you to buy milk, and you have to ask your car for permission to drive.  There is also a very funny scene involving a 911 call.The Bad Guys get killed and recycled with fair regularity, waking up cranky and complaining of aches and pains where they were shot or run over.  One dimwit thug is named Wiley (presumably his laser gun is an ACME model). The cast is good, although Michael Rapaport is underused, as is Robert Duvall, whose scenes with his dying wife deserve a movie of their own.The movie's major faults are in the direction, which is often too stylish for its own good, and the loose ends the story leaves all over the place in its rush to resolve itself in Arnie-flick fashion.  Still, it is entertaining, with a few million bucks' worth of digital effects put to good use, and a script that doesn't forget to be witty.In my personal favorite moment, an irascible hit-woman (sublimely bitchy Sarah Wynter) is revived on the cloning table, whereupon she is momentarily freaked, then complains about having to get her hair done again and plucks an earring off her own lifeless body.  It's a hard re-life.  "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its definately not Arnold's best movie. The Terminator is still the greatest of them all! What I didn't quite like was they use the laser guns and stuff - its getting quite old now. Sure, you see them all the time in the Star Wars series but, hey, it's only Star Wars! There's more reasons why I didn't like it but that doesn't mean I hated it - it was quite a good action movie and the twist was clever, but obvious (I guessed Schwarzenegger was the real clone before I even watched the movie), and it mixed comedy and action together nicely. Maybe not perfectly, but very good. And the bad guy wasn't much of a...bad guy! But I guess its better like that - to just make him look like a normal person and not some guy wearing a big, black cape, has firey red eyes, huge body and muscular, laughs a big, evil laugh and cries Bwahahahaha! I'm so evil! throughout the flick. Its not Schwarzenegger's best, but its worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Not Really About Cloning","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was pushed as a dissertation on the ethical issues and social implications of cloning in the world of the near future, and most viewers seem to have interpreted it as just that.  But the truth of the matter is, the aspect of human cloning isn't really the crux of this film at all it's the 'syncorder' technology.  Theoretically, we could clone a human being now, but such a process would be a threat to no one; we'd simply have a totally seperate individual with the same DNA the individual from whom he/she was cloned.  The ability to 'synchord' peoples memories and personalities and implant them into the clone, however, allows the films villains to insidiously 'replace' their victims.  Well, if you have a bloody syncorder, to hell with cloning!  These people could already conquer the world by retrieving classified secrets from people to whom they give 'retinal scans!'  Also, the existence of the syncorder implies that the information storage and retrieval systems of the human brain have been cracked.  If that were the case, wouldn't people be able to build more advanced computer programs than the mindless, repetitive, doll-like imitations of SimPal Cindy and the Virtual Girlfriend?The fact is, this world is not one of the 'near future,' because the kind of technology required to build a synchorder, let alone one as small and easy to use as the 'vision testing machine' used by this film's villainry, is not going to be available to use for a long, looong time.  Since the characters ignore this, and focus almost entirely on the mundane concept of cloning, most of the important questions are not asked.  Arnold's clone wonders if he is human.  Well of course he's human!  And the idea that he doesn't have a soul simply because he is a clone is repulsive; how about not having a soul because his memories and personality emanate from a digital information storage device?Barring this, I think that this was a good action flick embedded in a surprisingly well done science fiction film.  Innovative direction, if not choreography, and the movie puts a lot of things taken for granted from Arnie's previous action films on their heads, which is fun to watch. Having to kill the same people over and over (Yeah, yeah, we've all been killed before.), and two Arnies arguing with each other and double teaming the bad guys, for example.  My only problem; Arnold is some kind of extreme sports chartered helicopter pilot; how does that explain his trademark aim, paramilitary training, and the ability to effortlessly kill people with his bare hands?  We know he HAS to be able to do these things, but it still makes no sense in this case. "},{"Title":"Ah, that Canadian Je ne sais quois...","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are a Canadian, one of the greatest ironies you are likely to encounter in your lifetime is the ongoing dumbing down of the US film industry by Hollywood producers who voluntarily choose to shoot their films in the Frozen North so they can lop a mere 30 or 60 mil off the production cost.(Most likely, the money saved ends up in fatter executive salaries -- after all, this is Hollywood we are talking about, the place where creative accounting was literally invented.)The irony, of course, is that it was not so long ago that concerned Canadian politicians were taking draconian steps to protect OUR culture ..from those same producers! Joke, joke. Who would have suspected that, 20 years later incur global village, US producers and fast-buck artists would voluntarily move their productions here -- and voluntary comply with Canadian regs requiring them to top load said productions with Canadian talent -- both in front of, and behind, the camera. THE SIXTH DAY, a recent release starring The Arnold, is a marvelous case in point. Even if he is a bit long in the tooth, and even if his best Terminator roles are far behind him, Le Arnold really does deserve better than this soporific ROBOCOP clone which is so whitebread -- so completely lacking in personality, SO GOSH-DARN Canadian! -- that the only real action the viewer is likely to see is when he tries to beat the lineup at the urinals after credits role. OK, perhaps it is unfair to pick on THE SIXTH DAY. The same precise comment can be made about literally all the US movies done up here -- a billion dollars worth of annual production that voluntarily, without coercion, agreed to waddle unto the bar and guzzle down the cultural genomes of Preston Manning, Sir. John A., and Joe Clark. Yawn! Mandatory Canadian talent in front -- and behind-- the camera? Seems a small price to pay for those cost savings -- until you realize (yet another delicious irony!) just how different the artistic standards of our two countries really are. America genuinely rewards individuality, whereas ours is a country born and raised on homogeneity. Any good film critic can spot a made in Canada US production in the first ten minutes because the scenes are all so technically perfect, so correctly lit, so lacking in imagination, that each should come with a warning not operate heavy machinery while watching. And what about all those Canadian character actors shoved helter-skelter into those secondary roles &#x97; all part of that very same purely contractual, reverse-discrimination, cultural Heimlich manoeuvre? Did I say Canadian character actors? Hell, if ever there was an oxymoron that deserved serious scrutiny by world academicians, that indeed would-be the place to start. And, while we are accumulating delicious ironies, here's yet another. The deficiencies noted above are likely to be most obvious to -- surprise! --other Canadians. Evading Canadian content where possible, and inhaling US culture in all its legal and illegal forms, is ITSELF so darn Canadian that's practically a competitive sport north of the49th parallel. Imagine the irony -- that word again -- when Canadian viewers who have practically made a career of avoiding dry, starchy, Canadian production values turn on a US vehicle like THE SIXTH DAY, only to have their very own DNA thrown back into their astonished faces. Arnold, we hardly knew ye. "},{"Title":"Twice the Ah-nuld, but not twice the action.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever since the early eighties, one man more than any other has been on the forefront of Hollywood based action, Arnold Schwarznegger - But Arnold has been trying for some time to move away from action films. And with muted sucess the Sixth Day Arnold returns to a movie which has more thought and brains than any of his past two or three films.However it doesn't fit well into what should be an all-out action fest and it doesn't fit with the direction style.Set in the near future, Arnold, or Ah-nuld, is a future helicopter pilot - and wakes up one day to find himself looking at himself - a doppleganger effect if ever there was one. He finds out he has been cloned.At this point I have expected Arnold to go beserk (ref Rainer Wolfcastle, Simpsons) - but instead we get Arnold walking around trying to discover the truth behind the evil co-operation behind his cloning in a sort of well I dunno if I want this to be all out action, but I want it to be intelligent as well kind of manner.This isn't helped but the direction which goes into pseduo-Tony Scott style mixed with Matrix trickery. Thankfully there is enough darkness in the film with subtle references to Blade Runner and Paul Verhoven's work throughout the film that it doesn't get annoying.Unfortuently the Matrix trickery does get a little annoying, especally when you get overhead shots of the same freeway with cars going at fast speeds - and Arnold's memory going into worbly effect for no reason. I know its his memory, there's no need for it to be worbly.There is also the flip-book effect at the end of the movie where you see the whole movie in reverse in double-speed which ends with a part where you seem to think your a clone as well - and this is your memory...it was a nice effect and a nice twist.The film treds lightly on the subject of cloning, and although you know the film is dead against it, it does try to debate why it might be useful. The empty vessels in the underground lab of the evil corp. seem to be there to scare the uneducated - it takes years to get full humans, even cloning would not get you an exact copy of a person.The plot gets around this by using sim-cording's of a person's memory - this technology in itself is far more frightening than any cloning technology.The evil guy uses clones for his own, selfish reasons - to make money - clones have faults in them so they die every so many years - hence happy customers will pay him billions just to stay alive.Again this is where the film misses the mark. Perhaps if someone else had starred in this film I could believe an evil guy just wants to make money - but this is an arnold film - I wanted the evil guy to clone the presidents of the world - take over the world or at least something that would hark back to the action that we as audiences have expected from Schwarznegger.Later on in the film Arnold seems to constantly pat himself on the back when he meets up with his clone - it is incredibly hammy - and for some reason I kept thinking Arnold had ventured into Jean Claude Van Damme ego-terrotory.Anyway, the film lacks from a real edge. It might have twice the Ah-nuld, but it certainly doesn't have twice the action.Perhaps a good rental, but I certainly wouldn't buy it.Overall 4/10 "},{"Title":"Arnold's brainiest film after Total Recall","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day is a rarity an Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle with a plot (with a great reversal in the middle), a weighty subject matter, and something to think about. Even the villain is not just a random psychopath - he has a rationale to his actions. The film is well-designed (the world it creates is both recognizable and slightly futuristic), and sometimes very funny (loading virtual psychiatrist!). And how about Robert Duvall's performance - certainly of a higher caliber than we're used to in an Arnold film. It's not flawless it's too long, some of Roger Spottiswoode's directorial effects are annoying, and the helicopter climax looks very bad! But as Arnold's movies go, it's among his better ones. *** out of 4. "}{"Title":"Very poor screenplay","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this film again some 15 years later I was struck by how lousy the script was crafted. Not just the expected stupid one-liners for Arnold, making fun of his earlier film triumphs, but how structurally deficient it is.Major plot hole, through which one could drive a fleet of trucks, is the most basic element of the screenplay. At the beginning we have the setup of colleague played by Michael Rapaport substituting for Schwarzenegger in flying the helicopter. This telegraphs to the audience that something serious will happen - clearly the death of Michael in place of Arnold is way too obvious an expectation. A talented scriptwriter, even for the most rudimentary TV show episode, will slip in such detail oh so subtly or masked by endless other details, so the viewer will only remember it afterward as a key foreshadowing. Not so here.Then for the film's biggest twist during Act III, we have a rather clumsy trotting out of the inevitable issue with clones or doppelgangers (or sometimes even twins) in pulp entertainment. It is revealed that the main protagonist through whom we have been observing all the action for an hour and a half of watching the movie is not the real character but rather Arnold's clone. That is certainly the corniest possible twist in this genre, but the scripters completely muff it. The big reveal is based on an ellipsis wherein the character seems to blacking -we saw a dissolve on screen with him getting out of a cab to go home as the original set-up, used retroactively to explain that it was really the clone in the cab. But here is where this plot twist unravels while it is theoretically possible that the real Arnold has gone home earlier and is with his family, it is not credible that the evil bad guys led by mastermind Tony Goldwyn (and his scientist Robert Duvall) would send their cloned Arnold out into the world, into the cab and headed back home without checking (or at least double-checking) on what awaits him there. True, scenario posits that they think Arnold is dead in the 'copter crash, because they're unaware that Rapaport switched assignments with him and signed in falsely. But we're supposed to swallow that the mix-up has extended so far that the two Arnolds end up at home together. It's patently ridiculous, and just a gimmick so that the audience later on can feel that frisson of uh-oh! I'm a clone, not the real thing, identifying with the protagonist.Instead of this being a cute twist, it makes the rest of the film fall apart completely. The key element of plot in the final reels that Tony has secretly programmed the DNA of all the clones to make them defective so that they cannot represent a long- term threat creates sympathy for Arnold's clone, since it too is doomed in this manner just as Duvall's wife/clone was, but to create a paper-thin happy ending for not just Arnold but also his clone (since after all, we the audience have been and continue to identify with the clone) the scripters concoct a vacation-like trip for the clone at the end of the film to find himself. Sounds good, if corny, on paper, but all he'll find is some horrible illness given Danny's careful booby-trapping of all his clones. Like the original twist, the screenwriters assume the viewer is an idiot who cannot put facts together to reach a conclusion, but will simply assimilate, scene by scene, whatever b.s. is handed out. That is a Hollywood tradition, but I am compelled to point out how lame these key structural errors (which could have been easily avoided) are in The 6th Day. I admired director Roger Spottiswoode's early work, but this film evidences a drastic decline in quality later in his career - surely he could have demanded some more rewrites. "},{"Title":"Good on Any Day.","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day (2000) Dir Roger Spottiswoode / Cast Arnold Schwarzenegger, Robert Duvall, Michael Rapaport, Michael Rooker, Wendy Crewson What the sixth day indicates I am not sure but claims are that it indicates that God created man on day sixth. Then someone decided to create this film, which has the idea but lacks the payoff. Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as a helicopter pilot in the future who arrives home only to discover a clone of himself celebrating his birthday with his family. What is truly interesting is that it is the clone doing the observing but doesn't realize that he is a clone. Robert Duvall plays a doctor who is trying to legally clone people since his wife is dying. Headquarters have already cloned assassins sent to kill him. Directed by Roger Spottiswoode who also made the James Bond action film Tomorrow Never Dies. Schwarzenegger appears to be having fun with duo roles. There is a scene where the clone anticipates killing the real version but cannot bring himself to do it. Duvall as the doctor is interesting because his wife is dying yet she doesn't desire to be cloned. Michael Rapaport as Schwarzenegger's partner has moments of comic relief but the role is cardboard. Michael Rooker is also featured as a villain. Wendy Crewson plays Schwarzenegger's wife who isn't in on the situation. Well made action film about the value of life. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Very underrated awesome science-fiction action flick!","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day (2000) is a sci-fi action flick from Arnold Schwarzenegger. I saw this film in The theater after new year in 2001 when it was released by us in Slovenia. It was the first Schwarzenegger movie I ever saw in the theater before. Later in 2003 I went watching Terminator 3 Rise of the Machines in summer August (2003). Those two film were the only Schwarzenegger films I have actually saw! And I love both of them, I even remember how this film was a huge hit in 2001, I kept seeing a VHS cover in the video rent store, I even saw the poster that time. So the film was a hit back than in 2001 when it was released and come to us in the cinema. What can I say it is one of my favorite Schwarzenegger action flicks. This film compared to Terminator Genysys, Maggie, Sabotage and The Expendables 3 it is a much, much better improvement action futuristic flick than all the new movies I just counted Schwarzenegger did. This movie is awesome if you like near future action movies, than this is the movie for you. The 6th Day is good, I liked the action bits and the premise is actually quite interesting. It does follow the same old script tactics and the performances are... lets say uninspired. This was definitely a movie using Arnold's action star status for it's gain, pushing every little Arnold trait to the limit especially cheesy punch lines but this is a very enjoyable and cool action flick but it ain't T2. The movie works well for Arnold's action fans. A story premise that fits where technology was and is today. Cloning humans would represent a real danger but it also has moral issues to go with it. Robert Duvall's acting weight helps boost this movie along with Michael Rooker and Tony Goldwyn as the bad guys and this one is a winner. Arnold Schwarzenegger did a great job and he tried very hard acting in this one with not so much action as most Arnold films. Movie does a great job into deep details of cloning, too bad they wear having those high tech stuff. This film and has a good scenes, great action and the dialogue is funny. The scene when Arnold says when I told you to go screw yourself I didn't mean take it literally. This film is kind of science VS religion because the people who killed Tony Goldwyn's character religious people are against cloning because it is man playing God. I know the bad guys have their reasons for not wanting the business to be shut down if they are found out that they are clones, but in my opinion I think maybe they were afraid of death and want to use cloning as a way to cheat it and not die permanently, but that is just my opinion. I think the rest of the cast did a pretty good job, Michael Rapaport was awesome as Adam's friend, Sarah Wynter did a great job performance of her character Talia Elsworth as the bad guy and she acted very well. I remember Sarah Wynter from 24 (2001) TV series she play Kate Warner in Season 2. The second Season of 24 was always my favorite season of the show. She did made a brief cameo scene in Season 3 episode Day 3 100 p.m.-200 p.m.. Gosh today I don't see her in any famous roles or in movies at all. Where did this world come to? from 2000 - 2011 years for me were awesome. Today movies are really awful made. I am glad I see this movie in theaters it is my favorite film and I love it to death! Director Roger Spottiswoode (Tomorrow Never Dies, Noriega) creates a world of the very near future in which cattle, fish, and even the family pet can be cloned. But cloning humans is illegal - that is until family man Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) comes home from work one day to find a clone has replaced him. Taken from his family and plunged into a sinister world he doesn't understand, Gibson must not only save himself from the assassins who must destroy him to protect their secret, but uncover who and what is behind the horrible things happening to him. The 6th Day is the story of Gibson's struggle to reclaim his life and his family.Director Roger Spottiswoode directed another film that I love 007 flick Tomorrow Never Dies another underrated Bond film and action adventure Shoot to Kill (1988) with Sidney Poitier. I love this underrated action sci-fi Schwarzenegger flick a 7.5/10 it does not deserve the hate or been bashed for it. The 6th Day is a 2000 American science fiction action film directed by Roger Spottiswoode, and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger as family man Adam Gibson, who has been cloned fifteen years in the future.7/10 Grade B- Studio Columbia Pictures, Phoenix Pictures Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Michael Rapaport, Tony Goldwyn, Michael Rooker, Sarah Wynter, Robert Duvall Director Roger Spottiswoode Producers Jon Davison, Mike Medavoy, Arnold Schwarzenegger Writers Cormac Wibberley And Marianne Wibberley Rated PG-13 Running Time 2 Hrs. 3 Mins. Released October 28, 2000 Budget $84,000,000 Box Office $96,085,477 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day is another underrated Schwarzenegger movie (Last Action Hero, Eraser, Jingle All The Way, Terminator Genisys) The Acting is good, the direction is smart and the film has too much action and 2 Schwarzeneggers killing bad guys and throwing one liners the effects are good for a 2000 film. Tony Goldwyn is a really great bad guy the soundtrack is amazing and really touching at times. I think a 5.9 is a little harsh for this movie more like a 7 or a 7.5 at least. Arnold Schwarzenegger Fans and Sci-Fi fans will love this film is full of action and laughs and it has 2 Arnolds what else do you want? A 10 out of 10 for me loved it!!! "},{"Title":"A second perspective years later","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Years ago when I became a avid Schwarzenegger fan I remember watching The 6th Day and really not liking it much. I decided to check it out again recently and found myself pleasantly surprised that this is actually a great movie. It was one of Schwarzenegger's last films before he became Governor and it wasn't during the prime of his career. It was a colossal flop and is generally considering one of his worse but why? I hazard to say that this is almost on par with Total Recall. Set in the near future he is tough as nails, there is TWO of him, great one liners, terrific action...this was a lot of fun and exactly what you'd want from a Schwarzenegger film. It's interesting too that apparently it is set in 2015 (the current year) because it it still far ahead of where we are in reality but its still not completely out there for a Science Fiction movie. The concept is terrific and a cast that is outstanding. Its not a perfect movie and there are some rather campy moments mostly by Schwarzenegger but isn't that what we love about him? (Happy Birthday to him too as today is his Birthday.) The 6th Day is fun and well written with a strong cast and I can't imagine why I didn't like it the first time.Arnold Schwarzenegger doesn't handle dual roles well. In fact, the special effects or double used in scenes with both of them is not great, in fact sometimes its terrible. There are scenes at the end where it blatantly clear its not him. His character is simple enough and doesn't have a lot of depth but he serves his purpose in running, chasing, shooting, fighting, delivering one liners and upending evil. This is what he does best and I think it was just timing that made it not successful. The cast of this film is outstanding as mentioned. Tony Goldwyn gives a great performance as the villainous Drucker. In the first half of the film I felt like he was underplayed but he definitely stands out in the latter half and is a great villain. You can't beat the closing scenes of him as a half formed clone. Michael Rooker is perfection as the main henchman, Michael Rapaport, Sarah Wynter, Terry Crews and of course Robert Duvall who plays a small but important part and is always a great addition to any cast. Each person mentioned has a good strong role and is well used in supporting parts.I admit that as a kid of the 80's who fell in love with that era of films I judge all action films by those standards. Putting aside the extremely sketchy special effects at various times, the action is well paced and balls to the wall so to speak. The end scene for the villain is fantastic and he himself turns out to be great as mentioned previously. The film is ending is very cut and dry and adds to the cheese of the film but I'm okay with that. Its just unfortunate they couldn't finely tune the tone of the movie to the rest of the good aspects. Regardless no one is watching Schwarzenegger films to Academy Award winning material (not that he doesn't deserve one in my opinion) but if you love Sci-Fi then there is plenty to really sink your teeth into here. A terrific obligatory car chase scene, tons of shoot outs and a story that works when it comes to clones. Even if you've seen it before like I had, give it another chance. You might be surprised. I certainly was!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger vs Schwarzenegger","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) heads to work one day and on his return from work he discovers a clone of himself celebrating his birthday with his family. Cloning of humans is illegal and, for Gibson, discovering his clone is potentially bad news for both Gibson and his family as it means that the secret that they're trying to protect could end up becoming common knowledge. The organisation responsible for cloning Gibson will do everything in their power to protect their secret even if it means killing Gibson and his family.As a concept, this is very interesting and it's the sort of film that provides you with a nice piece of escapism. The subject matter of cloning humans is ripe for all kinds of social commentary - would you want another chance at living again after you've died or would you just rather die naturally and let your loved ones mourn you and leave your memories with them? Although the cloning aspect is a forerunner for the film I did like the idea that one aspect of the film showed someone who didn't want to be cloned - yes it's too far-fetched to be taken seriously (it's science fiction after all), but it does make you think whilst the film is running.As with most Arnie films, this one is very entertaining and lots of fun. Hank and his virtual girlfriend, the virtual lawyer and the virtual psychiatrist - all these characters were only in the film for a short period of time, but all of them were very memorable and very funny. I think the funniest part of the film was when Gibson was trying to ring the police and he kept being given lots of options before he could be connected to the police. This may have been mildly amusing back in 2000, but in 2015 when virtually every number that you ring now gives you these irritating options before you can actually speak to a person ultimately made that scene incredibly funny. When the two 'Arnies' cross paths later in the film these scenes also provide for some very funny exchanges. Arnie doesn't have quite as many 'one liners' as in previous outings, but we're treated to a great one towards the end of the film.As much as I enjoyed this film I did find one or two weaknesses; I understand that the idea of cloning animals was referenced in the film because it's legal to clone animals, but illegal to clone humans. However, I felt it would have been better if the writers had just made it about cloning humans. The idea of cloning animals just isn't that interesting and the fact that it seemed important at the start and then was ignored for the rest of the film also seemed a little bit strange. I also felt the finale was a little over-blown and ran on for too long, but these are minor issues.Despite some minor issues with the plotting, The 6th Day is an entertaining, fun and mostly thought-provoking film that is well worth watching. Whilst it doesn't quite reach the greatness of Total Recall (Arnie's other big sci-fi film) it's still a very good film that fans of Arnie and fans of sci-fi will not be disappointed with. "},{"Title":"Underrated late-period Arnold","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in 2000, The Sixth Day does not quite hearken back to Schwarzenegger's glory days of Terminator 2, Predator and the like, but it is a far cry above other late period work like Last Action Hero. In my opinion this breezy action flick deserves better than a 5.9 on IMDb, and I give it a 7 worth seeing more than once, but not in the 8-10 great movies category.In the film, Arnold accidentally gets cloned by a business magnate due to a mix-up, and the magnate's henchmen (and women, Sarah Wynter is a great henchwoman) relentlessly pursue him to wipe out the duplicate that could give away their illegal human cloning scheme. As the film progresses, you wonder who is the clone, and the 'real' person? Does it make a difference? Of course, there's a happy ending for Arnold - and his clone, while the bad guys get dismembered, necks broken, consumed in explosions that tear skyscrapers apart, and all the usual good stuff in Arnie action flicks.The best part of this film is its script. Perhaps too intricate for some, it is a lovingly written action script that really makes an effort not to have too many plot holes. Even stuff that seems unimportant or a plot hole at first, turns out to be cleverly crafted. Some examplesThe 'real' Arnold has a nick from shaving, which his friend uses to ID the 'real' one. But later we learn the cloners have copied that, too. So who is real?In passing on the phone, evil magnate Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn) mentions Get me the Speaker (of the house) on the phone. It turns out much later in the film that he invited the Speaker to a gala where he talks about cloning saving cancerous children; the speaker has a son with cancer, and becomes a sucker for making cloning legal.Likewise, Drucker explains that brains cannot yet be cloned without support from the whole body during cell growth, getting a major pothole out of the way. Likewise, a lot of care is taken to explain the medical 'science' just enough to close plot holes, but not so much that it becomes fake. They even get away pretty well with the idea that clones can be grown from 'unformed' templates by gene infusion to differentiate them within hours. (After all, the plot has to keep moving, and we can't wait for 30 years for the clone of a dead 30 year-old.)The script and production team also hit the nail on the head with the 'near future' background material a self-driving car awfully like a Google car, styled slightly futuristically, but just as you might expect something in the year 20XX to look. Taxis that are paid by fingerprint (Apple Pay, anyone). Jet-helicopters; malls with gigantic monorails to move people; super- realistic dolls; refrigerators that order milk when it runs out, but in a normal-looking house. And best, the Re-pet (re-peat, get it?) pet stores that clone your beloved dog or cat so your kids don't suffer anguish when the old dog goes to heaven. The store chain serves as a foil for a bit of bioethics and cloning philosophy. Basically, the world in this movie feels very much like 20XX USA could feel, as opposed to the often overblown futurism in 'near-future' action flicks.But of course, this IS an action flick, so don't expect deep philosophy here. It moves along fast through a complex but quite self-consistent plot, and an intelligent action fan will enjoy this movie, and the fact that (s)he will have to search just a little harder than usual to find the unavoidable plot holes. If the scriptwriters make me work at it a little bit (and even realize that what I thought is a hole is actually consistent on careful examination!), I am happy.This is a 7/10 on many levels, for above average complexity, above average consistency, and plenty of action - although the action in this one is pretty mundane. What can I say, more mundane action is actually more realistic, and this is one of the more realistic action films of the 2000s, if there is such a thing as a realistic action film. Can be viewed more than once, and new details will be discovered. "},{"Title":"A movie that had a smart idea,...but used it as a Schwarzenegger vehicle","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" As time continues to move forward, the technological advances that are made, will too move forward. It's a movement that will never cease and sometimes has the ability to open doors that shouldn't be opened. Today, cloning is a possibility - it's no longer a question of how. The question is when, and would it be a good time to make it available for the public to use. At this time, it's not an easy question to answer. There are numerous pros and cons that need to be looked at before making anything official. The biggest issue however is, who's going to be in control of it and can society trust them to take care of it properly. These specific bottom line questions are the basis to this sci-fi thriller. Unfortunately, with that come other problems.In this future, cloning another human is an illegal act. When Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) discovers that he's been cloned, he finds out that out that one of them needs to be taken out. In some respects the story feels like a carbon copy of Total Recall (1990), a much better Schwarzenegger film involving an identity crisis. With that said, there are aspects to the writing that is different because cloning is the footing to the plot. One of the problems is making this an Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle. It's not to say putting Schwarzenegger in the film was the wrong choice, but making him specifically apart of the plot and not the topic was the wrong decision. If this movie were supposed to raise awareness of cloning, I'm pretty sure people would be more concerned about the topic than an extra Arnold walking around. This is where Roger Spottiswoode misses the mark in his directional skills with this thought-provoking concept.Nonetheless, cast wise there is only a few actors worth mentioning because every other character is uninteresting. Schwarzenegger still delivers his lines with comedy so at least there are some lighthearted moments. Tony Goldwyn (the voice of Tarzan from Tarzan (1999)) plays Michael Drucker, a billionaire in the realm of cloning technology. This guy is just like a politician even though he's not anywhere close to one. Then there's Robert Duvall playing Dr. Weir, a supporter of cloning. These three characters are the only individuals that have development. The best of these three however is Dr. Weir. There is one specific scene that opens his eyes to reality and its gratifying to see. Oh, there is one other actor worth mentioning here &#x96; this is Terry Crews' film debut. The year 2000 is quite some time ago.Other than this, the final elements that complete this movie are not that entertaining. You would think because it stars Arnold Schwarzenegger in a Sci-fi film, it would have decent action. Not here. This movie just contains a lot of laser shootouts. It's really not that exciting. The special effects that coincide with these aren't that spectacular either. Trevor Rabin's synthetic score to the film was average. At times he did emulate the electronic tunes that went well with the genre, but there were also other times where it was just plain and bland. There was no main theme that was memorable. The most obnoxious part of this movie was the editing, and the crew had three editors! It was like they were all fighting for different editing styles. There are numerous cut scenes that zip through the dialog and it's unclear to what's going on. That was annoying.The few main cast members give okay performances along with its message of the dangers with cloning. Though other than this, much of it is boring. The action, music and the rest of the cast and crew are dull in a number of ways. "},{"Title":"If you really believe that then you should clone yourself while you're still alive.","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Vilified when it was released, one of the small handful of films that came at the end of Arnold Schwarzenegger's film career before he went into politics, The 6th Day, it was argued, was a good cause for Arnold to retire from film. Yet viewing it now on its own chaotic sci-fi terms, it's a surprisingly brisk and enjoyable picture.Directed by Roger Spottiswoode, it's a futuristic collage of outrageous set-pieces and thought provoking thematics. Plot has Arnie as an ex-fighter pilot who discovers he has been illegally cloned, and thus he embarks on a mission of carnage and high paced machismo in a bid to get his identity back whilst exposing the evil corporation at the core of such nastiness. So, two Arnie's for the price of one then!It's not a plot that would hold up under close scrutiny, but then is that what we go into a Arnold Schwarzenegger action movie for? Quite. With some nifty surprises, kinetic action and an ending of some considerable chilling substance, The 6th Day is classic popcorn munching fodder. No it's not in the top tier of Arnie movies, and no it's hardly shaking the foundations of sci-fi cinema, but sometimes comfort food sci-fi has its own rewards for an undemanding occasion. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Passable Action Movie","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day is pretty standard for an action movie, especially one featuring Arnold Schwarzenegger. There are plenty of corny jokes, explosions, and over-the-top death scenes (all rated PG-13). Schwarzenegger does a decent job in this film, but the true talent lies with Michael Rapaport, playing best-friend Hank Morgan, and Tony Goldwyn as the wonderfully evil Michael Drucker. The rest of the cast give passing performances with no one standing out one way or another. While the plot is a little more complicated than something like Predator, it is still easy enough to follow and makes for an enjoyable 120 minutes. However, the effects in the movie have not aged very well, making it even less believable in 2014 than it was in 2000. All in all, not a horrible movie and not great. Just alright. "}{"Title":"Meant to be entertaining, not enlightening...","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who considers themselves a serious film buff or an intellectual should understand that the number one purpose of science fiction is to entertain. If it also happens to be insightful or enlightening then that is a pleasant bonus. Inevitably, science fiction asks you to suspend your disbelief at one point or another. Again, this is not designed to be judged by Oscar worthy standards or as a universally appreciated form of high art. They make films in other genres where you can sate your longing for poignant, factual, emotionally charged or challenging material which, admittedly, can sometimes cover very heavy subject matter. There are certainly times when those types of movies serve as perfect fare. However, the values and themes of these films are often heightened and accentuated by the contrast of a more accessible, much cooler, less pretentious movie imbued with good FX, lots of action, big explosions and a lead performance that is obviously charismatic if not overly compelling. The 6th day has all these attributes and is also a lot of fun to boot. Check it out today. "},{"Title":"pretty good stuff","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked it the concept was great cloning that is. the story is fascinating, characters are great. having two Arnolds is pretty entertaining to watch. some people might over look this film which that's fine. its almost like total recall not the 2012 but the 1990 version with Arnold, Ironside, Stone, and Ticotin the reason why I think its similar is recall is a story of Douglas Quaid going to a place that can retrieve his memories. in the 6th day story its about cloning so isn't recall kind of like cloning your life again I don't know but I think I got it right. and what do I think of it? I think its a good movie to check out especially if your a Arnold Fan like myself and did it succeed well I'd say yes because of the story it had the character and having to Arnolds for the price of one. so if you liked total recall from 1990 I think is a one check out. "},{"Title":"Pretty Awful","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Futuristic action about a man (Arnold Schwarzenegger) who meets a clone of himself (also Arnold) and stumbles into a grand conspiracy about clones taking over the world.I feel like this film could have been good in the hands of a different director, as the story itself is not all that terrible. But it just comes off as cheap and second-rate. We do not get many Arnold one-liners and we have to deal with some terrible transitional footage between scenes. Not even the awesome of Michael Rooker makes up for this mess. (And how Robert Duvall ended up here is a mystery -- far too much talent for this rubbish.) Strangely, the DVD features audio commentary from the composer. While I commend them for this (few special editions offer the composer a voice), it would have been nice to hear from a writer or director on how the film turned into what it is. "},{"Title":"Seeing for the first time in 2013. Not bad at all.","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember this was coming out when all that Y2K mania was going on and for some reason I thought this had more of a religious overtone to it; the devil is returning type thing.It was not at all like this, and had I have known that would have chased it up. Its theme is cloning, and amongst the well-paced and well-executed action sequences the film does bring up some deep existential and ethical issues. It is an intelligent film (something I had not thought synonymous with Arnie at that time). It is one of his best performances. One problem is that with its fast pace and complex topic sometimes its just a little hard to follow what's going on sometimes.Definitely worth watching, far better than the Matrix sequels. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good movie, plot very compelling and effective. Beautiful futuristic setting, excellent direction and plot. The special effects are not beautiful but are nice to see. There are many twists that increase the effectiveness of the film. The acting and fantastic especially by Arnold. The makeup is perfect especially in the scenes of the laboratory and in those of cloning. One of the best films of 2000 that I've ever seen In the film there are several references to Blade Runner (such as when the psychiatrist asks the question on the turtle in the desert, or the person who claims to have cloned a snake)My verdict is 8/10 because the plot, the acting and directing is beautiful! (sorry for my bad English, I'm Italian) "},{"Title":"Not the best, but a favourite","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently, I was discussing what my 'favourite' films were, and amongst various films that many critics would agree with, I mentioned that I really enjoyed Bond director Roger Spottiswoode's 2000 sci-fi offering The 6th Day. At this point, the person who I was talking with suddenly transformed into a megaphone-voiced beast, and got into a very passionate and heated rant about the poor and uninspired script, and Arnold Schwarzenegger's inability to act a part with more than twenty lines. After this ten-minute-tirade, he simply told me that anybody who liked this movie is clearly an idiot, and doesn't deserve to make any comments about cinema. To this I simply said I agree, and the look on his face was priceless. He went on to tell me how he just couldn't understand how anybody could enjoy a movie which they know is greatly flawed. This struck me, usually I would agree, but The 6th Day seemed to be an exception to this. It was time to do some research.After a quick search on the internet, it looks like a lot of people share my friend's view. The 6th Day was nominated for three Golden Raspberry awards, each for Schwarzenegger's less than great acting. A brief visit to Rotton Tomatoes shows that very few critics felt that it was enjoyable, and it holds a low 22% approval rating. A common observation was Arnie's acting and a halfhearted dialogue. The time had come for me to watch it again. Maybe I'd missed something.After watching it again, I realised I that even though I knew the script was bad (trust me, it's really not good), and the Governator's acting does leave a LOT to be desired, I still really, really enjoyed it. I'm clearly an idiot. As I thought back to the first time I saw it, I realised I must have been about ten or eleven years old, and that between my preteens and now, I've watched it countless times. You could say that I've grown up with The 6th Day, and I believe this is why I like it so much, and why I consider it to be one of my favourite films. I realised that The 6th Day was one of the first films I saw that carry the BBFC 15 certificate, and I think it must have been one of the first science-fiction films (apart from Star Wars) that I watched. Also, watching it was one of the first times that I ever thought about the 'bigger questions' - Should we 'play God'? In short, The 6th Day made me feel like a big'un for the first time. As I grew older I started to think more and more about issues such as this, not realising that it had all stemmed from a movie.As I type this I'm realising more and more things that watching The 6th Day may have started. For example, due to its similarities to the dystopian masterpiece Blade Runner, it started a genuine love for science fiction cinema (a claim which it admittedly shares with Alex Proyas under-rated adaptation of Asimov's classic I, Robot and Star Wars), as well as my interest in philosophy and ethics (I recently handed in an essay where I highlighted the similarities between John Hick's 'Replica Theory' and The 6th Day). While The 6th Day is certainly not one of the 'best' films ever made, it is definitely one of my favourites. I grew up with it, it's a part of my childhood and part of me. It made me feel like I was older for the first time. If there's one thing that this highlights, it's that there is a difference between best and favourite. We as humans are naturally argumentative - we want to be right all the time, and this can be seen perfectly when we disagree about films. We will always argue that a film is good, even if you only enjoy it because it has place in your heart (like The 6th Day does for me). A film doesn't necessarily have to have a fantastic score, a solid screenplay, superb acting and a great story to be a favourite (of course this could be a reason why it's a favourite). Some films will always have a place in your heart, no matter what critics say about it. "},{"Title":"Was anyone else creeped by the Sim Pal Cindy?","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie and I found it rather disturbing. Mind you've I've seen every horror movie and sci fi movie known to man. I just thought that the Sim Pal Cindy was scary. I mean come on I know that in the future we will have advances in technology. I'm not a HUGE fan of Arnold Schwatzernager. He clearly doesn't live up to his obvious potential in this movie.  His work in True Lies was magnificent. He's not at all hunky or studly. But he does have a way of captivating you and making you unable of looking away. The thought of some inadamant object talking and walking and having actualy conversation with people. Can you so uber creepy? SO if you agree give me a shout out! Later Dayz  "},{"Title":"With Another Actor, This Could Have Been Quite Good","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `You cloned the wrong man. 	Despite a clever concept, and an ambitious story, it is lines like this, along with Arnold Schwarzenegger's trademark hammy one-liners, that relegate The 6th Day to second-tier filmdom. 	It's the near future, where a hologram can be your girlfriend, cars drive themselves (a neat little trick borrowed from the 1994 Van Damme thriller Time Cop, another ambitious sci-fi vehicle damaged by its star's presence), and if your pet dies, you just have to stop in at RePet and get him cloned, and if you Mickey Mantle your liver to death, you can always order a new one. 	The only thing you cannot do is clone a human being. 	After the first attempt, which created an awful freak of nature, congress passed what are known as Sixth Day Laws (as in, on the sixth day God created man), which hand out strict penalties to anyone even attempting to clone a human being, and extermination for any such clone. 	Enter Adam Gibson (Arnold) and his best friend and partner Hank (Michael Rapaport), who run a helicopter service that caters to the rich and the powerful.  Their new client is Michael Drucker, the Billionaire power behind Replacement Technologies, who are responsible for RePet as well as the organ cloning clinics.  The job is Adam's, but when the family dog dies, he passes it on to Hank so that he can drop by RePet and get a new dog before his daughter realizes. 	Soon Adam returns home to find a duplicate of himself celebrating his birthday with his family.  Before he can even comprehend the situation, Adam becomes the target of murderous thugs, who hunt him all around town. 	The whole thing revolves around a case of mistaken identity, Drucker's (Tony Goldwyn) greed, and the flawed medical ethics of Dr. Griffin Weir, the brains of the cloning operation, played by the ever-superb Robert Duvall. 	The story is interesting, taking on the ethics of cloning from both the pro and con side, and dealing with it in a fairly even-handed way, as well as taking on the corporate environment that would choose to exploit such a technology.  While this could have been handled in a preachy, channel 67 (what I like to call the Jesus Knows Your Credit Limit Network) sort of way, writers Cormac and Marianne Wibberley, and director Roger Spotisswoode present it as an intelligent debate where both sides have valid points, and neither side is portrayed as particularly evil aside from the corporate component. 	The main flaw of the film is Arnold himself.  While his hammy performances may have delighted audiences in Twins, and his muscle-bound butt-kicking may have thrilled in the Terminator movies, here it rings with a resounding lack of authenticity. 	Adam is meant, by his very name, to be a sort of everyman.  Instead he is a body-building physique, whose accent challenges suspension of disbelief (how many Austrian immigrants do we have, and why are they the only ones who wind up in random conspiratorial fire fights?), and whose combat skills only serve to make him into a cartoon character of a protagonist. 	As with End of Days, this is a movie that would best have been served by plot rather than special effects and gun play.  And while that Arnold picture at least attempted to pull away from the typical shoot-em up that is its star's trademark for most of the picture, The 6th Day embraces such foolishness when the movie really should have been much more. 	Watching this movie I could not help but wonder how much better a film it might have been had someone like Gary Sinise, whose work has always been electrifying even in severely flawed films, or Denzel Washington, or any of the legion of far more talented actors than Schwarzenegger. 	Director Spottiswoode, who has worked on successful films such as the funny Eddie Murphy-Nick Nolte actioner 48 Hours (co-writer), and the absolutely brilliant, but seldom mentioned Straw Dogs (editor), featuring Dustin Hoffman and David Warner, has found little success as a director.  Spottiswoode has spat out such forgettable films as Air America, and the movie that killed Stallone even before Judge Dredd could, Stop! or My Mom Will Shoot. 	However, with The Sixth Day, he uses the juicy plot and elaborate effects to his advantage and guides the film with a fairly even hand. 	The only times the film itself goes sour plot-wise is the rather conventional identity twist (if you've ever watched the Twilight Zone or the Outer Limits you will see this one coming a mile away), and the end result of Arnold and his clone, which ends the movie on a plus note, but does not ring very true in looking far ahead. 	This is not a bad movie by any means.  It may be the best movie involving Arnold made since T2, and is graced with a terrific performance by Duvall and a sufficiently scum-bag turn by Goldwyn.  Veteran Bad Guy Michael Rooker (Eight Men Out, Rosewood) comfortably fills the role of Goldwyn's head thug. 	All in all an interesting watch, as long as you can look past that accent. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi movie. almost like Blade Runner, not as pretty","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's the only movie that shares views on human cloning. The only other movie that was sort of similar was Blade Runner. But replicants and clones are totally different things. I'm a big Arnold fan. He wasn't as animated in this movie, Action was toned down a bit, but the philosophical views and great special affects will keep you glued to the tube. I thought the acting was pretty good, and Robert Duvall takes the cake in this one. His performance was a deep one. Definatly worth $20 bucks on DVD. This film has decent action sequences and is a must for sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"What's Better then an Arnold moive?  An Arnolds movie.","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just watched this movie and it was pretty good.  Not Classic Arnold though. Like many of his more recent movies, we see Arnold in the role of the everyday family man out to save his wife and child against all odds.The Story was interesting enough, bringing forth the cloning controversy and seeing arguments from both for and against camps. As for the action scenes, they could have been a little better.  There isn't as much He-Man violence on Arnold's part as we are used to.  Don't worry, he still kicks some serious ass, but not in the usual, inhuman way that we are all used to seeing.  The other classic Arnold movie trademark - the killer one liners- run rampant in the movie.  The cloning subject matter surprisingly turned out to be a lucrative nook for Arnold's great quips. A decent Performance by Arnold, and a good (as usual) Performance from Robert Duval as the Doctor with an ethical conflict.  The downside to the movie was the poor acting of the villians, who seems hardly worthy of being Arnold's adversaries (As always, but I mean even more so then usual).All in all, Arnold fans will be entertained.  I give a 7/10 on the Arnold Scale. Get to the Choppa. "}{"Title":"Nothing Like Total Recall","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a massive arnie fan and this movie promised so much but delived so little.This Movie Failed to live up to the hype and was purley average. This is one of arnold's worst films and lacked any real hardcore action that us arnie fans want to see. if you want to see a real good SCI FI Flick The best bet is total recall that film has been shown millions of times on tv and for a good reason its superb I doubt I can say the same for this film.  "},{"Title":"Tis good","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aside from what people say this film is more scifi than action.  One really good movie in the fact that it has a good plot and storyline and sticks to it.  Things happen bang bang bang and keep you interested.  It is exciting and has a few twists and turns but recent world events make this film interesting.  The camera work is nice and so are the effects.  Love the helicopters and there's lots of nice action in this movie.  Really...a must see for most people. "},{"Title":"Do I have to say something positive?","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Q What do you get out of a movie with an average director, an average cast, and an average story? A A waste of time. If you have 2 hours with absolutely nothing to do with your life, I still wouldn't recommend this movie. Within the first ten minutes of the film I couldn't restrain myself from laughing so hard. But after another twenty minutes I wasn't that funny anymore.Somewhere in between the lame jokes and the horrible attempts to act, I suddenly became frightened of where this was going. Is this the direction people want film headed towards? Unbelievable action sequences and a half-baked script isn't something to laugh at when you think of how much effort was put into it.  I wonder why someone actually decided to take the time and money to make this film. It takes place in the near future, where people can be cloned in a matter of hours, guns shoot lasers instead of bullets, and the XFL is popular. It'll be more than a few decades before this happens (Nobody likes the XFL).  Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Adam Gibson, a helicopter pilot who finds out that he has been cloned. For some reason he always has a smile on his face and feels the need to make stupid jokes. There is even a scene in which he pays homage to himself in the Terminator 2. I don't want to spoil it for you (trust me, you'll notice it if you see the movie). His partner is Hank Morgan, played by Michael Rapaport. He plays the funny sidekick with the annoying accent. This isn't much of a stretch for him. Even though he is the comic relief, the only time I felt relieved was when he wasn't in scene. I have no idea how Robert Duvall made his way on screen, but he managed to make the film somewhat interesting. I could be talking a lot more about the movie, but I figure why bother? The controversial theory of cloning humans can be interesting. It is a serious subject which should be saved for a serious movie. I hate the fact that someone took this to their advantage and decided to make a tired, boring movie out of it. I'm glad it made no money at the box office and received no critical acclaim. The people who worked on the film should have given it a second thought before wasting so much time and money on this. The bottom line Be afraid. Be very afraid. "},{"Title":"Multiplicity meets Total Recall","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie felt like a combination of Michael Keaton's 1996 clone comedy, Multiplicity and Schwarzenegger's own Total Recall.   Schwarzenegger is a helicopter pilot who after signing a big chartering contract with a wealthy tycoon, returns home on the night of his birthday and discovers that he's already home enjoying his birthday cake.  Through the  rest of the film, Arney is running from the bad guys who are trying to kill him for seeing his double and trying to learn why he has been cloned.  I didn't mind this film and I actually found myself chuckling at Arnold's remarks after each kill. The dialog between the two Schwarzenegger's was kind of tacky but the special effects and action sequences make up for that.  I wonder how much World Wrestling Federation owner Vince McMahon paid out to have his new XFL football league appear in the film?  "},{"Title":"Good but a bit of a no brainer","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of people say 'Seen one Arny movies seen 'em all.' I don't really know if this is true or not but after watching this movie I first of all thought 'seen it all before'. I imagine it must be hard nowdays to make a movie where people will come out of it saying wow what a completely different movie. The thing is that most really good movies somehow find a way to shock the audience or give them something that they just weren't expecting. The 6th day really was predictable and didn't hold my attention very well. It could have been so much better. It just goes to show that the difference between a really good movie and an alright movie is not always very much. In this case basicly it was quite good, all it really needed was was a couple of real good twists in the story or something.6 out of ten - worth watching if your a big Arny fan or don't watch many sci-fi movies "},{"Title":"ill be back (pity he meant it this time)","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  okay, so my friends decided to take me out to the movies for my birthday, thats cool i thought, they will respect me by taking me to a movie they know i will be interested in (bear in mind, this was a mystery screening...)all i can say is that i cracked a loud noxious fart twice during this film and the whole audience applauded me for diverting theor attention from this excuse for an action film. this was nearly as bad as the running man or even the get carter remake....at least i got TWO awful arnies for the price of one.wait til this comes out on video and then rent something elseyou have your orders. dismissed!!!!!final verdict - 1 hasta la vista out of 10000 "},{"Title":"Arnie's Best In Years.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a superb science fiction film. Very well written, amazing visuals, wonderful concept, and above all Mr Schwarzeneggar back in his best film since True Lies. Thank god film makers can still once in a while produce science fiction films worthy of the genre. The year 2000 has had a very poor year in terms of scifi quality with the likes of Battlefield earth, Supernova and several others. If it wasn't for the likes of Pitch Black, Red Planet and now this delightful treasure the millenium year would have been a total disaster.Now what makes this film great? 1st Arnold - the Austrian Oak back where he belongs larger than life saving the day. Secondly a script devoid of cliches and plot holes. Thirdly a production design as impressive as Total Recall. Fourthly a villian drawn from reality and not a cartoon character. And lastly top shelf visual effects that serve the film and not overshadow the story. Welcome back Arnie.    "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Directed by Roger Spottiswoode and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger as Adam Gibson, a middle aged man who is a helicopter pilot and Michael Rapaport as Hank, Adam's colleague.The story is set in the very near future. One day Adam returns home to find that he has been replaced by a clone. In that world every creature besides humans can be cloned. While human cloning is illegal, a company is constantly cloning humans. (I don't know they are cloning them, because of money?) Since Adam knows their illegal business, some assassins are hired by that company to kill him. Once Adam is captured by them and he knows he himself is just a clone of someone. 'Cloned' Adam allies himself with 'human' Adam and they succeed in destroying the company in order to protect his family. This movie is based on scientific truth, that is, very controversial social issue of cloning. The filmmaker doesn't succeed in showing `what the biggest problem about human cloning is, but he succeeds in showing humanity. The scene that 'clone' Adam recognizes 'human' Adam as his friend, not as his enemy, is my favorite one. Because it should be a precious moment for anyone to know someone as his or her friend. Schwarzenegger is not young any more, but he has matured to show humanity. If you don't see this movie as a scientific movie or as an action movie, I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"TWO ARNOLDS FOR THE PRICE OF ONE!!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold's gotten older! And he still can't act! He seems a little misplaced in this flick, he'd be better off in something like Predator. He was O.K. in this, however.Arnie, a futuristic helicopter pilot, comes home to his birthday and finds Arnie 2 (a clone) has taken his place. A big genetic engineering corporation tries to off Arnie 1 when they discover they've cloned him by mistake. Genetic engineering of animals is allowed, but not of humans.WARNING! CLONED SPOILERS!Props are very nice, as is the futuristic gizmos. I expected to see more of Arnold's trade mark action, so was disappointed at the lack of action in this flick. The plot is not riveting, but holds your attention as you try to figure out which Arnold is the real one. There are some touching moments (the genetic engineer's wife telling him she wants to die and doesn't want to be cloned again). An interesting gimic is the big corp's alteration of DNA that causes cloned clients to die in 5 years so clients are forced to spend big money to keep re cloning themselves.CONCLUSION? Could've been better.  "},{"Title":"Just another enjoyable movie with Arnie","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen lots of movies from Arnie, and I think you can guess what kind of movie's he plays in; just movies which you should see when you've got nothing to do. I'm sure lot's of people think this movie stinks, because of the bad plot etc....but I think you shouldn't rate this movie looking at those things. Just rate the entertainment which you remember of seeing this movie (Mine lot's of action which keeps you exciting till the end). "}{"Title":"The absolute comeback of Arnold Schwarzenegger!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't think that the Batman and Robin-disaster or even the pretty good action thriller End of days really became the comeback Schwarzenegger was waiting for.  I haven't seen the fourth instalment in the Batman-series yet (I'm going to), but I've heard multiple times that it's nothing but a poor attempt.  Let's face it that film could have done the same WITHOUT Arnold Schwarzenegger (or even George Clooney.)  I mean they're no Jack Nicholson or Michelle Pfeiffer!  Those people have really made a difference to their Batman-films when they played their parts so beautifully. And as for End of days; this was a good film with some nice acting of both Gabriel Byrne (as the devil) and Arnold Schwarzenegger.  But I felt that this film was too dark and far from the standard action film that Schwarzenegger needed to ensure his comeback.  End of days did become a great success, though this could have easily been the latest, successful Arnie-picture for some time again.  I just mean to say that no one was really sure when he would be back again with another big film-hit.  Why am I even talking about a comeback, you think?  Because I feel that he's been away from that big white screen for some time and he needed a very good picture to get him back at the top. And yes indeed!  Approximately one year later Schwarzenegger was back!  And he didn't JUST give us another chartbuster that is one of the best Arnie-films of the past five years; he also played in a film that keeps a hold of the typical Schwarzenegger-action that we're all very fond of - and as a reward for this great effort he got his comeback which he wanted so badly!  This film is called The 6th day.The director of this action film is Roger Spottiswoode.  He knows perfectly what a standard-Schwarzenegger-film must look like and he tries his very best to live by those rules.  These rules contain a pretty lame storyline inclosing clever jokes that only work 5 times out of 10, with many breathtaking action scenes that makes the film worth-seeing and acting performances that aren't equally good.  In most cases Spottiswoode holds on to those particular rules, but there are some moments where he puts in something of his own.  Sometimes these 'new and unusual things to the typical Arnie-film' work fine; sometimes they're disturbing. One of the most annoying things about the film is the way in which Spottiswoode uses these unoriginal and awful looking Matrix look-alike camera-special-effects.  They worked perfectly in The Matrix, but here they simply don't work.  I know that the director wants to create a different atmosphere, but (HEY!) this is still a Schwarzenegger-movie; so don't try to make things too difficult.  Unless you really know how to deal with SFX (such as James Cameron did in T2); it's alright.  If this part was left out of The 6th day, it would have been a bit better already. Another strange (to Arnie-films) but less disturbing (sometimes even interesting) thing added in this picture is about the director's choice of leaning over to a different genre sometimes.  Somehow I KNOW that Spottiswoode has a weakness for horror.  He added a number of creepy and horrific moments in the film.  Fortunately those moments are not too frightening to the younger viewers, as the situation remains (surprisingly enough) quite comical.* POSSIBLE SPOILERS *Let me first start by saying that (on purpose or by accident) the director of this film included two links towards two very famous horror characters.  I'm talking modern horror, so Nosferatu, Frankenstein or even Dracula are out of the question.  The first link to a modern horror creature starts with the scene where Schwarzenegger buys a living doll for his daughter.  Did you ever take a good look at this doll?  Don't you think that it looks much too scary for little kids?  I mean, the toy is funny (especially when it's blown apart) but am I the only one who sees that this is a link to Chucky; the other and far more dangerous living doll?  There aren't so many differences between them after all.  Both are ugly and their faces are messed up.  Oh yeah, he's a boy and she's a girl.  That too. The second link is even more obvious.  When Tony Goldwyn is cloning himself and this fails, he is an almost exact copy (not of himself, but) of Freddy Krueger.  I mean he isn't wearing the same outfit, but his face and hands also seem to have been burnt.  It could be me, but I'm quite sure that Spottiswoode created those links deliberately. There are a few other semi-scary scenes (we're done with links) such as the chopped off thumb and the 'embryos used for making clones'.  They both look eerie at first, but as said before director Roger Spottiswoode keeps the situation funny so you'll rather laugh than scream. Besides these few horror-moments, you'll also witness scenes with TWO Arnold Schwarzeneggers.  The original one and the clone.  This could only mean one thing two times Schwarzenegger &#150; two times as bad!  I really respect him, but he's never been much of an actor.  He's not very convincing, as well as the clone AND the original guy.  And therefore I don't have to tell you that if you put those two together the situation only gets worse.  I wish I could say that it isn't so bad, but it simply is.  The dialogues between those two Arnie's are (sorry to say) not good and as a result of that every single emotional scene (involving Schwarzenegger) doesn't have any effect on me whatsoever and are in one word WEAK!  Tony Goldwyn on the other side is not bad, but the best actor is beyond any doubt Robert Duvall.  Although he's done much better things in Apocalypse now, The godfather (II) and Falling down this might just be one of the best performances in an action film that I've ever seen.  And what Arnie couldn't do, does Robbie very well.  The best scene is the one where he tells Tony his wife is dead and he is very upset.  That really got to me for a moment. The last thing I would like to say is concerning the storyline of The 6th day.  Because it's a Schwarzenegger-film there's not much of a story.  But I must say that the twists at the end of the story were pretty good and quite unexpected.I think that's about it!  In short your typical Schwarzenegger-film with a few horror-moments and some camerawork that is more disturbing than likeable. "},{"Title":"A real SCI-FI plot. *SPOILERS WARNING*","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie contains the plot about HUMAN CLONING in the near future. This is the most realistic movie about human cloning. Special effects in this movie is fantastic. The scene in the cloning laboratory is really creative. I like every aspects about future. But I wouldn't go to REPET. (just kidding) Arnold did one of his finest performance. Tony Goldwyn did a great job as a villain of this movie.First half of the movie is interesting, but the other half of the movie is confusing me. I don't know who is the real or the clone, but still, interesting. Vehicles in this movie is great. You don't have to drive your car, it will drive by itself. Thing I like most is the futuristic helicopter that can transform into jetplane. Awesome.If you like a decent sci-fi movie, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Could have been better!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I´ve seen this movie and I really liked it. I think it has a good and interesting plot. The visual effects and the acting were also quite good. The only thing that could have been better is the ACTION!! In my view many action fans could imagine better and more creative action sequences than those shown in The 6th Day. The action scenes in T6D were not half as good as those in the six year old True Lies or in the almost ten year old T2!All in all the movie is very good  7.5/10 But it could have been excellent! "},{"Title":"Roger, You Are The Weakest Link, Goodby...","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Arnold needs to re-think his script / director selection, as I just saw 'The 6th Day' and it was a below par copy of Total Recall but with some CGI effects. Now I will admit Arnold's acting act the start was very good (compared to his usual acting style). Yet the film becomes a usual standard action flick with no interesting action sequences, and it borrows soo much content from other Sci-Fi/Cloning Films, even one's which Arnold has done in the past, that it gets too boring very quickly and the CGI effects become tedious.Overall the picture quality was poor (I don't know if this was the cinema i was @ but the cgi effects were easily spotted and is no ILM job). The sound quality was above average, (being a recent film I would expect that), the score was Average (nothing to interesting, more American Pie, than Gladiator).My Opinion - Average Arnold flick, 2/5 stars, If you really like Arnold then Watch it @ the Cinema otherwise Rent it on VHS or DVD. "},{"Title":"good entertainer!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnie is back again in '6th Day' after his recent flop of 'End of days'. However I found this quite entertaining (overall) and the theme of human cloning and the mind boggling social issues are well introduced.  For example the mega-corporation guarentees immortality - although not quite as it injects diseased genes to make the subject die every 5 years and come back again for resurrection- for the price of money and loyalty. Such concepts ring true to me. Some ideas and sequences are lame, like the huge tanks where hundreds of clones are being mass produced which are more suited to cheesy B movies. But Arnie has matured and mellowed and shows a delightful human nature and sentimentality. I would recommend a rating of 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Painful. *****Spoilers*****","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Painful. This is the word I would choose to describe watching this film. It really is awful. If you go into this film to see a slick, professional action film in the mould of The Matrix or Spottiswoode's own Tomorrow Never Dies then you will be disappointed. If you go into this film expecting a political insight into the problems and ethical pitfalls of human cloning you will be disappointed. The only way you will get anything out of this film is if you go in, as I did, expecting nothing. Then, maybe you will not be so disappointed. What could have been an intelligent insight into one of the most exciting scientific breakthroughs in recent years is instead turned into a stilted and repetitive excuse for a film. The cloning aspect of the film is wasted and used simply to allow Arnie to kill the same people over and over again, while spewing out corny one-liners that even Bond would be ashamed of. It reminded me of the way the masks were used too often in MI2 as a plot cop-out tactic.The only time the morals of cloning are ever really touched upon is in the scenes with Robert Duvall and his wife. While we're on the subject, a quick word about Mr Duvall. In this film he stands out like a diamond in a trashcan and even with his limited part acts everyone else off the screen. He's the only actor (alongside his wife) in the film to bring any kind of emotion to the part, its just a shame he had to do it in such a bad film.Now I know some people will say, `but its only an action film' and they'd be right. But what they would have failed to notice is what a poor action film it is. Arnie looks too old to do this kind of thing anymore and the `innocent man wound up in a conspiracy and fighting for his life' character really doesn't suit him. He should go back to the roles were he keeps the talking to a minimum and cranks up the killing as high as it'll go. He really is quite painful to watch - not least when he is running about. And if you thought that one Arnie was bad enough, imagine two of them on screen at once. Geeeez.The action scenes themselves were boring and repetitive, consisting of a series of shootouts mixed in with some r-c helicopters. No imaginative set-pieces or death-defying stunts, nothing. This would have been acceptable if they were an aside to the main `plot' of the film but his is simply not the case. I just sat there waiting for Robert Duvall to come back on.Aside from all this, the film does throws up an unexpected treat and possibly the most hideous creation ever committed to celluloid - the Sim-Pal. Looking like a cross between Chucky and the girl from the Exorcist on a bad day, it wouldn't be unfair to say that it sent shivers down my spine and provided an all too brief highlight in the film.After sitting through the film you could be forgiven for wanting a nice tidy ending but one does not appear. Instead the film just peters out and you are left feeling cheated (out of the ticket price) and saying to your mates one word `Painful'.3/10 (For Robert Duvall)  "},{"Title":"SEE IT ASAP","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day marks the return of Arnold Schwarzenegger to a role that is second nature to him action. This time there is an added twist; there is an excellent plot attached.The 6th Day revolves around a man who has been cloned and ends up on the run from a corporation who wants him dead. Arnold is this man who has lost his family, life and taking on the corporation who took it from him. All the while, Arnold is searching within himself to find a way to get his family back. The 6th Day boasts a cast that includes Robert Duvall, Michael Rooker, Tony Goldwyn and Sarah Wynters. I knew the second I saw these names flash across the screen I was in for a real treat. The first time I saw Schwarzenegger's name I immediately knew he is the perfect man for the job.The best thing about The 6th Day is the performance of Schwarzenegger because he is not only an action star in this film but a dramatic actor as he combines these two talents to pull off one of his better performances of his career.Arnold did not make this film a hit by himself, he had a little help from his friends. From Robert Duvall who played the doctor who performed the cloning operations to Michael Rooker, who was one evil henchmen with his menacing attitude and presence The 6th Day is one great film to see.I enjoyed how the plot of film didn't rely solely on the action sequences. Though, the action is fine and dandy; I believe that a film needs more than just action and The 6th Day has it.The 6th Day is one of the best Arnold films I've seen including the Terminator series. It is filled with action, twists, turns, edge of your seat suspense and drama that will appeal to all movie fans of every age.  "},{"Title":"Solid movie","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went a couple of days ago to see the movie with some friends and I had no expectations.  I had not heard of that movie and I am not a fan of Shwarzinagjh;aoher or however you spell his name.   But I've seen a lot of his movies like True Lies, Terminator etc.  I thought the movie was great, it had funny moments, it had action, it had suspense, it kept me interested. I had a great time and I thought the story was original, not your typical action script.  On a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being The Bodyguard and 1 being Pulp Fiction (the most overrated and stupidest movie of all time), I give this movie an 8! "},{"Title":"Could have been great, but isn´t at all","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thematically The 6th Day is dead on time. With Dollys alive and kicking and the human genom deciffered cloning is t h e SF-issue of the moment - both in fiction and in real life. Sadly the filmmakers prefered to come up with an ailing and tired chase movie, the chases being rather unexciting and the special effects unmistakeably not state of the art. I mean, when have you spotted so many continuity flaws in a costly Hollywood movie lately? And the casting doesn´t help either. Tony Goldwyn isn´t menacing at all even before we know about his real fate. Robert Duvall has pracitcally nothing to do. Michael Rappaport´s is just a walk on part. Michael Rooker isn´t allowed to act at all. And Arnold Schwarzenegger - whom nobody would expect to act - looks ill at ease with an action part that demands someone younger and - believe it or not - fitter. The 6th Day has the feel of a clone itself, part Blade Runner (what does it feel like to know that you are engineered?), part Total Recall. It doesn´t live up to either. "},{"Title":"Plodding retread of Total Recall","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs10 years ago,Arnold Schwarzenegger proves his sustained longitivity today by giving us Total Recall,which this disappointing latest film of his seems to follow the same premise as.In substitution for a mind parlour,we now have a cloning parlour,and in substitution for the job swopping of a construction worker/secret agent,we now have the job swopping of a helicopter pilot for a wanted man.Whereas in Total Recall,a daytrip to Mars was a possibilaty,now a cloned replicant of yourself or a loved one is.Also,instead of in TR how Arnie saw a laptop double of himself,he now sees a double in person.And,certainly,Total Recall was a much better film than this.While Total Recall posed an intriguing idea,this tries to make entertainment out of quite possibly the most controversial thing of our ages to date.Paul Verhoeven was also much more adapt at making the story unravel with more pace and style than Roger Spottiswoode,who strangely made the whole guns and explosions thing work much better in the Bond thriller Tommorow Never Dies.The charecters here feel like they've had a huge deridement of complete on-screen personality.In comparison to how they should have been,they seem empty and drained.The role of the Messiah doctor obviously interested (or payed)Robert Duvall enough to be in it,but he seems as meandering and fruitless as most of the other things on show here.The soundtrack sounds very Orbital,and some of the dialogue is the same suprising high factor of any Arnie film ('When I said go screw yourself,I did'nt mean it literally'),the 2 positive rays of light that do shine out of this otherwise blundering calamity.** "}{"Title":"Work with good people, Arnold, and you'll make good movies.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew going in that this movie wouldn't be good. Why? Because at the helm is Roger Spottiswoode, creative genius behind Turner & Hooch and Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot. Still, I held out hope...but no. Sixth Day is as dull and lifeless as I knew it would be. The action is like something out of an old Starsky and Hutch episode, and scenes are shot with very little visual style.This one ranks down there with The Running Man or Red Heat...not really bad but pretty much forgettable. What Jim Cameron, Paul Verhoeven or John McTiernan could have done with this!Go back to working with A-list directors Arnold. Thank god McTiernan has signed on for T3 - the next best thing to having Jim Cameron do it. "},{"Title":"Arnold Rules","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, for all you IMDB know it alls, this is how it is.  Arnold's movies dont differ that much.  He always succeeds (excluding Mr. Freeze).  But everyones so hard on him, this movie is fun.  To see him carry a womans thumb around to get inside doors, hear his funny voice explain things to get out of jams.  This guy should of ran against Gore. I expect Terminator 3 to rake in some phat cash. "},{"Title":"2 Arnolds For The Price Of One","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day  is a bold mixture of action, science fiction and tongue & cheek humour. This time around, you get two Arnolds for the price of one.He plays Adam Gibson, a helicopter pilot with a happy family in the future. Secret agents from Replacement Technologies begin to chase him once he realizes he has been illegally cloned.You really have to see it to see the whole story, which is not simple at all. It's a bit of a cheesy film, nonetheless a really fun and interesting one. The inventions of the future are good to watch as well the always dependable Arnold.  "},{"Title":"One twist deserves another","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though this was a very good ACTION movie it still has it's downfall's. For one the basic story twist was similar to that of another sixth movie the sixth sense. All-in-all good for suspense but lacking in true depth of character(though this is not to be unexpected in an Arnold movie). With great special effects, beautiful scenery, and a good story line; this movie leaves you with one question.What kind of fuel did those Double X choppers use? "},{"Title":"Don't expect another Total Recall or Running Man","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Do you remember back in the 80's all the cool movies Arnold did? Movies with tons of action and really basic plots? And the over the top, comic book style violence?  Well... I think Arnold doesn't, 6th Day really bit.  I don't know if it's Arnold getting a little soft in his age or if he's trying to set some example, or maybe we can blame it on James Cameron and T2's so called non-violence theme where Arnold doesn't kill anybody but this movie really lacked what made him so popular in the 80's.6th Day had an almost made for TV feel to it.  Yeah, I know it's got a PG-13 label on it, but all that means is you here a couple of naughty 4 letter words here and there, big deal, easy to cover up when it shows on TV.  What really ticked me off was that each time you get to a classic AH-nuld scene of somebody getting shot, run over, or mutilated, you get a quick edit and therefore you miss a good chunk of the reason you came into the theater for. Why bother, save your $5 to $10 plus snack fee and just wait till it shows on TV, your not gonna miss much, except a couple of 4 letter naughty words, but we can all read lips, so you can figure it out. You'll also have to note the quick edits of an overview of some city traffic thru out the movie, a perfect spot for commercials.If this is supposed to be a part of the move for Arnold to put out for family oriented movies, I gotta say he missed the boat on that one too!  So what if there's no nudity, you still got the gun's and violent tones to it.  If he's going to do family movies, then he should stick with the Kindergarten cops, not the Big Guns, unlimited ammo flicks. Arnold just needs to make up his mind, family flicks or brainless violence for the 18 - 34 male movie goers. "},{"Title":"Not worth a discount ticket","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not worth seeing on the big screen. The action was sparse and derivative. The plot was so transparent that I knew how it would end within 10 minutes or less. The characters were stereotypical, one-dimensional, and utterly uninteresting. The delivery of the moral of the story was so blunt that it seemed like they were targeting a 3rd grade audience.The villain's lackeys provided the only highlight of the movie, injecting a note of humor into an otherwise pedantic and poorly written screenplay.Arnold is not the best of actors, but he's done a lot better than this in the past. Robert Duvall delivered a decent performance over all, but I don't think he'll want to put this movie on his resume.Bottom line Don't waste your time or money. Wait for it to come out on video, and then rent something else. "},{"Title":"Much better than the reviews I read.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're going to make a big fx movie, this is the way you should do it. The fx touches, which are many and good, are integrated right into the plot, not just pasted on to attract kids.Maybe some stone sci-fi buffs have thought through all this clone business and were bored by the plot, but as a person who hasn't taken time to do that, I was intrigued by the theoretical, religious and philosophical questions the movie raised about cloning and immortality, and the threat of a population explosion unlike any before.  Plus there is a lot of good solid every-day futurism woven into the fabric of the film that makes it interesting.  And that company name RePet is a hoot!And then you wrap all this around Arnold, and you've got a major piece of entertainment.  I LIKED IT!  You think evildoers have had it bad with one Arnold after them, there came a point when I realized, uh-oh, these guys are in real trouble now!I usually don't digress when I comment on a movie I like, but I must say, didn't those whispercraft things look an awful lot like the drone bomber from Deal Of The Century?  And while I'm nitpicking, why did the laser pistols sometimes fire instantly and sometimes with about a 1/4-second delay?Don't let it bother you, though.  If you like Arnold or action sci-fi in general go see this one.  I put it in the upper 1/3 of Arnold movies. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah I just saw this movie and I was expecting a little more. I decide to watch this movie after I read some of the reviews on IMDB and heard great things about it. It was good but not as good as I expected. The plot seemed too simple and straight forward, the acting seemed a little to simple. I think Arnold didn't act very well considering he was supposed to have just lost his family and he did seem upset but more like he just lost his wallet or dented his car type of upset. The action sequences were pretty good and the besides a few flaws this movie was still pretty solid and fun to watch. Oh, one thing I definitely did not like was the flashes of the movie when the cut from scene to scene, boy did that give me a headache. My eyes were sore by the end of the movie. 7 out of 10. Classic Arnold but still needed work. "},{"Title":"Wow! they dropped the true plot on this one!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is poor. That is if you are looking for a movie that has any type of a story in it at all.  If you want to see people get killed several times over this one is for you, Although you might just as well go see Faces of Death another time.It is a typical Arnold movie in that he kills with reckless abandon.  I had two real problems with the film. First,  Adam (one Arnold's characters) is one minute a mild mannered loving father and the next he is twisting heads off.  Dr. Jeckyl and Mr. Hyde so to speak.  The two characters didn't go together.  Bad script writing I guess.The second problem that I had was that the real story in this film is the religious zealots opposition to cloning.  Actually it is the lack of including this factor into the film beyond the 5 minutes that a zealot shows up and is then iced to prevent his own cloning for interigation.If you like Arnold you may like this film. I rate right there with Last Action Hero but I have come to expect just a bit more out of him.  "},{"Title":"Not better than expected...","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***It wasn't better than expected, but that's not necessarily a good thing coming from me because I purposefully set my expectations low so I don't feel bamboozled!I know what I'm walking into when I give $7.00 and 2 hours of my time to Arnold an action movie with pretty decent fx and a few one-liners. Nothing different here. All that aside, I feel the storyline was just plain weak ... it could have been any actor in there.Warning plot buster ahead.What bothers me is that someone actually said, Hey, how about this we'll tell the audience cloning humans is outlawed in the first 10 minutes, then we'll clone one in the following 10 minutes, and then we'll spend the rest of the movie with the typical goodguy/badguy stuff. No surprises, no frills, right to the point.Or maybe it bothers me more that someone else said, Hey. Great idea. Let's throw a lot of money at that and see what happens.I'm no film snob, quite the opposite actually, I'll watch anything, but I really liked the concept and had no major complaints with the actors' jobs, but I really disliked the fact that it was so shallow and generic when it came time to apply the art, so to speak.Maybe this vertical limit movie will be a little better.-me "}{"Title":"Moderately entertaining.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very typical Arnold sci-fi film from Hollywood. The story is very predictable. It also lacks the energy of the Terminator I/II or True Lies, probably because this movie was directed by James Cameron. However, it has its moments and was a good experience overall.  "},{"Title":"rip-off, sci-fi, phony, old arnold flick!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day is jammed pack with stolen ideas it isn't funny. One of the most noticeable rip-offs from the film was that an important part in the story was about cloning animals and giving them away as pets. These clones took over *real* pets. Sound familiar? if u thought Blade Runner, then your right.   Arnold is getting way too old for this kind of stuff. Sure he can still shoot off a guys head from 250 meters away with three broken fingers, but who cares? its hollywood. He seems to be replaced with special effects and I do not like that.Also the lasers from Total Recall (which the story was also taken from) are in the movie and the stupid and ridiculous characters just the ones in Eraser and something from a disney movie are in here too.So please, I'm begging you, do not see this horrible movie. And do not even pay $2, $1, 50 cents, or even a penny for it because it is definetely not worth it. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a plausible Sci-Fi film. Some people might say that some of the items (Internet refrigerator; holograms; sonic helicopters) are not realistic, but I would predict that this film is about 20 years in the future, and prototypes of most of these things have been completed 3 years ago. Arnold was very good, and it wasn't one of those kill em all type of movies. There are some shooting scenes, but it's not senseless violence. I would give this a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great script","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the story originality.  Great show!  Some say Arnold might be getting too old, but I certainly think he did a great job here.  Michael Rapaport was excellent too.  I thought the writing was fantastic here.  I really enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"A good Arnie but not the Best!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this was one of Arnies better movies since he has greatly improved in acting skills since Conan. The thing this movie lacks is a unpredictable plot.  I thought the plot for this movie was quite easily predicted and had no real twist. Also the other negative I thought was the effects for the helicopters and the stunts involving the helicopters but that could be just me. I did however much in enjoy the concept of it with the cloning and the goons constantly being killed and then recloned. Also I thought the humor and action levels were just right, not to bad like in The Runnig Man with the excessive use of bad puns. Overall I gave this a 9/10. The other Arnies I thought were better are the Terminators, End of Days and the best Arnie of all True Lies. "},{"Title":"definitely go see it","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love Schwarzenegger and all his action films, so I figured this one would be no different. I went into this movie with high expectations, even though I tried not to because I didn't want to be disappointed, and well, I wasn't disappointed at all. In fact, it was much much better than I had expected.Only a select few of Arnold's movies have very good plots, and this is one of them. A lot of the futuristic things seemed unbelievable, especially the way the cloning was done, but who knows what great discoveries science will make in the next 10 or 15 years.I especially liked the little trick Arnold and his clone played on the bad guys towards the end of the movie, it was a nice touch. I won't spoil it, but I will say it was very well thought out. The ending was sort of predictable, but oh well you can't really ask for it all.My advice, go see it, don't expect a super great plot and all, go in looking for action, and the plot will surprise you. And while you're at it, go watch Commando for a true stereotypical action film, and have fun with it! "},{"Title":"Sadly, quite predictable","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In general I love any movie that Arnold appears in.  His wry humor can boost almost any movie. While this movie was fun, it was too predictable.  As soon as Adam (#2) awakens in the cab we know he is the clone.The special effects were, good, but hardly comparable to The Matrix. The rapid flashing of images, particularly of the traffic on the road was gratuitous and distracting.I must say, the best part of the movie was poking fun at the do-gooders who try to control our lives. The idea of an illegal cigar, and the wife asking Adam (#1) whether their detention was related to smoking the cigar made it worth the $4.75 I spent to see it on bargain night. "},{"Title":"The 6th Daze!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasted two hours of my life.  They will never be recovered.  They are gone forever.  I went to see The 6th Day with Arnold Schwarznegger.  It was not that it was awful, but it was the sort of film one expects to watch on a boring Sunday on television.  A lot camera work was intentionally and unnecessarily blurry, but the writing was blurrier still.  There were plot holes galore and no characters one could identify with save Arnold-yes, save Arnold, but for what-another bad film? Director, Roger Spottiswoode, has been primarily a television director and it shows and writer/director team Cormac and Marianne Wibberley have only two fairly unheard of films to their names.The 6th Day is about cloning and seems to have derived its premise from an A.E. Van Vogt trilogy called Null-A, about a man,    Gilbert Gosseyn (pronounced Go-Sane), who has a seemingly endless supply of cloned replacement body with minds linked to his, so that if and when his current body died, the next in line awakens with his thoughts right up to the last moment.  Still, Gosseyn wonders if the replacement will really be him or just a duplicate with his thoughts and finally determines he had better not die again.  In The 6th Day, none of this is given any thought to that. Get killed, get cloned.  Lose an arm or a leg, get recloned.  And if the old version is still alive when the new one is reborn with memories loaded off of a disk, one is supposed to believe that the old version will just die happy, knowing that a new version is inhabiting the earth.  Puleeze!  Never are we led to believe that this form of cloning involves any form of immortality for the individual.  It just makes a copy.  Why then are the players so willing to die again and again if all that is happening is they are being replaced by think-alikes?  And this is where the premise falls apart.  It would have been easily remedied in this aspect-a living, conscious connection having to be made, but the writers did not think of that.  Oh, well.Did I really care in the end who lived or who died?  Not really.  Perhaps it would have worked, though, if someone had just cloned a different production team.  No wonder there are Seventh Day Adventists! "},{"Title":"It Rocked!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie; all about it. It was written well, funny. I didn't laugh this hard in an Arnold movie since The Last Action Hero (that movie was funny).The ending was tricky to get; but there is a Sixth Sense type of ending if you think about it. Don't accept anything near the end. Think and you'll know what I am talking about. Interesting way to end the movie.Go see the film! "},{"Title":"One of Arnold's better recent movies...disturbing plot","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a HUGE Arnold fan. I even own his 1975 Pumping Iron video. I have seen Commando 100 times (still my overall favorite Arnold movie). I even liked his goofy movies (Twins, Junior, Kinder Kop). I will tell you this...I HATED End of Days. A boring, stupid story. I have been itching for some good old-fashioned Arnold...and here it is. He's mean. He's tough. He's a great shot. Don't mess with Arnold...right on!I liked this movie...but I didn't love it. Too many bad guys. Not enough development of the supporting cast (his wife, daughter and friend had very small roles, in fact everyone had a small role except him because there were so many of them).The story, however, is disturbing, because it is so close to being believable. We can probably clone a human in the near future, but it would begin life as a fetus and have to grow normally. To be able to make a carbon copy of people...this is TOO SCARY and the movie clearly showed that.I am sure you will enjoy this movie, but I don't think I'll be buying the video, and Commando is still my favorite Arnold movie (Oh...I also really liked Last Action Hero, how about that?!) "}{"Title":"Not his best, Not his worst","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere near the movie that T2, True Lies, or Total Recall was, The 6th Day is Arnold's definitive return to action movies. After the deporable End of Days Arnold proves that although older he can still deliver the action his fans want. Honestly after I sat through End of Days I called into question his ability to return to the screen after what seemed like a very long hiatus. This movie deals with (give some leway) cloning and both the good and the bad moral aspects of what the ability to clone means. It presents both reasons for and reasons against cloning. The action sequences are fun and I want one of those helicopter airplane hybrids. This movie in NO WAY resembles The Matrix and is NOT a remake of Total Recall. To say that it is to insult Paul Verhoeven's/Phillip K. Dick's effort in Recall. The only similarity is both characters wake up in a cab with a few things they can't remember. The similarities stop there.Stay away from Red Planet and go see this movie. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Arnold's best film since TRUE LIES!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold has made some pretty bad films in recent years (JINGLE ALL THE WAY, END OF DAYS, BATMAN AND ROBIN all come to mind), but his new film is his best in quite some time. The SIXTH DAY is a fun action movie, but it's also an insightful sci-fi story. Arnold is a normal guy who accidentally gets cloned and now has the evil Drucker corp. trying to kill him. The film has some good laser-gun fights, car chases and a great supporting cast including Robert Duvall, Tony Goldwyn, Michael Rapaport, Michael Rooker, Wendy Crewson and newcomer Sarah Wynter. The film is fun from start to finish. I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"FUn Arnold movie that made me, a twin, think new things about cloning.","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A good movie that got even better towards the last third, a rare event in a Hollywood action movie. The subject of cloning was well-explored, and the situations handled with some real validity. Of course there was alot of 'Arnold-style' action, but that's fun too!Really a good Arnold movie, better than End of Days, sort of like a variation on Total Recall meets Multiplicity or something.... "},{"Title":"Ah-nold Does It Again!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love a well done Schwarzenegger movie and this one delivers! If you enjoyed Total Recall, you will love this one too. Don't get me wrong...although they enjoy similar themes along the lines of an identity crisis plot, they are totally different movies that will really entertain you and perhaps give you something to think about in the meanwhile. Do yourself a favor and catch this movie in the theaters! Bravo! "},{"Title":"The Sixth Day = Good movie","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really like the film the sixth day.  I though Roger Spottiswoode did a real good job directing the movie, with his interesting camera angles, and slow motion use at times.  I thought that the plot was really interesting, and people should go out and see it, and I can't wait for T3!! "},{"Title":"*** (Out of four)","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger rose to fame playing the immortal Terminator, a character with the emotive skills of a mop.  Why, then, does he appear so effective in roles like The Sixth Day?  Here he's an everyman-type (albeit with a much larger body frame) who loves his wife, adores his child, and even has a bonding moment with a cat.  What's happened to everyone's favourite Uebermensch?The Sixth Day presents Schwarzenegger as an eager family man in the very near future with a healthy helicopter-piloting job on the side and a sick dog on the couch.  Although Arnie pilots state-of-the-art chopper/plane hybrids while his partner (Michael Rapaport) talks about the benefits of his virtual-reality girlfriend whose vocabulary rarely exceeds bad double entendres, his thoughts focus less on his maneuverablity than  on the moral trepidations of ordering a genetically cloned dog after the original is put to sleep.The movie then progresses into mayhem as Ah-nuld exchanges places with his partner on a helicopter trek overseen by a malevolent geneticist (Tony Goldwyn).  The partner's killed, Ah-nuld's cloned, and the real Schwarzenegger comes back to his house with a creepy syn-pal baby doll and discovers his clone has replaced him as head of the household.The Sixth Day erupts into a display of laser-fights, political commentary and of course, Schwarzenegger's surprisingly deft comic skill. Inevitably Ah-nuld meets his clone, and as they join hands to stop the evil geneticist with a fetish for playing God, the result seems less like a narcissistic bargain (two-Arnies-for-the-price-of-one!) than an opportunity for the Austrian strongman to send his own image up yet again (Last Action Hero attempted to do this seven years ago, albeit less successfully).The fascination with the best Schwarzenegger movies is not in the choreographed action ballet that he provides, but in the sound philosophical explanations resonating below the violence, presenting a mirror of the conflicts of the age.  The Terminator, released in 1984, demonstrated the futuristic uncertainty of the Cold War, while its 1991 sequel offered a more optimistic outlook as the Soviet bloc collapsed. 1990's Total Recall set the tone for the cynical psychology that would pervade the ensuing decade; even True Lies had something to say about marital rejuvenation.  The Sixth Day addresses the cloning wars with direct parallels to the abortion debate; in the film's case, the Fundamentalists who oppose genetic cloning use violence as a weapon to get their message across.  A subplot involving Schwarzenegger's indulgence for a good cigar in a society where tobacco is illegal reminds one either of the increased fervour of the tobacco companies' prosecution or the current outcry for marijuana  legalisation.This is the second Schwarzenegger film that offers a showcase role for a former Godfather player.  Eraser had James Caan; this has Robert Duvall. Playing a genetic engineer who justifies his profession through the constant resurrection(s) of his disease-ridden wife, Duvall's wrinkled face brings an unexpected amount of emotion to the film.  His presence within the film connotes that either his judgment of a good script is deteriorating (like The Scarlet Letter) or Schwarzenegger is picking his projects with a keener emotional maturity than before.  This time I'd opt for the latter.In the end, The Sixth Day belongs on the second tier of Schwarzenegger opuses.  Less intoxicating than his earlier action-packed romps but with more coherence than anything he's made in the last six years, the movie provides a little extra serving of philosophy to wash the curiously stale PG-13 battle scenes down.  Indeed, as demonstrated by this and last year's End of Days, Schwarzenegger has been trying to broaden his range as an actor.  Whereas End of Days misstepped in trying to pair him with an absurd Satanic struggle, The Sixth Day finds just the right balance. Like Total Recall, this is the kind of film that is less a Schwarzenegger vehicle than an action film where Schwarzenegger is just as incidental as everyone else. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable action flick","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following on the abysmal End of Days, in which Arnold Schwarzenegger played an alcoholic cop who took on an incredibly wimpy Satan, the Austrian Oak has definitely bounced back with his latest cinematic effort, The 6th Day.Set in the near future, Ahhnold plays Adam Gibson, a humble helicopter pilot and family man, who finds himself pitted against the evil forces that lurk behind Reproductive Technologies, a firm that has gone outside the bounds of the law by secretly cloning human beings.To make a long story short, a case of mistaken identity causes Reproductive Technologies to accidently clone Gibson, leading to a scene where he peers through the front window of his house to witness his exact duplicate celebrating his birthday with friends and family. Making matters worse, a crew of cloned thugs are out to kill him before he goes to the law with his damning evidence.  Anyone looking for a philosophical treatise on the ethics of human cloning will be sorely disappointed. About the closest we get is a bit of  mind-gaming regarding whether or not he's the real thing or the clone.But if you like action flicks, The 6th Day is one of the best to hit the screen in recent times. For once, I got to witness a well-choreographed and imaginative car chase, to go along with a pile of stunts involving high-performance helicopters, laser guns, and bursting cloning tanks.There is also some fun that revolves around the baddies. Our hero discovers that even when he does get the better of one of them, it's only a matter of a couple of hours before said victim is brought back to life. This leads to a series of  trademark groaners that have become synonomous with Schwarzenegger characters. `Try to stay dead this time,' he tells a clone just after breaking his neck.There's also a good running joke with one of the clones who keeps feeling the injuries suffered during previous incarnations. When he's not chasing down Gibson, he's complaining about his tight chest caused by being run over by a car not once but twice.A `Vancouver Special,' The 6th Day provides a glimpse into what the Terminal City could look like in the near future. If this movie is right, (which, of course, it won't be) GM Place will become a giant police station and the Vancouver Public Library will become the home of Reproductive Technologies.Also, we'll be driving around in vehicles we won't have to steer, we'll be buying an incredibly annoying talking doll for our daughters, and we'll be cloning recently-deceased pets before the kids find out allowing parents to avoid dealing with an uncomfortable issue.The 6th Day is more in the tradition of Total Recall than the Terminator series, although not so grandiose as that movie about Schwarzenegger's trip to Mars. In other words, he's back on his home turf, making the kinds of movies that make in entertainment what they lack in acting. "},{"Title":"Awesome! Awesome! Awesome!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man is this movie great!!! My expectations were way off. I thought  oh man a pg-13 arnie movie, but man was this movie cool. Also the plot was outstanding. I was so shocked at the end and I think that you will be too. The action is great, the directing is great, the special effects were great, I think that the only bad part about this movie was that it ended! This has got to be one of the best Arnie movies of all time. I think that it was even better than Total Recall, and that is also one of Arnie's best. I mean wow! I think that I am going to go see it again, and I can't wait for the dvd! I can only imagine how cool it will sound in  DD 5.1! All I can say is go see this movie. Ii don't think that you will be disapointed! If you are  an arnie fan, then why are you still here reading this? and if you aren't an arnie fan you will still like this movie. Roger Spottiswode (I don't think that I spelled that right) is an awsome director. 10/10 "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was OK. Certainly an Arnie major blockbuster, but this ain't no Matrix or T2...not by a long shot.Linear in motion, the movie tells a simple story which is slightly interesting at best. I like Arnold, but he has been in a LOT better films, among them Terminator and T2. The Sixth Day doesn't even compare.If you are looking to blow some time away from home and spend some money, The Sixth Day is not a bad pick. Just don't expect to walk out of the theater deep in thought. I forgot about it already and I saw it only a few hours ago.  "},{"Title":"Engaging and Action Packed.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Arnold has done it again.  Besides all the packed in action and great special effects this movie has an engaging and intelligent plot that takes you for a ride.  Its got all the fun, action, humor and drama that you can fit into a two hour span.  Other than what I felt was an overly negative portrayal of cutting edge bio-technologies, it saved itself in the end on that note as well.  Go see it, its great entertainment for 8 bucks. "}{"Title":"Awesome Arnold Comeback!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day was great!  Arnold does what he does best, hard core action. Great special effects, great story line.  Probably his best movie since Terminator 2.  Many have written Arnold off, or have grown tired of him. But Arnold proves once again he is still the king of action movies after all these years.   "},{"Title":"A good, fun, sci-fi film","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you can walk into the this movie, not thinking that it's a remake of Total Recall, and you like science fiction action, then you will enjoy this movie. Arnold, a bit more wrinkled around the eyes, has matured in his acting quite a bit (hey, remember Conan) and is charming to watch. The supporting cast is good. The production value, while not quite up to the matrix standards, is above par for it's day. Most of the camera work is conservative, and they've added in some spastic scene-to-scene cuts (similar to Blade) which add to the tech tone. The plot is, well, a sci fi plot about human cloning, which has not been beaten to death just yet, and provides some interest. The script also includes many futuristic devises, gizmos, and gadgets which are sure to entertain. All in all, pretty well done.  "},{"Title":"Sixth Day Score 9;Red Planet Score 7","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The guys at Red Planet, just out, should take a careful look at The 6th Day to find out what the parts of a story consist of. There wasn't anyone in Red Planet who could not have done a perfectly acceptable acting job if there had been any meat on the bones.  Now Sixth Day I scored 7 because the techical work was good and tech work does count in Sci-Fi game otherwise it would have been a 6.  The main difference between the two is that Arnie delivers on stories and, while not claiming to be a great actor, certainly is an actor.  Nice thing about Arnie is that he laughs at himself all the time.  Red Planet was like Kurasawa's Ran, all deadly serious all the time.Thanks Arnie for another good time! "},{"Title":"A thinking man's action film","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day(2000) Arnold Schwarnezagger,Robert Duvall,Tony Goldwyn Directed byRoger Spottiswoode My rating****(Out of 5)I recently saw this film expecting just another run & shoot movie, but I was pleasantly suprised!  This Total-Recall type action flick has a soul! (Not to mention its one of the best Arnie flicks in recent history!)Arnold Schwarzenagger plays Adam Gibson, a family man living in the near future with his kids, his wife, and dog.  That is until he is suddenly cloned without his concent by Drucker (Tony Goldwyn)  It's all lies and conspiracies for the rest of the show, so Arnold has to discover why he was cloned and save his entire family in the process.Personally, I thought this film was a fascinating look into the possible world of cloning and the dangers we may face if we decide to bring it into this worldExcellent acting overall, expecially Robert duvall, who plays the scientist that made the cloning of humans a reality. (He used it on his own wife many times to keep her alive.)Overall, I thought this was a great film, If you're tired of the typical Hollywood Run & Shoot action films, than this film is definitely for you.Recomended for everybody "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Best action flick I've seen in a long time!  The writing was stellar...great, super clever twist.  A great cast and awesome production values.   Haven't seen a an action movie with such a  great storyline since THE TERMINATOR--really, really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Arnold's in it.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's all you need to know! The best action film of the year! Awesome effects, funny one-liners (as always!) and slam-bangin' stunts like only the man himself can provide! See it with someone you love. ARNOLD IS GOD!!! "},{"Title":"Cloning+ Arnie=$90 million flop","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the producer who brought america films of such high calibre as annie hall,platoon and one flew over the cuckoos nest comes quite tragically one of the worst films i have seen in quite some time. The film was written for an every man who returns home for his surprise b-day party to find a clone has taken his place, his life,his family...sounds good...??what happened..hmmm... instead of casting an everyman like james spader or ethan hawke they cast..ARNIE...which means major re-writes!!! But I think of myself as someone cultured enough to see the worth of a solid action packed arnie film like Total recall, predator or the running man...but this film has no real bite..in fact it has no real anything!The special effects were hallow at best, the acting makes arnies work in Commando look oscar worthy..and worse of all is the feeling that the producers really believed this was an intellectually stimulating work aimed at a more adult market. The director Spottiswoode uses quick cutting to try and speed the pace up of this film so that we wont linger on whats actually going on but to no avail. the director also known for directing the infamous stop!or my mom will shoot should have thrown Estelle Getty into the frame for a laugh because no one else in the cast is getting one!If you notice the lack of spoiler warning this is simply because there are no twists to spoil!!The fact that arnie co-produced this shows his faith in the material, perhaps this judgement like his screen persona has finally faded. "},{"Title":"Decent Action Movie","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw the world premiere at the Tokyo International Film Festival (10/28/00). Schwarzenegger and Spottiswoode  both spoke beforehand, and both said they're proud of the film, which had just been completed the week prior. (Arnold also commented that he'd like to be cloned because he  likes himself so much, and that he could golf, be with his family, make movies, workout, etc. all at the same time.)The title comes from the biblical text in the book of Genesis stating that on the sixth day, God created man. (Notice Schwarzenegger's character's name.) As an action movie, it's decent--somewhat suspenseful (though sometimes  predictable), fast chase scenes, big explosions, good  special effects. The movie takes place in the undisclosed near future where human cloning has been banned, fire  ball spurting weapons have replace conventional firearms,  and smoking has been outlawed. The helio-jets (to coin a  phrase) and the fire guns help give it its near-futuristic atmosphere and are great to see in use.The premise is a good one, and the plot follows through successfully. Schwarzenegger's character gets cloned  without his knowledge.I realize that action films aren't made to make philosophical statements, but this one does banter the subject of cloning and genetic engineering about. Should humans be  cloned? Should these clones be subjected to genetic  engineering (for better or worse)? In the end, it's difficult to say whether the film supports these activities or not.However, it does bring to light arguments from both sides, bringing on thoughts about one's own stand on sticky  ethical issues more than the average action film.It's another Ahnold movie of the ilk that usually don't do best for him. I don't think it has the draw of Total Recall, but if you've got an evening free, go see it expecting a fairly good film. "},{"Title":"Starts of poorly, but it grows on you","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fun thing about Arnold Schwarzenegger's career is that despite his somewhat limited acting abilities (and that's putting it kindly), you can still put him in a lot of different stuff. Obviously he's at his best in bare-bones action a la Commando, but in his own unique way he's also pulled off some excellent comedy roles, like in Kindergarten Cop. One thing he just absolutely can't do however, is drama. The first half hour of this movie features a lot of long dialogues and scenes of Schwarzenegger being an everyday family guy, and that's even more awkward than you might imagine. Thankfully all of this is well worth sitting through, because eventually The 6th Day turns out to be a very enjoyable movie with good action and a surprisingly interesting plot. Particularly the scenes in which Schwarzie meets his own clone stand out as well-done, very convincing and laced with a cheesy sense of humor. Sometimes the logic isn't all there, but who really cares when a movie's directed and acted with this much contagious enthusiasm. Maybe not the greatest film ever made, but thrilling nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Wonderful in concept. Terrible in execution.","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The idea and story is fantastic and showed a lot of potential, however this film suffers from the same problem as Total Recall, poor casting choices were ultimately the downfall of what could have been a brilliant sci-fi thriller in line with Minority Report. Arnold's performance lacks emotion and leaves much to be desired. While not a terrible actor, he does much better in mindless action films and comedies, which are much more his forte. Had a much more emotive actor (such as the original choice of Kevin Costner) been cast to play Adam Gibson, this film would have been lauded by critics. With Hollywood's recent trend of remaking and rebooting films, I would love to see them have another go at this one. "}{"Title":"Ironically not entirely original","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not many years from now, the cloning of humans is possible. It is made illegal, however. Still, one day, Adam spots another him... with his family. This deals with the issue, what if the science was there... and it treats it surprisingly fairly, for a Hollywood film(the other end of the spectrum? The Island. Shudder). The points are made, sometimes subtly, other times... not. This has a surprisingly great script. You need to pay attention to keep up, without this being overly brainy for the audience its star attracts(no disrespect intended, we all need to unwind with sometimes that doesn't challenge us too much). We get a cool, futuristic world(with some creepy technology) with good production design and FX. And yes, this has similarities to Total Recall(and is certainly inferior to that)... it doesn't have the same message, though. We even get two Arnolds. The villain isn't half bad, neither are his goons(Rooker is dependable as usual). Rapaport does well, and is appropriately cast. The action is where this comes up short, oddly enough. We get shoot-outs, vehicle chases and explosions, and it can be somewhat exciting and tense, but it is strangely dull. It lacks the creativity that the exploration of the themes has. This is the only thing I've watched by this director(I think), so I don't know if this is a deviation from his style... we get a lot of Dutch(tilted camera) angles, and some slowed down footage. It's... meh. This has a few genuinely funny moments, and we get one-liners(of varying quality... at least one of them is admittedly memorable). There is a lot of disturbing content, a bit of sensuality, a little moderate to strong language and brief nudity in this. I recommend it to any fan of Schwarzenegger and those looking for a mainstream flick with this concept. 6/10 "},{"Title":"good.shame,arise the vote","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. Vote 10 SHAME!!! TWO WEIGHTS AND TWO MEASURES!!!! "},{"Title":"A clichéd sci-fi thriller involved in  humor touches by Arnold Schwarzenegger","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In an Utopian nearly future , cloning is a habitual exercise, fish, dogs,animals and food can be cloned, but no human genre, being illegal and pursued. When Adam Gibson(Arnold Schwarzenegger, also producer) goes to home after his job as helicopters pilot along with his friend Hank(Michael Rapaport) he encounters a clone has replaced him.Then he's chased by a murderers group(Michael Rooker, Sara Wynter, Terry Crews). He flees and must to solve the weird happenings from the creator of the clones, Michael Drucken(Tony Goldwyn), whose experiments is working Dr. Griffin(Robert Duvall).This is a gripping sci-fi story plenty of action, thrills, suspense,tension, plot-twists and quite entertaining. It's a clichéd thriller with noisy and agreeable fun . It builds gradually with an interesting premise leading an impressive and breathtaking highlights, thanks to involving plot is interesting enough to keep the movie going on. Action set pieces are well made and amusingly mixed with humor, the picture delivers just what we have come expecting.It's one of the best of those years generally inappropriate crop of blockbusters, but this one contains lots of action and enjoyable humor. A sympathetic and as corpulent as always, Arnold Schwarzenegger as the good father of family plunged into a sinister scenery he tries to find out but doesn't understand. Adequate musical score fitting perfectly to action by Trevor Rabin and colorful cinematography by Pierre Mignot.The motion picture is acceptably directed by Robert Spottiswoode. He's a successful director from TV movies and cinema, as terror genre(Terror train), adventures(Air America,Shoot to kill),drama(Children of Hang Shi), James Bond film(Tomorrow never dies), and his best movie is ¨Under fire¨.Rating Passable and good fun film. The pic will like to California governor's fans "},{"Title":"Could Have, Should Have Been Better","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm an Arnold fan, so I expect a lot from his movies. Although far from Arnold's worse film, 6th Day could well have been up there with his best movies. The plot is a good idea - topical and Sci-fi that uses science that exists now, or will very soon be possible. There are other cloning movies, but this is the first movie I had seen where they had an 'explanation' of how humans could be cloned so quickly. They had the adult human 'shells' that just needed the DNA to be infused to quickly grow a clone. The other first in this movie, was that this was the first movie that I'd seen where clones could easily be identified as clones - if you knew where to look. However, the movie was too long, and the subplot with the remote helicopters (although cool) was convoluted and awkward. If this were edited and paced better, it could have at least been an 8 or 9. "},{"Title":"Arnie as a clone?great concept,great movie","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger play Adam Gibson,an average man in the not too distant future.Well,there is one tiny difference.Adam has been cloned.The company that cloned him wants him dead,so they can erase the evidence.so,while Adam's clone takes over his life,Adam must find a way to get his life back,all the while trying to avoid being killed by the corporation.that's the gyst off the story.there are bigger(much bigger things going on here and we'll live it at that.if you want to know more,you will have to watch the movie.Wendy Crewson plays Adam/fake Adam's wife.Michael Rapaport and Sarah Wynter,among others,play supporting roles.the film obviously brings up ethical and moral issues involved in cloning,and the fact that it is set in the not too distant future,may be a trifle settling.all that aside this is one of Arnie's better films.obviously,there's a bit more substance involved,and Arnie is quite convincing in the role off Adam.but don't despair,action buffs,there is a lot of that too.and of course people get shot and killed(it wouldn't be an Arnie movie without).this movie gets an 8/10 "},{"Title":"This One Could Have Been Great","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is a shame this movie ran into the habitual Scharzenegger movies, characteristic of all that crappy action style, because it could have really be something. It's story is one of the most original Scharzenegger has ever played (except maybe Terminator I and II) and i became rally sad when they made it in such a basic way. It should have been other actor to play Adam Gibson and this director was obviously not a good choice. This is seriously one of the most exciting stories about cloning and its effects. Hitler himself was trying to develop an instrument that could introduce one's memories into human brain, in a way that when he died he could be cloned and they'll use that technology with him. For this and all i said before i think a REMAKE of this should be made, this time with a good director and actors (not Arnold, for Christ sake!) "},{"Title":"Cloned Action Hero","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day is an enjoyable way to spend 2 hours. It's also remarkable as the only half-decent movie written by Cormac and Marianne Wibberly. These two have such lowbrow clunkers as Bad Boys 2 and the dire Charlie's Angels - Full Throttle on their CVs so I was amazed by the semi-intelligence of The 6th Day.Admittedly, you'll never find much existentialism in an Arnold Schwarzenegger film but The 6th Day makes a good stab at exploring some of the issues of cloning humans in between the well-executed action sequences. Arnie is helped through the talkier parts of the film by his excellent co-stars, who help to raise it above the standard sci-fi blockbuster wannabee that it could have been.Roger Spottiswoode directs this film as if he were a clone of Michael Bay, but doesn't make too bad a job of it. The 6th Day isn't a great movie but it's averagely watchable popcorn entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good, but I'm confused *SPOILERS*","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all I liked this movie. The movie made sense all the way to the end, that's when things got hazy. Like, why wasn't the clone of Arnold Schwarzenegger killed? Still, I enjoyed this futuristic movie because the story was great and the acting was also very good. Arnold was perfect for his role. This movie made me think about cloning, and I have to say I have no objections to cloning. This movie was good but the ending made the movie not as great as it could have been.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Slightly less stupid movie than I thought.","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ...and now you go inside and say... Have a nice flight, little girl.What I miss in this movie information anywhere is that besides futuristic action thriller this is also a comedy. That is actually a reason I enjoyed it. The whole script is done with some exaggeration to be sure. Because of that you can overlook some logical holes and overall unreality...And while Arnold is really bad actor, he is only a part of a whole here, so with some toleration you may very well enjoy this flick after all.I was kinda surprised about it but I did... Above average deserves 6/10  "},{"Title":"Rainy day movie...","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the most recent Arnie movie I've seen for the first time, and suffice to say, it held up. Its not exactly the high flying rush the commercials seem to suggest, but it still delivers. the story covers that common voice of society, asking Who are we to play god? Arnold performs sufficiently, neither weak nor overacted. I can't say its one of his best, but it's worth a rainy friday night. "}{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Arnie movies Total Recall, The Terminator, True Lies. Great Fun. I wanted to like this movie too, having read reviews that mentioned Total Recall. I didn't. I hated it. Why?* The writers came up with something that should be an interesting starting point, the ethical questions about cloning. However, instead of going deeper in the subject, it just misused this premise as an excuse for lots of explosions and car-chases. Absolutely nothing is even mildly original here.* The special effects are very bad in places (when the bad guy's legg is shot off for example). The CGI effects are so-so.* The plot doesn't make sense in a lot of places (spoiler alert)-You can't clone a brain, but you can clone a whole body. SAY WHAT?!- Arnie goes to the re-pet store to clone his dog who just died. After a while, it is suggested that the 'other' Arnie was there before him (The salesman's remark Still can't make up your mind, huh?). But, after that Arnie drives home and finds the other Arnie *with the cloned dog!-Arnie is supposed to be the good, loving father and husband having some moral troubles with the hole cloning thing. But when he's chased by bad guys he immediately starts getting *sadistic pleasures* out of running over them. Makes him completely unlikeable and disgusting IMHO.I'm all for setting myself in 'brain-dead' mode and going for some good Arnie action, but I couldn't help completely disliking this flick. "},{"Title":"WARNING TO READERS THIS COMMENT REVEAL CRUCIAL PLOT ELEMENT. DO NOT READ BEFORE HAVING SEEN THE FILM. Who is the real Adam at the very end of the story and who is the clone?","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nice film, in my opinion.Especially the final is fantastic and I will explain why.My point is that AT THE END OF THE FILM, THE REAL ADAM IS NOT THE ONE THAT IS REMAINING AT HOME, BUT THE ONE THAT IS GOING AWAY. That means that the clone wins against the real.There are many clues that bring to this conclusion1) We assume that we call Adam-A the person who is celebrating birthday, and Adam-B the person who wakes up in the taxi-cab and returns at home so seeing Adam-A.2) Adam-B wears always the black jacket.3) When Adam-B meets Adam-A, Adam-B tells Adam-A that Adam-A is the clone.4) Michael Drucker explains to Adam-B that he is the clone (he has the sign in the eye)5) Adam-B never explains point 4 to Adam-A6) Adam-B often says to Michael Drucker thing like being f**ked by his own clone7) At the end Adam-B, while painting the wall, says to Adam-A that Adam-A has a perfect DNA even being a clone, so being quite good, and being invited to consider the family also as his family, even if leaving.8) At the end Adam-B remains at home with its black jacket and Adam-A goes away with the boat.9) We know that Michael Drucker made any clone DNA-imperfect to control their life. So Adam-A can not be a clone.10) So, at the end of the film, THE REAL ADAM is Adam-A even if he is going away, while THE CLONE IS REMAINING. That means that Adam-A has been f**ked by his clone too!!!I spent a lot of time with my friends to explain this evidence that nobody noticed (and I didn't find anything even in this web site).I rate the film 8 out of 10.Comments are appreciated.Bye, Alessandro "},{"Title":"Particles don't travel at so low speed and brain can't be scanned from eyes, in fact, it cannot be scanned like that at all!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the people can't think much and say things can be what really can't be. First of all, it is impossible to scan a whole brain even not touching it, that is absurd, from eyes? And all your memories, billions of gigabytes worth of memories in a second or two from your eyes? If you don't make contact with brain, you cant scan it, it is as simple as that, well if people in the future really can do it without contact, you cannot scan all brain from eyes, because different parts of brain act separately and need to be scanned from the location they are, otherwise the waves from the part, that is in front of the other part, disrupt each other, besides brainwaves only come when things happen in the brain, it doesn't just send out everything. So the film isn't real, but good to watch action movie, ideologically 1/10, action side gets 7/10, can be better as we have all seen. It was interesting to get to know what people think about future, different ideas. "},{"Title":"The movie of the future the public wanted to see","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold proves he's still got it. The plot was some what predictable but I thought it covered a lot of things the people wanted to see which is the case with most futureistic movies. I thought Tony Goldwyn played his best role ever as Michael Drucker. I'm Sure Vince McMahon and the WWE appreciated the XFL plug. The director saw the XFL as the only football league in North America and beating out the NFL. Unfortunatly for the movie, WWE and NBC, the XFL ended after one season. Sarah Wynter is actually butt naked in this PG-13 rated movie but you can only see it if you pause your DVD and zoom in. But overall, I loved this movie and thought it was just something the people have wanted to see in a movie for a longtime. "},{"Title":"ARNIE ATTACK OF THE CLONES","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When helicopter pilot Arnie Schwarzenegger is mistakenly cloned by a corrupt businessman in a future world where cloning of humans is (quite rightly) illegal, he finds that the man's cloned henchmen will stop at nothing to kill him - or at least one version of him.This starts out threatening to be a serious look at the implications of cloning (although of course the science is all wrong), but soon turns out to be just another no-brainer action pic. It's not bad on those terms, but it's really just the same formula as Total Recall. "},{"Title":"You're born. You live. You die. You are cloned!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a stunning futuristic yarn about a helicopter pilot(Arnold Schwarzeneggar)who accidentally finds out that he has been cloned. Looking for answers he becomes a one man wrecking machine. He must rescue his kidnapped family taken hostage by a powerful underground society of clones sneaking into the nation's population. This is the best Schwarzeneggar role in a long while. Plenty of intrigue and action. Not so far fetched Sci-Fi; an open mind will really enjoy the special effects. The story is a good escape vehicle. Notable support from Michael Rapaport, Tony Goldwyn and Robert Duvall. Look for well scattered puns and humor mixed with the strong violence. "},{"Title":"Well Not As Bad As I Thought","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Critics had panned this movie so bad that I did not want to go to see it, And I'm a huge Arnold Fan. Well It is nowhere as bad as I thought it would be. I really enjoyed it. Its a shame that it did not make that much money domestically. Go out and rent it. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" All told, the 6th Day wasn't bad. Compared to Arnold's recent movies, it's actually pretty good. There's actually an interesting story to go with this one. But it could have been so much better.The problem is the movie can't decide whether to be a cerebral sci-fi movie or an action movie. It starts off as a very smart sci-fi movie and presents some great ideas, interesting characters and a cool story. Then, for some reason, the sci-fi stops, and it becomes a B-grade action flick. Despite the fact that he was played by Schwarzenegger, the main character in the movie did not come off to me as a real action style character. I just couldn't see this character, as he was presented, all of a sudden turning into an unstoppable army. The action scenes were very average and I think the movie would have been better if it had toned down the action.The ending also seemed a little sudden for me. One second Arnold is trying desperately to get his family back and the next he's heading to Argentina and has totally forgotten about them. As with the rest of the movie, I felt there should have been something more. "},{"Title":"A poor Arnie product, go get True Lies out.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film had a lot of potential, the stroy of cloning is a hot issue and Arnie has back in the action/maybe sci-fi-ish genre. Unfortunately, and to my bemusment, Arnold acts very poorly.  Now I know he has recievd flack in the past for his acting but, in True Lies, he was great, I thought he proved that he could act and was more americanised than ever b4, but in The 6th Day, Arnie is awful... the scenes where he is talking to himself are atrocious, although, here you could blame direction and editing!All in all, you can be entertained by this film but, i must protest that Arnie's performance or the film don't warrent the $25,000,000 fee he recieved!Also their are many many farcical elements through-out.  One being.. Arnies everyman character breaking a bad guys neck with no question of regret or fear... a poor film with poor acting... except for Duvall who is the only one who cares.5/10  "},{"Title":"I liked it... and I'm not in two minds.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well it just goes to show you. I thought that Arnie's career was rapidly and irreversibly heading downhill after almost a decade's worth of movies that would have looked better roasted to a golden-brown on a Thanksgiving table. I've not liked anything he's done since True Lies, and even that was suspect.However, The 6th Day is a pleasant surprise, though it's hard to pin down exactly why. I mean, of course it's formulaic Arnold stuff, with the requisite amounts of excellently implemented SFX and shoot-outs, car chases and so on to keep the popcorn munchers happy. But there's more to this than meets the eye.It's partially that the underlying plot premise has been intelligently conceived and implemented. The ethical issues raised by cloning are already with us, and the technological advances that the movie asks the audience to believe in do not require too much of a leap of faith... they probably are just around the corner. Add to that muted questions such as what is identity, what makes a human being and what justifies life that are being asked in a subtle way, and The 6th Day can be enjoyed on more than one level. Don't get me wrong... it's not deeply philosophical, because hey, it's an Arnie movie, but it's not altogether shallow either.The 6th Day is also helped because Arnie isn't a total superman any more, unlike his films of 15 years ago. He can't leap tall buildings at a single bound, so he's actually required to act a little, and doesn't do too badly at all. His relationship with his wife and daughter is believably familiar and almost touching on occasion, and the movie's bodycount isn't too unrealistically high.Roger Spottiswoode directs with an accomplished eye for the visual, and it shows, because the movie is visually a treat. There's also a *lot* of homage to Paul Verhoeven in this, with the side SFX touches - the virtual girlfriend, the shopping mall, the self-stocking refrigerator, the media-rich mirrors etc etc - nicely adding a lightly ironic credibility to what the next generation's future probably holds. Okay, so it's been done before by Verhoeven in both Robocop and Starship Troopers to name but two, but it worked then and it works even more effectively now.***SPOILER***If I was to quibble about anything, it'd be the schmaltzy and definitely forced ending. The whole tenet of the movie is that it's your memories and feelings that makes you *you*, so Arnie 2's easy acceptance that he has no right to his family's love, and indeed his whole previous life, despite having risked life and limb for those he loves for the entire film hit my credibility threshold with a loud and leaden clang. I really don't think anyone would wander happily off to Argentina without much of a second thought in that situation. You should have killed one of the two Arnies off, Roger, in a moment of self-sacrifice to ensure the survival and ongoing happiness of the other - yes, yes, I know it'd be clichéd, but still you chickened out.However, despite this, The 6th Day is an enjoyable action movie, well executed and you never know, it may even make you think a little. Enjoy it for what it is, and then some. 7.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Flawed","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In all the years I'm watching Arnie movies, nothing has really changed. The action is fast and furious, the acting ability is non-existent and the level of belief-suspension is high. The 6th Day continues the trend as Hollywood broaches the en vogue subject of human cloning - a subject that is sure to inspire numerous projects in tinsel town in the next decade or so.We're vaguely told that it is sometime in the future and while human cloning is outlawed, the cloning of animals has become an acceptable way to replace that dead pet situation that we all hate to deal with. Replacement Technologies, the major cloning institute in the US, is run by businessman Michael Drucker (Goldwyn - The Pelican Brief, Nixon, Kuffs, Kiss the Girls). Although they advertise their animal cloning services and research, behind the scenes they have already been involved in the sinister cloning of humans, using the expertise of Dr Griffin Weir (Robert Duvall).A 'sixth day violation' occurs when Replacement Technologies mistakingly clone Adam Gibson (Schwarzenneger) believing him to be killed in a shoot-out. Gibson returns home to find that his clone has already assumed his life and now Replacement want him captured and murdered in order to keep their secret safe. If anyone sees Gibson and his clone together, then those people will be killed and Gibson realises that the only way he can put an end to the nightmare is to infiltrate Replacement and stop their operation.The 6th Day can be pretty much be summed up by the word 'flawed'. The idea of human cloning throws up numerous interesting premises, and indeed director Spottiswoode (Tomorrow Never Dies, And the Band Played On, Stop or my Mom Will Shoot) plays on the unique idea with some genuinely amusing lines ('Doesn't anyone stay dead anymore?' - Gibson) and situations. His direction though never really excites - the action scenes are sloppy, interest wanes very easily throughout the movie, and the schmalzy ending is just sad.As I mentioned, the best element of the movie is the humour. Arnie gets to play with some genuinely funny lines and the scene which sees Michael Rooker convince a cop that his Replacement colleague is perfectly alive and not suffering from a broken neck, is hilarious. The cast, mind you, is practically next-to-useless. Outisde of Robert Duvall and his screen wife Katherine (Wanda Cannon), there is little talent or charisma present between the motley crew of Rooker, Goldwyn, Rapaport and Crewson. Schwarzenneger performs with his usual strong-arm vigour so it's the same old-same old there.Cloning is a great subject for the big screen and I think we will see better movies than this. Not recommended.  "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this was a terrific Arnie move, it's such a shame to see it languishing at 6.1 on IMDB. First of all, I found the story thought-provoking and emotionally compelling. The scenes with Dr. Weir and his wife on her deathbed stand out, and the bittersweet ending wraps things up very nicely indeed. Arnie's great he's perfectly good in this role and still has awesome onscreen presence. If anything, I think he's improving with age - kind of like a younger Charlton Heston.What else ? The effects are nice ('Simpal Cindy' is an amazing - if slightly creepy - creation) and the movie portrays a realistic and compelling vision of the near future. The script's well done, on the whole, and there are a couple of sly in-jokes that made me smile ('I _might_ be back'... guess you had to be there!) There's also a killer plot twist somewhere in the middle, that brings to mind Total Recall.Oh, and the stirring musical score is excellent  one of the best I've heard in a long time. Had me thinking of Hans Zimmer, but it's not  it's Trevor Rabin, a name I will certainly look out for in future.All in all, a great couple of hours. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE 6TH DAY, in my opinion, was an absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller! I saw this with my ex-boyfriend, and, he thought it was weird, even though he's an avid Schwarzenegger fan, but I thought it was good. One scene I remember clearly is when Adam (Arnold Schwarzenegger) says, I know who I am. When he was being pursued by Talia (Sarah Wynter), I was kind of scared. This was because she was trying to hurt him. Other than that, the entire cast was all smashing in my opinion -- Especially Arnold! Keep up the good work! When this comes to video, I want to own it. I also hope Arnold will do more films like this! To all you Arnold Schwarzenegger fans, if you haven't seen THE 6TH DAY, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A VERY thin Movie","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sixth Day was an very thin experience and it doesn't help to reduce the violence in the movie, just to get the age certification to a PG-13 just to make some more money. Another thing is to put morale into the movie since it's pure nonsense and what could have been a nice action-flick. The special effects could have covered up for the cheesy story, but since they are no greater than rest of the movie, they didn't. The acting is almost embarrassing to watch and the last monologue about family values is so sickening that you would have to be near a toilet or a sink before watching this movie, if you get my point.4,5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Very nearly.......","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite having a good premise, some very decent performances and an often excellent script, The 6th Day never once fulfills its huge potential.This is due in no small part to the direction. Obviously ordered to deliver a few hyperactive Matrix style visual flourishes, Spottiswoodes slower, more restrained style suffers as a result. The best parts of the movie are the closed, intimate scenes (all of the scenes with Duvall in particular), rather than the clumsy, borderline boring action sequences (of which there are surprisingly few). Personally, I need Sci-Fi to be bursting with imagination in order for it to grab me completely. Brazil and Total Recall are two good examples; visions so wacky that you can't help but be taken in. The world in The 6th Day is just ordinary, with a few bells on. The film also falls into the same trap as many decent Sci-Fi films; the finale which consists of nothing more than dull chases down darkened corridors. The ending is ridiculous, the special effects ordinary, and the editing appalling.  "},{"Title":"What a ReP-off","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not exactly a good joke. (RePet, rip-off-if you don't see, don't come to my house.) But that is not the point. I wanted to see this because Blake French (a critic here on the IMDb) said it was good. If Blake reads this Take away the cloning thing, and you have a normal action film with little point.For one thing, my brother (Pete, or Preston) said it had a twist at the end. My brother guessed it. And he was RIGHT. (Spoiler I mean, come on, having the Arnold we know be the clone? That is weaker than Gone in Sixty Seconds' twist.) Also, while not really anything specialIf it takes place in the future that is sooner than we might think, it should happen soon. (My guess Next Sunday, AD.)The guns are blaster rip-offs from Star Wars. (The only difference is that these are blue. And look like lightsaber blades.)Finally Cloning people? If this is related to Soylent Green, by any chance... You see what is happening?Moral This film should have been outlawed instead of human cloning. "},{"Title":"It could have been a masterpiece but...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is interesting.Gives us all a look at the possible pros and cons of cloning.It has at least two interesting characters(The cloning doctor and the businessman).Arnold prooves he can act well when it comes to drama.The film is much better than Total Recall(one of Arnie's dumbest),Matrix and other sci-fis. Duvall has an excelent role.The ethic doctor who clones animals of many species(homo Sapiens included.)He has morality,seems to have dreams about the future,he clones them so that they might leave longer.He should be the star of this film. His employer dreams of being immortal.He has low morals but actualy offers some continument of life to many animals(including Homo Sapiens). His speech when he asks how can we explain to the relatives of a dying child that they can't even have him as a clone though the means exist is great and needs deep thinking to realy comprehend(think of your own loveones when doing it). Arnold has some drama sceans which are great.That means when discussing morality. Up till now I say why I liked this movie.Now time to say what makes me not want to see it again.First of all it's title6th Day which refers to the Genesis book of the Bible.I have studied it along with most other books of the bible.It is is just a Jewish version of mythology not different to others mythologies which also present us the origins of human kind according to different religious beliefs.The god of the bible is not unique.The true origin of man kind can only be understood if we study biology and evolution,not religion.The evolution process and that Homo Sapiens is an animal originating from other primates is ignored here.The fact that the soul is only a religious belief is also forgotten here. The fundamentalists throught the movie seem dangerous.They don't actually think.They want death to be perminent,thats why they don't want clonings,they kill in the name of a god,convinced that clones are not humans.This movie should examine them more carefully.I can't think of a better example of how religious beliefs threatened human civilisation over the centuries.Both the fundamentalists and the 6th Day law are the scariest parts of this movie. This movie has too much sceanes of shooting and blowing things up instead of having philosophical debates.If somebody wants to see movies without scenarios let him rent Terminator II and start making better films. If it was more philosophical and less action and religious it could have been a masterpiece.At least it's Arnie's second good role after Conan the barbarian. "},{"Title":"unfortunate mess","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The premise of this movie is good What if you came home one day and found out that a carbon copy of yourself was invading your home and family. The general cloning premise of the film also leads to the opportunity for social comment, especially in the light of the recent sheep cloning and such. Unfortunately, this film soon gets caked down into a stupid illegal cloning plot and becomes just another paint-by-numbers action flick. Even at their worst, most Schwarzenegger films have something to offer in terms of memorable lines or action scenes (hell, even Last Action Hero had its moments). But this one just sits there. I usually love Arnold's action flicks, because the big guy has a monstrous and charming screen presence, but in this one he's just kind of dull. If you're looking for a better sci-fi Schwarzenegger film, see Predator, and skip The 6th Day.  "},{"Title":"An Arnie movie with cloning as a theme...","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ====== Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid =====> An Arnie movie is always interesting. A movie about cloning is a masterpiece just waiting to happen. But an Arnie movie about cloning is a guaranteed failure. Why??? Arnie just isn't the right actor to play such a role, it requires subtlety and that has never been one of his plus points. Action has never been Roger Spottiswoode's specialty either and together they bring us the worst of both worlds, managing to create neither a good action film or make a decent statement about cloning.Arnold plays Adam Gibson, a helicopter pilot. When his partner is killed, other strange things are happening around him, such as his life being taken over by his own clone. An enormous battle to get back his life begins.Well that's it. The scenery in which the clones are created are far too clearly inspired by those human batteries in 'the Matrix', the acting is too wooden for words (Michael Rooker as the villain...) and there is not one good action sequence in the whole film. That's not entirely true, by the way, because I didn't see the entire film. After an hour and a half I was so sick and tired of this crap that I had to walk out. This movie is so bad, it's almost as if the creators were trying to push it's audience to the exit. Avoid this movie at all costs.*   "},{"Title":"wow...","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is absolutely amazing. I saw The 6th Day last night, on its opening day, and despite there being less than a dozen people in the cinema I could tell from the audiences reaction that this film will be revered as a classic psychological thriller in the years to come. The plot is razor sharp and if your not careful you might just get cut!! This is Roger Spottiswoode's best work since Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot, and some so-called `B-rate' actors really do shine in this film although they are eclipsed by the colossus Arnold Schwarzenegger and the massively talented Michael Rapaport. Forget The 6th Sense, The 6th Day has the most surprising twist in cinematic history! "}{"Title":"On the Sixth Day, God created Arnie, MISTAKE!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, so this is not a good film, it has a great many problems, most of them Arnie, but thats not what I want to warn you about here today.This film contains, without a doubt in my mind, the most terrifying, the most horrific abonination ever to grace the silver screen.  A creature so evil, so mesmerisingly demonic, and with such manky eyes, the Sim-Pal!This cute little doll that grows real hair and gives kids hours of fun, before it takes up the largest knife it can find and guts the family screaming the likes of I wanna play in true Chucky style...it doesn't actually do that in the film, but it has that kind of face...Don't see this film for the plot (what plot), don't see this film for the acting (come on, its Arnie) see it to feel terror like never before, see it to push your mind the the brink of madness, see it for the Sim-Pal... "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger's best film since Total Recall.* * * * *","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day is the best science fiction Arnold Schwarzenegger film I have seen since Total Recall.It's futuristic vision is cleverly made by Director Roger Spottiswoode and the special effects are the best I have seen for an Arnold Schwarzenegger film in the past ten years.Arnold Schwarzenegger proves to us that just because he's getting there,it doesn't mean he cannot be the action hero that we all knew and grew up with watching his movies.I can't wait for Terminator 3.The 6th Day is the kind of science fiction film that should put Arnold back on his feet.If the academy awards ever had a category for Best Picture for a Science Fiction Feature,This is one that should get nominated. "},{"Title":"Cool Sci-Fi thriller","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day is an intriguing and entertaining Sci-Fi thriller. Arnold Schwarzenegger does a good job in this movie, he is given more dialogue than usual and he comes off less wooden than he usually does. I liked the cloning aspect of the film, and the film raises some interesting questions. There is action, humor, and drama all mixed together in this film, go see it. "},{"Title":"Fun Arnie thriller","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a man who's accidentally cloned and goes out to find why and how.No masterpiece and way too long but this is a fun movie.  The plot (for a Schwarzenegger film) is actually pretty complex--it brings up interesting questions about cloning humans (BTW the movie is against it).  The special effects are great (almost as good as in Total Recall) and there's plenty of car chases and shoot outs.  Be warned however...despite the PG-13 rating some of this is pretty extreme.  It looks like it was cut from an R rating.The acting varies wildly--Arnie is his usual self...meaning pretty bad.  The scenes of him interacting with his clone are unintentionally hilarious.  Robert Duvall (!!) is pretty bad as a scientist--I'm assuming he's in this for the money.  Tony Goldwyn is also pretty bad as the main villain.  The only real good acting is by Michael Rooker and Sarah Wynter (love the way her hair keeps changing color)--they're lots of fun as two killers.  But really--who watches this movie for acting?  So it's good, entertaining fun.  Why was this such a bomb? "},{"Title":"This movie isn't very bright!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILER!!Ok, what I don't understand is this Arnold gets killed and comes back as a clone.  He talks to his wife about getting their dog cloned.  He goes to the Repetz store and eventually we find out that Arnold was there twice, asking virtually the same questions to the sales rep.  Arnold was totally against getting the dog cloned.  Then when he goes home, the dog was cloned and alive, meaning the original Arnold must have gotten the dog cloned.  Well, if one Arnold is a clone and one is human, and both of them think exactly alike (they somehow have the exact same way of thinking as a clone, not just the same body characteristics), then wouldn't the original Arnold also have been decidedly against getting the dog cloned??  Also, wouldn't the wife been entirely confused by having to explain the same thing (about the dog) to 2 Arnold's??  Obviously, since the 2nd Arnold was eventually the clone we were witnessing, then she must have spoken to the original Arnold at some point and told him to get the dog cloned!!  It makes no sense!!!  I hate movies like this!!  This movie blew!!  You want to see a good Arnold movie? See Total Recall - now that's a movie you can set your sundial to!! "},{"Title":"Very entertaining action comedy with a heart and a message...","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is good fun. There are some nice effects and some great comedy. Arnold gives one of his cheesier performances (his acting is very ott in places) but it works for this movie, his acting just made me me laugh even more. I loved it when Arnold tasted the breakfast his daughter makes him. It also greatly amused me when he revealed he is still as strong as ever at the beginning by showing off his bicep to his on-screen wife. Sure the film has its flaws. The script is over written (I read an earlier draft of the script which I think was better) and the action could have been much better. But i haven't enjoyed myself this much at the cinema in a while. Better than MI2 that's for sure. "},{"Title":"Perhaps Schwarzenegger's best acting yet (spoilers)","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For a movie to be successful, it has been said that actors must share chemistry with their co-stars to make their acting appear the most realistic.  That is true, but I see it a bit further; to me the direction of acting is more important than acting itself to make it look the most convincing on the screen.Such is the case with The 6th Day (2000, Columbia).  In this case, Arnold Schwarzenegger, perhaps one of the most high-profile superstars of our generation, was signed on to deliver a performance that requires a great deal of emotion, particularly since the role has dual characters.  Not particularly known for emotion-driven performances, Arnold was likely signed on to guarantee Columbia Pictures at least $40-50 million in box-office revenue.  And to direct Schwarzenegger, veteran 'good-guy' actor Robert Duvall, and a long list of smaller and relatively unknown talent, is Roger Spottiswoode.My personal movie library contains two other Spottiswoode titles Tomorrow Never Dies (1997, United Artists), and Stop! or my Mom will Shoot! (1992, Universal).  I liked the Stallone comedy and hated the Bond action-fest, making Spottiswoode's standing as a director far from high-calibre.  Yet with that in mind, The 6th Day struck me with its ferocious intensity and its amazingly unconventional approach to delivering a fairly common plot.  And Schwarzenegger manages to keep his muscles concealed for most of the film and turns in a powerful performance, one that is perhaps Arnold's best acting yet.Co-stars Michael Rapaport (also seen in Metro 1997, dir. Thomas Carter, Touchstone and Cop Land 1997, dir. James Mangold, Miramax) and Michael Rooker (also seen in The Bone Collector 1999, dir. Phillip Noyce, Universal and Cliffhanger 1993, dir. Renny Harlin, TriStar) seem to lose their identities and became the characters of Hank Morgan and Robert Marshall, respectively.  And Tony Goldwyn, whom I had only previously seen in The Pelican Brief (1993, dir. Alan J. Pakula, Warner Brothers), amazed me with the sincerity and presence he brought to the character of Michael Drucker, the billionare owner of the company that secretly and illegally makes genetically deficient clones.Behind the scenes of these powerful and believable performances, mixed perfectly with spectacular and near seamless visual effects/stunts, is Roger Spottiswoode, who pieced the film together with a quality that I feel ranks with legendary greats such as To Kill a Mockingbird (1962, dir. Robert Mulligan, Universal) and Seven Days in May (1964, dir. John Frankenheimer, United Artists).If you haven't seen this movie, I have rated it a 10.  My standards are generally quite rigid, and a 10 means that I found it not only well-made, but convincing, having a profound impact on my judgment toward the topic being discussed, and overall impression of the direction/acting.Watch it.  You'll be impressed. "},{"Title":"The best word to describe this.........wow!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie once again proves that Arnie is, was and always will be the ultimate Action-Hero. He is much more believable then other so called Action-Movie Actors like Keanu Reeves and so on. By the way........this movie entertained me much more than Matrix did. The question I have is....................Why Columbia.......Why did you have to release this movie at christmas season? This one.......and trust me........would have been the greatest blockbuster of this year. Too bad...........but I loved it.........go see it............ Great action, loads of humor and most of all a credible story. "},{"Title":"Better than Total Recall!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely much better than Total Recall becouse of the theme regarding man's mortality.I just realised something more about life becouse of this movie and it is that my material life is composed of my memories basically.The memory transfer and preservation span determines one's material existance.THE MEMORY not the body embodies my material identity.I thought about it hard as I walked out of the cinema after the movie played and it also dawned on me that the brain cells I had ten years ago are now dead and gone and yet I live on becouse the memories were transfered from the older brain cells to the new brain cells.I do not have the same material body for ever for older cells pass on information to the new cells.Some body parts faster or slower than the others.My very body is a continuing process of death and rebirth but becouse the memory transfer is smooth,I do not really realise my many deaths.It also turned my thoughts towards the very familliar transporter technologies of the sci-fi stories of Star Trek.Based on that technology if it does come about,one's body is basically killed(de-constructed) to be reasembled once again (re-constructed) with an exact copy of one's memories re-inserted.Scary thought huh?The movie delivers on all areas.Cinematography,effects,direction,etc.,everything perfect!The only area it is not perfect in is lack of overall originality.It was an amalgam of Total Recall,Bladerunner,Ghost In A Shell,Matrix,Terminator and Boys From Brazil.But even with this weakness,it still is one of the best movies ever made!Congratulations once again to Arnie!  "},{"Title":"Attack of the Clones","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Sixth Day is an example of when a big movie star gets so self-indulgent that they make a movie that has absolutely nothing new or interesting to offer, other than seeing that big movie star do what they are known best for doing. Arnold is know for kicking ass in big budget movies and this is just what he does here. Nothing more. The plot is a lame and uninspired version of Total Recall and it tries to top it with almost hilarious futility. There is even a scene where Arnold wakes up in a cab with no recollection of how he got there. Sound familiar? It should, since you have probably seen that in a better movie.Now, one can't blame this all on Arnold since the producers are likely to be just as much at fault. Take one of the opening sequences that involves two admitted cool helicopter/jet hybrids racing in a canyon with one on remote control and the other actually being flown by a pilot. It's a fun scene, but it offers nothing more than fancy special effects. I don't mind expansive special effects, but there is a clear difference when these effects are thoughtful and designed with purpose than when they are not. The expansive (and expensive) sets and effects of Total Recall all worked within the film to show you the futuristic world that the story takes place in. Here many things are shown off just because they look cool and the overall sci-fi world isn't really a sci-fi world at all. It is just our contemporary world with random sci-fi things thrown in like holograms, high-tech vehicles and gadgets. Though, in a very odd move, one of the film's main action scenes, a car chase, has just regular cars and a regular suburban setting. The only indicator of science fiction is that these vehicles are virtually indestructible as they plow through houses and take vehicle suspensions to new levels of abuse. However, in the end it just the same old thing reheated, re-glossed, and re-served on the same old movie screen.In other words, wholly uninteresting science fiction/action movie that barely scratches the surface of its interesting premise. It'll only entertain if taken as a no-brainer action flick, but there are so many of those around anyway. --- 4/10Rated PG-13 for violence. This is a real MPAA treat as we are treated to lasers severing body parts and neck breaking. A real high for violence in the PG-13 category. Ages 13+ "}{"Title":"Anti-science propaganda couched in pseudo-philosophical moralizing MILD SPOILER","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The great things about this film are the high energy action sequences with an aging and only slightly unbelievable Arnold Schwarzenneggar. What is far from great, however, is how the film does a half-assed job of dealing with an ethical issue in what ought to have been a thoughtful way. The film treats the issue of cloning in an amazingly misinformed and ignorant manner and rides on a remarkably idiotic script.Don't people consult with real-world scientists when treating scientific issues any more? Assuming Western civilization survives into the 22nd century, people will likely look at this propaganda film as an example of the savagery of 21st century life, inhabiting the same cinematic context that Reefer Madness enjoys today.It is clear that a lot of thought went into this film. However, thought without the support of FACT is about as useful as a teabag without water. Thought is a means to great things, those great things can not come to fruition without a proper context and without the support offered by... reality.Arnold (who is really the only personality in the film) gets illegally cloned for no apparent reason (the plot is not driven by necessity, but rather, by the writers poor conceptualization of the moral implications of cloning), and his clone, not being aware of the fact that he is a clone, takes over the REAL Arnold's life. A lot of people, in fact, get cloned for no apparent reason, and then get shot for equally inconsequential reasons. I will not spoil this by going much farther, but I have to admit that the ending is WORTH the effort of suspending disbelief through all the absurdity of the first 3/4ths and is the reason I gave the film a 4 instead of a 1. (Politically, most of the movie is a 1-) This is NOT a film about the REALITY of cloning. Rather, it is a paranoid, empty and weightless attack on the whole moral concept of cloning - and by implication an attack om science and medical progress. Science does not and can not progress by weak, cowardly half-measure conservatism. If this were its mode of operation, we would still be treating communicable diseases with mercury injections and sweat baths as we were just a hundred years ago. We are constantly beaten over the head by movies like this - with the message of science's potential to destroy all we hold dear. Folks, your politicians invented the H-Bomb, not the scientists in the Manhattan Project, and certainly not Einstein, upon whose work its technology relies. And worse... the politicians were also the ones who used it.One of the questions the film treats - seriously - is whether or not clones have souls. Getting past the fact that souls are not definable through any rational thought process and really have no place in movies concerning scientific themes, clones, being more or less exact genetic copies of existing organisms, have as much soul as any other creature. How could it be otherwise? Fortunately, this film does not provide a clear message in the end, despite the heavy-handed future-phobic paranoiac ultra-right-wing ignorance pervading the first half of the film. Worth watching, if you can stomach the stupidity to get to the rather ambiguous but reasonable point. "},{"Title":"This could have been one of Arnold's classics","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie and being disappointed as both a science fiction and Arnold fan. It's not that the movie is bad, it's because it shows so many signs of greatness yet falls short mostly because of two odd decisions Arnold and the PG-13 rating. The story was surprisingly compelling for an Arnold film, but this movie should have never cast Arnold if they wanted to focus on story and character. Since they did cast Arnold, it was mind boggling to me that the action was so toned down and lame, especially when compared to his past sci-fi flicks like Total Recall and The Running Man.So after nearly 13 years since I first saw it in the theaters I decided to watch it again, and have the same problems I did the first time through. Whose bright idea was it to cast Arnold? Whose bright idea was it to make it PG-13? These decisions kill the movie.I never paid much attention to ratings and their effects on movies, particular the action genre, until 4 years ago when I watched Taken and felt something was missing from the action scenes. While Taken was still a great action flick with cleverly edited fights to avoid the R rating, the action in The 6th Day is watered down as hell. The action scenes are drawn out and boring as if they were never supposed to be there in the first place, just added in because Arnold was the lead. The nags I have with this film- An uncensored Michael Rooker could have been just as awesome as Michael Ironside in Total Recall.- Arnold's character was a combat seasoned war veteran, yet we didn't see him in any meaningful fights and only saw him break one guy's neck in the tamest way possible. He also spent most of his time fighting the woman, which was odd. There should have been one hell of a bloody battle between him and Terry Crews, but we got nothing.- The guns are plasma based and while they look cool at first, ballistic based weapons would have been far more satisfying. The plasma gun allowed them to keep in line with the rating and avoid bloody bullet holes and traditional gun violence. Yes Michael Rooker got his foot burned off, but it was done cleanly and in a comedic way. These gun battles were very boring and dragged on, particularly towards the end.- The main antagonist's death at the end was woefully unsatisfying for an action film featuring Arnold, but they couldn't show him getting chopped up by the helicopter rotors or going splat once he hit the ground because of the rating.- The go clone yourself so you can go *beep* yourself line was a misfire because it wasn't worded as I wrote it. The line was still funny, but should have been straight to the point as classic Arnold would have said it. The next time he says it, he uses the word screw because his one time use of the F word was up thanks to the rating. - Arnold can't act, his appeal comes from his screen presence and facial expressions while kicking ass on screen. This script demanded an actual actor, not an action star.So Arnold held this back from being a better thriller and the rating held this back from being a great Arnold film. It was a major missed opportunity which is a damn shame. "},{"Title":"Clone With the Wind, or aging Austrian goes through old moves","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day is one of those movies that finds its inspiration in the cash register. Not one second of this tired and confusing film about cloning is fresh or original or understandable. Arnold Schwartzenegger, who had finally begun to look his 50-some odd years at the time of this film's making, despite layers of makeup and what looks to be like Herculean plastic surgery, moves like a man of some 50-odd years through the usual calisthenics that his parts call for his accent, which has gotten thicker over the years, and his timing, which has just about vanished, makes the vapid jokes even less comprehensible, and for an actor with some 35 films under his belt by the time this film was made, his performance is rudimentary and perfunctory &#x96; as though he had other things on his mind, for instance, like a run for the governorship of California. Robert Duvall, shuffles through a role as a benign though mad scientist. He too just manages to croak out his lines. One can only hope that he too enjoyed a great payday. A few more parts like these and he will just about disappear from the screen. A scion of movie royalty, Tony Goldwyn, is the arch-villain, and his performance demonstrate the Motion Picture-Mendelian rule that Hollywood eventually destroys all talent genes, even if it takes several generations. When all else fails, and that comes very early in the proceedings, director Robert Spottiswoode, throws another 10 minutes of digital- enhanced imagery at the viewer. He was once quoted as saying, The movies I want to make are not people's priority. Nobody would touch them. They cost a lot of money, and studios no longer finance development, so if I didn't pay for them myself they wouldn't happen. This picture shouldn't have happened. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly good watch","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" yeah i was very happy with how this movie turned out. I was a little sceptical going into it but luckily it was surprisingly good. Sure it felt a bit like total recall...you know cloning and erasing or creating memories both raise similar moral issues and the plot evoked similar feelings in not really knowing who's who and what is real. Aside from those two things the movie did however manage to gain its own identity. instead of being on mars and having crazy mutants this one is set on earth and focuses more on what things might look like in the future. All the futuristic technology, be it holograms, laser guns, or full size remote control/transforming helicopters are what really makes this movie interesting and stand out. The only real negative i can give to this movie is that at some moments it was very obvious that they were pushing for a pg-13 rating. There was only one f bomb and arnold later quotes himself but replaces said f bomb with a more socially acceptable word...screw. The cast was great im a big fan of michael rapaport and michael rooker, as well as the big black guy who i cant remember his name but plays in a lot of comedies. Another plus was how much thought went into the plot and morality issues. They played around a lot with the what ifs of cloning and there were plenty of different clever scenarios surrounding this basis. And lastly you get some great one liners we have all come to expect from arnie and this movie has some of the best of them. I'll leave you with a few of my favourites and if you have not yet seen this movie then stop reading now. You should go clone yourself while your still alive why so i can see things from your perspective? no, so you can go f@#$ yourself. ahahaha that one was the best and another was when arnold walks in the room and is acknowledged by the villain and says i wish i could say the one and only. i can tell that they put a lot of thought and effort into this movie and lines like these show that they also had a lot of fun with it. great movie. "},{"Title":"way beyond expectations","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a Sci-Fi fan, I knew I would like this movie. But I noticed the 5.8 rating its got on here and thought it would just be OK-watchable. How wrong I was and how wrong the 5.8 is! I give this gem of a movie 8 or more stars. Its very complicated but makes absolute sense. Its a film where you have to hear every line so as not to lose grip of the narrative. The script is very intelligent, it smacks of the writing of Issac Assimov-writer of 'hard'Sci-fi stories, where you need to think, which is a good thing. This film, for instance, walks all over films like Prometheus, which is a really, really dumb movie. I don't understand why this film wasn't a bigger success at the box office, or why its marked so low here?? Buy it! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Sleeper!!","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm giving this film a 9 because there were some technical errors and I don't believe in perfection. Having said that this movie was near perfect to me - if (also) you overlook Arnie's acting (which I do because he is always funny to me). But anyway - this movie is very good for Sci-Fi/future buffs. It made me think of things I never thought of before like cloning animals (in this movie fish) for future food sources and (b) the method of transferring a person's (old) memory into a cloned body...as well as cool side concepts like remote controlled, jet transforming helicopters and a realistic looking/seeming laser gun (usually a deficient knock-off from Star Wars, but depicted very well in this movie). The acting by the subordinate characters was also great. Robert Duvall, of course was his usual great self...Michael Rapaport was good and I REALLY liked the performance put in by the ruthless Michael Drucker - played exceptionally by Tony Goldwyn. The story was great and everything flowed very well. Arnie, again, was pretty funny in this one I loved the part where he was trying to get a toy doll (he had purchased for his daughter after the family dog died) to shut up. He was told by the taxi driver to tell the doll to go to sleep...and he really sounded believable in his annoyance by saying yeah, go to sleep. Overall - I have watched this movie 3 times now and will watch it again. It has that 'Soylent Green' appeal of foreseeing what the future may hold - and it's inevitable, questionable, dilemma-posing aspects! This one is definitely a winner that was slept on (perhaps because of the Y2K phenomenon - I'm not sure because I don't even remember hearing about this movie when it came out in 2000)?? I see it going down as a great reference for the reality of human cloning (another 'good see' on this topic that comes to mind is Boys From Brazil). Very few movies have touched the subject of human cloning? Do I smell cover-up?? "},{"Title":"The straight-faced sequel to TWINS","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although cloning is not all that new a subject in films, it has never been adequately mined as a theme. The new Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle THE 6TH DAY, now playing at local theaters, uses cloning as a mere superficial plot device, giving a slightly novel twist to what is essentially a standard B-actioner masquerading as a topical sci-fi film. The film is itself a clone, echoing director Paul Verhoeven's TOTAL RECALL in a number of ways, from its concepts of recording memory right down to Arnie's ride in an automated taxi.Set in the near future, subtitled with the dire prognostication Sooner Than You Think, the film offers a look at human society comfortable with making exact genetic copies of ailing pets but living in fear at the very real possibility of cloning anything remotely human. After a failed experiment sometime in the past, fully cloning humans has been outlawed.Schwarzenegger plays family man Adam Gibson, a helicopter pilot who returns home one day to find a man who looks exactly like him celebrating his daughter's birthday. He is instantly hunted by a motley gang of hired guns, most of whom look like refugees from your local alternative dance club. Prolific B-movie actor Michael Rooker plays the zealous, trench coat wearing, square-jawed leader of the crew. The twist here is that every time Arnold kills one of this bunch, he (or she in one case) is cloned, memory restored with the aid of CD-ROMs, and continues to hunt Arnold.Duped into signing a phony flight contract by some corporate suits, Gibson's friend Hank (Michael Rapaport) is killed. Gibson then traces various links to a sinister corporation where ostensibly donor organs are grown using cloning techniques, but where the upscale high-tech nerd Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn) is plotting to take over the world through the aid of clones.Cloning is seen as a subject of controversy in a straightforward, simplistic way in the film, as liberals protest the growth of human spare parts through cloning, while the rich folk (who presumably can afford quality health care) line up at $1000-a-head dinners to support the effort. A renegade scientist, Dr. Griffin Weir (Robert Duvall) tires and quits, heartbroken by the pleas of his ailing wife to quit bringing her back through cloning. She implores him to let her die a natural death. The latter sequence is the only point where the film slows down slightly and becomes a tad thoughtful, and actually begins to look as if it will say something halfway important about the possibility of cloning, only to lose the thought and turn back to the mayhem instead.Director Roger Spottiswoode, whose previous effort was the over-the-top James Bond film TOMORROW NEVER DIES, keeps things moving at a frenetic pace, creating scenes which competently mix action with state-of-the-art special effects. The film is long on fury and visuals, but short on story and character development. It delivers the goods in the action department, and Arnie even gets to deliver a couple of the trademark one-liners audiences love him for, but every thing else about the film is pretty wooden. Arnie's wife and child are cardboard, and it is hard to actually identify with him trying to save them. Spottiswoode really does not seem to be at home in the sci-fi genre, and many sequences seem somehow lackluster, despite being technically well produced. The film degenerates into the standard everyman-against-mad-scientist-playing-god brouhaha pretty quickly. Essentially, it is just another twin movie, and not even one that is all that great.Many an action star has come to a point in their career when they make a twin film - Jackie Chan with TWIN DRAGONS, Jean-Claude Van Damme with DOUBLE IMPACT. Here, however, the possibilities for interaction between identical twins, or in this case clones, are left unexplored. When Schwarzenegger finally does meet his double (TWINS with Danny DeVito doesn't count), the scene is anti-climactic, and it is never shown or explained how he was able to convince his double to team up with him against the bad guys.It can be said that Arnold is a better actor than he was fifteen years ago. His new family-man image in the film mirrors his current life, but the transitions from doting daddy to bone-crushing behemoth in other parts of the film are jarring and inconsistent. Still, here Arnie is more human, slightly more expressive and mellowed with age. He does more for the film than the film does for him. "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie...........","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that there were parts of this movie that could have been better done but overall I really did like it, there was action it moved well and the acting wasn't bad. This movie really does make you think about how something like Human cloning could be abused if put in the wrong hands. I'm all for fixing human diseases, but going so far as making perfect copies....ahhhh not sure I like that too much; what chance would the normal folk have in a world populated by the best of the best (or clones of same). Personally I think we're technologically closer to cloning than we are to the other science presented in this movie, downloading the entire human brain so it could be uploaded to the new clone---even our most advanced computers today would be not be able to hold all the information our brains are capable of storing. Like Gattaca, this movie makes you think on the issue (gattaca was not cloning just manipulation). It is a science that needs to be investigated but we need to keep corporate greed out of it and prevent its misuse by any one person; I'm not saying any one government is up to that task because it isn't. I always like a movie with a moral message and this one does a good job of presenting that. It's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A solid movie released at the wrong time","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this is not the absolute top film Arnold S. appeared in, THE SIXTH DAY is a solid entry in his portfolio. Ad midst the entertaining if unremarkable action fare, it thoughtfully looks at the world of cloning, and how a person might interact with their own mirror image.Unfortunately THE SIXTH DAYs' release encountered the steam roller of HOW THE GRINCH STOLE Christmas, which flattened every competing release and doomed THE SIXTH DAY to also-ran status. Also, the DVDs' did not get the benefits of director or actor commentary.Still, my working on the film (visual fx artist) was a worthwhile endeavor! Give it a shot and you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Entertaining light sci-fi/action/thriller with an sharp sense of humour.","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not far in the near future, where the cloning becomes legal only to animals and Human Cloning is still illegal. When an helicopter pilot Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) finds himself waking up in a cab without remembering what happened to him. Then later on that day, when he arrived home from his birthday. He seems himself in his birthday party celebrating with his family (Wendy Crewson and Taylor Anne Reid) and friends, then a mysterious group of killers (Michael Rooker, Sarah Wynter, Rodney Rowland and Terry Crews) tells Adam is been cloned and now they want to kill him. Now Adam is running from his life and he finds out that leads to a conspiracy from the creator of the clones Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn) and Dr. Griffin Weir (Oscar-WinnerRobert Duvall). At the same time, Adam now tries to reunite his family and now Adam is forced to destroy their secret of cloning humans.Directed by Roger Spottiswoode (Air America, Terror Train, Tomorrow Never Dies) made an entertaining science-fiction/thriller with plenty of action sequences and amusing moments of comedy. There's some good plot twists in the movie and offers something different than the usual Blockbusters from Hollywood. Despite the interesting premise, this film was an box office disappointment. When it was released in November of 2000. When The Grunch took over the box office of that month. Despite some good reviews by some of the top critics. This is surprisingly light, since most of Schwarzenegger's best action movies are R-Rated. This movie even reminds me of Total Recall a bit at some scenes of this motion picture. The cast seems to be having a good time here, Micheal Rapaport appears in a small role. Schwarzenegger is good as usual in these kind of movies and Duvall has some good moments as well. This futuristic action/thriller is worth a look. Written by The Wibberleys. Which Cormac and his wife Marianne wrote screenplays like Charlie's AnglesFull Throttle, I Spy and The Shaggy Dog. Schwarzenegger is also one of the producers of this somewhat underrated movie. Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "}{"Title":"Outstanding Sci-Fi thriller!","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" What's not to like about Arnie doing his action thing as only he can? The sci-fi gadgets are realistically done & most of them are very close to being actually in use within a few years. The action is non-stop & as always, very well done. The stunt team was really on the ball here. OK, so it is not true science...who, besides real scientists, cares about that? If you want real science, watch The Andromeda Strain, or Outbreak. If you, like most people, just want to be entertained for 2 hours, then this is a really great movie to watch with popcorn, some ice-cold sodas, & your date snuggled up next to you on the couch. It has some classic Arnie one-liners to chuckle at, some comedy scattered through it, & lots of explosions, laser blasters, chases, fights, & a plot that keeps you guessing until the very end. The negative comments I've read about this film must have been written by the science/computer nerds that escaped extinction so far. "},{"Title":"Clone Wars","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Contrary to popular vote on this site, I actually liked The 6th Day a lot. Ironically, this is one of the Schwarzenegger starred movies that I liked for other than the action. We are definitely in a time when cloning has become more and more of an issue due to it becoming an actuality. Of course there was some fiction mixed in with the science in this movie, but ever since Jurrasic Park kicked down the door of science fiction with respect to cloning, every movie after it has gotten closer and closer to reality. From the clone centered movies that I know of, (e.g. The 6th Day, Godsend, Multiplicity, The Island, and even Star Wars II) The 6th Day has to be the best. Arnold's acting left a lot to be desired, but when doesn't it. I was focused more on the actual issue at hand the ethics of cloning, and cloning for profit versus cloning for a greater good. The movie gave you a lot to think about while also somewhat steering you in a particular direction with regards to cloning. Actually, I think every movie on cloning that I've seen to date have guided you to one conclusion, and that is that cloning is not only bad, it is catastrophic. "},{"Title":"Decent Futuristic Action Movie","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day starring Arnold Schwarzenegger is a movie based around the year 2015, where cloning humans is illegal, whilst pet cloning is acceptable. The story is about Arnold's character, Adam Gibson discovers that a identical clone of himself in his home with the family. Next up, is a chance through the city to find out why he is trying to be killed, and find out the truth behind the cloning.Having it set not too far in the future, does give an idea of what the future might be like. They haven't gone over the top. Cars still have wheels in this film. All the improved technology in the film are all very believable, and with cloning already appearing in the real world in some form, make it even more interesting. Whilst saying that, i must also add, that the special effects are very impressive here. Even the new versions of the helicopters look amazing zooming through the air.The film isn't packed with action, as there is also a good mystery story in there, which also keeps you wondering towards the end, and gives you a surprising conclusion. The action which is in place is also fun to watch, with the highlight probably the car chase along the city.The action is also impressive, and Arnold Schwarzenegger really do act as if there is another version of him in the room. If you want a good action film to watch or a good mystery story, then try this as they might be a possibility that you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Pretty good science-fiction action film","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty good science-fiction action film. The setting is interesting and leads believably to decent action sequences that are not too long and boring, and the plot is resolved pretty decently.The weaknesses of this film are 1) a lot of the premise is presented in exposition form where the villains tell our hero unbelievably willingly the why, what, and how of what is happening to him. 2) The plot background is far less far-reaching than what I expected at first (it ends with Drucker); OK, my expectations are probably coming from other films with similar topics, so this is probably not the fault of this film. 3) The murder of Hank at the start of the film makes no sense First of all, murdering Drucker was pointless, because he was going to be replaced with another clone anyway; moreover, through Drucker's murder the assassin blew his cover anyway, so there was no point in murdering Hank to keep his cover; oh, and while we are at it, if Drucker's people did not know who was Hank and who was Adam, how did they know whom to clone? Anyway, by Hollywood standards these are just minor nits.This film seems to be the first in the modern wave of science-fiction films that explore a specific issue based on some hypothetical technology, e.g., Minority Report (2002) and I, Robot (2004); there were earlier films of that kind in the 70s (e.g., Soylent Green (1973), and most appropriately here Westworld (1973) and Futureworld (1976)), but I don't remember much of this kind in between. Some other films I was reminded of were Blade Runner (1982), especially in the ending, and Total Recall (1994). "},{"Title":"One of Arnold's best","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day marks the return of Arnold Schwarzenegger to a role that seems to be second nature to him action. This time there is an added twist; there is actually a decent plot attached to it.The 6th Day revolves around a man who has been cloned and ends up on the run from a corporation who wants him dead. Arnold is this man who has lost his family, life and taking on the corporation who took it from him. All the while, Arnold is searching within himself to find a way to get his family back.The 6th Day boasts a cast that includes Robert Duvall, Michael Rooker, Tony Goldwyn and Sarah Wynters. I knew the second I saw these names flash across the screen I was in for a real treat.The best thing about The 6th Day is the performance of Schwarzenegger because he is not only an action star in this film but a dramatic actor as he combines these two talents to pull off one of his better performances of his career.Arnold did not make this film a hit by himself, he had a little help from his friends. From Robert Duvall who played the doctor who performed the cloning operations to Michael Rooker, who was one evil henchmen with his menacing attitude and presence; The 6th Day was enjoyable to watch.I enjoyed how the plot of film didn't rely completely on the action sequences. Though, the action is fine; I believe that a film needs more than just action and The 6th Day has it.The 6th Day is one of the best Arnold Schwarzenegger films I've seen including the Terminator series. It is filled with action, twists, turns, suspense and drama that will appeal to movie fans of every age. "},{"Title":"Brave New Chewing Gum","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually, this movie was not as bad as I thought. The special effects were nice, they got into the story quickly, they had their plots and turns and a lot of interesting ideas. I was surprised of how creative some aspects of the movie were and I liked the general design a lot. Of course, the film has a lot of weaknesses too, like poor acting, a very predictable story, a lot of black and white painting. Some of the characters were very boring and poorly developed. But I can't imagine anyone who would have been surprised by that. Perhaps you can best compare the film to Minority Report, also dealing with a very interesting theme, being a nicely designed film that stops short of being a really good one for not having had the guts to challenge the audience a bit intellectually. These stories always seem like the chewing gum version of philosophy. You get the idea where they're going, but it doesn't have anything to do with the enjoyment of the real thing. "},{"Title":"Great movie, one of THE most underrated","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just seen this movie last night, and all I can say is that it is one of THE best Sci-Fi thrillers I have seen. It involves a futuristic plot where human cloning is illegal (but animal cloning is not) and a rich owner of a technology company who decides to reverse the law banning it by proving to the world that cloning is possible. The main character is a war veteran who takes the occupation of an average everyday helicopter pilot (Schwarzenegger) who one day finds out that he has been cloned. To get his life back, he had to find the people who did this and make them stop their madness. Great movie, the only problem is that there are some sudden changes to the plot which left me scratching my head. But overall, solid entertainment! I have stated that this movie is underrated, IT IS! I think that this movie should be on the top 250 (they should flip the current rating from 5.8 to 8.5), the minimum it should get is a high 7. Bottom line, WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"The more you watch it, the better it gets","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I saw this film in the theater, I was a bit disappointed. Arnold's last movies weren't what they once used to be and this movie wasn't as good as lets say True Lies.OK it's not your average shoot-em-up. But! After having watched this movie a couple of times (I finally understood everything...), I started to like it more and more. It has a great story, the filming is great and so are all of the actors and there are no 'boring' moments in the film.Don't judge this film by watching it only 1 time. Rewatch it and you'll like it more than the first time. "},{"Title":"Great Story  & Lots of Schwarenegger Action","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This picture fascinated me from beginning to end, it was so into the future with great helicopters and a very good story behind all the action. Arnold Schwarzenegger,(Adam Gibson),End of Days,'99, did a great job of acting as a good husband, and father to his daughter and their pet. The question of a human clone is mentioned through out the picture and Adam Gibson gets into a debate with Robert Duvall,(Dr. Griffin Weir),Open Range,'03 about whether a clone would have a soul and the fact that they were experimenting with God's human beings that He created. Scientist, Dr. Weir went around in circles with Adam besides the fact that these two people represented Good vs. Evil according to society. There were some comical scenes when Adam Gibson has to stand by and watch his wife being hit on and grabbed in all the wrong places according to Adam, as he watch without doing a single thing. There is lots of action and a great different kind of Schwarzennegger action film. Enjoy "},{"Title":"6th Day Rocks!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" All I can say is that I don't understand why this movie was rated LOW???!!! I absolutely loved this movie. Arnold was great, all the acting was wonderful. The special effects were awesome! I loved seeing Talia and Wiley being Cloned, it was so awesome! The plot line was easy to follow and the plot made me think, why and how? ha-ha. The Facts were almost always right and I saw no mistakes. I really hope that our world can become like that whatever year that was. To have amazing technology and engineering skills. I just love this awesome movie! I can watch this movie all day and over and over again. I definitely rate The 6th Day a 10 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable Film","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having seen the poor 5.9 average rating that IMDb.com's users gave the film, I would be lying if I said I had hopes watching this film. But I was pleasantly surprised when I watched this film.I know Schwarzeneggar has his critics, I understand that he is not the most talented actor to grace the big screen, but I have loved most of his movies. His on screen presence is easily enough to make up for any lack of acting ability.I was surprised, also, that this film had quite an interesting narrative. The cloning idea was more or less genius! I thought it may be the usual Arnie kicking the hell out of all comers for no apparent reason, but it goes deeper than that, exploring the potential problems that new technologies may cause.My overall judgement is a 9 out of 10, which is above average for my Arnie ratings. I can't help but feel that this film has suffered in the ratings due to people's ideas of Schwarzeneggar and his films. But I rarely find a film starring him that disappoints me, and thankfully this was no acception!! "},{"Title":"The 6th day and the American people.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th Day was a movie that caught the American people off guard. The subject of cloning was a topic in the year 2000 that the masses knew little about, and some of those who did know about it were simply not ready to deal with the social implications of cloning discussed in this movie. The 6th Day covered material that was just slightly ahead of its time. It is true that Arnold was a bad choice for lead, since it would have made more sense to cast someone that finds their identity through the tumultuous events in the movie instead of a character that the audience already identifies as indestructible. One day people will look back on this movie and chuckle on how the information went in one ear of America and out the other--for most anyway. "},{"Title":"Only Girlie Men Won't Like This Film","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, and most other people too, but that's beside the point.Gov. Schwarzenegger plays a pilot who gets cloned by some shady characters. The clone gets put in his place... and then his best friend, a fellow pilot, dies. Or maybe the order is reversed. I don't remember. Sort of like the rest of this movie...Medium-grade action fills up this cliched movie telling about the dangers of cloning, only not telling about the dangers of cloning. I hope Arnold got paid a lot of money to be in this because otherwise, it was SO not worth it. Don't see it, really, but at the same time, it's far from the worst film I've ever seen. Then again, seeing the governor of California in ANY movie is worth a good laugh.... "},{"Title":"cloning mess-up in the movie (SPOILER, kinda)","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey, did you guys notice that Arnold has a razor cut when he gets cloned? In fact, Mike Rapaport's character uses that to identify him as the original. Later on, we find out that they could and did reproduce the shaving cut. So here's my mess-up Why is it that when the girl assassin wakes up as a clone, she needs to repierce her ears? "},{"Title":"Action movie? Nope. Humerous? Nope. Message? Nope.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possibly the worst Arnie movie ever. It tries to be a sensible movie, but has no suspension of disbelief. Worse than that it simply rehashes some old concepts out of prior movies such as Total Recall and perhaps Bladerunner, and glues them together with truly tedious action sequences and unimaginitive special effects.Not even worth me spending any more time reviewing it, to be honest. "},{"Title":"Realistically, it won't make you forget about The Terminator, but it's a really good flick.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now more than ever, I truly believe the old saying, Different folks, different strokes. I never payed much attention to it before, but now it seems all the more appropriate thanks to this movie. I'd like to go out on a limb here and share a revelation with all of you fine people...Movies that I like, that I find interesting, that I find exhilerating, may not appeal to others. And vice-versa, of course. Now, I know you've heard THAT before, but it really is true. Here's my theory Everyone is born with a kind of subconscious cool zone, a zone that no one actually REALLY knows about, or knows how to get to. But sometimes, just by watching a film, this zone can come out of the subconscious mind and make an appearance, and turn an otherwise average film into a truly splendid experience.Come on now, think You know what I'm talking about. Memories, bits and pieces of sayings, images and experiences that happened to us when we were children can change the way we look at things. And I'm not talking just about opinions. Sometimes, when watching a particular film, the blend of music, image and atmosphere can make something inside our heads go click!, declenching a series of functions in our minds that turn an otherwise mundane film into a truly nostalgic experience.It is different for everyone, I've learned different stuff will do this for different individuals. While watching The 6th Day, I had one of these experiences. Plus, the movie was great, action-packed, and had some pretty cool special effects. Sure, The 6th Day has some faults, but they are overshadowed by the immense qualities present. A great score, great performances by the cast, good special effects, a truly engrossing storyline and a vital, unexpected plot twist at the very end that will change your experience the 2nd time around...Truly under-rated film. Buy it, rent it, love it... It won't change your world, but it is an awesome way to spend an afternoon. Great rental and a decent buy.  "},{"Title":"Great.. but could have been better.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was somewhat refreshing compared to all the other crap that came out around the time this movie did. This movie has just about all you can expect from the average Arnold Shwartzenegger movie Gun Fights, Car Chases, Futuristic Technology, Arnold beating the crap out of everyone; its a good all-around action/sci-fi movie.The only thing I think they could have done to make this better is to 'kick it up a notch', so to say. This movie was only rated PG-13, which surprised me. I don't know if they purposely made the movie more mild so that it would receive this rating and have a wider audience or whatever, but I think they should have just gone with the 'R' rating and gone all the way. There could have been so much more blood, violence, swearing and nudity; something we expect from Arnold Shwartzenegger movies. Either way, this movie was still great and worth watching. 4/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Great.. but could have been better.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was somewhat refreshing compared to all the other crap that came out around the time this movie did. This movie has just about all you can expect from the average Arnold Shwartzenegger movie Gun Fights, Car Chases, Futuristic Technology, Arnold beating the crap out of everyone; its a good all-around action/sci-fi movie.The only thing I think they could have done to make this better is to 'kick it up a notch', so to say. This movie was only rated PG-13, which surprised me. I don't know if they purposely made the movie more mild so that it would receive this rating and have a wider audience or whatever, but I think they should have just gone with the 'R' rating and gone all the way. There could have been so much more blood, violence, swearing and nudity; something we expect from Arnold Shwartzenegger movies. Either way, this movie was still great and worth watching. 4/5 stars. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of Why Scientists Should Not Clone Humans.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very Realistic Tale of Science gone bad when in the future what is supposed to be a gift from God, turns into Human Clones. Great special effects and some funny moments when you get to see Arnold acting opposite himself. "},{"Title":"better than expected, reasonably smart, no low points","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was better than I expected.  It had some interesting ideas in it. The plot moves along steadily, and did not have any parts which made me groan. Total Recall was an interesting movie but did have some parts that weren't too good, so while both movies are about as enjoyable this one did not have the low points. "}{"Title":"Just a notch below total recall..","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" So what if some of the ideas in this are not original and what if Arnie's acting is not arty or particularly strong? The plot is still very interesting the action intense, the visual effects impressive and the twists unpredictable...And if you watch such a film you must be prepared to enjoy macho action scenes without too much criticism and without demanding deep social messages... But as already noted, this is not a brainless action movie..It is very absorbing since it involves the cloning of people and the lookalikes that pop up in the movie keep the viewer guessing who is who or what until the end...Arnold is his regular self..Clumsy as an actor but somehow not offending and in his gigantic sort of way kind of likable and convincing even...The mystery of this guy's popularity cannot be fully discussed here, but one thing is certain .This film is not a disappointment.It is in my book his best after T2 and Total recall.And these are the only three movies by Arnie that you must see.... It surprises me that many rate True lies higher although it has a much poorer (to put it mildly) plot.Maybe the ideas on which the storyline progresses are not original but they are put in very good use... This is a far more interesting and mature movie in every aspect..Rent it or if you really like Total recall as i do buy it on DVD..I rate it 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Starts slow, but develops into an excellent sci-fi thriller","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this on DVD and nearly rejected it as a loser, but sat down again and was thoroughly satisfied.  The movie opens depending heavily on Schwarzenegger's acting which improves from film to film, but remains weak.  No matter, because he really knows how to pick his movies.  This one is about a time in the near future when rapid cloning -- true replication -- of animals is well developed, but cloning humans is forbidden.  Naturally, some evil person is doing precisely that and Adam Gibson (Schwarzenegger) becomes enmeshed in the vicious politics surrounding the struggle of the scientist and industrialist behind it all.The future here is rather heavily infested with gizmos, but suprisingly we see some nice performances from an excellent cast in a nicely turned plot and special effects are not the only thing to look for in this movie. "},{"Title":"Arnie like in Total Recall","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An entertaining action film and science-fiction, with a topic of present time like it is the clonation and the brilliant Schwarzenegger putting the action to it collides. I like this futurist film to be a movie of science-fiction in which the Austrian hero demonstrates that he has left a lot of time to give war and it is not as old as it is thought and he/she reminds me of one of my favorite films, played by Schwarzenegger, Total Recall although it is not directed by Paul Verhoeven but the good one is noticed to make of the director Roger Spottishwoode (Tomorrows never dies). Neither it is necessary to discard the special effects of this movie that are very spectacular (the scenes of shootings with guns laser and the helicopters charter). In short if you want to watch a good movie of current science fiction and with Schwarzenegger to the head, this it is your film. The cast is secondary as the veteran Robert Duvall, Tony Goldwyn, Michael Rapaport, Michael Rooker...  they are brilliant in their roles. "},{"Title":"15 Times And I Can STILL Sit Through It!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, with a summary like that, you probably think I really like this movie. That's not the case.  The movie itself I felt pretty average about, but the thing is that it just happens to be on Cable TV every time I'm watching. I'll be flipping channels, The 6th Day will show up, and I'll think Hey, I might as well watch it.  So, I do.  It's been 15 times now and there's no signs of slowing.  It costs me nothing to watch, so why not?The one thing I really DID like about this movie was the soundtrack.  The main theme that plays throughout was very good.  So good in fact it was stuck in my head all day long at work.I also enjoyed the humor! DOESN'T ANYONE STAY DEAD ANYMORE?! Sure, it's nowhere near as laughable as the humor in, say, COMMANDO, but it suffices.  The scene where one of the Arnolds is trying to call the cops is hilarious.  This is 911.  Your call is important to us.  Yeah, I KNOW!Above all else though, the scenes which involve both Arnolds are the best in the whole film - especially when they're making a bomb.  Just watch it, you'll agree that it's Coo-Cool.Same goes for the movie too.  If you don't happen to catch it during its 4 to 6 plays a day on Showtime2, then go and rent it!By the way, viewing # 16 is coming up in a day or two. "},{"Title":"An interesting idea that falls short","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Sixth Day, a movie about cloning, action and more cloning, is a movie that takes an interesting idea, and really doesn't do what it really could of done with it. I liked the debate about cloning stuff, it's an intrigueing issue. The story is basicly a man finds out that he has been cloned, and people try to kill him because of it. There are quite a few rediculous aspects about this movie's plotline, the most notable one being how can these bad guys continue to clone one person after another where there's the Sixth Day violation that carries this fourty year prison sentance? The script doesn't really have many strong aspects, as most character are just flat, and Arnold's character lacks the strenth and motivation he has had in many of his previous action films. As for the action scenes, they're okay but not that great. The most similar Arnold movie that you can compare this to is Total Recall which was a much more thrilling and fun sci-fi action movie. This movie, like other recent Arnold flicks, isn't bad but doesn't have enough for you to call it a good action movie. I give it a 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Totalled and Recalled Too","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK. its not that bad, but this Arnie vehicle on the Case against Human Cloning (copyright Religious_Fundamentalists.con) has some good ideas that are simply not brought to fruition, let down by a poor all-round implementation from acting to direction.The notion that Man can become immortal through cloning oneself when the old(er) body wears out is sadly relegated to a videogame means of `respawning' a `game character' after he gets killed (only costs US$1.2mil per prototype clone says a Movie Bad Guy. that's the pre-mass market release price).As an effects showcase, some cool tech bits like the hologram billboards, the opening CGI scene with the helijets. are pasted on a decidedly low-budget backdrop of contemporary urban streets, plasma TVs, cars with cruise control etcFor an Arnie show, the crap props are unforgivable, forcing the viewer to focus more attention to the big guy's wooden acting.  Best utilised as a cool-looking ubermann mumbling cynical one-liners while dishing out Red Heat, Arnie delivers double-vamdammage here with two versions of himself. True to B-movie script, the semantics are squeezed into a few scenes, the main editing leaving us a disjointed series of the Running Man escaping the End of his Days as the terminators seek to Erase him.  For a supposedly regular working family man, Arnie's character displays Commando instincts, more Predator than prey, taking delight from killing while hamming up `Aw-shucks' Kindergarten Cop scenes.  While it not fair to dump on what is essentially an action flick, it is a bit of a Raw Deal for the paying viewer, as the endless violence we seek by watching an Arnie show is not as polished here.  "},{"Title":"Clones","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not much to say except i loved this film. Lot's of action, sci-fi which i love and heaps of clever twists. Although Arnold is showing his age in this movie, it hasn't at all stumped his acting ability in this movie.95% Great twist! "},{"Title":"One of 'his' Greats","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is great! one of Arnie's best films! His career may not havevery active recently what with Collateral Damage a come back filmalmost but the effects and acting are perfect. It occurred to me as aMatrix type film. It was always going to be difficult what with thefuture effects to deal with but they got it spot on. Some of thecontent is hilarious! I recommend this to any action film fan. You'llenjoy it for a laugh. "},{"Title":"On the 6th day, Hollywood made action flicks.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film seems ripped from the latest headlines.  Go see this film.  The directing is excellent.  The script is better than your typical action flick.  I really enjoyed watching the toys in the movie -- the jet-copter, the talking fridgerator, the hologram girlfriend (wish I could program my wife like that!), the futuristic cars, etc.   Although Arnold really didn't have someone his equal to fight against, I thought the action scenes were really good.  The comedy was really good as Arnold keeps killing off the same people.  Don't you guys ever stay dead? and When I told you to screw yourself, I didn't mean for you take it literally!.  Go rent this movie.  The plot isn't rocket science but it will make you think about the implications of cloning humans.   "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is Arnie's best movie in a while. It's a shame it didn't do that well at the box office, but I suppose Arnold doesn't have the draw he used to.It's kinda the modern Total Recall. Arnold is in great shape in this movie (I mean, HUGE) although he is starting to get a little wrinkly, heck he was 53.I watched this on DVD and it's really packed with extras, and has excellent 5.1 sound.The story is good, the effects are good, and all in all, it's a worthwhile 2 hours of viewing. It possibly could have been better in some areas but I wasn't disappointed. "}{"Title":"Just when you THOUGHT it was safe to go home after a long day of work...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold (might be back?) as a futuristic charter pilot named Adam who starts off in the film with what seems to be the trappings of a normal life beautiful wife, daughter, exciting occupation, nice home in a quiet residential setting and good friends. He is shocked into a  living nightmare when he arrives home one night only to see an exact duplicate of himself celebrating his birthday party! He quickly learns of a sixth day violation; he was cloned illegally by an evil corporation and should have been terminated earlier. He is very soon attacked by goons sent by that same company that seek to eliminate him to cover up their previous error. He battles his way past them (repeatedly)(ouch!!) all the way to the corporate headquarters to confront the top culprits in this high tech game of deception. Nothing can stop him and he even teams up with himself to put things back to normal. This film HAS to be added to your collection of DVD action movies as there is no way you can appreciate it fully if seen only once. Arnold Schwarzenegger is just a GREAT actor and even is able to mix the role of action hero and loving husband and father in the same movie. Just get yourself a copy and patiently wait for him to be back in Terminator III! "},{"Title":"great movie and surprisingly re-watchable!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  when I first saw this movie it pleasantly surprised me. I actually had fun watching it, which is something rare in today's overhyped-but-empty action movies like Mission Impossible II. I watched it again recently, and found out it was more than just entertainment. I thought as I first watched it that there would be plenty of holes on a second viewing, but no way. The script for this movie is fantastic, and frequently thought-provoking as well. Sometimes it gets a little complicated, like in the end when there are two Arnolds involved in the action, but that's OK because when you watch it again you discover it's all coherent and logical. I've watched it many times on DVD and I never ever tire of it somehow, the DVD is packed with extras so I highly recommend it to sci-fi fans! It's truly a must buy; I can't imagine anyone (except non-sci-fi fans) not enjoying this movie. Arnold's best since True Lies, can't wait to see Collateral Damage.  "},{"Title":"I 'might' be back!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After having played in a few minor films, Arnold Schwarzenegger returns with the kind of action film that reminds us of his earlier work.  Although his movies will always have a bit of a simplistic story (the James Cameron-classics being an indisputable exception here), there are other far more superior things that make most of his films quite enjoyable.  One hardly ever goes to see an Arnie-film for the brilliant acting and the Oscar-worthy scenario.  Instead, you're treated with first-rate action and catchy one-liners.And things aren't any different in The 6th day.  The action scenes are sometimes a bit farfetched but always fun to watch.  The story has little depth, but contains a few clever puns.  The characters are poor but not uninteresting and almost all of the acting is beneath average but not annoying.  With Tony Goldwyn and Arnold Scharzenegger as the hardly convincing baddie and goodie, it's Academy Award-winner Robert Duvall who deserves all the credit for his fine performance as the 'cloning' doctor in this movie.***SPOILER*** Somehow 'James Bond Tomorrow never dies'-director Roger Spottiswoode has included two clones in his film of two of the most famous modern horror-characters.  The first one is when Schwarzenegger decides to buy a living doll for his daughter.  You might notice that this non-stop speaking piece of plastic is an actual she-Chucky.  It's an ugly doll and it's more frightening than playful.  The second link is at the end of the movie after Tony Goldwyn has tried to clone himself.  The process of cloning was interrupted by Schwarzie himself and as a result of that the ultimate baddie of this movie looks very much like Freddy Krueger.  Whether these two similarities were done by accident or are indeed deliberate choices, is not really known.  What is known, is that the worst part of the movie is when Schwarzenegger has cloned himself and they both try and rescue their wife.  It's so farfetched that it's actually funny yet it weakens the script of the film.Although The 6th day is a pretty good popcorn-action movie, there are still quite a few flaws to discover.  But if you look beyond these, you might enjoy the picture after all.Last but not least the funniest part of this film is when Arnold Schwarzenegger (while looking for a present for his daughter) is mocking himself and his favorite one-liner.  Instead of saying I'll be back he decides to give it a little twist and says to the salesman I might be back. "},{"Title":"Arnold got it right for once.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers??Looking thru Arnolds movie listing on the dvd, I found they selected about 99% of the movies of his that I've watched.  How weird.But I really loved this movie.  It's a rare thing when Arnold starts making really good movies again.  Although some of his silliness does come to play from time to time, I took it in stride simply because it had a great storyline.  I must see for sci fi fans.7/10Quality 6/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"solid action movie","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th day is with Arnold Schwarzenegger who is one of the last remaining true action heros from the 1980s and early 1990s when action films consisted of cool and sharp guys who had to do a bad job, save the world, kiss a girl and leave some silly quotes wherever they break the neck of someone evil.I consider this film a solid action film in which I especially liked the way of paying the taxi fare. Despite all the risks arising from a national or even international fingerprint database, I'd very much appreciate such a simple way of paying.*SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD* The film's about cloning and its possible consequences. To make it short, there are some very enjoyable moments and there are no incoherencies I found but the helicopter mirror thing scene seemed a little off the way (if this is expressed correctly for not suiting in the rest).6/10 "},{"Title":"Decent Arnold flick","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the near future,Arnold finds he was cloned,and decides to get revenge.Neat F/X and some decent action scenes,but Arnold has starred in better films,same with Robert Duvall.To be honest,Arnold is getting a little old (he's getting 30 million for T3),but he is still a good action hero.Rating***1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Very good underrated film","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How can a mindless cringe prompter like Stuart Little rake in all-time level box office revenues, while this film ranks nowhere in sight?I saw The Sixth Day again last night to double-check whether temporary delirium caused my excellent impression first time around.No mirage - just as good. Happy testimony from two co-watchers backs me up.One is a chick-flick lover/Arnie-loather who I had to plead with to give this film a chance. The other just could not understand how he hadn't heard about it before.The Sixth Day provides a detailed, sensitive and thoughtful presentation of the subject of cloning. At the same time, the film is action-packed, funny and replete with imaginative and quite plausible futuristic touches. All packaged within a tightly woven plot and fast-flowing screenplay. How many films have you seen recently combining so many great aspects?The film's world is one where the first human was imperfectly cloned in an experiment a decade ago and sixth day laws (per Genesis....& the Lord created Man on the sixth day....) have since been put in place to prevent it happening again. But cloning is a legal fact of life in other ways pet cloning has become a huge business, as has the cloning of human organs for transplant purposes.Prominent in the film are the fundamentalists who vehemently oppose these things and who suspect - correctly - that the featured company providing these services has secretly perfected and is practising the illegal art of human cloning.While the film's population at large believes that successful human cloning is still a myth and perhaps unachievable, the pet-cloning company owns a football team whose star player gets hugely smashed up in a scrimmage and yet shows up fresh as a daisy the following week. A fundamentalist claims to have shot dead the company's CEO, even as the fellow goes about business as usual. A congressman with a dying wife suddenly reverses his opposition to the sixth day laws.Unsuspectingly forced to navigate the epicenter of the imbroglio  - in a fantastically cool remote control helicopter-airplane - is super-pilot Arnie. He delivers trademark good-hearted monotones as he terminates (and re-terminates!)the bad guys and tries to get his life and his wife back.In Sixth Day world a featureless full-grown human body cocooned in an oversized water-held embryo is called a blank. All the blank needs to replicate a human is a dose of the individual's DNA plus a recording (called simcording, or something like that)of the contents of the person's mind and memory. The simcording contents can be recorded on a disk and are extracted by funky-looking eyeglass styled cameras.And with the DNA and the simcording, explains the nicely cast Robert Duvall to a laser gun wielding Schwarzenegger, we can produce a perfect clone in under two hours.Perfect except for the built-in defects. For, you know, business and contractual leverage.....Very different to Gattaca, but if that film stimulated your thinking this probably will too.Perhaps The Sixth Day could have been marketed much more effectively. I noticed the director to be Roger Spottiswoode, who delivered Air America, another film that I (think I!?) liked but nobody else seems to remember even though it features 2 fine actors in Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr.  "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger at his best","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just watched this movie, and I think it was a big positive surprise. I had just expected some action and funny quotes from Schwarzenegger, and I got that and more. This movie makes you think afterwards, what are the consequences of cloning people?If you like the action/comments from True Lies, I think you would like this one too. Arnie is still going strong and he shows his good acting ability in 6th Day. "},{"Title":"arnie back in sci fi finally","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  out of all the scharzenegger flics i've seen, the only ones i've actually liked were his sci-fi genre movies, predator is stretching it since its mostly fantasy and not sci-fi but still it falls into the genre sci-fi even if its not truly sci-fi, with the exception of twins (thanks to devito) and true lies, his non-sci-fi movies are almost unwatchable, even his pure action flics (i.e. commando) are just horrid, but when he touches sci-fi his cheezy acting fits it perfectly and makes for a very enjoyable movie to watch (total recall, t1, t2, etc)  6th day brings arnie back where he belongs, to the sci-fi realm, and from the looks of it he's finally coming back home! "},{"Title":"This was PG-13????????","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You'll have to wonder about the rating systems these days. The 6th Day, (besides being a failed action movie) contains heavy profanity, nudity, strong violence (including a scene where a guy gets his leg shot off) but somehow got a PG-13 rating. Doesn't make sense. Either does this silly movie.  "}{"Title":"Nothing is perfect","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has good points and it has bad points. Good points 1. Schwarzengger is given a lot of meat to work with and he performs better than he could with it. 2. It has some good arguments for an against cloning. 3. Its got a good plot for a Schwarzengger film. For once. Bad points 1. The other actors perform badly. 2. It copies from Total Recall, X Men and Blade Runner. Even so its not really bad even if it isn't perfect. 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Arnie makes a comeback with style and substance","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie surprised me. When I picked up the DVD from the video store, I thought it was going to be a mindless action flick with Arnie and his clone dishing out double damage together or perhaps fighting each other.....and that  was basically the flickBoy was I wrong! This movie requires the audience to think and to pay attention to the plot. It confronts various moral and ethical issues on the subject of cloning while providing decent action with Arnie dishing it out to the bad guys. The plot also has enough twists and turns to keep the viewer interested in between action scenes.Oh and the classic one liners are back. No one delivers them like Arnie can!!Although not quite up to the Matrix in philosophical content and visual style, The 6th day is none the less a solid sci fi actioner and presents a hypothetical scenario of what can happen if we are able to clone a human being.  "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking movie (if it were made in 1985)","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a washed out clone of Total Recall.  Perhaps too much of the movies budget went to Arnold - it doesn't show up on the screen.  A sci-fi thriller should have scenes that make you want to watch it again.  In this case, you want to watch the next movie you've rented.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE 6TH DAY, in my opinion, was an absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller! I saw this with my ex-boyfriend, and he thought it was weird, even though he's an avid Schwarzenegger fan, but, I thought it was good. One scene I remember clearly is when Adam (Arnold Schwarzenegger) says, I know who I am. When he was being pursued by Talia (Sarah Wynter), I was a LITTLE scared. Other than that, the entire cast were all smashing in my opinion -- Especially Arnold! Keep up the good work! When this film is for sale on VHS, I'm going to buy it. I also hope Arnold will do more films like this! To all you Arnold Schwarzenegger fans, if you haven't seen THE 6TH DAY, I HIGHLY recommend it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE 6TH DAY, in my opinion, was an absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller! I saw this with my ex-boyfriend, and he thought it was weird, even though he's an avid Schwarzenegger fan, but I thought it was good. One scene I remember clearly is when Adam (Arnold Schwarzenegger) says, I know who I am. When he was being pursued by Talia (Sarah Wynter), I was a LITTLE scared. Other than that, the entire cast were all smashing in my opinion -- Especially Arnold! Keep up the good work! When this comes to video, I want to own it. I also hope Arnold will do more films like this! To all you Arnold Schwarzenegger fans, if you haven't seen THE 6TH DAY, I HIGHLY recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Too much Arnold","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The subject cloning is interesting - and I also think that THE 6TH DAY treats the subjects quite well - the pros and cons are discussed. Maybe it's a bit black and white, but at least they try.But the main problem is Arnold. I've said it before and I'll say it again he cannot act (quite a flaw for an actor). Whenever he gets intimate with his wife or has to be upset about something (show his emotions) - it gets painful to watch. And when he jokes with his helicopter partner - oooooohhh my God - it's bad beyond imagination.It's not a coincidence that the best Arnold movies are Terminator 1 and 2 - the less he talks the better the movie. Rating 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"Actually not bad","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I got this film out on DVD last night so I feel obligated to say something about it. But now I realise that don't really have anything to add to the comment on the main page, which more or less says it all. But I might dig up a couple of things..Arnie- looking a bit grizzled now, perhaps not the best actor in the world, but good to watch nonetheless. Those helicopters- was there any point in them being able to turn into jet planes? Some slightly iffy CGI aswell. But that's about it really - Duvall adds gravitas to the scenes he's in, and all around its not a bad picture, but I couldn't help thinking it could have been somehow better. So on an Empire scale.... *** out of 5.Pity, because every time a new Arnie film comes out, I hope that somehow it'll be great.. but somehow they never quite are. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable despite wooden Arnie","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  6th Day was a disappointment at the box-office, but surprisingly, the film itself wasn't too bad. It's not great, but quite enjoyable. The film feels a lot like Total Recall, but most of the premise works. The only major problem with the picture is the action sequences, they are not innovative. The story is interesting, but wasn't entirely convinced by the futuristic world.The acting isn't bad, Arnie is poor though. The direction is quite vibrant, obviously using Tomorrow Never Dies work to good use at times.The music by Rabin is enjoyable but the special effects are weak.Arnie needs a big hit, this wasn't it, and time is running out!Overall, enjoyable despite wooden Arnie. "},{"Title":"Great action packed Sci-fi thriller with moral questions","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning this review contains spoilersThe 6th Day is nonstop action film with moral questions about cloning.  When I left the theater at the end of this film I asked myself would I liked to be cloned and have my memories after I die, or would I like to be cloned and live on.  The answer I came up with was no.  The clone wouldn´t be me, it may have my memories, but I would be dead.  This question was answered when I saw this film for the first time.  The plot is something like this, the film opens in the early 21st century with a quarterback for the XFL (note this film came out before the league dissipated).  Anyways the quarterback is seriously injured, and will possibly remain a vegetable.  They decide to pull the plug on his life support system, and he dies, only to be cloned.  Later we have Adam Gibson played by Arnold Schwarzenegger.  He is about to celebrate his birthday, and he has a wife and daughter.  Later he and his pilot partner are going to fly Billionaire Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn) up some mountains in state of the art choppers, which turn into jets, its really cool.  They take off and later Adam awakens in a car on his way to a re-pet store.  The store clones your animal after it dies, which Adam is against.  He later decides not to go in and picks up a sim pal which is a futuristic version of doll.  He goes home, and finds a duplicate of himself in his house with his family.  After he sees them two agents come up to him, and tells him that he has been cloned.  He try´s to go into his house and they stop him.  A chase ensues, and I won´t bore you with the rest of the plot.I want to talk about the the characters that get continuously cloned.   They are agents that work for Drucker.  Talia (Sarah Wynter), Marshall (Michael Rooker), and Wiley (Rodney Rowland).  It was hilarious seeing these people die over and over again and keep getting cloned.  Talia gets shot, and her fingers blasted off, but she is still cloned.  Marshall gets his feet blown off, and Wiley gets his neck broken, and he is run over by a car.  It was funny, when he states that he could feel the pain of those two incidents, and the others telling him that it wasn´t his real organs that got broken.Robert Duvall gives an excellent performance as the Dr. Weir the man behind the cloning.  I love the scene just before his wife died who was a clone, and she telling him not to clone her again.  He realizes the error of his ways and questions his work when he finds out that Drucker had put defects in all of the clones.Tony Goldwyn gives an excellent performance as Michael Drucker the sinister man who whom Weir works for.  This man has a god complex.  He stated that he was taking over where god left off.  This man has no morals or redeeming qualities, he orders the deaths of people, without even considering his actions.  Goldwyn plays an excellent villain.This story tells of the dangers of cloning, and makes the viewer ask themselves if they would like to be cloned.  I think that Roger Spotiswoode directed a great story, and Schwarzenegger was excellent I loved seeing him act opposite himself (his Clone). I believe that if a Sci-fi film makes you think, then its worthy of checking out.  If you haven´t seen this movie I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"I liked it, so sue me!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE 6TH DAY is nothing ground-breaking or Shakespearean, but delivers what you'd expect from a Schwarzenegger action film good pace, decent story, and nice action. And while the moral implications of playing God aren't dealt with exclusively, it's handled briefly and well enough with the rest of the material. Arnold gives a good performance, with equally-good support from Michael Rapaport, Robert Duvall (underused in a roll that appeared vital to the film in the trailers but is otherwise not very important), Tony Goldwyn, and Wendy Crewson as Arnold's wife. THE 6TH DAY is not as good as TOTAL RECALL, PREDATOR, ERASER, THE TERMINATOR or END OF DAYS, but it's still good, one of Arnold's better 90s action films. "}{"Title":"Great story, shame about Arnie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this film an excellent concept with exceptional direction. The cuts between scenes are the best I've seen since Star Wars they makes the film seem that more complete. Apart from Arnie being a bit cheesy the film had everything a good film should have.... a strong opening .... a story line that stands the length of the film ..... and an ending that actually finish's the film off as THE END.... not 'I wonder what happened next?' Watch it more than once and its even better!  "},{"Title":"I liked it better the first time when it was called total recall","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that if this movie is approached from the perspective that there might be some 'higher meaning' or 'social commentary' to be found within the viewer is going to be disappointed.  With that said, No one should go to an Arnold movie looking for much more than action, it is what he does.  While this movie clearly has an agenda, to make a statement about the 'dangers' of human cloning, it never really takes the issue seriously enough, and obviously looked for the right answers by polling focus groups (the obvious rebuke of science for not thinking ethically and 'morally' about what scientists choose to research, such a popular stance lately).  Taken for what it was supposed to be, an hour and a half of fun wrapped around something sort of interesting to think about, it is a first rate movie.  "},{"Title":"Clever and exciting sci-fi","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day takes place in the near future, when man has mastered the technique of cloning. However, it´s only allowed to clone animals and organs, not humans. But a big corporation has ignored the law and has actually cloned real humans for quite a time, something that helicopter pilot Adam Gibson (Schwarzenegger) soon will be aware of. When he comes home to his wife and daughter to celebrate his birthday, he sees that a clone of himself is already there! Soon, he finds himself hunted by powerful forces, who wants to eliminate him.Although The 6th Day didn´t become the big comeback from Arnold that people hoped for, it´s still a good science fiction with an original and interesting story. The story has its gaps though, for example; Arnold´s character is apparently a war veteran, but this is barely mentioned! But in all the story, including the cloning process, pretty much makes sense.The first half of the film is pretty different for an Arnie-movie, but we recognize his abilities in the other half, where he starts kickin´ butt for real. The whole plot reminds a little of an old Arnold-film, the Mars-based masterpiece Total Recall. The 6th Day is not as good as Total Recall, but not that far from it.The acting is overall good, but Arnold´s one-liners doesn´t really work as good as they usually do. The comic timing lacks a bit, but his performance is still good. You really care about Arnold´s family and Michael Rapaport is funny as Arnold´s co-worker and friend. The bad guys make solid performances, with Tony Goldwyn as the villain Michael Drucker and Robert Duvall as his more sympathetic associate. Michael Rooker is a bit over the top as Drucker´s henchman, he shouts a bit too much.The film also has some spectacular action scenes, the highlight being a spectacular helicopter sequence in the snowy mountains. The 6th Day also has lots of shooting, with laser guns that remind me of Star Wars.So if you like Arnold and lots of action with a clever plot, this should work pretty well!* * * * out of * * * * * "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recommend this movie to Arnold fans and science fiction fans. The action is good, the story is well written and keeps you guessing. There are also some intriguing views on society and everyday life in the future. Anyone who's a fan of sci-fi and action should really head for the video store and rent this movie. The DVD has a lot of good extra features. They really show how complicated this film was to make.   "},{"Title":"Double Your Boredom","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The laserfire and car chases only compound the boredom in this dull, unimaginative, surprisingly irritating film. Arnold's acting -- never much to begin with -- appears to be going further downhill as he continues his type re-casting as Big Family Man With Big Heart.  He can't even deliver his signature tough guy one liners with any panache, leaving viewers with a bunch of cliches, predictable dialogue, and insipid plot. Makes Terminator look like a work of art and Conann a work of genius. "},{"Title":"Quite good actually","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day is a typical late 80s-early 90s type of action flick. Better special/visual effects perhaps, but the script might as well have been written in 1990. The 6th Day not only features character actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, it seems that it has been inspired by (and borrowed from) Arnie-flick Total Recall. The two films are very much alike.The 6th Day was, I have to say, very entertaining. It was also about ten times as good as I expected. I had great fun watching this movie. So, if you don't have any expectations -- and feel kind of nostalgic -- then you should rent this movie and you will probably not be disappointed. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Arnold Scwarzenegger spoiled once more a movie that could have been interesting without him.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once more I say, comments have as base personal opinions and of course, I have mine. My God, where can I start with? The story, actors, sets&#133; everything is around Scwarzenegger and honestly, I can't find anything good about him. Bad acting, null charisma and worst of all, they constantly want to make him excuse  like an  American citizen, with one of the worst accents ever, this is NOTHING LESS THAN RIDICULOUS. What is left behind are supporting actors expecting to `shine' with a great golden lead (but couldn't) some mediocre special effects (some of them aren't consistent with the background &#150;in the helicopter ride, it is flying really low above a river and there is no water motion on it-), a promising storyline, an enjoyable score (by the master Trevor Rabin) and&#133;. That's all (oh a regular production design and an interesting cinematography, and the idea of seeing how much times have we been cloned are the number of spots you have inside your lower eyelid) For an issue like this, which is very present nowadays we were expecting for a better vehicle of information. The audience is still waiting for a better treatment on the issue, and please, don't throw Schwarzenegger into one of these again. 5 negative points to Arnold Schwarzenegger and five positive to the rest, after all nothing more than a 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Why???? Please tell me why??","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why did I rent this film? Can someone please answer that? This movie just plain sucked. I think if it sucked anymore it would have sucked the chrome off a trailer hitch through 50ft of garden hose. I don't know what the hell I was expecting when I actually rented this film thinking it would be a little o.k. but it wasn't even that.The only cool part were the Whisper helicraft.Just do yourself a favor and save your money.  "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Come on now, this movie was very poor at best. I love Arnold as much as the next guy and the trailers for this movie looked really good. It was also pretty nice to see Arnie as somewhat a normal man with a wife and daughter that was a nice touch. But this movie reeked of Total Recall in fact they should have called it Total Recall II. I was amazed to see that people had rated this movie so high, I just didn't get into it. Arnie needs to do movies with new ideas to move forward. I really liked End of Days it was very fresh had some great mood to it and Arnie really was vulnerable. If you want to see a much better recent Arnold movie check out End of Days it's twice the movie that this one is. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sci-fi action flick","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As Arnold movies go, this one has a relatively good story.  It is somewhat reminiscent of `Total Recall' with its futuristic sci-fi bent, but it is better because it broaches some interesting ethical considerations regarding human cloning.  Of course, this IS an Arnold movie so it doesn't bother to weigh itself down with profundities, but it adds a little intellectual meat to his stock in trade, and that is a plus.  The script is a bit predictable with numerous tip-offs as to which is the real Adam Gibson and which is the clone.  However, there are enough interesting subplots to keep the viewer engaged.    Director Roger Spottiswoode (`Air America', `Tomorrow Never Dies') strikes a good balance between drama and action and paces the film well.  Arnold fans might find the action sequences a bit tame by comparison to some of his other films, but there is plenty to keep the average action junkie happy.The cast is generally solid.  Arnold is the same old Arnold, flexing his biceps and constantly flashing his well-spaced front teeth charmingly between action sequences.  His acting in this film is better than usual, giving his character both strength and vulnerability with a hint of tongue in cheek humor thrown in.  Michael Rapaport provides most of the comic relief in his bits with the virtual girlfriend.  Tony Goldwyn is hatefully nefarious as the manipulative magnate who runs a rogue cloning factory.  Robert Duvall is excellent, as always, as the scientist with a conscience.Overall, this is an entertaining film with an interesting premise.  I rated it a 7/10.  The area of cloning is fertile ground on which to build a more serious story, but it serves as a good backdrop for this basic good v. evil action film. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th day was MUCH better than I was thinking it would be.  Going into it as an Arnold Schwartzenegger film, I was very pleasantly surprised to find this a genuine contemplation of the potential implications of human cloning, as well as being a truly entertaining Sci-Fi film with elements of drama, humor and pathos.  Although it wasn't truly original in the usual definition (elements from other movies were present), the screenplay was highly original in the way these elements were put together.Personally, I enjoyed the unusual 'cinematographic devices' used to represent memories, although some may find these annoying, and I didn't find this film depressing in the slightest.  Fine filmmaking, and I didn't have to turn my brain off... there were some predictable elements (the thumb as an example), but overall the movie threw some surprises at me that I wasn't expecting (some may, but I don't consciously try to think ahead while watching a movie).  The pacing, although unusual at some points, felt right in this film.I do think the film might have been better with a different lead, Arnold was redundant in a sense here.  Someone more articulate maybe, but still he was OK here... in fact, a pleasant surprise.I recommend this film to both action-adventure and sci-fi fans, and give it a solid 8/10.  As I've said before, screenplay is important in films, and not only did this one have a good one, but the special effects went to further the plot, not the other way around.  Fantastic!  "},{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"       The film only lasted a week in the theater, and I did not get a chance to see it.  The critics did not like this film, but I believe  liberal factions in media and a republicanish Arnold seem to be at odds, and Arnold get a fair share of criticism.  In the paper I read, the anti American critic reviewed this movie very harshly.  When reading the review I thought this movie would be a stinker like eraser, the same done that seen that before action film.        Well, I was very wrong, taking philosophy at the University I found this to be a philosophical action film.  The story enters a topic of what if in the future we could clone ready made humans, what impact would it have.  Well, not to spoil the story you can guess Arnold gets cloned, and the bad guy has this belief in eternal life.  Is the person real, does he or she have a soul.  Along with some cheap laughs, and fancy futuristic special effect this movie was fun to watch.    I laugh when people portray Arnold, because he is a big weight lifter, as dumb, unable to speak, or think rationally; a movie like this show his philosophical side of acting.  "},{"Title":"recall day","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not so far from the future-'Total Recall'.what interesting about this movie is, somehow they can make this plot is a bit urgent and more meaningful and fearing rather than silly like 'multiplicity'.the action indeed is standard, the acting is very much also standard, and what do you really expect from yet another arnie movie?anyway, in total, it is an o-kay movie, if you like these kind of standard movie. but do not expect a full-twisting plot like total recall or a ground-breaking standard like terminator.this is just another arnie movie like... er... eraser.an enjoyable movie to be watched whenever you need an easy yet not-much thinking plot with science fiction tricks. -x- "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sci-fi hokum","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sci-fi hokum from Schwarzenegger that delivers more or less what it promises. He comes home one day to find he has been cloned. What's more, the clone is enjoying his birthday party, cuddling his daughter and making whoopee with his wife. Once the basic dilemma was out of the bag I was worried about whether the film would maintain enough momentum, but it manages it quite well and I enjoyed every minute of it. There's plenty of gags about near-future inventions to keep sci-fi fans happy, even if the main premise is riding rather shakily on the recently completed Genome Project. Not an outstanding movie, but an enjoyable one for most sci-fi fans.  "},{"Title":"Wooden Star, poor story, uninteresting!!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know you can not expect acting from Arnie, but, he excels (..or is it fails) spectacularly in this movie.......I'm sorry to say. Arnie your too old for action movies and you can't act, find a new career. The special effects are B-movie standard, the story is a rehashed tabloid scare story. It has holes large enough to drive a Jumbo jet through etc, etc, etc. With better effects and a believable star (Bruce Willis where were you) and some light massaging of the script it could have been a worthy movie. But it wasn't! "},{"Title":"Great - But Only Because of Arnie.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film the day it was released in the UK and had been absolutely dying to see it. Despite the bad reviews I read, I remained optimistic. If I were to sum it up in one word it would be 'Great' but then that's only because I'm a huge Schwarzenegger fan. Despite the big action sequences, the whole film just lacks that firepower that makes Arnies other films such a joy to watch. The plot seems to be a cross between Total Recall and The Matrix and Schwarzeneggers acting is diabolical. The general impression I got was that this movie was nothing more than Roger Spottiswoods favourite flicks spliced together, and it just doesn't work. Take away Arnold and it is pretty much garbage. Fun at times and harmless entertainment but nothing special. "},{"Title":"ok just for fun sci-fi, but pretty stupid","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film is ok on just an action level, but only just ok. Something about the action sequences just didn't get me involved at the edge of my seat level that they should have.However my biggest gripe (and yes I'm a nerd/engineer and perhaps you won't mind these things as I did), was how stupid it is.  I am not saying that cloning a human being will not be possible in the near future, just not as the film depicts.  The idea that you can make a blank human, one missing all the details that distinguish you from everyone else is just nonsense.  No matter how dull (by some measure) a face is, it still has a genetic code for that face and the muscle and bone under it and on and on that is every bit as complex (the DNA that is) as any other face.  On top of that the idea that you can just some how change the DNA of every cell, and then the body actually will (in only 2 hrs no less) alter itself to be as if it were grown with that new DNA is also just stupid.   Even one of the centerpieces of the action sequences, the X-wing helicopters are done poorly.  No problem with the X-wing idea, but the remote control is silly in that I don't see how you could be piloting one ship (he says 2 pilots can fly 4 ships) with that moving frame of reference, and at the same time fly another, in other than the simplest of manuvers, since humans can not (as far as I know) readily comprehend two frames of reference concurrently).The real surprise is why such a great actor as Duval would bother with this luke warm project.  I wasn't POed that I went, I have it a 5. "},{"Title":"Nice movie when don't expect a thing","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected very much from this movie, when I heard you can compare this movie with Total Recall, which is great movie. Well 6th day isn't half as good as Total Recall. The action is pretty basic action which you see in every movie. The only good part of the movie is that are a couple of good Schwarzenegger jokes. Overall this movie is very nice when you don't expect a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Arnie In Yet Another Good Action Flick!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a typical Arnie film,but as usual still very good.I have enjoyed quite a few of Arnie's movies and this one has to be the best, just beating 'End of days.' I thought the whole story line and plot was great to and so was the acting by all the cast members.A good action flick,you won't be disappointed "},{"Title":"Arnold's back!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found The 6th Day to be a very awesome movie. What made it so great you ask? One word Arnold. Yeah! Without him this would have only been half the movie it was. I'm glad that this was good because Arnold hasn't done a really great movie since Eraser. End of Days was kind of...eh...and Batman and Robin? Well that one's basically self explanatory.I think only Arnold could have been put in this. I mean come on, he took on a war of machines(Terminator), a space alien(Predator), saved Mars(Total Recall), stopped terrorists several times(True Lies and Eraser) and now Arnold takes on another challenge. Himself. The results are explosive.The plot is like this. In the near future, Adam Gibson(Arnold)is a family man who has a successful career. Then on his birthday, he comes home only to see himself in the house. Then soon he finds himself the target of a national organization and has to ally with himself to protect his family and destroy the cloning facility.The best sequences had to be where Arnold was killing all the bad guys and they kept coming back and the remote flight sequences were cool. I thought it was funny when the two Arnold's were in the lab and they took the powder the melted through the table and they said in unison,Cool.That's exactly what I think about this movie. It's cool. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Simple, but impressive.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a surprise because it was very thought-provoking - for an action movie.The beginning - a star quaterback getting severely injured - really struck a nerve because I am a big sports fan. And so, the movie started with a bang and though the plot was easy to foresee, it did not fail to impress - and to intimidate. The fact that cloning is no longer science fiction adds a lot to this anxiety, and I sat in the theater kind of uneasy because I never though about the implications cloning might have on our lives someday (sooner than you think, as the film makes us believe).Schwarzenegger does his hero routine and the action plot is business as usual - but the topic of the movie makes this one a whole lot better than most of its predecessors. The film left me with the question When does life end? Do I live on when I am cloned after my death? My answer is no, my existence ends and another one takes over my place - a carbon copy like me, but still not me.  "},{"Title":"an arnold disappointment","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I have to say that this is not one of Arnold's better action flicks.  I found Jingle All The Way  to be more entertaining and believable then this one!  In a slightly futuristic setting thats not all that impressive, the action and acting don't add up to much more then a B film with sorry attempted humor and unconvincing fight scenes.  Fancy editing cuts don't seem to serve much purpose, and the premise of the plot as well as all of the characters besides Arnolds and the main bad guy could have used developing.  The very cheesy or sappy ending made the whole thing even worse, so as both an action movie or sci-fi, it's one to wait on til it's off the new release shelf.  4. "},{"Title":"Totally missed the point","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, had an excellent idea.  Cloning of humans.That's the reason I wanted to see this one.  But I soon found out that even the best ideas can be made into a boring movie. This is the prime example.  The ones to blame are the director and manuscript.  As someone else commented the story is too transparent. When you spend this much money on a movie, one could expect a better manuscript.  I cannot understand why Hollywood, time and time again makes this mistake.  They throw money after the stars and the set decorators, but do not at all care about the script.Do those executives think we are stupid ?  Yes they do.  They think that having a great star is an insurance for a box office hit. Even though they know this is not true (e.g. last action hero).  But the director, who has creative control, could at least have made sure the action sequences were made exciting.  I almost fell asleep during the first car chase.  This has never happened to me before.To sum it up  3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"freaky","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I basically went into this movie thinking it would have ...you know...semi-decent acting and A LOT of action. That was the case, but...I DIDN'T EXPECT IT TO SCARE ME! I mean, damn! From the 'Sim-Pal' to one part in the ending, to a thumb scene; all that graphic stuff scared the hell out of me.****************WARNING!!!    MAJOR, *MAJOR* SPOILAGE AHEAD!!  **********I screamed out loud at the end when the 84% completed clone (ewww...!) jolted up from the table. Also, the ending seemed kinda' weird....You think Arnie is gonna sit back with his perfect family for the rest of his perfect life, and knowing that there is his clone out there? I don't know.**********************END SPOILER             END SPOILER  ************I just went to see Day bc Mike Rappaport was in it(redhead).If you're a fan of Rappaport, the charismatic Robert Duvall, and Arnie(of course), then you should see this. I just think some of the scenes are a little explicit for an Arnie flick. Also, Arnie's one-liners can get irritating... I would probably watch this again just to catch everything!-Sep "},{"Title":"Typical Arnie fare","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold is Arnold, you don't expects anything more or less.  His films are fun, even if to one extent or another he always plays the same character.A Sixth Day violation, a biblical reference to the cloning of a human being, happens when Arnie is cloned and 'the other Terminator' takes his family and life.Poses some interesting questions without going deeply into it -- then again would you expect a Schwarzenegger film to do that?  I wouldn't! "},{"Title":"Well done but...","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quite a good story but there is other movie that i've seen before that talk about cloning. So this one will not be interesting anymore.The imagination of this movie can be say, new and attractive. Things such a smart fridge, car make this movie more enjoyable to watch.Other than that, everything looks fine. "},{"Title":"Arnie might be back","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Longing for some Schwartzenegger action, the kind only the King can provide, I had high hopes for this film. But long gone are the days of the very climax of action flicks - we have yet to see the likes of Terminator 2, True Lies and Total Recall. But The 6th Day has some similarities with the latter Arnie transforms from the ordinary suburban home-owner to a muscle-bound bulldozer in just a few minutes (and pretty much without any effort); his life has changed in a fundamental way, making him think about his own existence and what is real; the resolve with which he fights is at Arnies normal level the world will end before Arnold.The 6th Day is well crafted, successfully building a world in the near future that doesn't seem so extreme. The helicopters are not so extreme as one could think - there have been plans for that kind of aircraft for more than 20 years - and the life in the near future is probably pretty much like it will be as usual, but with cooler cars, niftier clothes and more gadgets.The story is actually pretty good, for once, not that I think it raises any questions concerning cloning that we aren't already aware of (except maybe for the possibility of reviving household pets), but it makes sense most of the time. What the film lacks, though, is suspense. There is not one nerve-wracking moment in this film, and the action itself is pretty lame. The balance between story and action has been checked for once. As for fun, well... there are some things to laugh at, especially the hologram girlfriend (who undoes zippers, no less) and the great timing when Arnold+Arnold go Cool.But this film is not, I repeat not, a good ol' classic action flick, and I am sad to say that I think that those days are gone. Can you believe it? I actually miss the complete brainlessness of films like Eraser.One last question why does taxi cabs in sci-fi movies have to be so darn ugly!? "},{"Title":"Good escapist entertainment.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day probably won't win any awards for originality, and it doesn't have to.  The sole  purpose of this movie is entertaining its audience.  After viewing the film, I'm pleased to say  that I was highly entertained.  Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as a man who has been cloned.  We  tag along with Arnold on his journey to find out why he's been cloned, and why he's being hunted  by Michael Rooker and his group of laser toting assassins.  What's unique to this movie is the  fact that it's set in the not to distant future.  Some of the technology that is shown in the  film, may become reality within the next ten to twenty years.  Cars that drive themselves,  appliances that inform you when you're in need of milk and cloning procedures that would've only  been considered science fiction twenty years ago.  The action set pieces are exciting and there is  some good humor in the film.  Particularly one very funny sequence that involves a doll called a  Sim-Pal.  Arnold has his one liners to throw around, and it's good to see him back in form.  He's  been absent from films like this for too long.  Another good thing about the movie is the rating.   The PG-13 rating allows just about everyone to enjoy this movie.  There are a few choice words  here and there, and some people getting blasted by lasers, but that's about it.  The 6th Day is  good entertainment.  Just sit back, relax and enjoy the ride.    "},{"Title":"pretty cool movie","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie, I know it could be rated R but the stupid MPAA have 2 give it a PG-13 rating. It has its funny moments with Ah-nold's 1-liners. But I wouldn't have high expectations with it. I would go see it so u can see Arnold & his clone battle evil. It does have pretty good special effects, of course not as great as in Total Recall, & yes, some stupid CGI was used. But the CGI was used bad like in HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL & in the end of END OF DAYS. It is worth seeing & I'll be adding it in my precious movie collection when it comes 2 Direct Ticket. "},{"Title":"I blame the director","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie basically sucked.  I lean towards putting the blame on the director, the whole package just comes together so weakly. The scenes establishing Arnie as a happy family man were cringe-worthy. Even the special effects were poor and derivative.  CGI is starting to let me down bigtime.  The only bright spots in the whole film were the lead enforcer with the raspy voice and his right-hand woman. I love Arnie, but they had so much more personality I was rooting for them in the end. "}{"Title":"Schwarzenegger's back!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day is a science fiction film that's filled with a little bit of everything. It has action, special effects, an intriguing story, and Arnold Schwarzenegger back in full form. It's been a while since I've seen a good Schwarzenegger movie, and The 6th Day didn't disappoint me. I'll admit it's not a great Schwarzenegger film like Total Recall, Terminator 2, and True Lies, but it's a good one. The 6th Day stars Schwarzenegger as a helicopter pilot who finds out one night that he's been cloned. He tries to get to the bottom of this, but ends up being pursued by the corporation who cloned him. What follows is some well-staged action scenes and special effect sequences that are quite impressive (those visual effect helicopters in the movie we're cool). The story is well-written, and Schwarzenegger is very good in his role here. The 6th Day is not classic sci-fi, but it's well made and entertaining. *** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"ARNOLD IS BACK!!!! THIS IS CLASSIC ARNOLD SCI/FI!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh man!  It has been soooo long since a classic Ar-nold movie!  After End of Days, Batman and Robin, and Jingle all the Way I was wondering if Ar-nold had died and they replaced him.  But, Ar-Nold is back, AND HE KICKS ASS.Well, time to act professional.  The 6th Day is in no way a classic Sci/Fi movie.  But it does combine good/clever action, a good plot, Arnold's classic one-liners, and some sci/fi to bring a great action movie to the screen.  This was made to appeal to die-hard sci/fi people and normal, action fans.I also love the little things in this movie.  I LOVE that helicopter/jet thing Arnold flies.  I hope someone at Lockheed Martin or Boeing was taking notes.  Those are also some very cool laser guns bytheway.My only problem with this movie is that doll.  If you have seen the movie, you know EXACLTY what I'm talking about.  There is this futuristic doll that has lifelike facial expresions and, quote, Grows real hair!  That thing looks like one of the Children of the Corn.  That doll creeped me out more than any Blair Witch ever could. One more problem is that it is very obvious that the move was drasticly cut down for the PG-13 label.  One last thing (I swear it's the last negative thing), the ending could have been better.If you're like me, you have been waiting for this movie.  It an't no Preditor or T2, but it is a very nice sign that our old Arnold is back.  I don't think this is a classic SCI/FI movie, but it is Arnold back at what he does best action-science/fiction.  This may be Arnold's last big action movie, however.  He is getting old, and it shows.  But if this is his last action/scifi movie, I'M HAPPY WITH IT!  This will make a very good DVD.Note that girl who plays Talia is really hot "},{"Title":"The 6th Day!","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 6th day is a great action film and in My opinion is one of Arnold's best films! It also stars Tony Goldwyn, Robert Duvall, Michael Rooker, Michael Rapaport, Sarah Wynter, and Wendy Crewson! The acting by all of these actors is really good especially by Goldwyn and listen to his voice. He really is a good villain. The action is really incredible and a lot of the scenes are really cool! The dialog is really smart in this picture. The music by Trevor Rabin is really good. If you love Arnold and the other cast members and love action film then I strongly recommend The 6th Day! Movie Nuttball's NOTEHere are some other Arnold recommendations Conan the Barbarian, Conan the Destroyer, Red Sonja, The Terminator, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Terminator 3 The Rise of the Machines, The Running Man, Raw Deal, Commando, Predator, Total Recall, Kindergarten Cop, Last Action Hero, True Lies, Eraser, Jingle All the Way, Batman and Robin, End of Days, and Collateral Damage! "},{"Title":"One Of Arnie's Best!","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is truly one of Arnie's best movies!, it's very clever intelligent, and extremely entertaining!. Seeing two Arnie's on the screen at the same time was very cool, and they were both very funny. It had a lot of very impressive effects, including some very cool nasty looking clones!. The film has 2 outstanding main lead villains in Tony Goldwyn and Michael Rooker,and a great main lead in Arnie!, plus the film has non stop excitement and you won't be bored for one second!. it also had some clever humor, especially the Doll segment that had me in stitches!, plus you have Arnie's very funny one liners!. The Direction is excellent!. Roger Spottiswoode did an excellent job with great helicopter shots, crazy camera angles, great use of colors, and he kept the film at a very fast pace! great job!. There is a little bit of violence. We get a severed finger, severed leg(by a laser), bloody cuts on forehead, bloody nose, and a corpse with minor wounds on it. The Acting is awesome!. Arnold Schwarzenegger is AMAZING as always!, he is great in the acting department!, kicks that ass, spurts out hilarious one liners,cracked me up and entertained the hell out of me! (Arnie Rules!). Tony Goldwyn is EXCELLENT as the main villain he was very cool, played an excellent villain and was extremely menacing! i loved it. Michael Rooker is great as the other villain he was also pretty menacing and cracked me up.Michael Rapaport is very good here he had some charm and wish he had more screen time. Sarah Wynter does decent here but acts with her hair. Wendy Crewson is good as Arnie's wife and had good chemistry with him. Rodney Rowland was great here and pretty funny. Robert Duvall added a lot of class to this film and was excellent when on screen. Terry Crews does what he has to do which is not much. Taylor Anne Reid is good as the daughter and surprisingly non annoying. Overall It's similar to Total Recall but a GREAT movie, that is a MUST see regardless, especially for Arnie fans! (like me) ***** out of 5, one Of Arnie's best "},{"Title":"Science fiction and action at its best!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is simply awesome! Arnie proves that he can still produce his best at this age. This has got to be one of his finest movies along with Predator and T2. This movie reflects the importance of banning human cloning, a very frightening subject. Love the way the film is portrayed through the eyes of the 3rd man. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting For The First Hour","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought I was really going to like The 6th Day.  After the first hour my interest was waning.  It probably would have made a very good 100 minute movie.  I was in the mood for a very good sci-fi flick but this didn't turn out to be the one.  The truck with the auto pilot and the virtual girlfriend were interesting but there just wasn't enough emphasis on gadgets to keep me interested. "},{"Title":"Schwarzenneger futuristic cloning movie, pretty good in places, I rate it 7 of 10.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day, set in the near future, I estimate about 2025, got its name from Genesis, on the sixth day God created man, and later we see that a 6th day law has been passed, making human cloning illegal. Not up to par with some of the Schwarzenneger action films, I found this one to be roughly in the category of entertainment as The Cell, Deep Blue Sea, Lost in Space, and Mission to Mars. The movie has a few laughs, some decent action, and I've found worse ways to spend 2 hours.CAUTION -- SPOILERS --The story begins in an XFL (now defunct) football game, QB is hurt to a vegetative state, with a lifetime contract, so they put him out of his misery and using cloned blanks and his recent cerebral syncording, he looks as good as new the next day. The bad guys even program in genetic defects that will cause the lifetime of each clone to be shortened, because it is good for repeat business! Sick but also funny.Arnold's character, Adam (wink, wink) is the pilot of a hybrid helicopter/jet craft, and through a mixup a clone of him is made, so that there are two Adams running around. When he figures out what is going on, he becomes determined to expose this illegal business. In an entertaining twist, the two Adams end up working as a team to defeat the bad guys.By law any successful human clones must be destroyed, but the cloned Adam sails off for parts unknown at the end of the movie. Right after the screen goes blank, there is a very quick succession of images. When you play it backwards, in very slow motion, it becomes an actual synopsis of the entire movie. This same effect is used when each person is syncorded, to simulate how the entire contents of their mind, and their experiences, are being recorded.The movie addresses two difficulties when considering human cloning, the time factor and the memories. The first is overcome by growing and inventorying blanks, which are kept in solutions with tubes attached, much like in The Matrix. The second by syncording. That way a current syncording can be used along with DNA to generate an exact, fully-grown replica.The DVD extras are limited, but the two short pieces on the REPET cloning service, which is legal, are entertaining. One is an infomercial, and the other is the TV ad. If your pet gets very sick, or dies, you can have its clone in as little as 3 hours. "},{"Title":"A typical Schwarzenegger movie","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into that movie because I anticipated something like True Lies 2.Indeed, there are several parallels one might notice. But like almost all sequels, the successor can't establish an equivalent glamour. Leaks in the plot can be found here and there, but the overall tone is typically set by Schwarzenegger's dominant presence comic and action alternate in a fast, at times almost galloping tempo.If you liked True Lies, you might like The 6th Day. But don't expect something deep going. I think, this was not the aim of the producers, either. "},{"Title":"Two Arnolds For The Price Of One Was Still A Rip-Off","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this $82 million, sooner-than-you-think, Sci-Fi yarn about human cloning, neither fantastic stunts nor expensive visual effects could ever save this utter mess from being reduced to the level of a predictable and decidedly confused cat & mouse snore-fest.In The 6th Day I quickly lost track of just how many people (especially those in high-ranking positions) were in on this whole cloning conspiracy. This business got so out of hand that, before long, it became quite laughable.And, since The 6th Day's storyline was dealing with the controversial subject matter of human DNA and cloning, I just knew that the topic concerning Christianity's god would inevitably enter into the equation, as well as the whole tired issue about family values, too.And, speaking about Arnold Whats-his-name (who was paid $25 million to play the Adam Gibson character) - At 53, I thought the Austrian Oak was clearly too old for his part. And the utter nonsense of his character playing a game of deception with his own clone was just too-too stupid for words.It really killed me that in The 6th Day cloning was so far advanced that it only took the pressing of but a few buttons and, then, Presto!, in a 2-hour time-frame, a person was entirely cloned, right down to their memories, their idiosyncrasies, etc., etc., etc..... (Sheesh! Spare me!) "},{"Title":"Time To Call It A Day","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This latest Schwarzenegger offering is not as execrable as his previous film `End Of Days', but neither is it as clever and slick as `Total Recall' with which it bears some plot similarities.  The story of illegal human cloning is set `in the not too distant future' and some of the futuristic sets and devices are quite neat, especially the cloning processes and the versatile helicopters. The plot had potential but comes out more silly than sophisticated. The real problem, however, is the Austrian hunk himself &#150; as Conan or the Terminator, his physique and accent had a place and even style but, as an &#145;ordinary' helicopter pilot, he looks out of place and sounds wooden. The lesson of `End Of Days' and `The 6th Day' is that the 53 year old Arnie should call it a day. "}{"Title":"Underlying politics","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it hard to believe that out of all the reviews I've seen, everyone has failed to note the pro-Republican political agenda of this movie, made on the cusp of the furor over stem-cell research. The scientific premise in this movie is extremely far fetched. It is redolent of the like knee jerk reaction to cloning that happened in the seventies when people who hadn't thought things through thought that cloning heralded the advent of evil scientists reproducing human monsters for their own sinister ends. Cloning a empty human shell is one thing - exactly reproducing an individual complete with memories and a lifetimes experiences is, even by the standards of sci-fi, preposterous. Towards the end of the movie Gibson confronts Drucker in a rather clichéd and awkwardly pasted on denouement of movies' half-baked ethical considerations, as Gibson accuses Drucker of one of the ultimate sins, of 'playing God.' But after all, Drucker is the evil scientist, a Doctor Frankenstein, a hi-tech modern day Prometheus. Even innocents like Dr Griffin Weir meet violent and untimely ends as punishment for getting caught up in this bedevilment.The movie is a undeveloped and clumsily executed propaganda job attacking the villainy of touching anything remotely human with cloning. It wearily asserts that it's OK to clone animals, but anyone who meddles with the work of the Creator is bound to meet a sticky end. With its right-wing squeamishness that holds that Bible-thumping fundamentalism is more important than the untold benefits cloning can bring to the human race, it's an odious hack job, and it stinks. "},{"Title":"Sigh","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The premise of the movie is good and I did think about it for a while after viewing it. It's not a bad film at all, but I just think the lead was miscast. Come on, it's time to tell the emperor about his new clothes! Arnold cannot act. Put him in a roll like the Terminator where he doesn't have to show any emotions or Preditor where he doesn't have a whole lot of dialog and he's very entertaining.  But this film, and even worse, (his film before this) End of Days, Arnold's attempt at acting makes me cringe.  The guy is likeable on screen and I'll admit he's improved over his Commando days, but he still is bad. It was too hard to get over that to really enjoy this film. It's time to run for governor. "},{"Title":"Totally recalled!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry guys...THE SIXTH DAY doesn't quite cut it as top-drawer Scifi, but has a lot of fun along the way failing! Entertaining and eminently watchable inarguably, it just falls down at critical moments!  Bulging with ideas and concepts from other science fiction movies of the last 15 years or so, THE SIXTH DAY at least tries to get a message across about the social and moral problems inherent in cloning.Schwarzenegger, moving up several cogs since END OF DAYS (cruelly dubbed END OF CREDIBILITY in some circles) plays the ultimate family man totally miffed when he comes home one night ready for his daughter's birthday party, only to find himself already there. The scenes following, where he attempts to elude corporation agents carrying his pre-programmed doll are hysterical.....rather reminiscent of the Johnny Cab sequence in TOTAL RECALL. The latter film is also obviously making a second cameo appearance when Arnie is introduced to RE-PET, an obvious take on the RECALL facility!Unfortunately the film gets sillier as it goes on, still interesting but just goofy in its logic, although Duvall provides credibility as the genetic scientist responsible for the entire project. Spottiswood is clinging to the sides of his runaway juggernaut towards the last reel as Arnie and his identical self turn the tables on the bad guys.I WANTED to like this flick and indeed DID, but as a cerebrally challenging piece of Sci-fi it just doesn't work. A better title would have been LAST ACTION CLONE. "},{"Title":"I might be back......","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cloning is now technically advanced, but human cloning is still illegal. Adam Gibson returns home after working with his friend Hank, only to find a clone of himself with his family. Before he has chance to find out the truth, he is attacked by a group who want him dead. Adam must escape and find out the truth from the creator of the clones, Michael Drucker. Adam knows for sure he couldn't have been cloned, but isn't ready for what he's about to hear.....The idea of having two Schwarzeneggars in a movie must have been going round Hollywood since someone mentioned doing it for Terminator 2. And while the high concept is good, its a pretty average action movie.If it were made in his heyday, when cloning seemed leftfield and over the top, it could have been one of his biggest movies.But it was made after True Lies, and all of his films after this, even Eraser, do not have the true Arnie Stamp that they usually have, and of course Dolly the sheep had been around.It just seems that after True Lies, the studios knew that name alone couldn't guarantee box office, so they stopped taking risks with him, and it didn't help that he starred in Batman and Robin.Its watchable, Arnie is as he always is, but the expense isn't there. Arnie films used to be a big deal, you knew with his new film, there would be some technical achievement.The effects here are poor, and all in all, the film feels about ten years too late.But if your a fan of the star, its affable. "},{"Title":"I haven't been myself lately.","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the near future, charter pilot and family man Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) has his life turned upside down when he uncovers a conspiracy by a top genetics company to try and reverse the laws concerning human cloning, and then realises that he has been replaced by a clone in his own home.The plot for The 6th Day, one of Arnie's last movies before taking up US politics, explores a hot topic at the dawn of the new millennium the ethics of human cloning (with scriptwriters Cormac Wibberley and Marianne Wibberley adopting a PC anti-cloning stance). The film also tackles theological issues, pondering the existence of a god, the soul and an after life.Thankfully, despite having an intelligence at its core (which, let's face it, is rare for an Arnold movie), The 6th Day still manages to be hugely entertaining big budget popcorn fun, packed with impressive action set-pieces, great special effects and ingenious near-future touches. Sure, it's a tad clichéd at times, particularly towards the end when the blatant 'remote control' plot device comes into play and Adam teams up with his clone to teach the bad guys not to play god, but director Roger Spottiswoode handles the action confidently and Arnie provides a typically assured performance.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"The 6th Day","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cloning has been always been an issue in the modern world, and director Roger Spottiswoode (Turner and Hooch, Tomorrow Never Dies) takes this concept and makes a very interesting story. Basically, in the near future, cloning is okay to do with animals at RePet, but human cloning is still illegal. Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a normal helicopter pilot with his friend Hank Morgan (Michael Rapaport), and he is put to sleep and wakes up in his copter. When he gets home he gets a big shock, he sees himself with his family, a clone! Soon enough, before he can get to the truth he is being attacked by a group who want him dead. The only way Adam can get to the truth is going to the creator of clones, Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn), who is a clone himself. Eventually Adam and his clone finally meet each other, which by law they shouldn't, and decide to take down the company together. Also starring Michael Rooker as Robert Marshall, Sarah Wynter as Talia Elsworth, Rodney Rowland as Wiley, Terry Crews as Vincent, Ken Pogue as Speaker Day, Colin Cunningham as Tripp and Robert Duvall as Dr. Griffin Weir. Cloning a human by the way takes two hours, and from the way the film is made you believe that the Adam we have been following is the real one, it is a surprise when you find out he isn't. Very good! "},{"Title":"Schwarzeneggar got it right","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though Armold S. has a European accent, he's okay with me. This movie got everything about cloning right. Even Americans shouldn't play god with jeans, especially when it might interfere with family values. Only the American military should be allowed to have clones. Because our boys are the best and I support them... Girls too! I also like the name of the film since it comes from the bible, I think. I'll have to ask somebody who read it so I can make sure. Although I think this movie is a great eductaional resource that every wood-be Amerikan scientist should be forced two watch, I have to admit, I didn't make it all the way to the end. you see I have this job which sometimes cuts into my leisure activities - like reading. Honestly, I couldn't follow it toward the end anyway because of all the science goings-on, and I kind of lost interest after a while because of that. One of my advisors told me that I probably wouldn't have liked the ending very much, so maybe it's a good thing I had other things to do. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller!","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE 6TH DAY, in my opinion, was an absolutely fantastic action/sci-fi/thriller! I saw this with my ex-boyfriend, and he thought it was weird, even though he's an avid Schwarzenegger fan, but I thought it was good. Throughout practically the whole movie, I was in complete suspense. One scene I remember clearly is when Adam (Arnold Schwarzenegger) says, I know who I am. When he was being pursued by Talia (Sarah Wynter), I was a little scared. Other than that, the entire cast were all smashing in my opinion... especially Arnold! Keep up the good work! I hope Arnold will do more films like this! To all highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Arnold can deliver very well","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually kind of enjoyed The 6th day. I thought it had great action sequences, and a pretty decent plot. It scared me a little in fact. Although I thought Arnold using his lines I might be back and Get Out (originally from his Terminator films) are getting a little old. He's already used them enough. But as for the movie, I would recommend for a good watch. Especially if you love Arnold films. It's a fun movie to watch and creepy at times. The only other complaint is, well, the acting isn't that great. But it's an action film, what do you expect? Oh, well. I still enjoyed it, for some odd reason.7/10 "},{"Title":"Better it was Arnold than 'He Hate Me'","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In an alternative future where XFL lasted for more then a season, Adam Gibson (Schwarzenegger) is a regular husband and father who is a bit old-fashion. He dislikes cloning, re-pets, and nacho bananas (not in that order). He's cloned by accident and thats when the action starts. Gibson must find out what the heck's going on. While not one of Arnold's best films, I was still pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed it. I thought it would be much worse than it turned out be (hey with the writers of I Spy remake/movie & charles angels sequel, as well as the director of Turner & Hooch, stop or my mom will shoot AND the worst Bond movie EVER, do you blame me for being hesitant??) But as it turns out, I'd definitely put it in his top 10.My movie grade B-DVD ExtrasDisk 1>> Isolated music score with commentary Disk 2>> A showtime extra 'The Future is Coming'; 9 special effect featurettes; 3 Storyboard comparisons; Re-pet infomercial and TV spot; 2 Animatics; Filmographies; Theatrical trailer; Trailers for Spider-man,  The One, and Final Fantasy the Spirits Within  "}{"Title":"Average sci-fi thriller","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE 6TH DAY hits the very important subject cloning. It shows in a near future how the methods would function but in a very unrealistic way. Anyway, it lets you impressed how the humans would be cloned. I missed the suspense but there were instead some good jokes and action scenes that looked sometimes too cartoonish. Don´t expect more than an average sci-fi thriller. My wife and me vote 6/10 that matches nearly the IMDb rating of actually 5,9. For all Arnie fans if you liked this movie don´t miss END OF DAYS or T3 with Arnold Schwarzenegger. "},{"Title":"it might have been better","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an interesting part for Arnold Schwarzenegger to play. It takes part in the very near future, and human cloning is being hotly debated. Arnold returns home after surviving a plane crash to find that he himself has been cloned. This is a bit too much for him to handle (he was even against his dog being cloned!), and he sets out to reclaim his family and life from the clone.The movie wasn't too bad, and it featured good performances from Arnie, Robert Duvall, and Tony Goldwyn, but it really didn't live up to its vast full potential. Still, Goldwyn was a delight as the bad guy, and I like most Schwarzenegger films. Give this one a chance and tell me what you think.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"a bit disappointing","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was a little disappointing. The action wasn't nearly as good as most of Arnold's action films. The movie was pretty funny at times and I always like Arnold so it was ok just not nearly as good at most of his films. I like the story of people making clones and it's pretty wicked to think it might happen someday but this movie still was just average, sorry for the bad review lol.  "},{"Title":"TOTAL RECALL 2000","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow!  Arnie is now trying to re-capture his past because his career, like Sylvester Stallone's and Burt Reynolds', is DEAD!  The Sim Pal was like the Johnny cab driver in 'Total Recall'.  His clone not knowing he was a clone and having it explained to him was like his memory being stolen in 'Total Recall' and having it realized later.  I did like some parts of this film as I believe that some of the elements shown here will happen.  Perhaps human cloning has already happened and no one knows it.  An interesting explanation is put forward here that the reason animals have been cloned and not people (as far as we in real life know) is because the intelligence level of humans is much more sophisticated.  Roger Spottiswoode has a rather scatter shot style of direction.  He butchered 'Tomorrow Never Dies' and degenerated it into a music video and his style is similar here.  The art direction is a 10 while the rest of the film, as a cross between 'Blade Runner', and 'Total Recall' earns a rating far less.  Less than you think.   - ) "},{"Title":"He's Back!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	Watching this movie is like visiting a Tomorrowland that's been through the looking glass.  Visually stunning, it virtually splashes a palette of color across the screen, and combined with thunderous sound it literally numbs the senses.  But the preeminent question that must be asked after seeing `The 6th Day' has to be, `Is bigger better?'  And the answer is, `Not really,' though you may get an argument on that account from director Roger Spottiswoode, who has made a truly BIG film, but left it somewhat hollow inside.  In fact, what he's created is something of a marvel of physical science; it's heavy without really having much substance.  Like a copy of a Monet, it's nice to look at, but there's not much value to it.  It does, however, pose some moral and philosophical questions which may, in the future, be of some significance.  To wit  To Clone, or Not To Clone. 	The concept, while not entirely original, is interesting enough to make one take pause and reflect for a moment.  Unfortunately the script, written by Cormac and Marianne Wibberley, has some nice touches, but lacks the imagination required to really make a statement or put this one over to any large extent.  There's a number of obvious influences at play here, most prominently `Blade Runner,' `Star Wars' and `The Matrix,' with shades of `Blue Thunder' lurking around the corner; but this is not, however, a bad thing, mind you.  It's never a sin to incorporate the best of the best in a project of this magnitude.  And as I've stated previously, this is a `big' movie.  To Spottiswoode's credit, he keeps it all moving right along with little respite from the action, and when he does pause to take a breath, it's a welcome relief from the barrage of light and sound; the man does know how to put on a show.  If only he had given us something more to sink our teeth into.  He brushes up against some profound issues, but never really comes to grips with any of them.  But then again, this movie wasn't made to evoke philosophical discussions.  What he has given us is a movie that is bright, loud and actually very entertaining, albeit in a one dimensional way. 	As far as performances go, Arnold Schwarzenegger is, well...  Arnold.  He manages to flesh out his character of Adam Gibson, a man cloned without his consent or knowledge, to an acceptable degree, but there doesn't seem to be a whole lot going on beneath the surface.  But Schwarzenegger does have an irrefutable screen presence and it's easy to like him.  He's an actor you can appreciate for what he does  He gives you your money's worth for a couple of hours of entertainment.  Let's face it, there's only one Arnold, and it's a kick to watch him in action.  Also on hand is Robert Duvall (Dr. Graham Weir), who gives a subtle turn as the brains behind all of the DNA manipulation going on, and Tony Goldwyn (Drucker), as the man whose bottomless wealth makes it all possible in the first place. 	The supporting cast includes Michael Rapaport (Hank), Wendy Crewson (Natalie Gibson), Sarah Wynter (Talia) and Michael Rooker.  While far from being one of the most memorable movies of the year, or anywhere near the best that science fiction has to offer, `The 6th Day' is a stunning visual experience and, when all is said and done, will make you think a bit (without having to overwork too many brain cells).  Like a huge Fourth of July fireworks display, it is something to see, and Arnold's fans  will certainly appreciate it; and if you can just let yourself go with the flow for awhile, it's one you may actually enjoy.  It's all a part of the magic that is the movies.  I rate this one 5/10.                  "},{"Title":"Remember when Arnie was cool - way before this movie, I mean","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" They cloned a sheep and had everyone freaking out in the world, I love how these idiot religious nuts think science is bad and its ungodly to mess with the order of things... This movie touches on such things.A company is secretly cloning people even though its illegal and when a protester trying to kill the leader of that organization messes up all hell breaks lose. Mistakes are made and Adam Gibson (Arnie) gets a clone made of him while he is still alive and he sees himself and has to get to the bottom of it.This movie was full of high tech visions of our supposed not so distant future, but all the movie had was millions of dollars wasted on bad CGI effects and little action. All of the action in this movie is done with bad laser guns and stupid dialog didn't help.Arnie used to be cool and do these amazing movies, but stuff like this was beneath him, anyone could've played this part and he added nothing special. The other actors all were about the same...nothing special, Robert DuVall acted a little too good, I think he believes everything he does is Oscar worthy, sorry I like him, but a movie about cloning with Arnold Schwarzeneggar is maybe more likely to win you a razz.OK lets tell you what you wanna know...This movie wasn't great it wasn't bad, it was just a movie...It will help you kill a few minutes of your day. The movie isn't really science fiction as most people classify it. The technologies are not here yet, but I don't see it as fantastic and out of this world. Most of the things shown here are within reach. It is action and if you like action you might at least be somewhat entertained.5 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"And on the 7th day He rested after sitting through this dull missed-potential movie","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now you see clones should be interesting. There's a lot of ground for shades of grey issues. `Attack of the Clones' didn't remotely touch on it (what not a surprise), but I thought we could possibly see some here. especially given the fact that Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Adam Gibson, who comes home one evening to find an exact replica of himself with his family - a clone. Is the clone evil? Does the clone have a right to live? All these and more do not get answered through the course of the movie.Arnold is above average here. He's less of the cardboard going on than usual, and comes across fairly well as a family man. His family are mostly a plot device, but that's okay because his daughter, Clara (Taylor Anne Reid) is both extremely irritating and played by a weak young actress. Arnold is capable here of switching between action-hero and smiling-guy with good ease, without actually grating. He's far from good here but for Arnold this isn't bad. The rest of the cast consist of his friend, and a bunch of villains. Their performances, or ones similar to theirs, are straight from direct-to-video bin and deserve no more mention.The storyline is alright. The trouble is that the cloning issues are over-looked in favour of bland action sequences. What could have been memorable is quite forgettable. I even guessed the `twist' approximately an hour before it was revealed and therein lies the problem - there's very little in the way of surprises. The final outcome is quite obvious and it should not really be, especially with the material that's there. Arnold fans should be happy because he gets a bunch of quips to hand around in typical fashion and they're all cheesier than an Edam depository. but we expect that so it's ok.The real blame here, I guess, must lie with Director Roger Spottiswoode. As others have pointed out, the actions sequences are bland. There's a sheen of dullness about it, that smells of a cheap production (maybe Arnold's salary ate the budget up). It's not like the SFX are particularly poor, or the music irritating. there's just a general disinterest miasma over the whole product. I didn't care and never got dragged in and, failing to take me away from the real world, is a bad sign for the movie.Having said all this `The 6th Day' is not awful. It's a wasted chance, and has the hallmarks of straight-to-video but it's never that boring (even if it's un-engaging). It's by no means worthy of any money, in the form of a video or DVD, but it won't harm you seeing it on TV. Look elsewhere for cloning issues and a decent sci-fi. 3.5/10. "},{"Title":"This did nothing for me.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It has now got to the stage that Arnie can't even make a good action flick. He has tried comedy with awful results i.e Twins and kindagarton cop and now his best genre is falling flat on it's face. That is axactly what The 6th day is... Flat. It has average special affects a stupid storyline and the usual emotionless acting from the big man himself. I found myself pottering around the house and fidgiting , wanting to do something else after about 45 minutes of this film. I felt totally uninterested in what was going on . It had the feel of a poor episode of the 6 million Dollar Man. As we now know the best films that Arnie do are the ones that he flexes his muscles and not his vocal chords such as T2 or Total Recal. Now that he is older and the Body isn't what it used to be maybe he should call it a day. 3 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Worth Renting","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have some mixed feelings about this film but overall I found it enjoyable.Some of the important questions and answers would beWas it enjoyable to watch?  Yes, overall.  There was enough of an interesting story and decent action and effects to keep one entertained.Was it all it could be?  Definitely not.  While the story addressed some interesting ideas and had enough story to be interesting, it didn't delve into quite the imagination it easily could have.  While it was certainly cute to see a vision of the future, most aspects were hardly original.  It was FUN to see a film carry forth most modern trends to the near future but the lack of innovations was also a weakness.  This film had the potential to delve deeply into the problem which WILL face us about cloning  what do we DO about it, morally, but sadly this was only ONE instance of some of the things which COULD happen.  I would have liked to have seen more of the philosophy.Ironically I saw a comment saying it was hard to believe in this future world.  I had to laugh at that.  While the science behind the cloning was a long stretch, most of this future world came straight from extrapolating current trends.  Like it or not, most of this is where we're headed!Was it better than most films today?  Yes.  Too many action pseudo-scifi films are for the brain dead.  This film at least dared to be interesting.I thought the ending was the weakest part (spoiler here).  It boiled down to kill the bad guys, blow up their stronghold and all is well.  I would liked to have seen at least some surprising twists, to see society faced with this information and the drama which would ensue, or to truly be faced with the philosophical ramifications of the two Adams.  I really expected a twist at the end like the real Adam, whom we assumed was the original (since 'Adam 2' had the spot in the eyelid), would see TWO spots under his eyelid!  But since he wasn't the one who learned what that meant, he would dismiss it and go on, leaving us to wonder what happened.  That, or the wife and/or daughter finding the eyelid dot, insinuating THEY were clones (having been switched while in custody as a double cross)!   On a different note, it was nice to finally see a blonde in a movie do something interesting to her hair instead of women of great natural beauty dying to BECOME blonde!  Even if she was a muderous fiend  -)I was rather disappointed there were not more special features on the DVD, especially **CUT SCENES**.  Most movies seem to have EXCELLENT scenes cut.  I would like to have seen them.I would say this is worth renting.  Go to Blockbuster; it will be due back noon on the 6th day....  "},{"Title":"Double Impact meets True Lies","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A two hour GM (general motors, genetic modification, whatever) advertisement that tells us how ol' Arnie could be both Batman and Robin at the same time or how Wonderboy here can be president of US of A by fighting evil wherever he can find it.Far less entertaining than Commando and with less action, this movie has the advantage of Robert Duval.This is a movie to be seen when drunk or when having to do something more important in the mean time as the mistakes expand at an exponential rate as you go deeper.---- Spoilers ---In no important order - the bad company guys must include a Jar Jar Bings, an idiot who can only mess things up, still, they bother to recreate him over again because the big movie executives thinks one idiot was the only thing missing in this movie - the same bad company guys know that the chief is going to be killed so they back him up constantly and they also back up anybody that might come into contact with him like the other pilot and the secretary - you never know when the boss is going to be killed by a crazy extremist - to show a branch that wastes some good minutes the dog is put to death because of a virus, something dogs-only, nothing to be afraid of just enough to kill a dog - the two Arnolds put up such a great scheme only Hollywood can think of - in short they make up the plan to go both into the building, they make the incendiary load, they even time how long it takes for the bad guys to catch one of them, take his knowledge, react to that and that in the end the second one would have the time to light up the whole installation. At the same time the bad guys are so smart to see the reflection of the first one in the window, but not smart enough to rewind far enough to the time when this plan was cooking. - and so on, only it gets boring as the list of mistakes and Deux Ex Machina is somehow longer than the script. "}{"Title":"What's worse than Arnold Schwarzenegger? Two Arnold Schwarzeneggers!!!!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess the real fans of Arnold Schwarzenegger will be really delighted when they see this movie. It offers everything his movies always offer a lot of action, some one liners and a lot of explosions and shooting. Personally I'm not a fan of his movies, but I have to admit that this one wasn't even the worst he has ever made, at least not when I forget about the ending.The story isn't that bad. It's situated in the near future and cloning has become something normal. It's forbidden to clone humans, but there aren't any laws forbidding the cloning of pets. But we all know what humans are like there is always someone who wants to go a step further and do what is forbidden. Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) accidentally discovers he has been cloned and wants to stop his clone from taking over his family and the company from cloning even more humans. In the beginning he tries to kill his own clone but later they will work together to stop the company.At first I thought this would be a very entertaining movie. As I already said, I'm not a fan of Schwarzenegger's work, but that doesn't mean that I can't enjoy any of his movies. The idea behind the movie was interesting, but in the last 45 minutes it all goes terribly wrong. All you get then is a lot of shooting and explosions, some Christian nonsense on how sacred life is and that there is only one God whose work should always be respected by man (BLAH BLAH BLAH). I'm not saying I believe cloning is always a good thing, but I don't think it will be like it is predicted in this movie. However, I'm sure that there are a lot of people who are actually convinced it will be exactly this way. I'm sure they will all be even more convinced that it is bad and should never be allowed.The acting isn't really exceptional either. The only one that is quite good is Robert Duval. It was interesting to see him play a doctor who works on the cloning technique. Schwarzenegger was, how should I say this gently, himself. He spits out some one liners with an awful German accent, never really acts but thinks he's the best actor and the funniest man in the movie. And to make things worse you'll see him in a double role...I'm sure many people will have a lot of fun with this movie, especially the fans of action movies, science fiction and the actor Arnold Schwarzenegger. Personally I'm not really a fan of any of the three. That's the reason why I give the movie a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Pretentious . . . and a bore.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If one Arnold cannot create a good movie, then what on earth made the producers think that TWO Arnolds would be the solution? You cannot blame the man for trying though. His one line catch phrases are littered all over THE 6TH DAY, sometimes they work, sometimes they do not. Unfortunately, the movie does not work well for Arnold. It simply is not the right movie to catapult him back into fame. Maybe if THE 6TH DAY were released a short time after THE TERMINATOR or anytime when his acting career were at its peak, then this movie would be a megahit. To truly enjoy THE 6TH DAY, you have to be completely taken off your feet by the science fiction genre. Also, you have to like the movie BLADE RUNNER because the pacing, the feel and the attitude of THE 6TH DAY is dead on with the cult legend. Much of the appeal of BLADE RUNNER is also duplicated with THE 6TH DAY. Whereas Arnold fought against religion in END OF DAYS, he now tackles cloning as somehow, someone manages to clone him.In the near future . . . sooner than you think, Adam Gibson lives a relatively sheltered life and is quite happy with it until he comes home one day and finds a clone has replaced him! Now the head of the cloning corporation is out to get him as he attempts to get his life back.The story is not what THE 6TH DAY sells but the look of the future and what we could be doing 'sooner than we think.' Cloning is now seen as a process that we cannot control and we have to accept as fish and pets are but a few of what people clone these days, all for the better of our world of course. The knowledge that our kids one day will prefer a simulated friend (SIMPAL) than actual friends drives the movie more into the mud than making us wonder what our world might become. But what makes THE 6TH DAY a total dud than others is that it is completely boring and of no interest to the general public. Like BLADE RUNNER, it has that dull, bleak, brooding atmosphere that does not work most of the time. Especially with movie prices these days, who would want to fork out hard earned money to be depressed about the future? It was very hard to stay interested the entire time. THE 6TH DAY is not everyone's cup of tea, because of its pretentious look of the future. Make sure you are wide awake to see how well the movie sells itself to you. "},{"Title":"Aryan Excesses","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an excrescence. Who ever thought that a good science fiction film had to be a blowemup? But it has two interesting elements.The set design so far as the laboratory is excellent, in fact that whole building. It so stands out from the caliber of all else that it must have just been delegated to a master. The notion of theatric space has different requirements than regular architecture. It is harder. The helijets are just stupid in comparison.The basic phenomenon of Arnie is also something worth remarking. Why do we like or at least pay to see these bug dumb guys?Stallone is different at least in origin. He had a unique vision with `Rocky' and didn't rest until he got backing to make it as writer, director, actor. It blazed new ground with the handheld camera, and changed the art. Of course since then ego, steroids and apparent genetic stupidity have turned him into a joke. American filmgoers have deep stereotypes, one being the dummy preening macho latin.But that cuts two ways, and where we make it harder to give Sly any credit, we are willing to bend over backwards to cut Arnie all sorts of slack. He's much stupider than Sly, having never contributed to the art. He's even a worse actor, if it matters. But it doesn't. I believe that's because Arnie fits a different edition of the big dope, the big Germanic/Nordic dope. This is amplified by his public persona, ultraconservative, viriley family-oriented, addicted to military accouterments, ability to solve every problem by force -- basically a cleaned up Nazi.Why do we like this? "},{"Title":"A-nuld meets 1984","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger's The 6th Day is his usuall action popcorn flick, but this one has plenty of intelligence to go around (not that Arnold's other flick's have no smartness).  In this film, Arnold plays a helicopter pilot with a good family, but comes home one day to find that the new technology known as human cloning comes around to his home (in other words, he has been cloned).  But that is just the tip of the scanner in this thriller with a good perspective on cloning, identity and a number of other things.  A tailor made Schwarzenegger movie that works well.  Michael Rappaport makes a good supporting character, among others.  A- "},{"Title":"Not Arnie's finest hour","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 6th Day is a very lazy offering from Arnie. The problem with the film is that it comes with a 15 rating, thus all the action is watered down and to be quite frank, rather boring. The story is not much to write home about, but that needn't have made 6th Day such a disappointing film. The abject lack of Arnie's usual heavy violence makes this sorry viewing for fans of his earlier movies. Arnie's scenes with his family are utterly vomit inducing such are their insincerity. Robert Duvall is OK in this, but he is never stretched. The rest of the cast are typical B-movie fodder, not terrible, but hardly reinventing the wheel either! 6th Day will not be fondly remembered, but will probably keep turning up on Channel 5 for years to come. It's harmless enough, but not particularly fun to watch. Best to catch it when nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"Cheesy near future movie","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the near future, human cloning is banned under the 6th day law. There are cloned pets and SimPals. Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) flies extreme helicopter rides. The family pet dies on his birthday and his wife (Wendy Crewson) pushes him to get a RePet. His partner Hank Morgan (Michael Rapaport) takes over his job for a big client Michael Drucker (Tony Goldwyn). When he goes home, he discovers that there is a clone in his place and the dog is alive. Vincent (Terry Crews) and Talia Elsworth (Sarah Wynter) tells him that he's actually the clone. He escapes and becomes the subject of a manhunt by Robert Marshall (Michael Rooker). Drucker runs RePet and is driving to repeal the 6th day law with the help of Dr. Griffin Weir (Robert Duvall).The futuristic stuff seems random and cheesy. The production value is slightly lower. Everything looks a bit cheesy especially the effects in the cuts. Arnold is trying to revive his action career to no avail. The comedy doesn't work. The movie is an interesting concept done badly with Arnold no longer able to pull off the everyman role. The weight of yet another Arnold action movie wears this down. It's just a shadow of other better Arnold movies. "},{"Title":"Amazingly, better at sci-fi than at action!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  4 out of 10Alas, Arnold Schwarzenegger's slide still continues.  The 6th Day is further evidence of the muscled man's declining career.  What's hilariously paradoxical about this movie's failure is that it gives us better (and more) plot than it does action.  That is the exact opposite of what I've come to expect from a Schwarzenegger vehicle. The premise is intriguing Schwarzenegger plays a helicopter pilot who's cloned and is desperate to find out who did it and why.  Like the rest of his sci-fi movies, the plot exists as a springboard for the action sequences, but for some reason, action here is rather sparse.  Aside from a few laser gunfights and a car chase, there's not much going on here.  The story is enough to hold some interest, but it's actually during the shootouts the movie starts to drag.  Unfortunately, the script, while minute in plot holes (and better than the average Schwarzenegger plot), is too predictable to carry the film alone.  Sci-fi action fans might be pleased, so a rental might be worth the cost for Schwarzenegger fans. "},{"Title":"thoughtful action film","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pity poor Arnold Schwarzenegger &#150; it seems like every time he makes a movie lately some writer goes ahead and implants a plot device that ends up making the film seem irrelevant and obsolete a mere six months after its release.  In 1999's `End of Days,' the premise involved the return of Satan on midnight, New Years Day 2000.  Now in `The 6th Day,' set some time in the near future, the movie opens up with a scene set at a game of the (now defunct) XFL.  Luckily for Arnold, this gaffe plays only a minor part in the overall proceedings.Actually, taken as a whole, `The 6th Day' stands as one of the better sci-fi action flicks of the past several years.   In both plot and style, it strikes echoes of `Total Recall,' not a bad choice for imitation really since that was clearly one of Arnold's all time better vehicles.  Like `Recall,' `The 6th Day' is set in a future world where technology has begun to run amuck but which still shares enough of the basic values of our time to allow us to relate to the characters.  Also, in `Recall,' we were never quite sure if Arnold's character were really living out all the wild experiences of which he seemed to be a part, or whether he was merely dreaming it all as part of a virtual reality `vacation' courtesy of a high tech brain implant.  In `The 6th Day,' we are never quite sure whether Adam Gibson is a man struggling to reassert his place which seems to have been usurped by a clone &#150; or whether the Adam we know and are following is actually the clone himself.Credit Cormac and Marianne Wibberley for composing a screenplay that is dense, clever and, for the most part, comprehensible and Roger Spottiswoode for keeping the action percolating along at a very fast clip.  As with most of these movies, the first two thirds is the most impressive, as the details of the mind-bending plot reveal themselves one by one.  We really have to think while watching this movie, not only about who is who or about what is real and what is fake, but also about some of the finer ethical issues that arise when science and technology seem to be outpacing mankind's moral ability to keep up with it all.  It's not too often that we are asked to engage our brains in the context of an action film, so we'll take our pleasures where we can find them.  For, alas, when all is said and done, `The 6th Day' is, after all, an action film, which explains the inevitable tendency for it to falter in its last third as ideas are replaced by hardware and as the `villains' fall into their predictable behavior patterns.  Rest assured, once the guns start blazing, `The 6th Day' can't help but lose our interest.  The film is also, unfortunately, saddled with Arnold himself who, although he can still pull off the action scenes well enough, simply cannot deliver on the many `emotional' moments that come his way in this film.Yet, why quibble when `The 6th Day' provides so much more food for thought than we are used to on a menu such as this one?  I, for one, am thankful for the nourishment.  "},{"Title":"Disapointing","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE SIXTH DAY Columbia A disapointing effort from Arnold Schwarzenegger that seems lifted from his Running Man and Total Recall Days. Those days are past and this film unfortunately feels like a rehash. Some decent effects and a few good scenes make it watchable.. but it's not memorable. GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Cloning thriller is, ironically, lifeless","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Derivative, old-fashioned action flick jazzed up for a new generation. In the not-so-distant future, helicopter pilot Arnold Schwarzenegger learns he's been illegally cloned, and gets chased by the bad guys while attempting to reunite with his family. Good-looking but juiceless sci-fi hokum directed with the usual overkill (car chases no longer take place on precarious roads; here, autos are sent plowing through homes and flying down stairs). Despite Robert Duvall and Michael Rapaport in the cast, the acting here is surprisingly wooden, especially by Arnold in what is basically a higher-tech attempt to outdo Total Recall. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Big action, little brains...","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 12/04/2004 - 3 out of 10(Dir-Roger Spottiswoode) Big action, little brains in this supposed sci-fi film about cloning and we get to see 'two' bad acting Arnold Schwarzenegger's as well. Now if you're excited about seeing this movie you've definitely got a problem or you should at least interview for a position as Arnie's campaign spokesperson for whatever new office he tries to get. Seriously though, this movie takes a series subject and throws at it explosions, glass breaking, 1-dimensional bad guys and not 'one' but 'two' good guys who happen to be the same person.Now if that's not minimilizing something as important scientifically as clone-research, I don't know what is. On the entertainment level, if you like action there's plenty of it but similar to other action-filled movies it's nice to have people you believe in or care about or the action is worthless and has no meaning(as it does here). I guess Arnie ought to go back to doing comedies or maybe try and keep his day job as Governor of California. "},{"Title":"I might be back...","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...Schwartzenegger utters this in the first third of the film, and guess what? It's the best line in the movie, which should tell you something. He also says lines like this You should clone yourself so you can go #### yourself, and later, to the same character (the bad guy), whose own (equally bad) clone falls on top of him, When I said you should screw yourself I didn't mean that literally.  Unfortunately, when he says he might be back in the earlier part of the film, he actually DOES mean it literally.  Are two Schwartzeneggers better than one?  Not in this film.  Not in this film.   "},{"Title":"They can clone people but can't get through on a 911 call. And you thought this was science fiction.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 6th Day is about what you'd expect; lots of action, special effects, stunts, pyro, etc. And, what could be better than one Arnold? Two Arnolds, of course. Although The 6th Day is an obvious take-the-money-and-run exploitation action flick with a PG-13 rating and almost immediate video release, it delivers plenty of the usual stuff which should satisfy boys under age 17. More mature audiences may wish to see Arnold stop trying to act and go back to being the charismatic muscle man which made him a Hollywood super hero success. Nonetheless, this formula flick works as pure escapism. Just don't expect anything new or anything more. "},{"Title":"It's okay when it's not horrible","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unfortunately this was one of the biggest flops of 2000. Arnie still kicks ass and there is no denying it. But beneath the horrid effects and poor script this movie raises important questions about human cloning and gives VERY good reasons as to why it should NEVER happen.We all know the plot by now. Arnie comes home from work only to find that he's already there and celebrating his own birthday. What a high concept idea! But the execution of it and the bad script turn it into a shambles.The action is badly done and the SFX are pathetic. I usually don't care much for SFX but I wasn't particularly impressed with this movie. Those helicopters that can turn into jet planes are soooooo tacky.Many of us doubted Arnie after Batman and Robin and End of Days (I was one of them) but he has proved himself here once again as an action hero who can still be the lead in a movie, even if it still a crap one. Age has not slowed him down and it doesn't look like it will for a while yet. He has still got a few more action movies to go. Maybe one day we'll get a third Terminator. "},{"Title":"No Total Recall but more enjoyable than I expected","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A helicopter pilot survives some sort of accident, with vague recollections of something happening but unsure what.  When he returns home to find that `he' is already at home with his wife and daughter, he is immediately accosted by two officers and he discovers that he has been mistakenly cloned and is now planned for termination to cover up the illegal operation.  He goes on the run to stay alive and get his life back &#150; even if he has to expose the whole operation to do so.I missed the start of this film by a few moments, but I reckon I wasn't left behind and found the film quite easy to get into.  The echoes of Total Recall are loud and too hard to ignore but they don't take too much away from the film itself.  The main disadvantage of the echoes is that this film can't compare to Total Recall and appears weaker than it is as a result.  The plot is a little too simplistic to base such a fantastic plot on but it just about works if you don't think about it too much.  What doesn't work as well is the separation of the `action' and the `issues' &#150; both sides of the film are treated so separately that different actors carry each theme!  I'd prefer for a more seamless approach rather than the clear split that existed here.The action is quite good, not too OTT or show stopping but driven along by enough drama to make it a little tense and involving.  Some of the effects are surprisingly poor (the helicopters and backgrounds are weak) but the old fashioned (!) action (i.e. not totally relying on effects) keeps it going.Arnie is OK and is more human than in other films, he brings a reasonable vein of humour to the film and holds the screen as easily with one of him as two.  Duvall is a bit of a side issue who seems only to be added to give the film some sort of intellectual debating subplot clout.  He has little to do although he does add something to the role.  Rooker is OK as is Rapaport and Goldwyn does a fairly good job as the key villain of the piece.Overall I enjoyed this film although I did feel that it wasn't as clever as it thought it was.  Spottiswoode's direction and other visual tricks make it feel busy even when it isn't and the end result is a solid action movie for Schwarzenegger fans even if it will not be mentioned in the same sentence as his better films. "},{"Title":"A lot better than it's given credit for.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sci-fi-action-thrillers haven't been done very well since Terminator 2, or, if you prefer more strict sci-fi films, Total Recall (1990). Both starred Arnold Schwarzenegger. Now he's *back* in a film that is not only fun but conceals an important message. It's about cloning.It is the future. (The very near future.) In the future just about any animal can be cloned at Re-pet, a store devoted to cloning your ex-pets. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Adam Gibson, a family man with a wife (Wendy Crewson) and daughter (Taylor Anne Reid). He strongly dislikes futuristic devices; in a time where people laser shave, Adam still uses an old-fashioned razor blade. His friend, Hank Morgan (Michael Rapaport) is all for the future and what it holds; he even has a virtual girlfriend.But after Adam comes home one night to find someone in his house (There's someone in my house, eating my birthday cake, with my family!), he grows worried and soon finds a cloning conspiracy headed by a man named Drucker (Tony Goldwyn) and a scientist played by Robert Duvall who isn't quite so sure he's doing the right thing.The 6th Day pretty much flopped when it came out. Not only should it not have flopped, but it should not have been so easily ignored. As we see now, with parents asking judges to create their own babies genetically, our times are nearing much closer to those in The 6th Day. The film is not just an Arnie action flick; it's a bit more.The underlying roots of the film are not only important, but also contain Back to the Future-type paradoxes. For example they make clones by taking blanks, fitting them with the genetic structure of the human, then insert their memory (filled on chips of some kind) into their brains. As Roger Ebert roughly stated, when you are a child--let's just say ten for right now--you get a memory-scan or whatever they're called. Then, when you're fifty, you clone yourself at age ten. You could actually raise yourself. Of course, the question is whether you would want to raise yourself, but that's merely a technicality. And could you imagine if time machines and cloning devices existed in the same future? The results and/or possibilities are endless.One other thing I liked about this film is that they do not disclose the year. Just like Star Wars and such films, it becomes much more wonderful and suspenseful when it does not disclose the year the film takes place. In this movie, they say, In the very near future--closer than you think. The movie was directed by Roger Spottiswoode, the man responsible for, among other things, Turner and Hootch--that dog-buddy movie with Tom Hanks that I found pretty darn infectious and charming--and Tomorrow Never Dies, a James Bond actioner I found weak and stupid. This stands out as one of his best. He clearly has an idea of the future and how it should look. Many of the actual objects of the future--from dolls to cars to virtual girlfriends--are given such familiarity and deep thought that we start to believe we really are in the future. The 6th Day doesn't try to show off the future; it sets us in the future and tries to make us believe. And it does so greatly.The 6th Day is not only an important film, but an extremely entertaining one, too. On the plus side, the filming technique is very futuristic, but not the millionth rip-off of Blade Runner--dark and broody. The only other film I can think of that dealed with the future and did not rip-off Blade Runner is Back to the Future Part II--which used bright colors to represent its future.And as for the people who complain Arnie is too old in this movie--were you expecting his age to decrease during the filming? The nature of man and aging is involuntary--get over it already.The 6th Day is the rare sci-fi film that leaves you pinned to your seat in awe. It's thrilling, fun, humorous, and adventurous. The images of the future burst through the screen like the hovercopters we see and they make a direct route right into your brain. This is a spectacular movie with a clear vision of the future--don't miss it. "}]