[{"Title":"Maybe the best anime piece ever","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"77 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As we saw that Vampire Hunter D was high ranked on IMDb, we decided to give it a shot. Loaded up with some expectations, who comes naturally when a piece is placed good at IMDb, we enjoyed the movie from the very early beginning to the very end. I was astonished! At first, the whole piece is animated in a way that I really find attractive. I mean, not the regular ninja-banzai-anime-style, but instead this beautiful way of animating this alternative reality put up on your tv. I really like ancient stuff like vampires and more goth related stuff when it comes to animes, and this one got it all. With a terrific story the piece develops and bounds the viewer into the magic world of Vampire Hunter D. I just simply love it because of the vibe it gives me! A sober 10 out of 10, no doubts about it. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"70 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Can there be a sequel better then the original? Yes there can, and this one proves it. Well worth the purchase even if you have to pay a bundle for shipment like I did. I'm proud to add this fantastic piece of manga to my expanding collection. I'll put it right next to Mononoke Hime, Akira and Ghost in the Shell. This is a classic already and every manga/anime fan should watch it. All the characters are amazing and original, they could all get their own movie and I hope at least some of them do.The style of drawing is rough and dark, yet elequent and beautifully detailed. No expense has been spared. D has been buffed up a bit and has more powers than ever. This movie is exciting to the extreme. 1½ hours flies by. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest adult animated films ever","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"49 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Yoshiaki Kawajiri's style is so detailed, so precise, you just get the feeling that each frame of animation has been slaved over and perfected, making Vamp D Bloodlust the best showcase of his directorial style. Of course, the actual chara designs are by Yoshitaka Amano and here is perhaps the most accurate depiction of his unique style. The soundtrack also bears mentioning and is right up there with the Hollywood's best.Story-wise, its an eclectic mixture of Gothic horror, Science fiction, Westerns and Samurai, apparently based on a novel I've never read. Its genre cannot be classified simply horror, and while there are plenty of great action scenes, the near-perfect pacing allows for quiet moments of conversation between the characters.Its full of great moments, but the best is the climactic finale - absolutely unforgettable. A must-see, right up there with classics of anime such as Studio Ghibli's work... "},{"Title":"Dark fun","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When VHD Bloodlust came out, I wasn't too very interested. Having recently got the chance to watch the film though, I know now I should have been. VHDB is top notch so far as dark anime goes. From the opening scene, watching the crosses twist and crumble as the dark carriage passes by, you know you're in for something good. VHDB doesn't disappoint.First off, D has been given a major upgrade. He looks more vampire like, he looks stronger and badder than ever before. The new art helps much, of course. D is hired to find a girl named Charlotte, dead or alive, who has been taken by a vampire from her home. Adding to the mix is a bounty team already has a head start on D, and each member of this team could well have his/her own anime. These are no second rate fill-ins, these folks are every bit as interesting as D. The vampire in question doesn't disappoint either, showing the full force of his powers from the very first scenes.All in all, if you're looking for something darker and blood filled, watch this show. It looks dang good, the english voices are much better than you'd expect, and things just simply click. It's well worthy of the VHD name, and surpasses the original in nearly every way.- Rirath_com "},{"Title":"Gripping and gorgeous Vampire D Bloodlust  is a must-see for anime lovers","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is a beautifully created anime! Every scene is a masterpiece and the storyline is captivating. I truly enjoyed this movie not only because of the exquisite artwork but Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is a serious, touching, and at times humorous movie that anyone who watches it, with or without a love for animated movies, will be captured by its unique and brilliantly planned plot. And to those of you who think the hand destroyed the movie i completely disagree with them. He is an excellent source or comical relief that is needed for most people in intense movies and this is definitely an intense movie. I have seen clips of the first movie and heard the opinions of others on which is better and most of them believe that the first was slightly more gripping, but the animation is a definite improvement in Bloodlust. (I still have yet to see the first for myself.) I would have to say the only way i could be disappointed with this movie is that there aren't more of them like it. "},{"Title":"action toned down, but quality turned up","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D is a legend in some aspects of the anime world.  It was the first anime I saw as a child and it was a movie I never forgot.  I borrowed the sequel from my friend and I was very happy with it.  There isn't as much fighting as in the first one, but the story is deep and thick with great characters.  Meijer Link, a vampire with noble intentions with a human girl, is the first decent vampire we see in the D movies.  You root for him, yet D never loses in battle, so it's really tough watching them fight. We see again D's constant struggle with his self and the life that he leads.  He's stuck between a human life and a vampire's life, never truly fitting into either.  He meets a bounty hunter, Leyla, who finds something truly magnetic about D and his loneliness in that she has felt the same way in her life. It truly is a somber tale full of lively characters, a tremendous love story, and of course, D's usual blood spilling action. A great movie that I think most audiences will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Vampire hunter B","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust may be called an animated version of Blade by some, but it is so much more. In this animated horror / adventure the Vampire Hunter (as Blade) is half human and half vampire, but that's about where the similarities end, for the film plays in the distant future and D is a hunter that prefers a good old fashioned sword to battle the evil of his time. The things that make this film great were the incredible music and cinematography along with a pretty good story. But that isn't all. The thing that struck me most, was that despite being a vampire / demon film, the creatures and weapons in it were rather original. Some things had just been given a bit of a work-over while other things were completely new to me. In all that one can see a lot of care was invested in the making of Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust and I for one thought that the result was as good as the effort. I'd even be inclined to say that Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is in my top 3 of vampire films, right next to From Dusk 'till Dawn and Dracula (by Francis Ford Coppola).8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Splendidly, decorated anime.","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In the distant future it's the year 12,090 where vampires and the undead who caused terror through the night are falling at a rapid rate, because of a Dunpeal; half-human, half-vampire bounty hunter called D. On this quest he's hired for 20 millions dollars by a father of a young girl who was kidnapped by a powerful vampire who plans to take her with him to the stars. But D learns that his not the only one on their trail, as the man informs him that he also hired a group of vampire hunters know as the Mark Brothers. So now the two are in competition to who can get their hands the on the girl (dead or alive) before they get to their destination. But D also suspects that maybe the girl went by her own accord, which throws a spanner into the mix.I used to always watch anime when I was a kid, but it kinda died off me when I got into my late teens. Well, that was until it picked up momentum again when I caught the brilliant 'Neo Genesis Evangelion' anime series a couple years ago. So, now I'm a on and off viewer, but I was glad that I was switched on for this particular one. Being a horror fan and reading the synopsis for the film I thought it sounded great and it was most definitely. But I also learned it was a sequel, which I was worried that I wouldn't have a clue what was going, but that's the not the case here with certain things about our protagonist being explained because they crop up into where the story is heading. It does feels kinda different, especially in the terms of violence by keeping it within the story's limits then going out fall ball with a pointless mess. The stimulating violence is done rather graciously with the easy-going pace suddenly moving like a speeding train when the action occurs. The animation is breath-taking, it's simply eye-candy with distinguishable details and sharp imagination that's pure film-craft at its best. The heavy blanket of Gothic atmosphere that's created breaths down on you with it's dark, grimy apocalyptic feel where there's a wonderful mix of ghoulish terror and sweet innocence. While, this anime has terrifically, garnished up visuals. The story was not to be forgotten, as it's a lyrically, thoughtful tale that's richly developed with an emotional pull that's truly enticing. You could call it a hybrid with a galore of ingredients worked into the story's structure; Horror, Medieval, Western, Fantasy and Sci-fi. These adventurous aspects truly made sure that there were plenty of nifty surprises and a range of highly spirited standoffs between foes with a kicking soundtrack to boot. The moralistic tale builds up an allegory you could say about racism and that of never trusting that of perception, but to look on the inside to find the person's true meaning. The smooth dialogue is quite meaningful and there's patches of dry humour sprinkled across it. The fruitful characters are well-rounded and they add their own little parts to the story. But the star here is the quietly spoken, but extremely deadly D; who's dressed up in his black overcoat and wide-brimmed hat that hides his face. He's not alone as his accompanied by his black horse and that of a talking parasite embedded in his hand.A really compelling and exciting anime piece that delivers all the goods in a marvellous blend. "},{"Title":"Excellent example of the genre!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Excellent manga which would be all the more enhanced with a good widescreen TV and speaker system. I don't imagine I've got much to add over and above what the other anime buffs have most probably already stated but this is definitely one of the better anime I've seen. It also has a cohesive plot that doesn't ramble on endlessly like many mangas seem to do (Akira, Spirited Away, Ghost in the Shell 2) There are nicely drawn characters. Good action. Lots of beast monster type things and supernatural stuff. Would probably give it an 8.5 out of 10 if the option was there. I would hope that with the development of computer effects for anime there will be more entertaining mangas to come in the future. It's a genre that I always feel has a lot of potential but for some reason it doesn't quite get fulfilled. Perhaps, Hollywood might wake up to the potential for animated features that aren't necessarily focused towards kids only. Anyway, time will tell. "},{"Title":"An exquisite Japanese animation production - heart-warming vampire tale, it is","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Writer-director Yoshiaki Kawajiri gave us an absolutely fantastic animation film. Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust (2001 U.S.) has excellent illustrations, detailed and beautifully rendered. Story is intriguingly presented, mystery and sentiments well-maintained. Original music by Marco D'Ambrosio is impressive and aptly enhanced the atmosphere. I kept saying WOW! Feeling WOW to its amazing, dazzling sight and sound and music. The illustrative quality is awesome the colors, the character details, the backgrounds&#133;such all round attention, including character development and storyline. There are action sequences to match Hollywood productions, and a love story, too. The age old theme of romantic love, here between human and vampire, began with an 'outcast' vampire hunter (named 'D', himself half human half vampire - hence seemingly ever young) hired by a human family to rescue/retrieve their kidnapped daughter, who actually has fallen in love with her kidnapper vampire count&#133;the fairytale adventure continues, and to a grand visual showdown of forces in brilliant colorful effects. Yes, there is heart, and we are rewarded with a heart-warming ending, or never-ending for that matter. If you like vampire tales and fantasies, this is a must-see. If you appreciate well-crafted, illustrative animations, don't miss this one.Yet to catch Richard Linklater's Waking Life - a modern approach to animated film - substance includes deeper exploration than usual animation flicks. Actually sounds quite philosophical - his Before Sunrise 1994, with Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy on a train ride and brief stops in Europe, was a philosophical romantic exchange.  "}{"Title":"A fine piece of Fantasy/Sci-Fi work and a must see for anyone who can appreciate great animation.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In the distant future, supernatural forces have emerged to become everyday occurrences in mankind's world, and all too frequently they collide with it. Enter, D - A soft-spoken freelance tracker, half-vampire half-human, who makes a living as one of the most feared monster-hunters and Vampire slayers in the world. Though greatly feared by both monster and human alike, his reputation earns him the attention of a rich nobleman, who decides to hire D's services to bring back his beloved and beautiful daughter, Charlotte. In a fantastic display of his unholy power and influence, the powerful and charismatic Vampire Count known as Meier Link has taken Charlotte from her very bedroom, back to his castle to be his bride. However, the plot thickens intensely as the Marcus Brothers (a highly and diversely skilled band of monster slayers), the powerful supernatural creatures of Barbaroi, and an ancient evil force all try to impede D's progress, suggesting that far more is at stake than a young girl's mortality. Before long, D realizes that the abduction is not what it seems, nor is little else. A sinister and world-shaking plot begins to loom over D's seemingly-direct task.As D goes about his hunt, his journey takes him through fantastic landscapes, crossing fascinating creatures, meeting interesting friends and foes, and ultimately reveals a sliver of his own mysterious past. From beautiful ancient ruins to the most incredible Baroque castles, from savage lands ruled by monsters to pleasant villages at the edge of humanity's reach, Bloodlust is an adventure that will leave most Fantasy/Sci-Fi fans hungry for more. The action is nothing short of dynamic and sharp, separated with moments of genuine pathos and depth, this story is well-told with fine voice acting (great English dubbing) and some of the most fluid animation ever seen. This is not so much a movie as it is moving art (a concept that few studios 'remember'). Granted this is in a heavy Fantasy setting, it is so well done that even those who detest such fiction, should be able to appreciate this on at least one level - wonderful animation with an interesting story.If this movie has a failing, it is that it had to end, and that there is no official word of another in the franchise. "},{"Title":"Better than the original in every sense","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The comment above basically sums everything up. This movie is superior to the first in animation, dialogue, and story. Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is a perfect example of anime can and should be. It is dark without being horribly depressing or clichéd. The plot is full of twists and keeps you on the edge of your seat. The voice acting is near perfect as is the animation. If you have never heard of Vampire Hunter D before this movie is the perfect place to start, and if you have then you will not be disappointed. Unlike the traditional vampire movie where all the characters are horribly stereotyped and one-dimensional Vampire Hunter D avoids all such clichés. Although the film does use some of the traditional pure-good characters and pure-evil villains most of them manage to achieve a level of depth that is uncommon among horror or action movies. There are probably some people who will never like this film simply because they hate the very concept, but for everyone else give this film a chance. For what it is, I do not see how they could have made Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust any better. "},{"Title":"best anime vampire movie. why? because...","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  yep, it's the best one that exists as of yet. what's exceptionally great about it, besides the animation, besides the orchestra, besides the sinister-looking good guy, is the storyline in which there is no real 'bad guy'...yep, it's the good-guy vs good-guy plot. unlike the hackneyed good vs bad, in which the good always wins, this storyline will offer you a breather, and, hopefully, there will be more to come.and for all you guys that can't live without happy endings which plague about 99 percent of the movies out there, this ain't for you. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D Blood lust is more than a worthy follow up to the classic original. The animation is just amazing to behold, and the themes are timeless. D is not only a great hero, but a kick ass character like no other. Hopefully there will be more Vampire Hunter D movies in the future. "},{"Title":"Whether you like Anime or not, this movie is amazing.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rented this movie without much regard, as I had seen the original but was not particularly impressed with it.  But the moment the DVD menu loaded up, I knew I was in for a treat.  This is another film from the director of Ninja Scroll, arguably one of the most amazing animated films in existence, and this one continues in the same vein.  It is sad that anime is regarded as either child's fare or the bastion of geeks and nerds.  But if any movie could change that opinion, it is this one. ** Spoiler Alert** The protagonist/anti-hero of the film is D, the half-vampire/half-human bounty hunter.  He's as dark and brooding as you can get, but I suppose you wouldn't talk much if your father was Dracula (only learned in the first film) and you had lived for thousands upon thousands of years.  Our hero is hired by a wealthy land owner to rescue his daughter who was abducted by the vampire Meier Link.  But all is not as it seems, and villains aren't always evil.  Also hired to rescue her is a family of bounty hunters known as the Markus Brothers. In the movie's big plot twist, the hunters realize that the one pulling all the strings is the vampire Carmila, dead for centuries and now plotting her own resurrection from beyond the grave.  For those with a taste for history, Carmila was actually a real person.  In fact, the vampire legend is based in part on her.  She was a countess back in the day who bathed in the blood of virgins, believing it would make her beauty endless.  The film does not explain this, but if you already know, there are some hints which make the end of the film more understandable and more interesting.  But enough about plot, on to the good stuff. The most obvious thing that one will notice when watching this film is the animation.  It's phenomenal.  No more low frame rate animation from Japan.  This can stand toe-to-toe with Disney, and is far more interesting to watch.  There aren't any saucer-shaped eyes and ridiculous expressions to put yourself through.  The designers did a great job, and the attention to detail shows.  It is very, very easy to forget this is a cartoon.  The scene with the arrow flying towards D when he first meets the Marcus Brothers jumps to mind.  Oh, and let's not forget the bridge scene, with Meier burning in the fading sunlight.  Visually provocative and actually quite affecting. In short, even if you dislike anime, please give this one a try.  I'm not saying you'll become a fan of anime, but I dread the thought that this truly engrossing and beautiful movie will be passed over simply because it is animated.  "},{"Title":"Very Interesting and Unique Anime A Refreshing Change From Bland Hollywood Fare","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently got a chance to see this film in New York. I saw the original Vampire Hunter D on video cassette and wanted to see this sequel. I would say this film far surpasses the original. The movie is different from standard hollywood animated fare which is often too syrupy and rarely tries to push the envelope. This film does that. The animation is gorgeous and very fluid. Unlike many other anime films the translation into english makes perfect sense and you get a better feel of the character's emotions. The story focuses on a half man half vampire hero named D. Because of his strange ancestory D is a loner. He reminds one of the Clint Eastwood lone cowboy types. The film has a few references to Clint Eastwood's classic westerns too. The film centers on a plot to rescue a wealthy man's daughter from a vampire. From scene to scene everything makes sense and it is visually beautiful. I remember this film originally beared the exact title of the original Vampire Hunter which caused great confusion. The producers thankfully changed the name of this a bit to avoid confusion between this film and the original. It was definitely entertaining and bit macabre. One thing, even though this is an animated cartoon IT IS NOT FOR YOUNG CHILDREN. The themes and some of the scenes are too intense for young kids SO PLEASE DO NOT TAKE ANY KIDS TO THIS MOVIE. All in all it is a great experience for grown ups who love animation. "},{"Title":"Gave me goosebumps!!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This must be the ULTIMATE animation film for all fans of the genre! The animation is one of the smoothest I've seen.  The digital effect merges seamlessly. The storyline is dark and mysterious, action-filled, beautiful, and even manages romantic... Kept me glued to the seat from start to finish. I've only seen it twice yet, but I'm working on third (grin).  Don't miss it when it hits US! "},{"Title":"Who needs american movies?","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In this day and age there is no such thing as a classic movie anymore, cinema has lost it's respect for many people.  The only new Classics are that of the anime genre, these are the movies that inspire so many huge american action movies, as well as TV shows...(James Cameron's Battle..er... I mean Dark Angel....A**hole)  You have the Matrix taking famous scenes from every popular anime series out there and calling it original!  Let's hope and pray that this doesn't happen to Vampire Hunter D.Vampire Hunter D is one of the most remarkable love stories to date, it takes calssic cinema and pushes it, it's funny that this movie was made over 10 years ago but it still holds strong in my memory, especially in the DVD incarnation as well as the new movie coming out.  If there is anything close to Nosfarateu this is it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D is an amazing film with beautiful animation, everything is smooth and fluid, the characters are excellent especially the lead D. It is a dark movie with excellent action and a few very humorous comments. "},{"Title":"VAMPIRE HUNTER D IS A MUST SEE MOVIE!!!!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D is a must see movie because of the story and the animation that goes into making this movie one of the most spectacular adventures of this time.If you are not a big time movie animation watcher and you do not care for them then I urge you to watch this movie and be captivated by the plot and amazed at the animation!This movie is well done and I have to say has one of the best plots in any movie in general and will become one of the classics along with ninja scroll and others, I guarantee it! "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is by far one the greatest anime movies that I have seen in my life.So beautiful,dark and romantic.It is like a gothic dream .Characters are very cool and the animation is superb.Simply splendid.This one will be a classic in a few years, like Akira,Ghost in the shell and Ninja scroll.AWESOME!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the better anime's","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As soon as I read the plot for this film, I had a feeling I'd like it - but that feeling was quickly quashed when I found out that the film is animated. It's not that I have anything against animated films; I just don't tend to like them very much. Still, there's a couple that I like and, considering plot, I figured it must be worth a go anyway, and it was. The problem with animation these days, especially when it's coming from Asia is that it is extremely likely to receive high praise regardless of how good it actually is, and this makes it very difficult to decide whether or not certain films are worth seeing. While Vampire Hunter D definitely is worth seeing, I get the feeling that a lot of it's high praise is coming from the fact that Asian cinema is in vogue right now. The plot is classic vampire fodder, which is why it instantly appealed to me, and it follows the story of a young rich girl who is apparently kidnapped by a vampire. The vampire population is dwindling, thanks to the bounty hunters, and our story picks up when the girl's father hires a hunter - Vampire Hunter D - to find his daughter. He hires another crew as well, but they soon find out that the girl may have gone with the vampire of her own free will...One of the reasons why anime continually gets high ratings is because, unlike other types of animation, the adult orientation allows for more developed characters; and some of the characters and exchanges in this movie are truly spectacular considering that it's animated. Vampire Hunter D manages to enthral the viewer by way of action and emotion, both of which are extremely well done. The characters are much more complex than in most live action vampire films with the central half-human, half-vampire figure providing most of the intrigue. I didn't like the design of the vampire hunter much, but like the lone figures across cinema; D's presence is enough to ensure that all of his scenes are a highlight. The film's adult orientation allows it to be more gratuitous in it's action sequences than most animated films, and the vast majority of them are really well done. The real star of the show for me was the horror atmosphere, which serves the film really well. The animation helps Vampire Hunter D massively in that respect as the filmmaker's only limit is their imagination, which means that the atmosphere is allowed to be laid on more thickly than a lot of horror movies have means to do. On the whole, this is a very good film, and while I would have preferred live action; Vampire Hunter D shows that animation is an adequate base for a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Great piece of anime.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Vampire Hunter D is a Dhampir (Dunpeal in the English version), a half-human, half-vampire, who works as a bounty hunter, slaughtering the last remaining vampires. He is hired by a rich man to rescue his daughter, who has been kidnapped by a noble vampire. While hunting for this girl, he also must compete with another group of bounty hunters, siblings who travel around in a massive vampire-slaying truck, who will do anything to ensure that they take the prize. As he closes in on his prey, D begins to suspect that the girl may not have been kidnapped against her will ...I know what you're thinking ... sounds a bit like Blade, doesn't it? However, while it's true that Marvel first published the Blade, Vampire Hunter comic in 1973, and this was clearly an influence on this character, Vampire Hunter D first made it to the big screen in 1985 -- over ten years before it's predecessor got the Hollywood / Wesley Snipes treatment. And besides, this is actually a lot better.Great visuals, lots of blood, plenty of weirdness ... what more do you want in an anime? The first thing you'll notice is how great this movie looks. Compare this with the original, and it just goes to show how new technology is best put to use in animation. There are times when you want to pause the movie simply to marvel at how great a particular frame looks. And everything, the characters, the creatures, and the world itself, is brilliantly designed. This is the main advantage of animation, that you can design pretty much anything and have it realised without concern for cost. But this on it's own does not make a good film, of course ... it's helped along by an engaging storyline and interesting characters, resulting in an eastern Gothic masterpiece. The ending inparticular is notable for an anime since it focuses strongly on the characters rather than on some crazy monster design, which is the usual approach.There are those who would argue that this is among the greatest anime movies of all time, and it's certainly one of the very best that I've seen. It surpasses the decent 1985 original by far. "},{"Title":"One of the Great","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well I must admit, that I may not be fully objective about Vampire hunter DBloodlust, because it was one of the three anime movies that git me hooked on anime. None of them are considered classics (the other two were BloodThe last vampire and The cat returns) and looking at them now I can see many faults, but still Vampire hunter D bloodlust is in my mind just similar enough to western style, to make it more acceptable. The LARGE eyes and LONG legs that usually throw people off aren't really present here. There are no squeaky voices or overly expressed emotions. Even the English dubbing is quite good, compared to the usual. It was here that I first realized that anime characters aren't all strictly good or strictly bad. And you get to see both sides. Another thing that I have to admit is that I love vempire movies. Not all of them, but hey are a passion ). And that is what Vampire hunter D is - the best vampire movie I've seen so far. I's not flawless of course, but it is good nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Incredibly well done","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Im not normally a fan of anime. But this movie was exquisite in its detail, score and composition.The voice casting was perfect for the characters, especially the voice of Left Hand. The animation was really well-done, affording as much detail as possible. While it strayed a bit from the original story (Mashira wasn't some kind of werewolf, but rather a carbuncle that took form in people's stomachs, and Caroline was a dhampir that could control anything she drank from, whether its a tree or a machine) it's still a good story. I laughed a bit when they changed up Leila's relationship with the Markus brothers, as in the book, they are referred to as the Markus Clan, as Leila is their sister. This doesn't stop Kyle from making several lewd comments (fmi, read the book).One thing i didn't like, IIRC, they added Carmilla to the movie. She wasn't in the book, but, that's IIRC. And they didn't use D's pendant, although there was ample opportunity.This time around, though, they really hit home on how long D's been around, in the scene with the old man, and the end when he's at the funeral. What some people don't realize, is that D's been around since the mid-1940's. Which makes him at least 10k years old. Im hoping they make more movies, as the books continue to get better and better, and are great reads, no matter how many times you've read them previously. "},{"Title":"Stylish and Innovative","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I watched this very recently, and loved it. There have been many vampire movies over the ages, many which I've seen, and this probably stands atop my list. The animation is good, and the music is non existent where required, and light and sublime otherwise and that blended beautifully. The Dunpeal Hunter, or 'D', has an almost 'Man with no name' Clint Eastwood feel &#150; silent, mysterious, and exceptionally good at what he does. Every character has been given some thought, from Meir Link the Vampire, the Barbarroy creatures to the Marcus Brothers. All these characters stand out on their own, even the minions. The movie is not only stylish but innovative, and this makes it very enjoyable. The fight scenes are exemplary, the story well written and fast paced. Various weapons from crossbows, swords to guns make an appearance, all taking part in fascinating skirmishes. A definite watch, whether you are a fan of vampire movies or not. "},{"Title":"Hold Onto Your Hat...","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was really impressed with the animation, drawings, color, texture and flavor of Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust. It was great to check out and to root for the fearless vampire hunter. I could not believe some of the scenes that were produced for me through Japanese Animation. I could really tell that much time and effort was put into every stitch of this work. I would certainly recommend it to friends and family that would enjoy a great rush of action mixed with the struggle of good versus evil. If there was a second part to this movie, I would certainly search it out to check it out for another rating. If you enjoy Japanese Animation at its best, I strongly urge you to check out Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust. "},{"Title":"The Hunter Returns","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Here is Bloodlust, The long-awaited sequel to Vampire Hunter D. The first D movie although not great was alright. The hero however needed a much better presentation. This is how it's done.The first thing you will notice is the much updated superior animation and music. The look is so clean, so stylish, and so very dark. Our hero has a much better look. How anime has changed over the years. Wow.The story is our hero has been hired to hunt down Meier Link, the one responsible for kidnapping a young lady. However our hero this time has competition to deal with. A rag-tag group of excellent vampire hunters have a head start on this. They are not amateurs that's for sure.The story is good. Better than the first movie's. The voice acting has much improved. The action sequences are stunning and a delight to watch. This is visually intoxicating.However, there are drawbacks. One is the lack of character development. I will not say who, but development is important. The other is that one fight is over in a few seconds. One of the coolest baddies gets killed to quickly.Despite that, This is a very fun and entertaining sequel. The visuals alone are excellent. The sound and music are loud and intense. You won't be let down.The Last Word Excellent. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen Akira, Ghost in the Shell, Escaflowne and lot's of other anime stuff lately, but i must admit that this one is the best. Quality of the animation is just great, pictures are both scary and beautiful. I ensure you that you could watch this movie just for the visual side of it. Music is even better, i wonder why you people don't mention music when commenting on this film. Sincerely, it must be one of the best film musics i've ever heard, it makes 'climate' all the time. Action goes really fast, some ideas are really cool (talking hand for ex.) and there are NOT such dialogues like Oh my God, how did he gain such a power?! or You are nothing to me, i have much greater power than you! in addition to constant overkill and mass-destruction, which is so anime-typical and really annoys me. Wchich doesn't mean they don't fight there, but it's just made a little different. The only things i didn't like about this film are general look of Marcus' brothers' team - they seem to have escaped from Mad Max, and maybe some of 'romantic' dialogues a la -My dear! -My love! -My dear!, but they really don't make this movie any worse. Generally this is a great cinema not only for anime fans. It's surely better than Terminator 3 and almost as good as Matrix <) . And the end is really touching!  "},{"Title":"Best Anime Visuals Ever Created","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film contained some of the greatest animation I have ever seen. The characters and settings were highly colorful and masterfully drawn. The musical score was very original and fit the film almost perfectly. Not only were the visuals great but so were the characters. Bloodlust's Meyer Link, and D created one of the most fascinating good vs evil duos that I have ever witnessed, and lady Charlotte was truly dramatic and beautiful.My only complaints about the movie were a few unrealistic points, which I will not get into, and the anticlimactic ending that did not contain enough of a battle between D and Link. Yet overall the visuals, music, characters, and plot were all groundbreaking. "}{"Title":"This is so far one of the best animes ever in my opinion!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is so far one of the best animes ever in my opinion!Wicked City was the first in the Yoshiaki Kawajiri (Director) collection that I saw... but it wasn't until Ninja scroll, also one of my absolute favorites, that I began to notice him and his outstanding directing skills and character development. After Ninja scroll I became a definite Kawajiri fan and I couldn't wait to see his upcoming anime/movie Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, which is sort of an adaption of the 1985 anime Vampire Hunter D (directed by Toyoo Ashida). Unfortunately in Sweden I coulden't get the satisfaction of watching it in a real theater but I did buy it as soon as it was available on dvd and I WAS NOT DISSATISFIED!!!It's a very dark but beautifully told story, simple and easy to follow but it doesn't turn out quite how you might expect in the beginning. The animation, over all, is totally amazing. I just love it! The characters are well developed and the plot works fine. The only ,could be, negative comment would be that the Audio tracks is in English only. Which I have to say isn't bad but we all know of the depth of classical Japanese Audio tracks.Overall, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is a GREAT movie, and a must see for all anime fans, especially if the animation it self is of importance! So, if you haven't already, see it!!! "},{"Title":"Very good vampire story, included all elements.","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Awesome! vampire and anime, perfect combo. The attention to detail was just awesome. Plot was more about kill kill kill, but that isnt much of a bad thing is it? but i must say, sound qaulity isnt that good on DVD, being in California, i had to get it on DVD. you can hardly hear their voices, but the action scenes are ear splitting. I recommend this to vampire lovers, and anime lovers. even if you hate anime, but love vampires, it still worth seeing. and if you hate vampires but love anime, and its very much still worth seeing! "},{"Title":"First rate on all levels, perhaps the best of its genre","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The story takes place in the distant future and centers around the tortured soul of a half vampire, half human bounty hunter who is hired to rescue a woman supposedly kidnapped by a powerful vampire named Meier Link. But his mission is further complicated by the vampire's mutant bodyguards as well as competition from another band of fellow vampire hunters named the Markus brothers, one of which develops an uneasy kinship with D. Seldom do you see a sequel surpass its predecessor, especially one that was in itself pretty good, but this one just blows it away. This movie is superb on so many levels, the characters, script, music score, detail of the animation and the underlying story are top notch even compared to most live action sci-fi, let along others of its genre. If they want to make any more Vampire Hunter D sequels like this one, I'll be first in line on opening night. 8 out of 10, when it comes to animated SCI-FI, or just SCI-FI in general, you will be hard pressed to find better. "},{"Title":"Superb in Every Way!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Mixing genuine anime plotlines with modern animation Bloodlust brings what all Vampire Hunter D fans have been waiting for.... the first film in almost twenty years. Based upon what is called the first animated horror film for adults the new Hunter D is what it is; scary as hell, with gorgeous backgrounds, romantic yet twisted plotline, and well drawn and colorful characters (not referring to their colors worn on screen).  Anime fans unite and watch this long anticipated movie, it is a true work of art that has already etched it's way into anime history.   "},{"Title":"Better then the original","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I LOVED THIS FILM! The second I saw the trailer for this film, I knew it was going to be good. The animation in this movie is unbelievable. The colors are amazing. I wish they would redraw the first movie to look like this one. I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. The plot is tremendous. I loved the fact that they has zombies, werewolves, the whole nine yards in this film. I can't wait to buy it. If you ever saw the first one and even had a hint that you liked it, see this one. My only regret is that I didn't see it on the big screen when I had the chance. "},{"Title":"wow.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this is the tightest anime ive seen in a long time.  i loved the first one, so when i heard that a second one was coming out, i was pumped.  i just didnt know when it was coming out, so i kinda forgot about it.  then, i was in a local cd store, and i saw it for sale.  buy this or buy gas?  i guess you know what i bought.  i fell in love with this movie.  the story line follows d as he is hired to bust up yet another demon-vampire-spawn-from-the-pits-of-hell-guy. ill leave the rest for your enjoyment.  wow. "},{"Title":"A must for any anime lover!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finally, a sequel which outdoes the original!  For those who have seen the original Vampire Hunter D anime, Bloodlust will be a treat.  It's very much in the same vein but is noticeably much darker and more gothic-feeling (and, of course, having over 15 years worth of improvements in animation is nice too.)  Unlike a lot of anime, this one also sports a plot which actually makes sense.  Voice acting was above par for most animes but there's still that occasional character that makes you wonder where the hell they get some of these actors from (most were fine though.)  The only really major disappointment I had was the lack of an original Japanese language track on the DVD and the unavailability of a Japanese language\English subtitled VHS.  Regardless, its gorgeous animation and its easy-to-follow storyline will clearly make this one an anime classic within the next few years.  A must for any anime lover! "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust some months ago at the theater and was already amazed by it. A couple of weeks ago I bought it on DVD and couldn't stop telling myself that it is probably one of the best movies I've ever seen.First of all, the story. Although it's rather simple (The search for a kidnapped girl by bounty hunters) it is still well worked in various aspects such as amalgamating the classical vampire story with a post-Apocalyptic future, two plot lines very difficult to combine, yet it has been done in a marvelous way.Then the characters. Since it's an anime, the entire work of giving life to a character is entirely at the hands of the director and the artists, while a lesser weight is put by the dubbing cast. I am not trying to take credit from the dubbing cast since their work is very, very good (I can't stop laughing every time I hear the voice of the Old Barbaroi while the expression put into Leila's and Left Hand's voice is not even voice but PURE FEELING). As I said, the work done by the crew in everything that involved CHARACTER AND PSYCHOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT is the best I've ever seen in any animes, sadly even better than the great Lupin III. By the end of the film you won't have any doubts on the characters and it will seem to you as if you've known them for your whole life.The animation....by far the best I've experienced. I cannot describe it with words, since nothing would make justice to it, but in case you have had the luck to see the film I'm sure that scenes such as the attack to the Barbarois by Grove and the SUPERB arrow sequence (This I believe to be the finest scene I've ever seen on an anime feature) of the graveyard have been stuck in your head since then.Again, the characters are extremely done. The idea of inserting Left Hand's character (Although the parasite has been there since the first Vampire Hunter D) is excellent since it gives someone the chance to say certain phrases (She's out of her mind!, The spirit of Carmilla!) without which lots of tension and action would be inevitably lost.And finally, the soundtrack. Mr D'Ambrosio with few simple notes has given a soundtrack to the anime like few I'd ever listened to before a march as the Markus Borther's theme, Carmilla's Theme (Regina della Notte) and a few trumpets to introduce the grandia of D to the public are few examples of the magnificiency of this composer, who, if he has the luck and keeps it up will become the next John Williams or Ennio Morricone.I suppose the best words that can describe this film are the ones by Derek Elley for Variety, who says ...a visual poetry that's refreshing.This film is in fact, pure poetry.  "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While this movie was excellent-especially the end-I was rather disappointed that the same person didn't do D's voice as the original. Although I really enjoyed learning more about D. I would recommend this movie to anyone who is a fan of either romance or vampires-or both. "},{"Title":"Instant anime classic!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finaly a sequel to the original vampire hunter D. The original came out in 1985 and it still looks cool. This movie uses CGI very seamlessly unlike some holywood animations that use it too heavy handedly like Titan AE. The style reminds me of a mix of ninja scroll and castlevania symphony of the night so the charactor designs are quite good. The story is a little weak. D is hired to save a rich man's daughter who was kidnaped by a vampire. However he has some competition for his bounty from the Marcus Brothers a formitable team of vampire hunters and trust me they bring the noise. Stunning visuals, awsome action even people who dont like anime or the casual movie watcher will love this movie. "}{"Title":"Amongst the greatest action anime of all time","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the things about Anime that always bugged me is the fact that due to the differing tastes of Japanese Vs. Western audiences, much of what gets made is overly cutesy-poo. Silly comic relief, wacky, saucer eyed characters with mouths that go from the size of a pencil eraser to the size of a pie tin whenever they get agitated, etc. (Think 'Fushigi Yugi'). Any trip to a place where they have a big selection of Anime DVDs will attest to this. One of the few oasis' of ultimate coolness in Anime has always been the films that come from the animation house 'Madhouse'. Ninja Scroll and Wicked City being the two best examples this. Films with characters that have cruel, angular features and packed with stunning, outrageous violent action.But the problem is that these types of films are few and far between. They are obviously not very popular in Japan (There was never even a real Ninja Scroll or Wicked City 2). American home video audiences made Ninja Scroll and Wicked City two of the most popular cult Anime films here in the states, granted, there ARE alot of American anime freaks that actually like the saucer eyed cutesy poo girly characters of more traditional Anime, but the desire for more of the ultra-super-mega cool Madhouse stuff was a thirst rarely slaked.In steps Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust.......This film is EXACTLY what American audiences have been craving for years. This is Madhouse at their finest. This anime is full of the exceptionally cool, wickedly designed characters and unbelievable, fast paced action of their previous masterworks (The aforementioned Ninja Scroll and Wicked City) but with fantastic, more technologically advanced animation work.Everything about the look and action in this film is absolute solid gold. I actually got a tingle up my spine during a few of the action scenes. These characters (Even the Humans) are all endowed with superhuman power, they fight each other with a wide array of gimmicky weapons and kill each other with heaps of gory goodness. My only complaints are that it got a bit sappy at points, and that D was much too obviously the 'hero' of the story. I say that because the bounty hunters in this film are EXTREMELY COOL. I liked the bounty hunters more than I like D. They were sooo very cool, and when they won a fight it actually seemed like an accomplishment (Unlike D, who is so powerful you just expect him to win every time he fights).The bottom line is this If you like anime like Ninja Scroll, and have always felt that more films of that type should have been made, then THIS FILM WAS MADE FOR YOU. I mean it. "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  a perfect sequel, i did not see anything wanting at all. soundtrack was good and eerie. Plenty of gore to go round with a very interesting story, that unfolds a bit as it goes. a good bit of humour also. with some superb animations.  very interesting characters as well.  if u liked the first one, u will love this one. was lucky enough to see it in a theater. -) "},{"Title":"outstanding movie","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this movie had some of the best hand-done art that i have ever seen in an animated movie.  the scenes were breathtaking and beautiful but with that said, that is not the best part of the movie.  i liked the story and characeters even better.  the cinematography was excellent and the mood of the movie was done masterfully.i recommend this movie to those who like animated movies especially, but even for those who dont normally enjoy them.  this was a great movie and i cant recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie - The hottest anime yet","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  VAMPIRE HUNTER D BLOODLUST is my favorite movie of all time. The animation is amazing, and the English voice acting is fantastic (this movie was recorded in English originally, unlike most anime). The plot, characters, and everything else are all top-notch. Everything about this movie is soaked in style, especially the scenery and character design. Everyone needs to see this movie, it is hotter than the hottest bacon. "},{"Title":"Excellent Animation-Action Sequences","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think few of you can disagree when I say that this movie, by far, has one of the best action sequences done in surgical precision detail that show the dedication of true masters of animation. I highly recommend this piece of art to every hard-core anime fan. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth watching","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although I watched a heap of movies, Vampire Hunter D is one of the few anime movies I have watched in full. Vampire Hunter D isn't really about plot gimmicks or unexpected twists (although the plot does stray sufficiently enough from the standard vampire movie formula) but mainly about atmosphere. And in that respect, the movie is top-notch. The drawing style creates a very vivid atmosphere, and even the soundtrack manages to surpass the normal standards at times. Of course no atmospheric film goes without sentimentality's, and this one manages to bring plenty of that without degenerating into over-the-top tear jerking.One bad point of the movie is that it is slightly too 'normal' to truly overwhelm and enthrall its viewers. When watching the movie for a first time, this can be a downside as it drags you less into the movie setting. However, Vampire Hunter D certainly does have much more review value than, for example, Spirited Away.If you expect the Holy Grail of Anime, you'll be slightly disappointed but in my opinion the movie does deserve most of the hype it gets. I give it a 8+ out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Loads better than the original!","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" *Spoiler*My expectations for Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust were not very high i must admit seeing as the first one wasn't anything special but was i wrong. This is fantastic from beginning to end with action, horror, humour and a twisted love story thrown in to boot. One thing i did find a little odd however is if you notice D kills only one thing (the werewolf guy) which i find strange because it seems like he did or at least should have killed more than that. Most of the killing were done by the other vampire hunters (where did all those arrows come from?). D's hand looked different, kind of like older in this to what it was like in the original but didn't stop him from being funny. Highly recommended and one of the rare instances that an anime sequel is better (and longer) than the original. 10/10 "},{"Title":"7/10 A Favorite Anime","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Excellent visuals, excellent music.  All around wonderful entertainment.  If you liked Jubei Ninpucho (Ninja Scroll) then you will like this one.  If you are in to the vampire genre you'll love it.  This is one of the best anime movies ... up there with the one mentioned earlier and Kokaku Kidota (Ghost in the Shell).The art work is fantastic.  I love all the little details, like the rain splattering back up from the tombstones.Excellent work.  Really enjoyable! "},{"Title":"Fantastic! One of the best sequels ever!!!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To be perfectly honest, the original VHD sucked. It reminded me of those old-school Batman cartoons, and it was just really bad. That guy Bassplayer who posted that the first one was better is an idiot.The sequel however, set in the future instead of the past, is 1000 times better. Not only is it more entertaining, but it is better quality. A few people on here said the Left Hand ruined it, but I honestly didn't mind it at all. The voice of that Bengy (sp?) guy was way more annoying. The only reason Left Hand might suck is because it's the only link to the 80's cheesiness of the original.Everything about the sequel is better. The story, the visuals, and the characters. This movie friggin rocks. "},{"Title":"A Vampire Masterpiece Stylish Animation!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Plot D has been hired to track down Meier Link, a notoriously powerful vampire who has abducted a Human woman, Charlotte Elbourne. D's orders are strict - find Charlotte, at any cost. For the first time, D faces serious competition. The Markus Brothers, a family of Vampire Hunters, were hired for the same bounty. D must intercept Meier and conquer hostile forces on all sides in a deadly race against time. Despised by Vampires for his profession and by Humans for the blood in his veins, D relentlessly pursues his prey for a price.My Spiel Simply put this is a truly great epic anime. The animation in this piece is very well put together a notch above many animes I have seen and I have seen my fair share. This has many levels of story behind it from discrimination, trust, revenge, and love. I am a fan of the first Vampire Hunter D anime, and had to say this was actually better then the first. Which is apparent with the quality of work that went into creating this masterpiece called bloodlust from the fight scenes to the over all feel of the movie truly astonishing a high grade animation. I highly recommend this anime to anyone who is a fan of Vampire/Anime/Swords/Action/Sci-fi/Horror. Vampire Hunter D Blood Lust is a anime I am proud to recommend to others to watch.Vampire Hunter D Blood Lust (2000) Review 9/10 "}{"Title":"A solid Anime that will keep you on the edge of your seat!","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As a fairly new fan of the anime genre, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust was the first Anime flick i bought and i didn't expect much of it but, damn! was i surprised at the end of it! The story tells of a young Vampire Noble, Meier Link (young in the vampire world) that abducts a rich, innocent girl(Charlotte). To retrieve the girl, her family call on D, the famous Dunpeal Hunter who is known for his reserved yet ruthless nature and his impressive number of successful missions but to ensure the hunt is a quick one, her brother hires the Marcus Bros. a notorious band of brothers known for their unique individual skills and fearless approach to hunting vampires. The two parties race relentlessly to retrieve the girl in order to receive the huge bounty placed on Meier Link's head.As the story pans out, the hunt becomes more and more dangerous, with deadly obstacles standing in the way of the hunters, the real story behind the abduction and D's personal mission to retrieve the girl.The movie is great for those looking to explore or is new to the Anime genre and is watchable for anyone looking for suspense, violence and a bit of drama in there as well as a great soundtrack backing it. "},{"Title":"a breathtaking goth drama","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must admit that I was a little skeptic at first. at first glance to the title, i told myself this must be some very classic story about clash between vampires and mankind. I was wrong !!!! Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is a fantastic visit to an apocalyptic world where the thrill is present at each move. D (to read Dumpeal) is an outcast who carries a dark legacy which will haunt him throughout his quest.From battles against zombies and mutants to the pursuit of the fugitives, a subtle parallel is weaved (D's relationship with Leila / Charlotte's Love for Meier).Characters voices and graphics are well rendered but in my opinion the distinction undoubtedly goes to the soundtrack that matches perfectly the atmosphere of the anime . This Urban Vision first anime is awesome !! "},{"Title":"Pictoresque and amazing, a masterpiece","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have just finished watching the movie after finding on my hard disc from god knows where. I guess one of my friends brought it to me and I just copied it without knowing.The movie is amazing in graphics, in imagery, sounds, voices, a 10/10 if you were to ask me. I sat glued to the screen till the very end. Since I just found out this was a sequel I will not write much since I have not seen the first part, however I might write a few pointers as to what you're about to experience if you let yourself get into this adventure, love story type of vampiristic action and in some parts comedy and drama.The Vampire Hunter D is a bounty hunter, by all means it means he kills for money. He is also half-human, half-vampire which gives him the power to walk outside during the day but it also means he has less strength than the real vampire right? Nope! Here he might be able to walk outside during the day but he is also as strong as the next full pledged vampire. After a rich man's daughter is kidnapped he is assigned for the mission along with another team whom he is competing against for the bounty money. Apparently a vampire has kidnapped the daughter and as for there, probably the last vampire left. There is no need to mention that the plot is only that skin deep, there is much more to it but then again you'd have to watch the movie to understand and see it cause I am not gonna be a movie pooper, so there. Along the lines of getting the money, there are beautiful fighting scenes, a lot of action and yes, as I said earlier, love involved. So please don't miss this movie, rent it, buy it, borrow it, but see it for it is a must see, a movie that you'll remember. Maybe even watch twice as I am about to do right now.Authors, I bow to you for you have made a masterpiece and excellence is a word not worthy of this film. "},{"Title":"Surprising and superior anime","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If, like me, you are easily annoyed by anime, don't miss this opportunity to see a good one.Sure, anime is about the art, but as a western moviegoer, i need things like plot and character to hold my attention for 2 hours.  The plot was fun, and even contained a twist.  The scenery and the world created was epic and beautiful (as expected).  But what surprised me most was when, for a moment, the characters pushed a bit beyond their typical kung-fu/anime stereotypes.Bloodlust is definitely a superior film, and worth watching. "},{"Title":"I was amazed!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Amazing! I saw this film last night, and I think it's an excellent combination of action, rather good dialogues (I saw the dubbed version) and a dash of humour. Very entertaining - I can really recommend it and I hope it will be out on DVD soon! But I am not what you would call an Animaniac, and I do not watch Animes regularly. So I would really like to know what other people think of this movie... "},{"Title":"The anime to hit your friends with.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If anyone you know is smugly disrespectful of Japanese cartoons and doesn't know any better than Sailor Moon or DBZ, take him to this movie. If anyone you know never heard of anime, take him to this movie. In short, take everyone you know to this movie - they won't be disappointed and will discover what anime REALLY is.I have recently seen Vampire Hunter D (2000) in Moscow as part of the International film festival, and the entire cinema had burst into applauds once the credits started. Mind you, the majority of viewers were not anime fans but ordinary people. Even some of the bada$$-looking security guards left their posts to take a peek, and stayed to the end.This movie has it all. Ultimately superior 24 frames\sec animation and an astonishing music score combine to entangle the viewer in a hypnotic trance from title to credits. The beautifully choreographed action sequences take your breath away, as the characters brush within hair's distance from gruesome death... or sometimes a little too close.Yes, Vampire Hunter D certainly has a fair share of violence. Though here, agony is music and death is a masterpiece, but some of the little children might not appreciate that (or appreciate a little too much ;-)). As for everyone else... enjoy the vicious dance.The setting is a mix of cyberpunk (see Ghost in the Shell, Akira) and Middle Ages mystics (see Vampire Hunter, Demon City, perhaps Vampire princess Miyu), but the styles do not clash, rather producing an engaging synthesis, unique imagery and feeling.Perhaps the weakest point is the plot - and that's only because it is good, while everything else is excellent. Personally I found it a tiny bit disappointing that an anime produced otherwise as a peak of artistry didn't rise too high above cliches. On the other hand, though it might not be as much a feast for the brain as the likes of Neon Genesis Evangelion or Serial Experiments Lain, it has certainly avoided confusing the viewers (a la Akira) while still maintaining a good storyline.The plot even manages to be unpredictable at times.(The following might be considered a SPOILER).The main figures of shaded fate are Meier Link, a powerful vampire and the most notable antagonist, and his human beloved (her name eludes me for the moment). Personally, I didn't know whether they'll survive until the very end. (END SPOILER).The ending seemed a bit rushed, though. But maybe it was just because I wanted to see more of this beautiful, amazing movie, which I highly recommend to everyone. Watch it in theatre for maximum effect, and get the DVD as soon as it hits the shelves.I can't even rate it - this movie is THE BEST.  "},{"Title":"I'm new to anime, but very impressed with this emotional story.","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, I came across this film accidentally and I am glad I did. I was captivated from the beginning. It is incredible to see a cartoon that is mature and meaningful. I am no expert movie reviewer, I simply know what I like. I'm not going to give a summary of the story, suffice it to say that if you like/love vampires and feel that maybe sometimes they are misunderstood then you need to see this. It may be difficult for some people to get into an animated film but this is not kid's stuff. These characters have real emotions, real reactions. Let yourself believe for a while. My first taste of anime has only whetted my appetite for more, especially if there are vampires involved. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Sequel to A Great Classic.","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I find in very few cases that I liked the sequel more than the original and this is another one of those cases where I think the second piece is a more finished polished product, better story, better character and voice direction - and I still like the original more.  Vampire Hunter D began his life as an early 80's sketch by Yoshito something or other (Sandman Endless Nights and Final Fantasy IIX & IX), and then became a film of the same title.  Then in the early nineties when Anime began to flourish as it had in the eighties talk began of resurrecting the sleeping immortal and the flame was passed to a quite capable team.  Bloodlust is D's quest to return a seemingly abducted woman to her rich family.  Complications begin to arise when the family also hire the Borghoff and his crew, a collection of vampire hunters with different and amazing abilities quite reminiscent of the mutants in the original.  As D quests to find the woman he begins to uncover a trail that may lead him directly into not only Barboroi, but even to the castle of Carmila - wife of Dracula  himself.  His path wrought with danger and demons of all sorts D must battle his way to saving the young woman, and he never fails at his job.... he can not fail or rest until he dies. Drawn beautiful and well dubbed I see very little to complain about here.  There is a little bit of mystery left to D's character, but not nearly as much as with the original title.  You learn a great deal more about D's life and his parents, not too mention he shows emotion once or twice in this one which is nice too see, no one's perfect except in paintings.  A little to computer assisted for my taste at some points, I love the art style that is used. It remains very true to the original feel.  Likewise they DON'T trample on the character that was originally set up rather they work with and expand it. 9 out of 10.  I like it more than the original, no wait no I don't- yes I don't(insert head explody noise along with brain shrapnel here)* "},{"Title":"Great Anime!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   I adore Anime. And there are about 5 animes that I could pick out as my top 5. And Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, would surely, without a question, be among that list. There are a few main reasons for that. The first being that I really enjoy the characters. Especially the Barbarois Elder, Meier Link, Left hand, and of coarse D. Each character has a unique attitude and view on everything. And each character has a fresh and fascinating twist. Something that we should see more often in Anime. Another thing would be the era and all the stuff that comes along with that. Without saying it you could tell that the world went through a depression, and so they had to start from square-one. And from there came the mixture of the past with he future. We see this in costumes, technology, etc. For instance, mechanical horses. No evolved automobiles. A great look at what the future could be like. Unlike the recurring future ideas we see too often. Overall, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is A1 material. And would probably be loved by anyone. Not just those who love Anime.   "},{"Title":"A Delicious Piece of Gothic Imagination","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is a fantastic ride through a Gothic wonderland, with some amazing dialogue, intense sequences and great fighting.  It hooks you in from the beginning and doesnt let your eyes turn away until the end. Fantastically done, this is how more cartoons should be. (even though this is technically an Anime) "}{"Title":"great anime !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this is one of the best animes i've seen,shame on all of you that think this anime is crappy !!!!!!!! the only problem is bloodlust doesnt have enough action.go see this anime anyway,you wont regret it.( i'de give it a 9) "},{"Title":"This is a Great Sequel.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you liked the first movie, you'll love this one.  Bloodlust is one of the best vampire movies around in anime or live action.  The animation in this movie beautiful.  It also has a great story and the characters are cool as hell.  This anime is a must buy for any anime or vampire fan.  "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Vampire hunter D is an amazing amazing ass movie best animation I've ever seen.the drawings were amazing. the story was amazing but it was the regular vampire story good VS. evil. It was debatable who was the good or evil character if u ask me. i love this movie n if you don't your not a fan of movies your just a loser who likes to think he is a fan of movies. If you have not seen this movie i suggest A. if you rent movies you go rent it rite away b. if u don't rent movies u buy it rite away or 5 finger discount or steal it from a friend no matter how you do it you must see this movie. this just a plan amazing movie It takes a lot for me to give a movie a 10 out 10 but this movie by far deserves it. If you like this movie i also recommend to you Akira though a totally different plot its still amazing! "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is a very cool movie. I got this movie solely because I've always liked gothic things and images and this movie filled that.The animation is spectacular. I love the post apocalyptic landscapes and the supernatural battles between, vampires, human vampire hunters, interesting and weird superhero-ish villains, and of course vampire hunter D. A half vamp, half human.The concept does more than just remind you of Blade but that's okay. The movie follows a very different pattern. The thing I love most about this movie is it's willingness to be a character story. The vampire hunting is all moving around the story of people, love or lack thereof.This gives the movie a real feel, that keeps someone like me, who isn't an animation freak something to watch. That being said there are points in the movie when I did drift off into boredom and the script is often horrible. I hear this is only true with the American version but that's all I could get my hands on. So, I give Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust a 6.5 out of 10. If you like gothic images and storylines, this is a movie made for you. "},{"Title":"Just too good!","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have watched a ton of movies and read/watched manga series and my review is based on a cumulative assessment of truly beautiful movies I have watched till date. Here is what I think about the movieMy goodness! To think this genre was originally written in 1970s, seems like all modern vampire movies, action and even manga series are rip off from this original legendary movie! What a concept of a movie! So, very amazing! This movie is evenly paced for most of the time even during the most tense and action packed situations. They just apply a concept and rest just follows through, like a time continuum. I love the eerie aura created within the movie. How a mysterious character wins your heart and continues doing so throughout the movie. Great story, great dialogues, action, animation, thrill, suspense and climax. Enjoyed watching every scene to the last! Loved it! I highly recommend it to everyone who is either bored of or new to Manga! Thrill of adrenaline rush and mental stimulation guaranteed! "},{"Title":"Near perfect","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Remember when vampires weren't the complete laughingstock of the film world because of Twilight? Neither do I because I am only 15 and wasn't around for that magical time. First I will mention a few of this film's flaws. The romance between the main villain and the woman he loves isn't really explained or developed that well and at the end I don't understand why D thinks he will still get the reward if he just takes the ring, but those are the only flaws I can remember about this film. The visuals are absolutely gorgeous, so if nothing else about this film works for you your eyes will be entertained from beginning to end. The action is absolutely spectacular. The fights are two-sided, have great suspense, a variety of cool attack and weapons, and are just nice to look at. The characters all have some sort of morals and reason for doing what they do as well as having human flaws which makes all of them very interesting. There are also several great tear jerking moments and this film doesn't insult its audience by making sure all of the good guys get out alive. One common complaint I have heard is that in the original manga the vampire hunters kept the female vampire hunter as a sex slave, but I thought that was a good change because this would probably make them generic terrible people and I genuinely enjoy their characters in this movie. If this was the best film ever, which it isn't, I would be okay with that because it just does so many thing so perfectly. "},{"Title":"Among the Best in Anime Action","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Vampire Hunter D is a wild time, that still keeps a good story. A mixture of sci-fi, Gothic, and fantasy, the setting is beautiful and unique. Both our heroes and our villains display fascinating powers, so their combat is exhilarating, a breath of fresh air that doesn't run dry.Character isn't ignored, either. Most characters are likable and dodge clichés. The plot starts simply enough, but gradually unravels to go against expectations. And of course, the silent, elegant D is pretty cool.The animation is top notch, especially considering all that goes on. Everything is dark, colorful, and detailed. The character designs are a bit odd, but its doesn't dent the rating.There's not much else to say about Bloodlust. Its what action anime should aim to be. I personally find it hilarious that its directed by Yoshiaki Kawajiri. After making the most prototypical bad anime in the 80s and 90s, he is the one to bring maturity to the Vampire Hunter D name. Unless you really have a beef against animation or action flicks, I'd highly recommend it to anybody. "},{"Title":"Vampire Hunter D - Bloodlust review","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" D is one cool dude, and he lives in a really cool world. It's a far-out universe full of weird-looking monsters (including vampires, of course, but also werewolves, some lady that turns into a tree, giant stingrays that fly over deserts, zombies, and other freaky creatures of the night). It's a world full of imaginative settings and locations, and of cool-looking weapons and technology. The whole thing is like what you get if Blade was cross-bred with Book of Eli, and it's awesome that way.Above all, the movie runs fast, loaded with great-looking action, fights, and great visuals. The film is never dull, it's never repetitive, and it's rarely clichéd (not even by anime standards). I've always found it to be a perfect mix of style and excitement, the likes of which is pretty much on the same level (though not nearly as shockingly graphic) as Kawajiri's past work with The Ninja Scroll.Above all, I think this tale of Vampire Hunter D is pretty decent. The older film from 1985 is a little more intimate in a way, but Bloodlust broadens the scope and scale tremendously. It includes a pretty big cast of cool characters, some of which are not what they initially seem (the film's ending does a decent job of challenging the notion of good and evil in spite of this). It's a twisty and action-laden plot with bounty hunters and monsters galore; maybe nothing terribly deep, but it is a fun thrill ride, and I think it's really cool stuff.This film uses great-looking animation, with smooth and refined movements, well-detailed backgrounds, and some really neat light and shadow effects. Character designs are top-notch. Most everything else features good-looking designs too. Voice-acting (for both English and Japanese) is decent. The music score is okay, but has some strong moments too.Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is still one of the coolest and funnest anime films I've seen, and should be a must-see for fans of the medium.5/5 (Entertainment Perfect | Story Very Good | Film Very Good) "},{"Title":"My favorite animated film.","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Yoshiaki Kawajiri is one of those directors that I marvel at. I have seen a few of his movies and I can honestly say THIS is his best film.The animation is beyond fantastic and not just for its time, It still exceeds any 2D animated film made in 2011 or 2010. I will say that the animation would still be impressive 40 years from now considering what passes off as good animation now.I was at best expecting a 6. This is one of my all time favorite films. I have read complaints that Meier Link & Charolette's love scenes were annoying. You want my opinion they are emotional as a film like this can be.I originally saw the Japanese dub first, Then the English original. The Japanese dub is by far the better of the two. The actors really got into their parts.The plot is simple but pulled off very well. I have read the first book and I can honestly say I am a fan of Vampire Hunter D.Overall please watch this, guaranteed it will introduce everyone to a new type of animation. "},{"Title":"A huge improvement about the first horrid Vampire Hunter D movie","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must confess that I never understood all the hype about the original Vampire Hunter D movie In my opinion, that movie was boring and poorly made, having very bad animation (Even for the time when it was made) clichéd characters, a generic plot which failed to deliver any sort of entertainment&#x85;Fortunately this new animated film(done by the same director of Ninja Scroll) success in every single aspect where the previous Vampire Hunter D anime film failed The animation is good, the designs are cool and stylish, the characters are interesting and better developed (Not like the annoying cardboard characters from the other movie) being also highly entertaining from the beginning to the end. The music is more than adequate, fitting very well for the atmosphere of each scene, capturing all the Gothic-western and post apocalyptic elements from the story.Even when the plot isn't something incredibly deep or complex, it still works very well.Personally, I think that this movie is much better than the other Vampire Hunter D movie in every single aspect. I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Wasn't expecting much","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is as far as I have gone into animes that are not based on things that I like, I was recommended to this because I liked the movie 9. 9 is much better than this I am sorry to say.Enter D - The half human/vampire reference to Yojimbo. He is asked to retreive a girl that is kidnapped by the vampire Meier Link. He accepts before hearing that a group of bounty hunters are also after the girl. When he reaches the girl and Meier, Meier states that they are very much in love. D decides to take the girl because of her safety from Meier because of his bloodlust.The one MAJOR complaint I have is that there are scenes that have Meier and Charlotte talking about their love. It might sound like what's wrong with that here it is one of the most forced things I have ever sat through. It feels numb.As far as the English voices go - this one has very good voice actors and voice parts. Andrew Philpot has done it right by making this nameless half vampire so Yojimbo-like but also, in a weird way you sympathise with D because of some of the acting.I will go out and look for more Kawajiri stuff - I will start with the Highlander movie he did. "},{"Title":"First One Was Better","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Overall compared to the first Vampire Hunter D this one I feel was lacking quite a bit in the story line aka plot. Don't get me wrong the animation in this movie was very well done, however I feel as if it didn't measure up to it's full potential as it could have. As we already know from part one it is a story about a Dampiel half human half vampire who's mission is to solely destroy all vampires. The first movie had a way stronger plot as I had said before, young girl in need for a Vampire Hunter who can destroy all who gets in his way and it all turns out great in the end. The villains portrayed in this piece I felt could have been way way way better and the other team hunting vampires I felt was weak. But overall I give it a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Strangely enough I liked the first and shorter movie much better.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This anime got based on a novel by Hideyuki Kikuchi and got made into a movie for the first time in 1985. That movie, the anime Kyûketsuki hantâ D, to me was a great one to watch due to its great dark atmosphere and intriguing characters. This longer and also more expensive movie however could never grab me with its story or even characters.The story felt like a mess at times and was the foremost reason why the movie just couldn't always hold my intension. It also was the reason why the movie really felt like it was dragging at times and was definitely being overlong. With a different and more dark style I'm sure that the movie would had come out as a better one still though.I just wasn't too impressed with the animation style this time, though I can certainly dig a good anime movie from time to time, so I'm familiar with its animation style and are often also quite fond of it. Its action but also its concept and character seemed far from original, which makes this a bit of a redundant movie, especially after the much better 1985 production.Because the movie just never grabbed me, everything else in the movie just basically also fails to fully work out. It wasn't a movie that entertained me or was one that I enjoyed watching, though it's also far from the worst thing that you'll ever see.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A true classic in the making that redefines horror/action in animation","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In the distant future, vampires that once ruled over mankind are slowly dying out, killed by Vampire Hunters for money. One hunter is especially feared, a dunpeal half breed both Vampire and Human yet something much more. His name is D. As our story opens, a powerful vampire lord named Meier Link kidnaps Charlotte, the daughter of a wealthy family and Vampire Hunter D is hired to get her back. This time however, he's got some serious competition in the form of The Marcus Brothers, a team of cybernetic enhanced vampire hunters who are determined to get the bounty even if it means taking out the competition. But as D learns more about his quarry and his competitors, he starts to see that things might be much more than they seem.Based on the 3rd book of in the Vampire Hunter D novel series Demon Deathchase, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust(which is the 2nd Vampire Hunter D anime film following the 1985 Vampire Hunter D movie), is a beautifully piece of work. Through the magic of animation, the world as envisioned by novelist Hideyuki Kikuchi, with its foreboding castle spires, post-apocalyptic deserts, hauntingly dark jungles and rundown villages, is given form. With Yoshiaki Kawajiri, the master Director behind Ninja Scroll and Highlander The Search for Vengeance, at the helm, this anime film establishes a new benchmark of excellence in terms of both animation and art. From the opening scene all the way to the end credits, this movie captivates with its stunning visuals. Everything from the realistic looking backgrounds to the attractive character designs is vividly and painstakingly detailed with heavy blacks and rich shadows lending to a dark Gothic feel for the whole movie. Madhouse has pulled out all the stops with the animation, giving a fluidity the likes of which is rare among Japanese anime and a high frame-rate movements to the characters on screen despite the great amount of detail per frame. At no point in the entire movie are there any visible money-saving short cuts so common in most anime.The story presented in Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust is straight forward and easy to understand, more an action thriller chase movie with romance than a horror movie, going from intense fight sequences to the more subdued character centered moments seamlessly and without losing its sense of pace.It is weird however that in a movie titled Vampire Hunter D, its eponymous character, D, is easily the most uninteresting of the main cast. We do get some insights into his inner struggle with regard to killing his own vampiric kin and the forsaking of his own happiness to lead the lonely life of an immortal Hunter, but that is about it. Meier Link and Charlotte's character arc comes across as a little cliché (see Romeo and Juliet/ forbidden love) but I do appreciate the twist which lent a whole new emotional level to the powerful vampire prince stereotype. Even the Marcus Brothers (who are actually 4 brothers and 1 sister) are not your typical Kawajiri wise-cracking band of freaks to fight the main character(see Ninja scroll for an example of what I mean). They are portrayed as very human with a strong sense of loyalty and care toward each other, a stark contrast to the distant and stoic D, despite their numerous cybernetic enhancements. This is actually a big change from how they were portrayed in the original novel (in the novel, the Marcus brothers were cold blooded sadistic degenerates who had an incestuous relationship with their sister), and in my opinion, it is a change for the better.Add in some great acting (I applaud the decision to have this movie's primary language in English as the setting and the characters have western names and appearances.), on par with even live action movies, and a script that even manages to throw in some well placed witty humor(usually in the form of D's talking left hand) without affecting the grim atmosphere of the show, and you have one of the most enjoyable animated movies of its genre. Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust delivers the goods and would exceed any expectations one would have from a movie of the horror/action genre. An excellent blend of action, violence and science fiction with well developed characters, awesome animation and a strong plot. A definite must have for the animated movie enthusiast, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust has all the makings of a true classic. "},{"Title":"good stuff, good stuff and more good stuff","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  well, i have gots to say that this is one of the best sequels i have ever seen in either anime or real life cinema. nobody does it like D! there was a whole lot of story and it was good fluid anime. not to mention a nice twist on vampires. i suggest this one to both female and male alike. something for both, but more importantly, it has got something for the anime lovers soul. "},{"Title":"The movie is about as much fun as it's main character.","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The stoic D is a fantastic idea for a character. The son of a mortal women and Dracula, king of the vampires, he is shunned by both worlds as he seeks to destroy all vampires. But Japanimation doesn't allow for much of a range of emotion and the movie suffers from the loss. Both D and Link are burdened as we are told by the dialogue, but nothing in the visuals or vocals support it. The vocal work is bland with either caricature tough guys or the overly soft spoken D. The music made me roll my eyes. It could have lifted from a Zelda clone. The high points are the story, which is half way decent, and the visuals, which easily outclass the original. Once you get past the odd names, overly sentimental characters, and the lack of character information, this is a well paced action film with lively fight scenes highlighted by the kooky vampire protectors that can morph into shadow, wood, or beast. "},{"Title":"Vampire Hunter Junior","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Seeing this movie in a theater is awesome.  The action seems to jump right out at you.  What impressed me most was the attention to detail in every aspect of the movie.  I was less impressed with the plot, however, but I got used to it after a while.I would NOT recommend seeing the original especially if you liked the newer version.  The older movie is far from the quality of Bloodlust. (But if you like what I call old school anime  go right ahead).  "},{"Title":"a good, Japanese anime..","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I generally scoff at anime as being an inferior form of artwork, even if they are meticulously drawn and are beautiful to look at. To me, they are just a grade above comic book drawings, flashy and gimmicky with plots and stories that are so outlandish as to really stetch the credulity of even the most jaded of sci-fi and horror film buffs like myself.  Vampire Hunter D, however, works for me. It is frenetically-paced, dark and beautiful. Nowhere to be found are the cute, little fuzzy creatures that make squeaky sounds or sexually malevolent tentacled beasts with a taste for uniformed schoolgirls that are so typical of anime films.  To be sure, the picture is rife with ridiculous situations that are typical of anime, throwing in plot twists that are better left unanalyzed by the viewer. In short, Vampire Hunter D works as pure entertainment, no more and no less. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Overdone plot in a visually stunning frame","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I bought a DVD of this movie a few years ago when it was on sale in a local store, even though I didn't know anything else about it than what I'd read from the blurb. My initial reaction to this film was that it was boring, disappointing, and clichéd, and I just didn't like it one bit. So I just hid the DVD in a secluded corner because one look at the cover made me remember that I'd wasted money and a little over an hour of my time for something that failed to entertain me.Nearly two years later, I had a sudden urge to watch the film again. Strangely enough, I really liked it this time. I don't know what had changed, but my opinion of it isn't as harsh as it originally was anymore. I guess I just learned to appreciate things I'd overlooked the firs time I watched it. Or maybe it just took some time for it to grow on me.So, anyways, this movie is based on Hideyuki Kikuchi's series of novels about a brooding half-vampire, half-human vampire hunter known simply as D. Set in a time thousands of years ahead in the future, the lonely rider D hunts down creatures of the underworld for a fee in a world once ruled by a race of elite vampires, who have originally overthrown humans after a nuclear war swept the earth but are now falling into extinction, thanks to merciless hunters such as D himself. The plot isn't hugely original. In fact, it's nothing anyone familiar with half-decent modern vampire fiction hasn't already heard a hundred times. The deadpan D - and a rivaling group of tough vampire hunters - is hired to chase down a powerful vampire by the name of Meier Link, who has kidnapped a human girl called Charlotte. Halfway through the hunt, however, D begins to suspect that the girl has ran away with the vampire out of her own free will, though this doesn't stop D from carrying on with his mission. Enter sword-clanging, gore, big-busted anime babes, monsters, and endless musings about the existential anxiety of being a blood-lusting vampire.Though I quite enjoyed this film on the second viewing, the plot still failed to impress me. However, the charm of this movie isn't in the plot, but in the exquisite animation, and in the mythology of this movie. If anyone ever said that combining Western, Gothic horror, Science Fiction and Fantasy was impossible... well, they were wrong. Not only does Vampire Hunter D bring all this sub-genres of pulp fiction together in a convincing manner, it also manages to do it entirely without the aid of parody or self-irony. That's a real achievement, and I failed to appreciate it on the first viewing.I think there is a lot of potential in the whole concept of Vampire Hunter D, though the plot of this particular film is overdone. I gave it quite high a rating mainly because of its visual merits. However, of they ever decide to do another as beautifully animated film based on the series, I'd be sure to check it out. "},{"Title":"It was good...up until the end","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" VAMPIRE HUNTER D BLOODLUST has a simple plot a girl is kidnapped by a vampire named Meier Link. The father of the kidnapped girl pays a badass vampire hunter named D and a group of vampire hunters known as the Markus brothers (whom of which hold a grudge against D). And so begins the journeys of the vampire hunters to save the girl in a battle of good versus evil.VAMPIRE HUNTER D BLOODLUST has got good animation (even though some of it may seem pretty basic in some scenes) and it's action scenes will give you the thirst for more and more.This anime was good... up until the end, which sadly seemed to have lost its feel. But nonetheless, it's a fun watch if you've got some time on your hands. "}{"Title":"Bloody beautiful vamp anime!","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" D is one tough Vampire Hunter. So is the movie. Vampire Hunter D, definitely has the action and gore to satisfy action fans, but the plot and character development somehow falls flat. It's definitely a solid movie, and probably a must see, if you're a fan of Vampire films, but for everyone else, it probably does not live up the hype except for the visual galore. The story is kind of predictable, and sort of lacks originality, but on the other hand it has the strength and focus in it's action sequences to even it out. In the end, it's a decent flick. Well Worth watching if you like vampires, but for everyone else, you might want to consider if this is the action anime for you. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as first","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although not as good as the first still good to watch. D has a new voice and new enemies. This movie had a great story plot and some good action; not as gory as the first, but still decent action. The only thing that brought this movie down somewhat is the hand. The hand had way too many talking parts, and when it did talk, it had the most annoying voice. This movie had a little more info on what D is all about. The main enemy is sort of out of nowhere and the movie doesn't take time to develop the character enough. A decent movie that could have done better. My rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"a boring waste.....I was unimpressed.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For those with insomnia, this movie would be a great cure.  I should know, I nearly fell asleep several times while struggling not to turn off the DVD player.  D is just as boring and uninteresting as he was in the previous movie.  Great anime does not a good movie make.  THe entire movie was arranged so that the producers would hope that the fantastic animation (or lack thereof) would distract from the lame storyline, and overused plot of a vampire falling in love with a human (like Dracula, for instance).  And an extreme disappointment that Lefthand, the only interesting character from the first movie, is now as dull as the person he is attached to.The only good thing about this movie is that I borrowed this movie from a friend of mine...I didn't waste a single dime.  I urge others to do the same. "},{"Title":"Fascinating characters, worthless story","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie wasn't bad at all.  However, it wasn't great either.  I felt that the filmmakers had a lot of potential with the character of D. Unfortunately, they felt that he would look cooler if he was wooden and quiet.  The inner turmoil of being a Dunpeal (half vampire/half human)was never adequately explored. The other characters were quite inventive, especially the Barbarois freaks.  It really is too bad that these characters were thrown together into an incoherent and ultimately pointless story. Everything completely falls apart in the end, and the audience is left with the feeling of great potential wasted.  "},{"Title":"One heck of a disappointment...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The original Vampire Hunter D was one of the first hard-edge animes I ever saw, so I was enthusiastic about the idea of an updated version.  The previews for this thing looked fantastic, sort of a goth version of Ninja Scroll.  The problem is that the movie itself just doesn't measure up.  The storyline is anime-mainstream garbage on the level of Pet Shop of Horrors or Sin, and while the fight scenes are alright, they just come across as watered-down Ninja Scroll.  America got the added bonus of one of the worst English-language dubs this side of Ghost in the Shell, and the DVD doesn't have language options.  It's a crime that this anime has been getting so much hype, when Yasuomi Umetsu's superior Mezzo Forte was released with all the fanfare of a Ralph Nader presidential race. "},{"Title":"don't believe the hype; this is okay, not great","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched this film because a number of friends told me it was both great anime and a good movie.  I was told that I didn't need to watch the first film to understand this one, and I found that to be true enough.  But this didn't even come close to living up to the hype.SPOILERS!!!!!Great animation involves more than watching some hair blow in the ever-present wind.  Great acting is complimented by close-ups; still drawings of faces (with the few strands of hair blowing, of course) is not the same as watching an actor's face.  The climactic battle involves still shots of our hero and nemesis facing each other, a sword locked against a cape/shield.  They stare at each other and eventually where they touch begins to glow red.  Ooooooh, really great action scene.  In fact, most of the action scenes weren't much more than a still shot of our hero holding his sword while he is suspended in the air.  One swipe was usually enough to kill anything he faced.Also, I don't get this goth thing about Vampires being misunderstood, persecuted, blah blah blah.  Vampires kill humans in order to survive, right? End of story; no negotiating.  It's not like we walk around saying man, those homicidal maniacs have a bad rap!  Maybe we could just treat them like everyone else and all live in peace...  No.The movie is set in the far future, where there are bridges that apparently span hundreds of miles, yet the fastest thing on the road is a carriage drawn by four horses.  Our hero uses a sword, not a gun. WTF?And I can't say enough about how annoying it is to have a disembodied voice (in this case, coming from a demon-thingy face in our hero's palm) give advice and offer humourous commentary.  Lame.  Stupid.The good thing was the art itself.  The drawings are excellent.  The backgrounds, particularly, were a constant bright spot, done in a stunning neo-realistic style.  The character art is good, although I could was surprised to find that our hero is male.  From the art, I thought we had a female vampire hunter, and I found that I never could quite reconcile the hero's voice (masculine) with his decidedly feminine look.The story is filled with elements of Romeo & Juliet (tragic star-crossed lovers), racism (vampires are just misunderstood), and is at least coherent enough that it seems to make sense (as long as you don't think too hard about it (if his rivals wanted our hero dead & out of the way, why destroy the mob about to attack him, eh? but like i said, don't think too hard about it)).To sum up, if you think that lots of still art (i mean that little if anything in the frame is in motion), like watching each frame of a comic book, is how an animated feature should be, and yer really into goth-y/sci-fi stuff, you'll love this movie.  If you want people who move, scenery that does more than move from a perspective, and a story that doesn't throw a lot of trite misunderstood monster/Romeo & Juliet/racism crap at you, you might want to keep looking.Oh yeah, it does have a happy ending, tho.Snowboarder Bo Snoarder "},{"Title":"Disappointing at Best","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A lot of people really like this film, and, no offense to them, but I can only conclude they haven't seen much in the way of vampire films, or TV shows, or anime, or books . . . .  And they probably haven't seen the marginal but better 1985 original Vampire Hunter D.Bloodlust has some very nice art, especially the backgrounds, and a few cute ideas.  Unfortunately, it's drowning in exhausted cliches, poor character design, cutesy and unsatisfying action scenes, and unbearably awful dialogue.  What's worse is that it's the unoriginal elements that get the most emphasis and most airtime.The English-language version actually came first . . . which makes the extreme poorness of that version's dialogue peculiar.  Characters repeat themselves, over-explain, belabor the obvious, and generally wax stupid. Normally, you could blame this on a lazy or rushed dubber trying to make the English track match the Japanese original.  Here, it's just inexcusable. I've seen both the English and Japanese versions, and the dialogue is bad in both.But the thing that really hurts my teeth is the way they keep saying dunpeal.  No such thing -- the word is dhampyre, pronounced like vampire is supposed to be pronounced (rhymes with romp here).  It's a real word, not made up for the anime -- a Romany word meaning the son of a woman impregnated by a vampire (usually her former husband).  Dhampyres are, indeed, usually vampire hunters in Gypsy legends.The word was obviously transliterated into Japanese (daampiru, or something like that) . . . and then an English translator who didn't know much about vampires and didn't do any research re-transliterated it as dunpeal.  Ugh.  The word comes up a lot in the script, and they might as well have said vunpeal for vampire.Still, this is a film that appeals to an audience that isn't familiar with the material the film draws on . . . so not many fans will notice.  But the film is dull, dumb, overlong, and rarely makes much sense.  The lack of continuity alone is a big handicap, but there's so much else wrong with the movie that I can't give it a passing grade. "},{"Title":"Flat camp anime","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This anime was a complete letdown. Weak story, no characters. The characters are camp. Like the whole movie was a parody or spoof. If it is, I'm sorry I've misunderstood... I heard from VHD so much and I thought that I'll have fun watching it, but the truth is, it was a waste of time. Whoever gives a score above 5 for it remains a mystery for me. Kids, maybe? The fight scenes of D are pointless, he swings the sword and everybody dies, there's no logic between the scenes. The plot is predictable, you know what happens next from the 1st minute on. I'm writing still this review because I have to wright 10 lines, but the truth is there's nothing to write about here. I like (some) anime because it makes me think about things like what it is to be human, what an artificial life would be and many other things, but in this case I finished empty headed. "},{"Title":"Sham mirrors","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I suppose the appeal here is the extravagant imagination surrounding a very simple core, chambara blown into vampire opera. Overall it isn't much to my taste. The imagination strikes me as arbitrary and shapeless, one minute we are in a hillside nature fighting zombies, the next in a desert with giant mantas flying out of the sand. I get more enjoyment from inhabiting an internally shaped world. Bladerunner instead of Dune.It has no limits to its fantasy, literally anything happens, and yet very simple limits to its story forbidden love and revenge both tied to damnation. A Byronic antihero with a sword is our navigator. I find that it takes more work and more imagination in trying to envision ambiguous story limits, showing how this world is otherworldly and eerily cosmic. Mulholland Dr. instead of L'Ange.What's interesting is that the villains here embody all the structural elements missing from the actual fabric of the film. One of them can move in shadows, weaves illusions out of fabric and is himself that fabric of nothingness; in a marvelous scene he traps our hero inside an actual fabric. Another can take apparently any structure. A third creates illusions out of peoples' memory, and is also herself a spectral entity made up from illusion.So we have an unfathomable world where unfathomable beings embody extreme structural powers, a strange thing that ever so slightly charms. "},{"Title":"A great animated film killed by a stupid talking hand","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If - only - that - stupid - talking - hand - could - have - talked - less! You could tell the actor who played Left Hand, Michael McShane, thought he was being really funny. You could feel the enthusiasm in his obnoxious voice as he talked and talked through almost every scene in the movie, even key action scenes where I found his rambling to be most annoying.One scene that made me literally yell shut up! at the TV was when D was jumping his horse over a crowd of flying stingray creatures. The music was beautiful, and the scene was visually stunning, but that stupid hand... Woah! Better watch out there, D! We're kind of close! To close for comfort! Blah blah blah ! I'm an annoying hand! Look at me! I can talk! Blah blah! I hope I'm not ruining this scene for you! I'm just trying to be funny! Blah blah!.I wish an edit could be made of this film that takes out that stupid, obnoxious, talking hand. Without him, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust could be worthy of an 8 rating. "}{"Title":"Nice artwork","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love the artwork in this one - I think the character designers were the same as Ninja Scroll's because some of the characters in Bloodlust look nearly identical to those featured in Ninja Scroll. I don't think it matches the stylishness of the original 80's version, but it does manage to have a decent action-paced plot for an imported anime (for some reason most of the best series never seem to make it here). I miss the music though - the original had some really nice music to add to the atmosphere of the bizarre futuristic vampire land...Stay away from the dubbed version! The voice acting just totally changes the effect of many scenes and much of the sentimental parts just don't translate over well when spoken in English - turns much of the dialogue into cheese. "},{"Title":"Good potential theme not taken advantage of, still worth viewing","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The storyline evolves slowly but surely vampire hunter D (Dunpeel, I believe the full name is) gets an assignment to bring the girl back, dead or alive, who has been abducted by some badass vampire. D himself is a halfling half man half vampire he can live in the daylight, but not for too long or else he will break down completely. His bloodlust is also better controlled than that of 100% vampires. His character is brought to life very well in the movie, as well as the characters of a competing vampire-hunter gang.The main element of the story is about love between the abducting vampire and the girl Charlotte. Charlotte says she loves him, which contradicts the abduction-part of the story. They want to get out (both) to the Night City, where it is always dark. This is where it gets to the second part of the story a castle owned by Barbarois, a vicious vampire that uses deception as a powerful weapon. In that castle some sort of spaceship is located with which they are able to leave in the end, leaving D and Leia (one of the competing group's members) behind.As far as flow, storytelling and animation go, it's OK, up to good in some scenes. But still something is lacking with this potential theme. Not the best in the world, but definitely not the worst.As a comparison, the motion picture Blade which contains the same half vampire half human theme, is much more about action and violence in Vampire Hunter D, there is a lot more story(telling) and background, as well as a lot of symbolism.Worth a look if you like anime, vampire-storytelling and a bit of violence. What the movie misses in actual story-quality, it makes up in visuals and animation. 7 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Pay attention?","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ya, the art of the movie was fine, better than the first I'll say. However, in MY OPINION the story line was better in the original. Bloodlust took off on the same story with a twist...Set in the future,yes, anything else, not really. The future was the major twist. Oh! More interaction with characters other than his hand, WOW. They are both fun to watch but my attention-span was lowered watching Bloodlust because it was like watching some Hollywood remake of a classic film that should not have been. What I'm trying to say is, there was no need to make Bloodlust, but I bought it anyway because I'm an animation junkie. "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation sucked heavily!  I felt like I was watching a tv cartoon or something.  The story sucked!  The american voices sucked!  I just saw Akira, which rocked!  And this movie should, in comparison to Akira, should not have been released at all!  I want my $2.  rental fee back.  Video stores should pay customers to watch this piece of .... "},{"Title":"bah","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  saw it tonite.  damned movie had potential, some cool things going on in the plot etc.  but on the whole the sappyness to the vampire mythology, converting it too much into an idealized love story, star-crossed lovers and all, really rubbed me the wrong way.  the final fight scene wasn't what i hoped it would be, and somehow the buildup of the story and the villains didn't make for an epic story as did the first vampire hunter d.but i enjoyed parts of it. oh yeah and the american voices stunk terribly.  cant believe i had to put up with that crap.  gimmie the japanese any day. "},{"Title":"A lame excuse for an anime movie.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Alright, so once more there's yet ANOTHER anime film with tons of hype around it... And once more, why did I bother to believe the hype? Just like with Ghost in the Shell ( which is just an average movie ) I was prodded to death to check out the  Amazing  Bloodlust movie only to be treated to substandard animation with too much of an oldschool style for my enjoyment. What we have here is a horrible mess of a movie, which more or less is just really a ripoff of the first one with a slightly different setting. Personally I didn't see much to gain from this movie, and it proved to me that once more the anime world is crowded by a bunch of fanboys that really don't know good film. This movie was something outside of the anime genre, it'd be collecting dust in the b direct to video section at your local movie store.I'd also like to point out that the retarded idea of having a guy die, turn into some super hero spirit to kill vampires, and then be brought back to life is the most ridiculous and stupid idea ever.** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Not What It's Made Out To Be","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The reason most people see this movie is because they heard from their anime-loving vampire-obsessed friends that it's a great movie. To these unfortunate people this movie is not great, despite all the insane violence and action they packed into it. If I were you I would avoid this at all costs. The animation is high-budget but not all to appealing. The story is tainted with side quests and altogether isn't that great. The characters are dry. Overall not worth your money or your time. Don't fall into the fanboy's and girl's traps! Anything they say about this movie is not true. It's a flop. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Generally I do not post negative comments on a movie, but almost all the other comments are so enthusiastic that I felt I had to give my point of view.I disliked the movie. I generally enjoy animated movies, and I have nothing about Japanese anime  I adore Ghibli movies. Well, Vampire Hunter D is not of the same style.The main reason I found the movie so boring is that I found no interest at all in the story itself. Does the girl want to stay with the vampire or go back to her family ? Who cares ? Certainly the other posters, but not me.During the fights, I had the feeling that the monsters were a lot more powerful than the hunters. They could have got rid of them really quickly but no, they had to kill them one after the other, so that the movie can last longer. I must admit some of the weapons were interesting, original. But this is not enough to make a good movie.I liked the end. But it is hard to say if this is because it was a good ending or because I was happy to see this movie finish, at last ! "},{"Title":"Nine-Year old's fantasy","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie at a party and it was awful! I felt dumber for every second I watched it. People (and the like) came back to life so many times I didn't know if the movie would ever end. This movie was just action figures being used by invisible hands. The lines were so bad they were actually funny at times. For a movie like this but way cooler watch Van Helsing. I do have to admit the sword and the guy with the war-hammer were way cool. It seemed like more of a video game than a film. The logic was fuzzier than a poodle with Rogaine. Even after a friend explained it to me, I still couldn't believe that an unlimited number of monkeys on an unlimited number of typewriters could come up with this garbage. Vampire Hunter D= D for dumb "}]