[{"Title":"Creepy right from the start","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I rented this movie I thought I was in for a black comedy, but when Harry approached Michele, his old school mate, there was something ever so slightly creepy about him.  Nothing you could your finger on, it just felt not quite right...  From that point onwards Harry was always there, remembering word for word a poem that Michele had written while at school, remembering Michele's story written years before.  Harry was so nice, so attentive and yet so odd...  Was Harry in love with Michele?  Your instinct tells you something's not right but you keep watching, hoping that you can figure Harry out, giving him the benefit of the doubt, while all the while your gut instinct is that this guy is trouble, he's a manipulator, he's calling the shots, and yet you push those thoughts aside as he's so charming.This film held my attention, I was hooked right from the start.  It's classy, understated, with a wealth of detail in the merest glance.  With a subtlety that you rarely see in US or UK movies.  If you like lots of action, you probably won't like this movie, it moves inexorably onwards to what you sense is going to end in tears.  A very good movie, not to everyone's taste, but if you like subtlety, classy acting, and an insight into how a psychopath can insinuate himself into your life, this movie's for you. "},{"Title":"Doctor Jekyll and mister Hyde in the French country...","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the first moments of this movie makes inevitably think of Shining (1980) by Stanley Kubrick and Funny Games (1997) by Michael Haneke an aerial shot which follows a car on the highway. Inside it, a typical French family who goes on holiday in their country house hoping to find some peace. It's particularly true for the parents, Michel and his wife who seem to be all keyed up because of their restless children. On a rest area, Michel meets an old school friend Harry who proposes Michel to come and spend a couple of days to his country house. The latter accepts. From the beginning, Harry appears as a charismatic and mysterious character. Who is he? Where does he come from? What does he want? We learn very few things about him or just vague facts. The director Dominik Voll preferred to leave high and dry Harry's origins and it's better this way because the spectator can imagine whatever he wants about him. Be that as it may, we can bring a beginning of answer to the third quoted question Harry wishes Michel well and he's ready to do anything for this, even to kill...After a six-year absence (his last movie was intimacy in 1994), Dominik Voll made a successful comeback with With a Friend like Harry (2000). He seduced both the critics and the public and won 4 French Oscars in 2001 including Best Actor for Sergi Lopez. It's funny to note down that the basic idea for his second feature-length film came to him from a holiday memory when, just like Michel he met an old school friend which he hadn't seen for years. This trivial detail inspired him to focus his movie on the theme of the double. Besides, the first apparition of the two main protagonists happens in front of a mirror. Harry can be considered as the incarnation of Michel's repressed drives and buried desires. In a way, he's what Michel would like to be or to do (consciously or not). I think there are numerous examples in Voll's opus and I will retain the three following points Harry enjoys a perfect sexual life (eating a raw egg after an orgasm is good for health!) and perhaps Michel would like to know something similar to this. Then, Harry kills Michel's parents and every time the latter invites them for lunch or dinner, he has to fetch them his father can't drive for medical reasons. Perhaps, Michel has hidden death wishes about his parents. At last, by congratulating Michel about the writings he made in high school, Harry probably wakes in Michel hidden desires of writer. Roughly, Harry wants to help his friend to advance in life, no matter what the price is.With a friend like Harry is Voll's second film in six years but his making is absolutely awesome. If the beginning of the movie turns out to be a little tritehow many times in cinema have we seen the trick of the helpful character invading a so far peaceful universe? But fortunately, once this moment passed, the rest makes forget this weakness. The movie adopts a slow rhythm without hastes and opts for the unexpected to play with the spectator's nerves. Dominik Voll weaves a more and more heavy even stifling atmosphere marked out by Michel's psychological changing who seems to become a little unrecognizable to his wife. Besides, she tells to Harry you've got a bad influence on Michel. This heavy atmosphere is reinforced by a precise and rigorous making which favors close-up shots and the length of quite numerous sequences. Overrall the director achieved a tour de force by mixing several cinema genres in a coherent story. What is close to comedy in the beginning of the story ends up turning to drama and thriller and the abrupt changes of tone follow on from each other with a diabolical logic. Moreover, Voll knows how to use black humor and certain moments give sometimes to the work an eccentric side.Needless to say that the cast is largely equal to the story. Already remarked in the invigorating Western (1997) by Manuel Poirier (whose he is one of his favorite actors), Sergi Lopez finds the role of his life in Harry. It will certainly be hard for him to equal his performance in the future.Highly recommended, With a Friend like Harry is a work that can be understood on several levels. It's a fascinating work and however we come out of the projection with a little uneasiness because of Michel's disturbing face. Harry's influence has altered him and he looks threatening as if he was going to commit something bad. As for Harry, in the domain of the pain in the neck characters, he is, in the long run, not exactly like Seraphin Lampion in the adventures of Tintin! "},{"Title":"Slow-paced but tense French thriller.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is something alarming and off-kilter about Harry from the moment we meet him; his casual way of speaking about orgasms and forgotten childhood poems to (essentially) complete strangers just a few hours after their first meeting only intensifies our suspicions. Sergi Lopez gives a brilliantly unnerving yet subtle performance as Harry, and he's the best reason to see the film. But not the only one. The director is able to present characters, situations and family tensions that are thoroughly believable, thereby drawing us deeply into the story. The acting is first-rate, the camerawork excellent; what the film needed to help it move into the realm of great was a little more snap.  (***)  "},{"Title":"Fine Graduation Piece from French Hitchcock Student","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm surprised there aren't more comments about this film, because it is a truly excellent piece of entertainment in the cinema of menace genre. Ordinary guy Michel (Laurent Lucas), hot and bothered while taking his family on a summer vacation, meets up with Harry, a former schoolfriend  (Sergi Lopez), who he doesn't remember, and who seems to be both rich and very solicitous of his welfare. When the family car breaks down, Harry buys them a new four-wheel drive (it seems that even the French have not escaped the sports utility craze). Clearly, there is something not healthy about Harry's interest but it takes a while for the real story to emerge, and there are some carefully observed and funny moments on the way.It has been pointed out, and there are certainly signs, that Harry can be seen as the embodiment of some of Michel's darker feelings, particularly the feeling that the everyday demands of family life and work have prevented him from developing his talent as a writer. Michel also has a certain amount of resentment towards his parents, but the character of Harry grossly overreacts to Michel's `enemies' and in the end, of course it is Harry, the psychotic in all of us, who has to go. The immediacy of the camera work puts us right in the picture, heightening the tension. There are a couple of scenes inside cars being driven on narrow mountain roads at night as scary as anything Hitchcock (obviously an influence on first-time director Dominik Moll) attempted, and the nearly 2 hours of running time passes very quickly. Great entertainment.   "},{"Title":"You have to overreact.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The opening scene to this film is what immediately pulled me into the story, characters, and emotions. The consistent nagging of our main character's children pulled not only at Michel's mind, but also deeply into ours. This sets the stage, while already having your emotions and sense heightened, for the meeting of Harry, Michel's counterpoint in the film. A classic combination of American Psycho and Swimming Pool, our two characters and everything surrounding them pull us in every direction. From confusion, to suspicion, to fear, and even disbelief, we watch as a simple friend, and unknown acquaintance becomes so deeply rooted in this struggling family. Director Dominik Moll has done his homework in this genre and successfully creates a film that not only tantalizes, but also settles in deep inside you releasing snippets of fear throughout the story. His camera angles, structure, and deeply rooted character development make this little, almost unknown, thriller a step above the others out there.As I said before, Dominik Moll does a great job directing. It is obvious from the opening credits until the chilling ending that he is very comfortable with the genre and the material. There are some amazing scenes that boldly stick out in my mind, and that is a great sign that the director has gone well beyond his duties to create a powerful film. Outside of the direction, which does stand on its own, we also have some of the best casting around. Sergi Lopez literally steals every scene in this film. His charisma, quiet demeanor, and sinister eyes keep our eyes focused directly on him at all time. Moll gives us nothing about Lopez's Harry, which makes him even more watchable. He is curious and slippery all at the same time. We are never quite handed the reason for Harry's persistence with Michel's writing or the back-story on how these two met (the circumstances that apparently effected Harry's life), and it works in this film. I am notorious for needing more stories to accentuate the characters, but in Harry, un ami qui vous veut du bien, none is needed. The suspense is built by not knowing and it really sends a chill up your spine.Talking a bit more about the characters, I loved the way that Plum was handled. Who was she? Why did she always seem to know what Harry was doing? To me, that was some of the more frightening elements of this film. Plum had a secret, and I really wanted to know what it was. You can never trust Harry, which makes me wonder what was the truth and what were lies that he spoke about. Strangely, the way that I saw it, Harry never lied. Outside of the dirty deeds that he sometimes did, he was a pretty honest guy and I think that was his way of winning over Michel's support. On a side note, could you not see this film being remade using Robin Williams as the role of Harry. After seeing him in One Hour Photo and Insomnia, I could see him pulling off a role similar to this (also, Lopez sometimes looked exactly like Williams). Oh well, it was just a thought.What kept this film going was the simplicity of the story. It was obvious that Moll used the ever-popular direction known as K.I.S.S. (Keep It Simple Stupid) to keep his audience focused on the characters that were in front of them. This was a character-based film that, like an onion, had layers upon layers of emotions. There were no elaborate sets, no twists and turns, no sudden jumping that would detract us from the story, it was a simple story with amazing characters, nothing more &#133; nothing less. For this film, it worked.Finally, I would like to take you on a thought journey if you wouldn't mind. Think about this for a moment as you finish reading this review. I thought of this after watching the film and as I typed this review. What if there was no Harry? What if Harry was just a figure of a broken man's imagination? From the opening scene we see the tension that Michel is feeling about his life and family, why is it impossible to think that perhaps he created Harry out of thin air to help him through the rough times. We all think of times in our lives that we wished we could go back to, perhaps Michel's time was when he was writing. Writing seemed to ultimately make him happy, so why not dream of a way of getting back there. When it got to scary for Michel (breakdown was pushing him away from those that he loved), is when he had to deal with Harry. I know there are logistical issues with this thought process, for example conversations and so forth, but it was a thought I had as this film seemed to wrap up. Maybe others feel the same, perhaps I am crazy, who knows &#133; only I will know when I approach you as a lost friend next time you are at a rest area.Overall, very impressive work by everyone involved. I thought that the story was tight, the characters were immensely disturbing and exciting at the same time, and the images decorated the film very well. I would suggest it to anyone that loved Swimming Pool, the structure is very similar &#133; except one is sex and the other is writing. They do go together &#133; don't they? Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Interesting irony","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I won't give a lengthy analysis here, just a few reactions to a couple of other messages posted here, and then a brief discussion and a note about some interesting irony I noticed in this film.  *** WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD ***First, I disagree with the theories about most of the plot being a fantasy in the protagonist's mind.  I think the film works very well as a straightforward thriller (in somewhat the same vein as Strangers on a Train, though not exactly).  Besides, there is just too much behavioral/conversational interaction among the various characters for the events in the film to be just a fantasy.  What makes more sense to me (as someone who is trained in psychology), is that Harry really is mentally disturbed, and has had a long-term infatuation with Michel and his writing.  But he also harbors resentment toward Michel (for knocking out his tooth and for being favored over Harry by his former girlfriend) as well as toward Michel's dentist father (for installing a bridge that later turned color and had to be replaced).The irony I noticed in this film involves the fact that Harry actually kind of turned out to be right in a weird sort of way the deaths of Michel's parents actually did seem to free Michel (I feel my wings spreading). (Interestingly, their cremations also had a similar effect on his brother Eric, as Eric mentioned to Harry just before Harry murdered him in the car.) But once Michel realized that all these various deaths/disappearances were probably due to Harry, then he had to draw the line and stop Harry before Harry could kill the rest of Michel's family.The irony continues to manifest itself as Michel begins to like the SUV that he had previously thought was monstrous.  So, in a way, Harry did free Michel and give him new perspectives on things, and also gave him inspiration to start writing again.  He even gave him the idea for his next story, The Eggs.  Truly ironic. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable thriller, nothing more, nothing less.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Harry, He Is Here To Help' is a pretty awful title for a very entertaining French thriller. I can't claim it is the greatest thriller I've ever seen, or that it will change your life, but it's well written with interesting characters, isn't as obvious and predictable as most Hollywood movies in this vein, and it has a satisfying conclusion. As modern thrillers go, it's a very enjoyable one and should please most fans of the genre. The strength of the movie is in the performances of the two main male leads, Larent Lucas who plays Michel and Sergi Lopez who plays Harry. I can imagine if this was remade in Hollywood and they were played by (insert likely actors here) just how obvious and stereotypical their characters would be. Michel bumps into Harry while traveling with his wife Claire (Mathilde Seigner) and three young daughters. Harry is an old school chum that Michel has long forgotten, but it quickly becomes obvious that Harry remembers Michel, quoting from memory a poem he wrote in High School that Michel can hardly even recall writing. Harry charms Michel and pretty soon Harry and his beautiful girlfriend Plum (Sophie Guillemin) are invited along to Michel and Claire's modest holiday house. Harry is quirky but charming and reveals that he is independently wealthy. His reminisces about Michel's youthful writing stirs up something long forgotten in Michel, and this, along with Harry's insistence on helping financially, creates tension between Michel and his wife. However things aren't as straightforward as that. Harry has other ideas in mind... I won't spoil what happens as the story progresses, that would ruin the fun. An enjoyable thriller, nothing more, nothing less. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Still Moments","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The thing I appreciated most about this movie was the still moments, so unlike the average bombastic Hollywood product that never has a stop-and-listen moment, a stop-and-consider moment or a stop-and-feel moment. (Ever notice in American movies of the last ten years, even when the characters are stopping to think --rare as THAT is-- there is a veritable tempest of Wagnerian bluster on the sound track. Mainstream movies have gotten to where they never, NEVER shut up and let up, even for a moment; you must be manipulated every second you are in the theater. I walk out of intense movies, not exhausted, but rather, quite vexed by the hammy, heavy-handed obviousness of it all. --And a little deafened, usually, besides.)There was nothing obvious in this film. At the end, you feel closure, and yet you are free to wonder at exactly what Harry's behavior meant and about the origins of his unique world-view. That is a thing to treasure, a movie that knows enough what it is about to offer closure, yet leave your mind free to wander over the relationships and lives of the people you have just watched briefly from a distance, and reflect on possible meanings.A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A real gem!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With a Friend Like Harry is a jewel of its kind, Hitchcock would love it. Consider that most of it takes place either indoors or outdoors at night or on menacing serpentine roads. Very claustrophobic effects, just like the master himself. And it is devoid of the usual clichÃ©d homages & in-jokes that prevail in the usual Hitchcock wannabe film. It builds smoothly & menacingly, with perfect tempo, the characters are believable to the point of banality - again, just like the master's very best films. But over & above the expert elements of suspense & character & humor that pervade this movie, I would like to add that it is a delicious contemporary reading of the universal Faust legend & to me that is it's ultimate brilliance. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Thriller in classic style","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The debut of french director Dominik Moll is a brilliant movie that follows Hitchcock's school of classic suspense to the letter, while keeping the directors own modern style in a psychological thriller reminiscent of David Lynch.Laurent Lucas stars as Michel, father of a middle-class family that goes on vacation to their house in rural France. On a gas station he finds Harry (played by Sergi López), a rich man who went to high school with Michel and that is traveling towards Switzerland with his girlfriend Prune (beautiful Sophie Guillemin). Michel invites Harry to his house, because even when he can't remember who Harry is, it seems as if Harry remembers everything about Michel.The problems of Michel with his parents and his wife Claire (Mathilde Seigner) will come to light as Harry intrusion becomes more apparent and Claire begins to wonder how healthy is Harry's influence over his husband.The story moves at a slow pace building the suspense and the tension between the characters to a maximum. Nevertheless, the direction and the script make sure that this slow rhythm will not become boring or tiresome and the movie works very wheel filled with interesting scenes that give everything you NEED to know about the characters, but not everything you WANT to know about them.This classic take on suspense and mystery, that many have tried with mixed results, works very good here thanks to the wonderful script that adds scenes of bizarre surrealism that while serve the purpose of breaking the suspense, they also increase the tension and mystery surrounding their characters.It's worthy to mention the superb acting of those involved. Lucas, Seigner and López have a good chemistry on screen that clearly helps the movie to be as powerful as it is.By the end of the movie the tension is at it's peak and the script makes the most of it giving a brilliant finale that even when it is very simple it is both mysterious and rewarding.This is not the typical thriller with horror/suspense. It's a modern update to the classic suspense style of film-making that Hitchcock did so well. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Ersatz Hitchcock.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Harry' is a portrait of a marriage.  Reviewers have pointed out the film's debt to Hitchcock - why do people always call films which 'borrow' the superficials  (plot, music, characters, set-pieces etc.) Hitchcockian, when his true inheritors are directors like Godard and Marker? - but his oeuvre only contains two notable films about marriage, 'The Man who knew too much' and 'The Wrong Man'.  These films show marriage cracking under the strain of some exterior threat.'Harry' begins with a marriage already at crisis point - symbolically confined in an old car without air conditioning, driving towards a delapidated country house, young children bawling, mother unable to do anything, father getting increasingly frustrated, all seat-belted for greater entrapment.  I remember it well.  Laurent Lucas is the new Francois Cluzot, the grim, unhappy, modern man conspired against by circumstances that are not melodramatic, but everyday; financial, parents, frustrated ambitions etc.If this is Hitchcock, it is a French version as mediated by Chabrol - there is the same contrast between the artificiality  of the plot and the natural surroundings that stage it.  This opening of a car, a family, classical music, the drive to a summer retreat, the intrusions of two strangers, remind me of another recent European thriller, Haneke's 'Funny Games'.The film borrows from a lot of Hitchcockian sources - 'The Man who knew too much', 'Vertigo', 'Psycho', 'The Trouble with Harry' (in reverse), especially 'Strangers on a train' - Harry's character is sometimes more Highsmith than Hitchcock, a mixture of Tom Ripley and Dickie (here it is the rich man who wants to belong with the less well-off).The meeting of Michel and Harry is signalled with HItchcockian criss-cross; ominously, in a public lavatory.  There is a sense of magic or fairy tale here, as the two characters and their reflections reunite and fragment at the same time, suggesting a transformation scene, a switching of personalities and identities.  It is at the moment when Michel feels most exasperation (and the need for gender security, in the male toilets) that Harry turns up, suggesting that he is Michel's double, an expression of his unconscious desires, somebody who will do what he wouldn't dare.  This is the 'transference of guilt' narrative beloved of Hitchcock, one which found its purest expression in 'STrangers'.There are some reasons why this contrivance does not carry the same weight here.  Firstly, both characters are unpleasant and unlikely to win much audience support - 'STrangers' is so disturbing because the good guy is so cold, ruthless and unsympathetic, while the baddie seems vulnerable, and his motives are comprehensible.  There are occasional attempts to suggest Harry's demons, as he screams in silence like a Francis Bacon painting. Michel, while never likable, is not calculating enough to provide an effective contrast.  This blunts the transference of guilt - it is his wife, Claire, who resents his parents, who wishes for a bigger car etc.  She also bears the film's misogyny, perhaps Hitchcockian, as she shows no sympathy towards her husband's creative endeavours (an attempt to regain childhood?), but as this only surfaces in the last ten minutes, it denies the plot frisson.In the half-century since 'STrangers', Moll is still coy about homosexuality; although he never shows the much-alluded to heterosexual act, and engineers a number of encounters where a near-naked Harry and Michel discuss sexual prowess (to the point where Harry's eggs of virility become agent of Michel's creative fertility), there is no real sexual charge between them, making Harry look like a pervert trying to destroy the family, rather than showing a family stifling such urges in Michel.  Hitchcock is more sympathetic to his lonely gays.  He is also superior at creating narrative and suspense - Moll never makes his contrivances seem inevitable or plausible as his Master does, and after half an hour his film is slow-burning without becoming tense or exciting.  The hallucinations and heavy ironies of the final quarter don't help. "},{"Title":"Don't bother with this shallow attempt at a thriller.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ****SPOILERS****This movie was disappointing on all fronts.The character development was almost non-existent.  I couldn't even tell if Michael cared if his parents died or not.  In the end, I wouldn't have been surprised if he had let Harry kill his family - I saw almost no reaction either way.    I certainly saw no reaction to his having killed Harry. And Harry!  There was ZERO insight into what was motivating him - other than eggs - and what the hell was that all about???  No explanation to ANYTHING that motivated these characters.The supposed climax of the movie was a thorough let down.  I don't usually try to attemt to guess how a movie will unravel, but this one was completley transparent & poorly executed at that.  There was no suspenseful build up at all.  I didn't even believe it was over because it seemed so bland.The only way this movie could become passably interesting is to accept the completely unsupportable premise of one of the the other posts in IMDB's that Harry IS Michael.  Maybe my 2 hours and $8 wouldn't have been wasted. "},{"Title":"Could've been much better","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The major flaw with this film is that Harry's motivation for his patronage of Michel and Claire is never fully disclosed.  It obviously has something to do with wanting Michel to start writing again, but I was waiting for the entire film to find out what Harry is really after and I never did. Character-driven stories are all about motivations and desires, and these are lacking in this, a very character-driven film, which harms rather than helps it. "},{"Title":"The Thriller That Doesn't Thrill","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I do not understand why this film received the critical acclaim that it did. The references to Hitchcock seem to be a misleading front for the repetition of what is now a dated and unoriginal plot. I can sum it up in a few words a guy meets an old schoolfriend by chance, the old schoolfriend seems unusually determined to get involved in the guy's life; the old schoolfriend turns out to be a maniac. It's a tired theme that's been repeated many times before, and this film doesn't stand out as doing it any better than others.The whole basis of a good thriller is that its events are unpredictable. The fundamental problem with Harry, He's Here To Help is that it fails on this count. When well done, thrillers can provide hugely entertaining viewing. In their time, Hitchcock thrillers were excellent; this one is not. The comparison is inappropriate. Watch something else. "},{"Title":"With a friend like Harry, who needs family?","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An engrossing French psychological thriller with jet black sense of humor, Director Dominik Moll has only made one other feature film, but looks very much like someone who has spent a lifetime fine tuning and constructing psychological thrillers. Moll's With a Friend Like Harry is a nervy, successful reworking of Hitchcockian themes and devices, with particular attention to the allure of the sociopath. On a hot day in a highway gas station men's room, a man Michel (Laurent Lucas), doesn't recognize a stranger who says they went to school together. His name is Harry, played by Sergi López. He suggests they have a drink, so he and his girlfriend follow Michel and his family to their summer place. Michel is amazed when Harry quotes from memory a poem Michel wrote in school. Harry thinks Michel is a great writer, and he's distressed that Michel hasn't written in years. Harry stays awhile, and sets out to eliminate distractions that might keep Michel from writing. The first thing Harry does for Michel--he buys him a new car despite Michel demanding that he does not. What a guy! However, this extraordinary act of kindness sets off a chain of events, and suspicious things begin to happen. Michel picks up a pen and Harry is gratified, but he's not finished being Michel's self-appointed patron. From the moment Harry is introduced to us, director Dominik Moll manages to saddle you up with an uncomfortable feeling. As the story slowly burns, it all becomes more and more unsettling. The devastating occurrences this family will endure will come from someone they've already invited into their comfort zone. And by the time they start realizing that, it's too late--and bad is already getting worse.Moll flushes develops the characterizations of the family members and their daily interactions, and wisely keeping things simple. While you start to recognize these subtleties, it enhances the awareness that Harry's abnormal behavior is seeping into the lives of these very normal people. Even in scenes where Harry is not featured, you keep him in mind, as his presence permeates, and saturates the storyline. Lòpez strikes the right note with his performance -- carefully balancing between overtly friendly to just plain crazy. At no point does he go shamelessly over the top, nor does the film really feature any excessive outbursts of violence. The mild brilliance of this film, lies with the question as to what Harry's motivation is, and what the outcome of it all will be. An intriguing, fully-engrossing psychological thriller that takes us deep into a world where answers aren't always provided. In fact, we are never sure where the plot is leading us. Mysterious, suspenseful, and a devilish sense of humor. With a friend like Harry, who needs family? "},{"Title":"With a Friend Like Harry... (2000)","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Dominik Moll Cast Laurent Lucas, Sergi López, Mathilde Seigner Hitchcock influenced tale that tells the story of Micheal(Laurent Lucas), a man who has a chance encounter with an old acquaintance named Harry from high school who insists that they catch up on old times. As it turns out Harry was a big fan of Micheal's writing in high school, but is dismayed to hear that he has since given up writing. Harry(Sergi López) then proceeds to remove everyone from Micheal's life that whom he deems a distraction so he can start writing again. This movie is good, but a little uneven because some scenes contain a good deal of suspense which in contrast makes others seem too boring and may make the viewer lose interest. Still a very interesting film that Hitchcock would probably enjoy. Recommended if you like Hitchcockesque suspense tales. 116 min.Rated R for language, some violence, and brief nudity "},{"Title":"It's a not really a thriller, but it IS a great psychodrama!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film in December 2000 at the Black Nights Film Festival in Tallinn, Estonia. It was one of the best films there.I don't recall all of the finer plot points, but I do remember that the film goes much deeper than the thriller context into which a lot of people commenting on this site keep wanting to pigeonhole it. To me it was about the often losing struggle to find balance between one's creative impulses and the realities of one's life. It's really about finding one's place in one's own life, and I find it to be quite inspiring. I even agree somewhat with the criticisms that it wasn't exciting enough - it wasn't meant to be. In my mind, this film is not really a thriller and IS a psychological drama of the highest order.Curiously enough, at the same Black Nights fest, M. Night Shyamalan's UNBREAKABLE was showing, and I think that that film is probably a good Hollywood equivalent to HARRY. The similarity between these two films is not so obvious, but it there is some passing resemblance. The way the films get to where they're going is quite different, but the destination seems to be the same.***POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD***Extremely well acted by the two leads, Sergi Lopez and Laurent Lucas, the film paints a wonderful portrait of a highly creative man trapped in a humdrum life half-rescued by an entity that's all will and no conscience. The interpretation expressed by other viewers commenting here that Harry is but a figment of Michel's imagination is intriguing to me, and seems to fit. It does play around with some of the themes that can be found in FIGHT CLUB (which I also like, by the way,) but it's a lot less bombastic.As a thirtysomething who caught the writing bug long ago, but hasn't been all around successful at it and a bit browbeaten by everyday life, I can relate very well to Michel. He's actually quite a likeable and sane character, even if Harry seems like a pathological manifestation of his frustrations.I suppose then that this is one of those films that isn't for everybody. No film really is for every damn body, but some films are an acquired taste. If you're tuned into the film's concerns somewhat like I surmise myself to be, you'll dig it. If not, it is likely to be somewhat of a bore. "},{"Title":"Comparison to Something Wild shows cultural differences","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  **Spoilers at every turn for both films**There are general differences between American and French approaches to film. These may be seen in a comparison of this film and Jonathan Demme's Something Wild, which explores similar themes. There are certain plot similarities, such as using high school backgrounds to uncover buried character traits, or the climactic scenes, which are almost identical. The differences, though, show how much different the American and French approaches to film can be.Theme Man confronts how a conventional life has stifled his creative potential. American Movie  Corporate executive indulges in kinky sex, drunken road trips, and petty crime with girl. Wants to stay with girl. French Movie  Father and husband locks himself in bathroom to write symbolic literature. Becomes argumentative.Theme Man is faced with the dark side of liberation from convention. American Movie Man has girlfriend abducted and life threatened. French Movie Man receives suggestion to kill his own family so that he is free to write.Theme Man's sexual impulses unleashed when conventional life challenged. American Movie  Car chase and fistfight over sexy rock chick girlfriend with handcuffs in handbag. French Movie Man calls other man's voluptuous girlfriend a cow, then kisses her, then apologizes.Theme Man's uncontained inner nature can be dangerous. American Movie Rock n Roll outlaw commits crimes and is heartless to girlfriend, who he dominates and controls when she tries to escape. French Movie Man of leisure eats eggs in the dark after sex and is heartless to girlfriend, who he kills on a whimsy.Theme Man can conquer dark side without ignoring creative individuality. American Movie Man leaves corporate job, gets rock chick, who is really sweet babe with great car. French Movie Man can write literature with wife's approval. Contentment descends upon family.So if you like films that explore the psychological conflict caused by the tension between conventional norms and social living vs. self-expression and self-fulfillment, ask yourself whether you like films about a) rock'n'roll, cars, sex with handcuffs, women in captivity, and fistfights; or b) poetry, rustic living, meditative postcoital ritual, dinner conversation, driving on windy countryside highways, and murder. If you feel more strongly about one or the other, this may be a sign that you will appreciate one of these films more than the other. "},{"Title":"Touches of greatness but...","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ... a disappointing ending.  This film is full of terrific acting and the atmosphere is an exercise in style with outstanding results. Sometimes, the movie reminded me of Psycho and The  Shinning. Where did it go wrong?  The bad ending... is like putting some water on fire, but it never boils.  Could've been a classic, anyway... you get an unforgettable movie. "},{"Title":"Harry is Michel's subconscious","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that if you view the film as Michel's becoming aware of his subconscious (as personified by Harry) and his subsequent efforts to deal with and resolves those issues that lay beneath his conscious you will find a truly enjoyable and creative film. "}{"Title":"Suspenseful-not really, but enjoyable-yes!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Isn't it odd that this movie shares so many similarities withCharles Burnett's To Sleep With Anger (1990)?  They are verydifferent genres, but both films feature a stranger who imposeshimself upon an unhappy family and eventually seems to solvetheir problems when they get rid of him.  And in both, the stranger'sname is, surprise, Harry.I went into the theater knowing next to nothing about this film, andam surprised to learn that it won so many awards and bore somany comparisons to Hitchcock.  I wouldn't give it that much, butHarry is a thoroughly enjoyable film.  It's well paced (okay, so thesecond half seems to move alarmingly fast, but I say well paced inthat the 2 hour running time flies by nicely) , and the cast is pitchperfect.  Special kudos to Laurent Lucas and Mathilde Seigner who arecompletely realistic as a weary young family, in a story that isotherwise implausible (though no one goes to see a dark comedy/ thriller for realism).  One can't help thinking that if this wereHollywood, they would randomly match up an attractive actor andactress who wouldn't know the difference between a diaper and,well, another diaper.  But Lucas and Mathilde, both of whom arequite attractive by the way, are so convincing as the young parents. It gives strength to the family element, which is depicted as boththe cause of the main character Michel's problems as well as whathe is constantly fighting to defend.  And of course, Sergi Lopezseems to be having a blast as the slithery, charming psychopath.With a Friend Like Harry is not suspenseful like traditionalthrillers, but that may be an asset.  It is a film that you can just sitback, relax, and enjoy.  Plus, enough subtext and characterdevelopment to keep from being just another throwaway darkcomedy.  And did I mention the great views of the lush Frenchcountryside?   "},{"Title":"Sergi Lopez is the heart of this film","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this is a good film, taken to perfection by an amazing performance by Sergi Lopez in the title role. I knew next to nothing about the film when i went to see it and I have to say that from the moment he comes on screen there is something incredibly unsettling and at the same time, likeable about him. He plays the two sides very well throughout the whole thing which is what is called for.I'm glad i got to see this and discovered a new actor. "},{"Title":"Harry is here to send chills up your spine","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The premise of this film is benign enough.  It's a hot day, Michel, Claire and their three girls are off to their holiday house for a break.  The car is not airconditioned, the kids are getting ratty and Michel and Claire have had just about enough.  They pull into a petrol station and Michel bumps into an old high school friend, Harry and his girlfriend, Plum.  Harry sees how frustrated Michel and Claire are and offers to drive them to their holiday house.  The offer is taken up and Harry enters their lives. The film takes a little while to establish the backgrounds, but once that is achieved it rolls merrily along its dark path. Harry's motto is help out where ever possible and he does it all with a smile.  It's a wonderfully executed film, once you get comfortable you're jolted out of the comfort zone.  It's a spine chilling tale. "},{"Title":"chocolate coated spider","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  film's camera seem rough at moments, making the film so much more absorbing - one perspective on the film is that creativity - such as writing - requires a potion made from toxic levels of will and chaos, and an unsettling motion to drink it down - when you were Alice after falling into the rabbit hole then the world shows its magical sides.  Creativity maybe a willingness to give up everything you were and become who you are. "},{"Title":"Overrated but pretty good","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw all the ads proclaiming this a brilliant, surprising thriller.  it was fairly well done, but nothing surprising here, save possibly the lack of frontal nudity in a wide-release French film.  The story seemed for all the world to me like a remake of an American movie.  Don't believe the hype, don't expect too much, and you may enjoy this film.   "},{"Title":"I've told you something that happens in the middle... I haven't told you the ending though. Is it still a spoiler?","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Okay, all I remember of this film was when I was too tired to get to sleep (over tired, you know how it is) and switching on the telly (it must have been at least 1 in the morning) and this movie coming on. Well, what can I say about this one? It was alright I guess, got a little freaked by the psycho man, the film kept me watching it. The visuals were very nice, of the French countryside (just think of the lovely vineyards and fields) and the acting is good. The psycho man had me convinced. ... then the psycho man killed the main guy's brother and took his body somewhere. It showed the body in the boot of the car, didn't it? That was extremely nasty. I switched the telly off in disgust and went to sleep. Watch it if you want. It's good if you're bored. "},{"Title":"Interesting European Thriller","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While on holiday, a drab harried family man meets up with a forgotten high school chum who proceeds to alter the course of his life through a re-awakening of his school-day aspirations; and through murder!I like this, alot. It didn't fall into the trap of terrorizing simply to satisfy the filmakers psychosis. Everything followed a logical progression, which in itself has become novel in films which all tend to bend over backwards to be innovative and end up more often than not aggravating us. This was interesting, and sorta believable. A few holes here and there, like why in the world would the parents follow Michael in the middle of the night. But all in all, you could see it happening and identified with the characters, Michael included. Dont buy the figment of his imagination theory, for its bunk. I detest dubbings, but all in all the films a welcome diversion from the same ole same ole.  "},{"Title":"WHERE'S THE TWIST??","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Moll has obviously overdosed on Hitchcock and especially Strangers On A Train. But unlike with De Palma, it's not a bad thing. Lopez is excellent as the charismatic dark side. It's an interesting premise, that the film is allowed to develop and then not deliver the final modern Hollywood twist. Catch it.    "},{"Title":"This fine French psycho-drama is an infinitely better experience than surrendering to Hollywood's empty amusement-park.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As in 'The Shining' this film is a journey into the dangerous interior of one man's soul. There is an overt reference to Kubrick's cerebral shocker from the outset, as we float above the tiny car and its occupants as it threads its way through thickly wooded, and oppressive, hills.The hell of writer's block into which Kubrick's writer, and the failed writer of this film, both descend is an inner space of deeply disturbing psychic distortion. After the introduction to the French family, unhappily travelling through life (as you might well say) in their paradigmatically clapped-out banger of a car, there are no more reality checks in this film. Hence our profound and growing unease at Harry's pat and superficial wish-fulfillment He is the very incarnation of the irresponsible hedonism which lurks in the heart of  a long-suffering family man, who can take no more. Even more inescapably than in 'The Shining' - which offers us the relief and the 'reality' markers of other points-of-view - we are trapped as viewers in the solipsisitic nightmare of one man's mental breakdown.'The Egg' is the un-decodable hermetic prison - insisted upon in a macro-shot of an egg -- an excluding reduction of reality that rebuffs interpretation --- the germ of madness and the surreal --- -- in the French kitchen - whose place in the American movie is taken by pages and pages of neatly typed and stacked verbiage that is as repetitively devoid of meaning as a mantra. The search for meaning becomes a dangerous delusion. The deep-pink womb-like retreat of the parentally-bequeathed bathroom is much like the interior of such an egg in its hard ceramic insecurity. The red dream-arrogance of the off-roader similarly. And the red life-blood of all who come distractingly near is the sacrificial ink necessary to the reductive needs of the self-obsessed ego, for whom primitivism seems ultimately the only authenticity. This is a father who has become impatient of his responsibilities. This is a murderer in the making. This is authenticity as delusion. This is self-discovery as the heart of darkness.The name of 'Harry' is one of the familiar names for the Devil. He is the original false friend. He is each person's lurking counsellor of the simplest, most brutal existence. He represents the self-destruction wrought by self-obsession. He is Alienation, the partner of Despair.This magnificent and troubling film finally straps us into our seats and takes us on a voyage into the void where we had supposed the human soul to reside. I cannot think of anything more horrifying than the ad-man's dream of an ending, with the typical family borne - it seems - aloft on insubstantial and unlikely - unsustainable - dreams of the perfect transformation of life's unendurable imperfections. The difference between the first and the last passages of this family's life, as glimpsed in transit, is measured by the mental journey provided by the film; it is the stark difference between our suffering lives and the imagined perfection which is no more than Death's delusive seduction The gorgeous Plum - the 'Devil''s wife - is barren. Her kiss in the embarassing bathroom - as is the case with the kiss of the re-animated corpse in the hotel bathroom of 'The Shining' - is the kiss of Death.This is Cinema. This is the force of Creation at work, as in any art worth bothering with. Anything else is just waste-products. And I don't care who knows it. French cinema reveals here its continuing intellectual vitality, capable of engaging resourcefully with the problem of living - instead of merely making a commercial machine to take us for a ride outside ourselves. Being beside ourselves, as in this fine French psycho-drama,is an infinitely better experience than surrendering to Hollywood's empty amusement-park.  "},{"Title":"Not Very Intriguing","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dull. Dominik Moll's French tribute to Hitchcock is completely devoid of humor and its thoroughly predictable narrative is not compensated by any particularly insightful character observations to make it worthwhile. Nothing much happens a harried father of three (Laurent Lucas) on vacation meets a man claiming to be school buddy Harry (Sergi Lopez) who insinuates himself into the family and begins to eliminate them as they become irritating. Perhaps a closer influence than Hitchcock would be Joseph Ruben's 1987 masterpiece `The Stepfather' in which a man is driven to murder any time his carefully ordered world is upset by his current family's deviances; but Moll doesn't spend nearly as much time on Harry's motivations as Ruben did, preferring merely to `explain' him by having him screaming at the top of his lungs while driving alone (and that part's the David Lynch influence.) The performances don't help Lucas is a one-note, boring mope and Lopez, though he gamely tries, doesn't quite cut it as a serial killer--he's too nerdy to take seriously. The end is as limp as it is unsurprising there isn't even a hint of a suspenseful outcome and what should be a complex climax of conflicted emotions ends up underscoring the entire film's banality.    "}{"Title":"a million light years from Hitchcock","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What an overrated snooze! There is zero suspense, zero thrills and the ending is completely flat. Very good performances, and the countryside is beautiful. But that's it! I can't believe this is being compared to Hitchcock and that it won ANY awards! It felt like a lame remake of the Talented Mr. Ripley. Save your money and rent Plein Soleil (Purple Noon in the US - the original Mr. Ripley) or Diabolique if you want a good French thriller. "},{"Title":"Don't you wish you had a friend just like Harry?!  Well, maybe not...","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When the film begins, Michel is in the hot car with his wife and three small kids. It's summer and there's no air conditioning...and it's not surprising the kids are behaving like brats and Michel is at his wit's ends. When the family stops for a break, Michel goes to the bathroom and there an old acquaintance, Harry, recognizes him...though Michel cannot recall the guy. It seems that Harry is a major fan of Michel and has lots of fond memories of the guy...and Michel is just dumbfounded. Despite this, when Harry invites himself and his girlfriend to their home, Michel agrees and they all have a lovely evening together. During this evening, Harry inexplicably recalls a poem that Michel wrote when he was a teen. Despite decades having passes, he even remembers this poem word-for-word and Harry decides to take on a new project--to get Michel to begin writing once again. While this seems like a laudable goal, it soon gets strange. First, Harry decides that the hot car isn't what a writer needs and when it breaks down, he impulsively buys Michel and his family a new SUV with air conditioning!! Given that they barely know each other, this is very strange. Second, Harry isn't about to stop at just buying his old colleague a car...he'll remove all the distractions from Michel's life...whatever they might be!This is a very dark and enjoyable film. It's also, in a sick way, a bit of a comedy. Fortunately, it's unique and keeps your attention- -and it's well worth seeing--especially for the strange yet satisfying ending. The film is taut, unusual and well written. "},{"Title":"Grown up and very French","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Harry. He's Here To Help' is a fable for our times, based on the presumption of Harry, who encounters an old school chum Michel. Harry perceives Michel as needing freedom in order to write. Harry, newly wealthy through the death of his parents, sets out to eliminate the obstacles and problems so Michel can pursue his fictional promise. He kills Michel's parents, who have been a constant drain on his energy, then Michel's brother, who treats his brother's work with contempt. Then Harry kills his own girlfriend because she is attracting and distracting Michel. Harry then goes too far; about to murder the man's wife and kids, Michel retaliates and kills Harry. We are left with the original family unit, and no obstacles to Michel's creative freedom. It is charmingly done, and completely without any conventional morality ending. It is wonderfully absurd, almost a fairytale, and the end is perfect. "},{"Title":"deeply disturbing and somewhat cerebral","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So I just watched with a Friend like Harry from 2000. So is it good, I say oui. This movie is slow in its build up to the suspenseful second half of the film. It is mildly humorous at times, while being quite disturbing at other times. Look movies like this you don't want to talk too much about, it is after all a suspense pic. So what I can ponder openly is the deeper meaning behind the ending, if there is one. I picked up something deeply psychological, though I could have been mistaken, but perhaps we are all a little Harry in some ways? Watch and maybe you will understand what I am getting at. So that's all I can say is if you like slightly cerebral, fresh and original, suspense flicks, that are in french then you will love this one. If you can deal with the subtitles (and everything else applies) it is a really good movie and you can't go wrong with it. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"life is overreaction","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In a motorway bathroom, two motorists are drying their hands at the washbasins. One turns and stares at the other. He holds him in his gaze for a long, long time. The second motorist notices, and turns to face the other. He matches his gaze, but the first man does not flinch. Finally, he speaks We know each other. From the moment we meet him, we realise there is something not quite right about Harry. This film is peppered with deliciously tense moments like that opening encounter. Harry recites a poem, Harry buys a car, Harry turns up for a visit, and every time little hand-grenades of appropriacy and etiquette go off. And as time passes, it is more than social propriety that is breached.Harry, He's Here to Help is exquisitely observed. Every parent will empathise with the opening car journey with three cranky kids. Put-upon Dad Michel (Laurent Lucas), after the car journey from hell, has the parents from hell to deal with. The parenting of young children is portrayed authentically, as is a long-term marriage gone rancid. Harry (a very scary Sergi López) may be signalling pathology with his crisply ironed shirts, clueless girlfriend, and inability to listen, but who can blame Michel and Claire (Mathilde Seigner) for missing the signs when they have so much more to contend with in their lives, matters for which Harry offers temporary respite. As Claire says, they are quite simply exhausted.In the second half of the film the plot accelerates, and the character portraiture suffers slightly. Michel's younger brother seems to say exactly, and only, the wrong things. He serves merely to push Harry's buttons. Interestingly, a slightly surreal note creeps in, signalled by Michel's obsession with eggs. Harry drives so fast the car seems to take flight - then turns up, apparently from a crash, without a mark on him, his perfectly ironed shirt still crease free. Are we now in Michels' dream? Or one of his stories? Harry is still a visceral threat, and is dealt with in the only way that can set Michel free.Tense, scary and absurd in all the right places, this film evokes Hitchcock, Sexy Beast, Kitano and other lofty references, while remaining a unique, primarily visual and hence visceral piece. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock would have been proud","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Michel (Laurent Lucas) is a dedicated family man riding the responsibilities of modern life as he takes his entourage on a family trip. The seemingly perfect life however has started to show cracks - on a sweltering French summer day his air conditioning is packed in, his three children are wearing his patience to breaking point and his wife's ill-thought scorns and put-downs do nothing to alleviate the strain. Couple this with some overbearing parents and a country retreat which is rapidly turning into a money pit and his problems are beginning to snowball more than he appreciates.Enter Harry (Sergi Lopez) an old acquaintance from school and a memory so distant Michel can barely grasp it. A brief conversation in a rest-stop men's room then outside a few minutes later and Harry is inviting himself and his girlfriend Plum (Sophie Guillemin) to the hideaway, waving away all protest in the spirit of camaraderie. Against better judgment Michel's wife Claire (Mathilde Seigner) rides with the disruptive kids to travel in Harry's super-cooled Mercedes....On their first evening at the barn it's apparent that Michel's vague memory is not matched by Harry's. He quotes verbatim from Michel's old school-rag poetry and recalls perfect detail of his early female conquests. Eyebrows are raised but Michel is not overly disturbed by Harry's unusual demeanour, or his post-orgasmic rituals in the small hours. More concern is the garish fuschia paint that Michel's parents have lovingly adorned the bathroom with, totally disparate to the rusticity of the remaining structure, as well as their impending visit. Harry and Plum seem content to want to idle a few days away with their new-found buddies. First things first though, the family motor is in need of attention after leaving Claire stranded the next day and Harry is a man of solutions - and substantial resources. Car trouble? Here's a new one. Enjoy. And although the cash-strapped couple balk at the generosity, Harry is able to justify his actions in his hope to provide a remedy for their immediate difficulties. Motives soon become a little clearer when Harry expresses disappointment at Michel's abandonment in creative pursuits for want of a family idyll that isn't materialising. He sets about clearing a path for his endeavours, convincing him of his unrealised talent and trying to railroad him back to what Harry sees as his priorities. Harry can see Michel's distractions and recognises they are holding him back at every turn so he sets on a course of solutions once more. He is here to help after all, and if help comprises of dispatching the odd nuisance obstacle, then so be it. What use to Michel (and indeed Harry) is a collection of philistines, dim-wits and bickerers when he could be re-imagining his high school masterpiece 'Les Singes Volantes' ('The Flying Monkeys') and fulfilling years of waylaid promise?'Harry' has been described as a modern day Hitchcock thriller and in many ways this is a justified belief. Darkly comic and edgy, Harry is reminiscent of the calm calculated protagonists from 'Rope' albeit with a cooler exterior. A satisfyingly uneasy entry in modern French cinema. "},{"Title":"WITH A FRIEND LIKE HARRY (Dominik Moll, 2000) ***","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another deservedly acclaimed French thriller but, as opposed to the kinetic and twist-laden TELL NO ONE (2006), this is a slow-burn and (relatively) simply-plotted film with, if anything, even more emphasis on characterization. Again, this elicits memories of earlier suspensers &#x96; notably Alfred Hitchcock's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN (1951) and the Stephen King adaptation MISERY (1990), whose narratives are neatly amalgamated here &#x96; as we get the title character, a rich wastrel and casual acquaintance of the hero who gradually reveals psychotic tendencies, misguidedly lending a helping hand to sort out the latter's domestic problems while, at the same time, being somewhat obsessed by the young man and resenting in particular his (unconscious) decision to suppress the talent he once possessed as an author! Like the Guillaume Canet film I mentioned earlier, much of the power of the piece emanates from careful casting and, in fact, all four leads (the others being the two protagonists' respective partners, with the hero's wife being played by Mathilde Seigner, sister of Roman Polanski's wife Emmanuelle) deliver good performances. As I said, the film essentially maintains a low-key throughout, even in its moments of violence (with a couple actually occurring off-screen!) so that we get no CAPE FEAR-type melodramatics. The last act is quite interesting as, first, I half-expected the film to turn into a variation on PERFORMANCE (1970) with the villain disappearing for a while and the hero not only picking up some of the former's idiosyncrasies but even takes an active interest in his girl!; then, it almost takes a leaf from Claude Chabrol's LA CEREMONIE (1995) when Harry tries to persuade his 'idol' to get rid of the latter's family for good. However, it finally settles on (effectively) reprising the ironic twist which concludes LA FEMME INFIDELE (1968), a much earlier Chabrol effort (an obvious influence here, that film-maker being officially recognized as The French Hitchcock). Though one can fault the movie its slight overlength (116 minutes), an even bigger regret is the fact that the script treats proceedings a little too earnestly rather than approach them as black comedy! On a personal note, the fact that the protagonist here is a 34-year old former writer (I will be that same age in August and have not 'created' anything for the last 8 years!) struck a little too close to home for comfort! "},{"Title":"Trust not a helping hand","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I finally watched it, been on my to-see list ever since it came out. Great film that perfectly fulfilled my expectations. The only advice I can give, is don't expect to be overwhelmed by the time the film ends. Though it gets pretty demented at times, its ways are strangely subtle. If you've liked Michael Haneke's Funny Games, then you should not hesitate to see this French film too.Michel and Clair are travelling by car to their remote summer house on the outskirts in Switzerland. Taking some time off to renovate things & spending a holiday with their little kids. Still in French, at a highway rest-stop, Michel encounters Harry, who claims to be an old schoolmate of him. Michel has no instant recollection of what all Harry has to say, but politely plays along, clearly avoiding any offense to Harry. And when Harry, accompanied by his sex doll wife Prune, kindly suggests to drive from France to Switzerland together, in separate cars, Michel agrees. His wife Clair, hesitantly reluctant at first, ultimately consents. The moral of this set-up? Trust your wife's female intuition. Michel just made a big mistake.From the moment Sergi López gets introduced as the friendly Harry (at the start of the film), director Dominik Moll manages to saddle you up with an uncomfortable feeling. And very slowly, it all becomes more and more unsettling as the film proceeds. The events & complications portrayed, make excellent use of the isolated setting that our family inhabits. The environment itself poses absolutely no threat and for once, it's also not the locals our outsider family should fear. The bad things will come from someone they've already invited into their comfort zone. And by the time they start realizing that, bad things are already getting worse.A big merit of this film, is undoubtedly the fact that Moll put real characters into realistic situations. And he does all this by not exaggerating or emphasizing details, but keeping things simple instead. While Harry, and subsequently his wife Prune also, provide all the necessary abnormality in this every-day plot, it's the characterization of the family that makes this film feel familiar and real. It's the little things, like kids getting annoying on the backseat of the car during a long summer drive. Or Michel's parents having the desire to meddle & help out with his undertakings, often more uncalled for than not so. Michel's mother making a subtle inquiry about his wife, indicating us she has her own thoughts on her son's marriage. These little details are irrelevant to the plot, but they make real humans out of the characters. And while you pick up on these subtleties, it enhances the awareness of the fact that Harry's abnormal behaviour is seeping into the lives of these very normal people. Even in scenes where Harry is not featured, you keep him in mind, because at most given moments he will always be in the company of another family member on another location. A splendid way to keep the viewer on his toes in a slow but steady moving film.Harry, Un Ami Qui Vous Veut Du Bien is by no means explicit, but it's still an effectively disturbing film. At times slightly comedic, due to Harry's impossible behaviour. Lòpez strikes the right note with his performance between overtly friendliness & plain craziness. At no point he goes shamelessly over the top, nor does the film really feature any excessive outbursts of hard on-screen violence, and that really works for the better. The mild brilliance of this film, lies with the question as to what Harry's motivation is and what the outcome of it all will be. Do not expect a big mystery to be revealed. Do not expect a puzzle from the past explained. Do not expect grotesque bloodshed and violence. Expect subtlety and finesse to great effect. "},{"Title":"Harry the Psycholeech @contains loads of spoilers@","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harry's character reminds me of quite a few strange people I've met in my life (fortunately not to that extent) and I think Moll and Lopez did a pretty good job at making us feel terribly uncomfortable. Harry though not talking new age and flying saucers is easy to spot as first class weirdo with an underlying sickly obsession for Michel. Bad luck for Michel. The obsession probably sprouted during the time they shared at high school and suddenly knows no boundaries. With obvious manipulative tricks he manages to intrude Michel's family life only to end in absolute horror. In this regard, I can't stop thinking of Patricia Highsmith's Ripley, Ferdinand/Freddy (The Collector) and Evelyn Draper ('Play Misty for me'). Despite I enjoyed this film for all the untied subplots and the truly scary weird repulsive Harry, it could have been developed much further psychologically than it is. Michel at some point seems to lose all common sense and moral (which was an interesting idea) then shifts back to 'reason' which lead to a rather boring and unconvincing ending Michel driving the soundproof, aircon'd 4x4 car Harry has gifted him like nothing ever happened (parents, brother, Harry's girlfriend and Harry all together dead in the cesspool). In my opinion that's the weakness of the film. "},{"Title":"A talent for causing things pain","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Evil dentists are everywhere Think The Little Shop of Horrors, The Whole Nine Yards, Punch-Drunk Love, Marathon Man, and, of course, Brazil. But Michel's dad (Dominiqze Rozan) adds a new touch. A long-retired doddering dentist, the old man insists on a check-up whenever his son (Laurent Lucas) is visiting. Like Michel hadn't got enough to worry about without opening wide for daddy's drill. He is all but broke, and his vacation home is going to pieces. As is his marriage to classy Claire (Mathilde Seigner, Emmanuelle Seigner's kid sister). This is when Harry (Sergi López) shows up, bimbo (Sophie Guillemin) in tow. A friend from school, Harry believes Michel is destined to be a writer and tries to help him get back in touch with his muse. Trouble is we never learn why. As a result, the movie is stuck in the middle between the commonplace and the absurd. Director Dominik Moll's most recent feature, Lemming, takes things a lot further in the direction of the surreal, and to advantage too. Harry picks up speed in its final half-hour though. Think Blood Simple meets The Cable Guy. My favorite character the flying monkey in the nightmare scene. "}{"Title":"menacing without cliché's or histrionics","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a real slow burn but is never less than engrossing, despite the utter mundanity and sparseness of the script. The camera-work is very still and undramatic too, and one gets the feeling the director knew that the menace would seep slowly but effectively into this film without flashy cuts or melodrama from the actors. It certainly works and everyone emerges with kudos from this underplayed but sublimely creepy movie. Everything - from Michel's initial chance-encounter with Harry, to the way Harry insinuates himself into the lives of Michel's family - is completely believably and there are no reactions which mark themselves out as being mere plot or character cheats. It all builds to a similarly believable climax, all the more disturbing for its realism and restrained camera-work and direction. Even the subtitles are restrained - making this a great movie for film-lovers who aren't so keen on taking their eyes off the actors for long! It's not scary in the 'jump' sense, but is effective and foreboding. "},{"Title":"uncomfortable to the max.","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  perhaps it is a cultural difference, but even from the beginning when harry invites himself over to michel's, there is a feeling of invasion and unease. then more things start happening. lots of tension throughout as none of the characters seem to get along very well, except maybe the women. but there are enough instances of people offending each other and obviously causing discomfort to make even the spectator feel about ready to run away from the situation. at least i was ready to get out. not to say that it wasn't a great movie, because it honestly was. i thought the ending was a bit off, perhaps in the timing. it could have ended a bit sooner as the last few minutes are kind of filler in my opinion. but this film confirms once again that America doesn't make very good movies.  "},{"Title":"A suprisingly good Hitchcock-esque film","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       I've only seen a few French films, but the ones I've seen were very good.  Maybe that's because my college acted as a film filter, choosing only remarkable foreign films to air, or maybe it's because it's a lot harder to get a piece-of-sh*t film green-lighted in France than it is here in the U.S. of A. (note I'm not knocking American cinema by any stretch, but you've got to admit a lot gets released here that wouldn't see a second of screen time in other countries).Anyway, With a Friend Like Harry was one of the good foreign films that the powers that be on campus chose to air, and man, am I glad they did.  I'm not going to lie- I had never heard of this movie.  I don't hear about many foreign movies as a general rule (unless of course they're sickeningly-sappy romantic comedies or thrillers), and that's deplorable, I know.  I'm just happy that fate dropped this one into my lap.I won't say much about the plot besides that it's strange, creative, and interesting.  I saw this film with subtitles (and I don't even know if a dubbed version exists though I hope not), so I guess you could argue that I spent more time reading than I did watching the actors, but I thought everyone involved did a great job.  Then film has a definite Hitchcock feel to it, and that's a very good thing in my book.If you can get your hands on a copy of this (I'm still trying ( ), I would recommend picking it up.  It's a weird, intelligent, unsettling, and entertaining movie, and I wish more of us in the States knew about it.  "},{"Title":"A chilling experience when we learn what Harry is about.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When Harry meets Michel in the washroom of a roadhouse and recognises him as a school pal of 20 years ago, he praises him for his past contributions to the school magazine.  Certain that Michel has a remarkable talent he embarks on an outrageous plan that will dispel all distractions for his new found friend to give him the freedom to continue his writing. This plan is not made clear at first, but once his intentions are known we feel a sudden chill up the spine.This is a superb thriller. Harry and his pea-brained girl friend  stop over several days with Michel and family in their villa now being renovated.  Each day seems to bring a new catastrophe and the tension mounts. What was to be a happy family holiday seems to be turning sour.  We begin to realise it is Harry's doing.  He asks too many personal questions and plants doubts and suspicions in Michel's mind.Anybody that interferes with Harry's overall plan is taken care off.  Suddenly we realise Harry has a mad streak in his character which belies his outward caring demeanour.  It soon becomes obvious that Harry with his positive outlook will be hard to get rid of.The villa which is in a lonely part of the countryside has creaking wooden staircases and is dimly lit.  The children cry at night.  Harry wanders about too, helping himself to a raw egg from the refrigerator. Michel has nightmares. There's never a dull moment.It's a well-constructed thriller that holds back on the clues. but little by little you begin to realise what is going on and you ask yourself when will this fiend stop in his evil plan. It is not clear what motivates Harry, but he has a most unusual talent in memorising and reciting Michel's early school poems and his science fiction drama about the Flying Monkeys. "},{"Title":"c'est pas bien, mais c'est pas rien","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Harry, un copain qui vous veut du bien.' is, first off, simply worth seeing. It's described (though what isn't ?) as a 'taut thriller' and thriller it my not be, but the atmosphere is stretched throughout.<spoilers>The whole hook of the film, to me, is in the premise that all Harry wants is for Michel to take up writing again, and fulfill what Harry sees as his potential. It's absolutely ludicrous, but, the film is so strung out that while the idea of flying monkeys is ridiculous, what Michel was trying to say isn't. Flying monkeys ? hahahaha... Oh, hang on, spying on people ? Now you're talking. The direction and score move the viewer to the point of paranoia, so the fact that the characters are paranoid is no surprise.The plot is a bit facile, and does offer up angles that are never followed up on. The scene where Harry has to break Eric's mobile/cell phone in full view of the little girl sends chills up your spine; a clever touch and even more admirable that they didn't follow up on it, though the same can't be said for all the possibilities the plot opens and then just ignores.</spoilers>Overall, watch it.. and if you have even a passable understanding of french, watch it without subtitles. Lots of reviewers on here have commented that there was no humour in the film, but there is plenty. It's just in french.It's certainly not a film without flaws, and it's not really that exciting, but it's beautifully shot, original at points, and thought provoking. So well worth anyone's time. "},{"Title":"good little Moll film","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an interesting little French film from Dominik Moll, and Sergei Lopez is excellent and totally convincing as Harry.  Lopez manages to convey a degree of menace as a psycho on the warpath for his old school-mate Michel.  Okay, the end of the film tails off a bit.  But still good viewing. "},{"Title":"I don't agree...","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"                     Spoilers ahead, I guess... I don't agree with Eric from Seattle's interpretation of Harry...How could Harry be a figment of Michel's imagination, a sort of ghost à la Bruce Willis in Sixth Sense when we see the said Harry interact with Michel's wife and daughters? I don't think Michel would have imagined Harry in such details, for example Claire visiting him at his hotel to tell him to stay away from them?  The reason why Michel kills Harry at the end, I think, is that, yes, the latter has acquired a very twisted power over him, but Michel turns the tables on Harry, saying You too prevent me from fulfillment with your half-a**ed theories. Whatever REALLY happened to his parents and brother, Michel is shaken, and the presence of this nonsense-spouting psycho is not helping him. The sight of Prune (Plum) dead somehow makes him snap out of it, in a way. Yes, he kills Harry, but could it just be because he wants to save his WIFE and DAUGHTERS? As well, I don't see how Michel is so alienated, why his life is such a failure that needs to be fixed.  What is so wrong with teaching French to Japanese people? What is so wrong with his wife, beside the fact that they, like all couples I guess, are going through some rough times. What is wrong with being a regular Joe? (Or Jean, in that case, lol.) We can't all be Spider Man!  "},{"Title":"Is there a hole in the plot?","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I just saw the movie last night and thought it was a good «exercise in style» but was left wondering why Michel, who seemed to care (too much) for his siblings in the beginning of the story, doesn't bother to resolve his family's death in the end?He just disposes of Plum and Harry's bodies and continues on with his life without looking for his brother, whom he should have deducted that he was killed by Harry (like his parents)? I didn't really buy that...Maybe the theory that «it never happened» could explain this but then it's just another «it was all just a dream movie», (i.e. Mulholland Drive) and it becomes crappy... "},{"Title":"Pretty good, subtle thriller","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I gave this movie a seven--the reason it's not a ten is because it doesn't stretch enough beyond Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train to seem original. Harry is just so much like Bruno that I almost expected him to have a homoerotic attraction to Michel, just as Bruno is purported to have for Guy (I suppose Harry probably was--he did kill his girlfriend when Michel disregards her as incompetent).  But really what makes Strangers better than Harry is the characters' motivations.  While the characters in Harry are more realistic and textured, the character of Harry lacks the intense drive that Bruno had.  Why does Harry start after Michel?  Because he loved Michel's teenage writing (which everybody else thinks is silly).  Bruno, for all his alleged homoeroticism, wanted something in return besides the resumption of writing (which frankly, could have been facilitated far better with fan mail)--he tried to blackmail Guy into kill his father in return for Bruno killing his wife.  Isn't it a fascinating design?I have to give it the movie a lot of credit, though.  I bet every person who ever lost their dream and stopped writing secretly wishes they had such devoted fans.  Sort of like Misery. "},{"Title":"Great movie.  (spoilers beware)","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great!  Nicely done.  I think I noticed what the story is really about, if you read into the film enough.We should really look into the possibility that Harry is sort of a satan figure, who is tempting our main character with the apple which is lots of money/material possessions (the car) and a free life.  The Adam and Eve story is repeated here, with Harry giving the new car to the woman.  She claims to have not accepted the (RED) car (the fruit on the tree) but the couple eventually accept it anyways, by using it, and in the end, by keeping it.  But no acceptance of Satan's gift goes unpunished.  For this, obviously, a bad thing happens (which is also car related) the parents die in the car crash.Harry also said that darkness enhances the senses.  He sits by himself with that egg, doing some weird ritual thing!  Also, the dad who built the bridge for Harry, finds out from Harry that the bridge was turning black.  Why black?  A color of evil.  Harry also, seems way too interested in our main character and his family to be just some guy.  Also, Plumb, Harry comments on how he likes her cause of her animal intelligence which is another reference to 'evil' in a Christian sense.  Animal qualities in humans is rejected and labelled as 'evil' by the Christian faith.  Harry seems more interested too, in lust and sex, instead of true love.  He doesn't seem to love Plumb very much when he buries her.Interestingly, Harry claims his father has died, and left him a bunch of money.  Satanists believe that God is dead, and Satan is his strongest angel, who wants to wage war against the Lord (christ) for the title of God.  Could Harry be a 'son' of God who rebelled?  Harry seems to really detest his father, much like Satan detests God.  And why doesn't our main character remember Harry from high school?  He seems to have dropped out of the sky.  Many times too, Harry talks on about giving our main character 'freedom', which is interesting.  Satanists claim that they are freer than Christians.  Satan himself rebelled against God for many reasons, including the fact God made man mortal, gave man pain, work, and toil, etc.  Harry even says our main character is 'spreading his wings'.  Angel reference perhaps?Well, it's just brain fodder.  ) "}{"Title":"Interesting but perplexing","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe my tastes are unsophisticated, but when watching a movie or reading a book, I prefer to come away with some comprehension of why the characters behave the way they do. If this film provides clues to the characters' actions, they went way over my head because I was just shaking my head by the end. It's well done, and it has a refreshing subtlety (at least till the end) compared with most American movies, but I found it ultimately unsatisfying. But then, I had a similar problem with David Lynch's Mullholland Drive (not that the two are really similar in most respects), so if a linear kind of logic to the plot isn't a requirement for you, you might like this one. "},{"Title":"a splendid delight!!!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A couple of weeks ago, somebody suggested to me that I watch Strangers on a Train.  I did and I really really enjoyed it.  Watching With a Friend Like Harry totally reminded me of this movie.  It makes me satisfied to know that there are still filmmakers out there who make thrillers like Alfred Hitchcock did!!! "},{"Title":"Hey, a smart thriller!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When was the last time I could say that?  Of course this isn't a pull your hair out, bite your fingernails off kind of thriller.  The tensions builds in a slow, methodical fashion.  And on top of that, it never reaches a feverish climax.  For those that needed that, don't worry, just wait for the Hollywood remake.   I'm sure the suits will figure out a way for the characters to act so foolishly and implausibly that they wind up having to chase each other around in the dark with knives.  But this film unfolds in a more natural, realistic manner (if you can accept the premise).  It was refreshing to see that the characters weren't written as fools to advance the plot.  That isn't to say that the film wouldn't have been better without a nail-biting set piece or two (the Hitchcock influence is obvious but Hitch would have given us the set pieces and he would have made them work)  But I still prefer the genuine tension of this film to a thriller that is dumbed down to produce cheap thrills.   "},{"Title":"Some say it's slow...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dominik Moll's control of tension will leave many bored, but than many would say the same of George Sluizer's Spoorloos aka The Vanishing.  In short, it is the French approach and to me represents film making of a bygone era in America.  My darling wife made mention that Hitchcock it ain't but for me, it is exactly that.  Many of the classics are slow by today's standards, yet this is a representation of the degradation of premise and writing that has been replaced by CGI and tits.  Harry gives you all a movie is suppose to.  Moments of levity, strong acting, developed characters, and the ambiguity of morality that lends itself to good discussion after the fact.  Love or hate it, Harry is a film worthy of your time.  All I can say is I hope that Moll chooses not to follow in the footsteps of Sluizer and give us an American version with the likes of Jeff Bridges in the lead role.  Even the French can be whores. "},{"Title":"Who needs enemies?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has technique going for it.   The suspense doesn't last long, since the audience is let in on the whole thing as it unfolds.  The main question is when will Michael catch on or Harry reveal himself? Unlike many films, Michael doesn't have to be stupid, nor Harry impossibly clever.Viewed from a larger perspective, the problem may be how did Harry manage to live before he met Michael?  The simple answer, I suppose, is that no one but Michael could trigger Harry's generosity.  Lots of impact in this film.I wish subtitlers would realize that you should put really bold outlines around the characters, either heavy black around white or heavy white around black.  Happily, the dialog is not too important - this is not a Rohmer film!  "},{"Title":"Psycho!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sergi López was excellent, I could read his feelings just from his facial expressions.  I loved the irony at the end.  Watch out for what the blond girl says Harry is.  It sets the tone of the movie.  Character development is excellent, too. "},{"Title":"Harry is an excellent...friend!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent movie with a great professional cast. Sergi Lopez as Harry and Laurent Lucas as Michel were absolutely credible and superb. It is amazing how foreign movies don't go for the I-Am-The-Cutest-Thing-On-Earth when they are going through the casting process. Most of the time the actors look like ordinary people, and this is the case on this must-to see movie. Very simple but tense and thrilling plot. Harry is obsessed with Michel's high school writings and gets really upset when his old schoolmate is not writing anymore due to his present situation a wife, three annoying kids, authoritative parents. Harry takes it on his hands and decides to clear the air so Michel can come back to his passion. But he does it his on way! This movie kept me on the edge. Go see it! "},{"Title":"surprise","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I´ve just seen this movie in the cinema, it´s great!! With a not-major budget they realized a movie with an impressive amount psychological feelings.  Some unlogical parts in the plot are forgiven and forgotten when the movie comes to the end...I say Fantastic "},{"Title":"Vive Le Flying Monkeys!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this film.  Having read a couple of reviews before I went to see it, I'll have to agree with the critics who said Harry is dominated by a Hitchcock-like atmosphere.  Like Hitchcock's films, there is comedy mingled with darkness.  Also like Hitchcock's films, there is sort of melodramatic classical soundtrack.  In addition, the mood throughout is suspenseful, as if something is always going to happen when Harry is around.  The director maintained this suspese for the whole movie.  I thought the dialgoue and acting were strong.  All of the characters seemed very realistic and easy to empathize with.  The only scene I found really implausible was the one with Plum and Michael in the bathroom near the end of the film.  Michael's behavior in that scene just seemed inconsistent with everything else he had done so far.  My favorite scenes in this film were the ones where Harry and various other characters are discussing Michael's old poems and short stories.  I guess I can empathize since I was an English Literature major in college and dabbled a bit in writing.  Long live The Flying Monkeys!   "},{"Title":"Undertones somewhat similar to Fightclub","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't want to give away the film but I thought there were lots of similarities between this movie and Fight Club.  Somebody else mentioned that Harry was the devil or the main protagonist's alter ego.  Tyler Durden in Fight Club was somewhat a similar character who tried to entice the protagonist to break the daily convention or the norm.Also, the discussion about the flying monkeyswere similar to that of the space monkeys in Fight Club.Overall, I enjoyed the film except the predictable outcome.  I had wished the Harry character do more interesting deeds than the predictable ones. "}{"Title":"nice film; although character development took a while","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  short and sweet i recommend it, just know that the first half is too drawn-out but the second half is compelling.  i wouldn't dare compare this to a Hitchcock psychological thriller, but it's definitely worth the seven dollars.   "},{"Title":"Thoroughly disappointing","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After reading several positive comments with terms like Hitchcockian applied to this film, I was anticipating a quality thriller. I found it to be extremely predictable, with virtually everything that occurs offering no surprises at all. Several comments compare this movie to Strangers on a Train. Strangers.. is by far the superior of the two, with a performance by Robert Walker that is simultaneously frightening and charming. His character Bruno Anthony is gradually revealed to be a psycho, and by that time the audience, along with the hero, Farley Granger, is swept up in the story.  In contrast the villain is an obvious nutcase from the very moment you see him. Your first reaction if you met him in real life would be to go in the opposite direction.   "},{"Title":"Hannibal, eat your heart out!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Its a funny old world. Two days ago I saw the abysmal Hannibal and last night this excellent film. Where in Hannibal, Hopkins lazily drags through the film uttering silly phrases such as 'okey dokey' after throwing someone out of the window with his bowels pouring out of his stomach, in 'Harry...', Lopez creates a wonderful character, balancing apparent sanity with psychopathic tendencies.This beautifuly and meticulously created thriller reminds me of Dissappearance in its tension and horrifying concepts. The way in which this film builds the suspense spicing it with wonderful black humour, uniformly excellent performances, modest but precise photography, and eery music, makes for a thoroughly entertaining two hours. "},{"Title":"Choosing your destination (possible spoilers)","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film opens with a nightmare journey taking place. Not a Hollywood nightmare journey, with police sirens, blazing lights, and road blocks, but a rather more routine nightmare an overheating car, fractious children, and miles more road to go. A chance encounter with an old school friend in the motorway service station sets this unconventional road movie off. This film deconstructs the genre of the road movie the main character's journey is mainly psychological and internal rather than exteriorised. Driving is a constant theme however. The question the movie poses is how much driving gives the freedom it is supposed to, and how much we are driven by our internal demons. Crashes abound, and the majority of the killings take place at the roadside. As Michel's father remarks, people buy four by fours for the illusion of freedom, rather than obtaining the reality of it. The film begins well, being both amusing and suspenseful. The middle does drag a bit, but the ending is superb the family, now fully accepting Harry's view you must do everything you can to make your journey easier, to 'lighten your load', glide along in their air conditioned four wheel drive car, soothed by music and insulated from the heat of the outside world. The gritty reality of how they obtained this idyllic situation is glossed over, as they enjoy the illusion of freedom and movement, their destination (to the audience at least) unknown.     "},{"Title":"First-rate film-making","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film might seem to drag occasionally during the opening segments, but there is always just enough substance to keep you watching. In fact,the movie is so well made that you will probably have to keep watching, and if you do, the ending is delectable. (Okay, it's delectable, but somehow troubling, considering all that has transpired.)This is a very good movie, though perhaps not to all tastes.NOTE For some reason, IMDb insists that I have to enter ten lines of text before they will accept my opinion. There is no doubt a good reason for this. However, my comment, though apparently worthless because of its brevity, is contained in the first nine lines of this post. "},{"Title":"Quite good, but not excellent","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I guess we've all once met someone who said that he knows you from I don't know where, while you absolutely can't remember the person's name or where you know him/her from. With Harry, un ami qui vous veut du bien or Harry Is Here to Help the makers have based their story on exact such a situation.When on a hot summers day, Michel and his family go on a trip to visit his parents in the south of France, they stop at a gas station near the highway. In the restroom, a man asks Michel if he doesn't recognize him anymore. He says he's Harry and that he once went to the same school as Michel. He suggests they have a drink, so he and his girlfriend follow Michel and his family to their summer house. So far nothing special, but when Harry is able to quote from memory a poem Michel wrote in school, Michel is very surprised. Harry appears to think that Michel is one of the greatest writers ever and can't understand why Michel doesn't write anymore. Harry tells him that he should start again, but that he has to get rid of all the nuissances (his wife, his kids, his parents,...) that will prevent him from writing excellent stories. When Michel hesitates, it's Harry who'll help him...What I really liked about this movie was the dark humor, although I'm convinced that many people will not. Laughing with for instance murder, isn't exactly to everybody's taste, but personally I really liked it. And yet the entire movie didn't always convince me. Especially in the beginning it was never able to fully grab me. Only when the killing started, it had me completely in its power. I would say that the quality is quite good, but not excellent. The acting is OK, without excelling, I liked the humor and the story is nice (but only at its best in the end). Overall I would reward this movie with a 6.5/10. If you want to see a great dark European comedy, than I suggest you watch the Danish movie De Grønne slagtere (aka The Green Butchers). It's a lot better, but also a lot darker than this one. "},{"Title":"This is NOT a remake of THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I feel compelled to note that this superb French film has nothing to do with, and bears no resemblance to, and is in no way connected with Alfred Hitchcock's comedy THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY. In that film, Harry is a body that all the characters keep trying to dispose of, with little success. WITH A FRIEND LIKE HARRY has an entirely different plot line, in which an old pal, Harry, insinuates himself into an unsuspecting friend's life with increasingly sinister consequences. I can't believe, quite frankly, that this wasn't noticed by the people who supposedly screen these comments. Please, some accuracy!! "},{"Title":"for all frustrated writers","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What I got most out of this film was the Impulse to create and how it wars with the Need to procreate.  Certainly Harry Dick was someone Michel could have dreamed up to entertain himself on a nearly unbearable hot & noisy road trip with his not so affectionate wife and his 3 too-beautiful and also not so affectionate daughters, and the subsequent vacation with them in a remote farmhouse that he is not too enthusiastically restoring.  A masculine dream man is Harry, heterosexually vital, a wealthy man, and a man who lives out his most primal impulses in the name of love & friendship.  Maybe even a mastermind albeit one who can never be perfect.  As a somewhat thwarted writer myself, I saw this movie on one level as a fantasy, and on another as something akin to Buffet Froid or Cul de Sac (though not nearly as funny or surreal) or as other reviewers commented, to Strangers on a Train and Something Wild.  And as a call for all creative urges everywhere, I applaud Harry either as a figment or an all-too-real controlled psycho... "},{"Title":"Multiple interpretations don't make it any less thin","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers follow.I agree.  I hadn't thought of it before, but the interpretation offered below (my thanks to Eric of Seattle), according to which Harry is a mere figment of Michel's imagination, and everything that happens in between the opening sequence with the bickering family in the hot car and the peaceful family in the air-conditioned car doesn't really happen, or at least doesn't happen in quite the way we see it happening, is dead right.  But this doesn't make the film any better.  The knowledge that it was all just a dream can't add zest or resonance to a story that lacks both.  Rather the reverse.  Initially, I was disappointed when Plum was killed, because one potential source of interest was removed; and besides, I liked her.  As it turns out, she wasn't really killed, because she never really existed.  This is even more disappointing.In short the act of interpreting the film is more interesting than the film itself.  I don't want to give the impression that it's dull.  It's slickly made, with no discernible stylistic blunders, and the key revelations and developments are for the most part interesting-in-theory.  The two mystery characters, Harry and Plum (especially the latter, although it could be that I'm being influenced by the fact that Sophie Guillemin is one of the most gorgeous women in the world) had potential.  But the trouble is they REMAIN mysteries, of exactly the same kind, throughout.  They're guns on the wall that are never fired.  When we find out later (possibly not until months after first seeing the film) that they weren't real people after all but fictional characters springing from Michel's imagination, we have an explanation of sorts, but not one capable of justifying the film's thinness.Some compare Harry to Hitchcock, others to Chabrol.  Unfortunately it's more like the latter than the former a competent but lugubrious going through the motions that ought to be more exciting than it is. "},{"Title":"A splendid movie for those who are willing to come for the ride.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In many ways, this is a much better version of the Patricia Highsmith vision than the disappointing Talented Mr Ripley. What makes the film so good is its very ordinariness, broken by the fantasies of the main characters. Michel's final scene delight in his 4 x 4 is more chilling than Harry's homicidal violence. Surprisingly, no one has commented on the splendid performance of Sophie Guillemin as Plum totally superficial, as she tearfully admits, with banal dreams of domesticity. That Michel moves from denouncing her to Harry while recognising her attractions shows how close the two male leads are coming to switching roles. For those who want sudden surprises, there is one real scene of horror in the film the bathroom, which is redecorated in truly terrifying style. "}{"Title":"well made, acted and directed, but still somehow disappointing","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see it base on a recommendation of a friend, who almost always gets it right for me. It is the kind of movie I like. It has all the right ingredients... And yet I left disappointed. Why? I have been trying to answer that question for the last couple of day.  The answer (I think) is for the same reason I did not like Eyes Wide Shut.  I kept watching it and wondering why did someone make this movie?.  And it's not that every movie HAS to have a point - I have enjoyed many totally devoid of it, but it was missing so ... deliberately?  And also it was FULL of symbols, most of which I either could not get, or they were plainly out of place and context. My recommendation - go and see it if anything to figure out what's wrong with it. "},{"Title":"Suspend disbelief, sit back and enjoy the ride...","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am usually skeptical of big release films, and since this movie has been very heavily advertised in France, I was not so excited to go see it.  But, it turned out to be a great film, high on suspense and very dark in its comedy.  Sergio Lopez, who plays Harry is excellent, and the rest of the cast works really well playing off him (even if they do seem a bit naive). My only complaint is that the plot gets a bit unbelievable when bad things start to happen, yet nobody seems to suspect any foul play.  But aside from that need to suspend disbelief, the film is suspenseful and exciting and hilarious and sad all at the same time.  Once again non-Hollywood filmmakers show that suspense in a movie can be created by the acting and the story and not by cheaply overbearing soundtracks.  If you like movies like After hours, Chuck & Buck, or Eating Raoul, you will enjoy Harry "},{"Title":"Cautionary tale about the unnerving consequences of taking small children on a long trip in a car without air conditioning.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, the Vanishing came to mind. But in that brilliant film we were slowly provided with character motivation. Not here. This is more like a boring French version of the Wonder Boys because of the writer's block subplot. Execept, again, here we have unappealing characters, no drugs, lackluster dialog and pacing, and those whining children. This is one family vacation best left alone.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While the director used Hitchcock's techniques very well, I found the climax and resolution to be completely lacking in intensity and sense of disturbance.  I thought the ending was a complete copout - would have expected it in an American film, but not in a so-called art film. "},{"Title":"The whole movie gets nowhere, hesitating in between the cheap thriller and the French comedy","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, well, well... It had been a long time I had not been so bored in a theatre. Knowing it had been quite a hit in France I thought I would enjoy seeing it... What a disappointment ! The film starts OK, interesting view on a family holiday... That raised quite a lot of personal souvenirs... But then as soon as Michel meets Harry the situation becomes slightly irrealistic... Well why not after all... But well things just don't improve... The whole movie hesitates in between the cheap thriller and the french comedy - in the style of the last few years - with its 'bons mots', its deal of exagerated cliches and sarcasms but gets nowhere. I don't know if the director meant to scare us (in which case it badly lacks of realism and all these 'funny' cliches are not very welcome...) or to makes us laugh (in which case he didn't go far enough... Lines may be funny, a few situations too but he then should have gone into a caricature of the thriller style to really make it funny and leave all these 'good lines' behind). I think he tried both at the same time and just failed. I read reviews mentioning about the suspense of the situation... I didn't see much of a trace of suspense... Everything is just so predictible. Everything is told you beforehand and in case you missed the point the music is here to remind you that something is going on... There is no mystery left and basically no surprise...I got honestly bored and it was hard to stay the whole 2 hours of this film... Shame it is so long, it would have been quite a nice idea for a short film actually. Shame also to see Sergi Lopez in that, he who was so brilliant in Manuel Poirier's Western...I'm sorry to be so harsh but due to my disappointment it's a 1. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" And I'm not only talking about the main character, but for the movie as a whole. It is a black comedy, but as others have stated, it is more psychological (or dare I say psychotic?), rather than laugh out funny (as in Serial Lover for example).But if you are in the mood and have a liking for movies like this, Harry will indeed help you, enjoy this experience. And although I was expecting this to be remade in America, I'm also not surprised that no one has touched that subject yet. It's pretty dark, creepy and twisted. So the question you have to ask yourself is plain and simple Are you up for it or do you rather watch something lighter (in mood and comedy)? "},{"Title":"Superb French film in Hitchcock tradition","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This cinematically beautiful and absorbing film grabs the viewer immediately and never lets go. As with all successful films the cast is engaging and handsome and the story unique and unpredictable - you just never know what will happen next. The homo-erotic element is apparent and at any moment you expect the two male leads to hop into bed but they never do and you wonder why knowing full well the homo-erotic tension cannot be ignored and should explode at any moment in a way that catches us completely off guard. The fact it never happens actually makes the story more interesting because the viewer had to figure out what the heck is going on - since it is apparent that one man is obsessed with the other man for reasons which are never fully fleshed out and which can only be understood within a homo-erotic context. The fact that both male leads are handsome and involved with beautiful women only makes the underlying homo-erotic theme more interesting and intense. "},{"Title":"Harry, un ami qui vous veut du bien?","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is very intriguing, especially the confrontation between the crazy world of Harry and the normal world of Michel, which is characterized by typical familial problems. That Harry is a strange fellow is clear in the very beginning of the film, and as the film continues his weird sickness shows more and more. In opposition of Harry's weirdness there is the realness of Michel, who, without understanding it himself, changes and becomes influenced by Harry. The title of the film is very interesting. It is true that Harry wants the best for Michel, but what does the best mean? What exactly does Harry want? For some bizarre reason he wants Michel to start writing again. Perhaps he wants Michel to join him in his sick world, maybe he wants nothing to stands in the way of their relationship. In fact, Harry wants to help solve Michel's problems, and strangely enough, in the end it works. All together Harry managed to solve Michel's problems. The similitude with 'The shining' is at some point very relevant, though the story in its whole has nothing to do with it. When I watched 'Harry, un ami qui vous veut du bien', I wanted to understand the sickness of Harry, trying to understand him. At the end of the film it is clear that he is just another psychotic wacko. That is perhaps a bit a downer, because the films doesn't provide a real reason for Harry's sickness. He's just crazy, that's it. Still, the film is very intriguing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Mundane Summer Vacation Becomes a Thrill Ride","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With A Friend Like Harry (Harry, un ami qui vous veut du bien) is a masterful tribute to Hitchcockian principles -- find the scariness in the most mundane situations while letting the viewer know exactly what creepiness is going on. What could be more mundane than a long, hot vacation drive to a fixer-upper summer house, with dad, mom and three screaming kids in the back (I knew right away the baby had an ear infection by the way she was crying and pulling on her ear), and a commitment to meet up with the grandparents.Of course Mom and Dad are French so they still manage to be sexy-looking in this situation with tight T-shirts on, but heck when Hollywood re-makes this they will be too, and the undercurrent of sensuality helps drive the story.Three rowdy teenagers wandered into the theater and while I was sure they were in the wrong place, even they got involved, as we all groaned and shouted at the screen for the characters not to do what they did as our trust and suspicions reeled out.Nobody is simplistic, they all have their reasons, and nothing can be anticipated. Hollywood will simplify the characters, add visible sex and more violence and change the macabre ending, even though we don't have The Code anymore. (originally written 5/21/2001) "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm going to be in the minority, since so much praise has been heaped on this film. Ultimately (for me) it was slow and far too predictable. Within the first 20 minutes, you already know where the film is going (and man, it takes a long time to get there!)Given the good reviews, I was expecting much more.A major problem is that the leads fail to generate any real interest or spark. The cinematography is great, but as a whole, the film failed to sustain my interest or pull me in, and I was starting to doze the last 15 minutes.For an brilliantly understated current French thriller, I would recommend Read My Lips (Sur Mes Levres). Bottom line for me is character development.Though many may disagree, Harry just didn't do it for me. "}{"Title":"Cool Sicko Dude","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  That's the character type Sergi Lopez craftily limns in this low key thriller.It's not unlike Terence Stamp's Freddie Clegg in William Wyler's similarly underplayed horror flick, The Collector, back in '65.Both character parts tend to be crafted low key, and that's their effectiveness, drawing the viewing into their inner thoughts and actions.  Neither person's background nor motivation is fleshed out, only their current psychological condition.It so happens I saw Harry, un ami qui vous vent du bien with subtitles, and had a feeling I was missing something its original language and cultural orientation. This is certainly not a Hollywood product nor does it take place in America; therefore, the English soundtrack seemed a somewhat a foreign intrusion onto a Gallic invention.And, yes, Alfred himself would probably have bestowed upon this his droll blessing.  "},{"Title":"aka The Eggs","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I like this kind of film so I liked this one, especially as it was well done. It reminded me a bit of The Vanishing but isn't quite that good. There's really only one moment when it's too unbelievable, and that's when Harry persuades the hero's parents to go on a little night-drive with him.Sergi Lopez is excellent as Harry, the creep-out old schoolfriend who invites himself to the family's holiday home. (His girlfriend is perfect too.) I was kept interested wondering what his motivation might be, what made him tick. It's possible there's a subliminal homophobic message here, but it's good fun nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A great movie, reminded me of Funny Games, as here too, the director plays with the natural politeness that one feels compelled to use towards a nice fellow being, even though he turns out to act more and more nasty. However, the plot also contains a lot of funny ideas which in itself make it worth seeing.In the beginning, you are led to think it is just one more of those movies about a family going on a holiday, then you think it's a normal crime story, but you are always wrong and the plot is constantly surprising. And what I liked, too, is that the ending is artfully composed and does not leave you out in the open air as some other independent films do - it's not just a good independent film, it's great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Don't see what all the fuss is about","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie got so much hype but when I watched it it was just 'BLAH'(like Momento).  I rented this movie for 99cents and when a movie isn't what I expected I don't care because I only rented it for 99cents(with a coupon) but in this case I want my 99cents back(the same for Momento).  If a movie gets a lot of hype DON'T believe it all.  Just ask a regular Joe about it so a normal person can give you an honest opinion wether or not the movie is up to par.  Man, I could've rented US Seals II instead.  I would rather put up with bad acting and good action than sit through a boring A$$ movie like With A Friend Like Harry. "},{"Title":"With a friend like Harry...","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...who needs enemies?? In typical French film fashion, Harry spends a few gazillion New York minutes developing characters before easing into the weirdness of it's plot. Telling of two old school chums who meet by happenstance in a public restroom and then get too close  too soon, Harry is more psychodrama than thriller and moves slowly but with great stealth as it sinks seductively into a mire of atypical behavior. The film is excellent in almost all respects with little to fault except the storyline which is bent beyond believeability for entertainment purposes. Hollywood film junkies may grow weary of Harry waiting for the payoff while foreign film freaks will love the way is screws with your mind.  "},{"Title":"With a friend like Harry, who needs enemas?","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** But seriously, folks...I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and heartily recommend it to anyone who is looking for a thoughtful, perplexing journey into the psyche of a modern man. Does that sound boring? Yes, it probably does, but don't let that scare you away from this movie because it is definitely NOT boring; it is so well crafted it merits at least one look, and has such thoughtfulness and subtleness in it that it easily needs to be seen at least twice. However, as indicated from several previous comments, some people were confused by what they saw, and it's fair to say that in order to fully appreciate it, this movie needs a little explaining (which prompts me to post a SPOILER alert. You have been warned!).SPOILERS on You've probably already read the basics of the plot outline French family man Michel goes on road trip to country villa with wife and kids; they stop at roadside restroom to freshen up; Michel then bumps into old school friend (Harry) from 20 years ago. Harry, along with sexy girlfriend Plum, tag along. Things get interesting. VERY interesting.Now here is the spoiler part I think the main body of the movie - which starts right about the time Michel looks up and sees Harry in the restroom - is all just an elaborate fantasy being played out in Michel's mind. If you watch the movie and think of Harry and Plum as not being real, but rather figments of Michel's imagination, then the movie starts to make a lot more sense.Basically, I think the whole time we see Harry on screen - from his mysterious sudden appearance in the restroom, to his ultimate demise - we are actually seeing a fantasy being played out in the mind (and from the viewpoint) of Michel. In other words, Harry isn't real - he is simply an escapist vision that Michel has conjured up as he grimly copes with the suffocating confines of his everyman's life. Keep in mind that Michel, a frustrated 30-something married man (no, not frustrated from lack of sex or anything, but rather from the onerous burden of wife, kids, doting parents, lost boyhood dreams, crappy car, lackluster job, etc.. the usual suffocating suspects..), is driven to escapist fantasizing, and in so doing he conjures up a fantasy for himself to interact with, and for the viewer to contemplate a friend named Harry.As Plum (also an imaginary being) says early on, in reference to Harry Harry solves problems. And indeed he does, in ways that Michel never could or would. Harry solves life's problems in ways that men can only dream of. And therein is the key to this movie Michel is only dreaming all this. (Note carefully where he sees the flying monkeys as they come floating in. They do a great close-up on Michel's eyes he's seeing things.)Towards the end, where imaginary Harry (who has already killed Michel's parents and brother, as well as Plum) starts to push Michel into killing the rest of his family, well, that's when Michel finally snaps out of it. Realizing that his horrible reverie has gone too far, he kills Harry and puts him away, as if by so doing he has killed and buried a troubling inner demon that lurks just the other side of his subconscious. Love for family conquers all.Even in the last part, where you see them driving in the new red SUV instead of their original car, I don't believe it was Harry who gave them that new car. No, I think it was actually the parents. Because I don't believe that Michel's parents were really killed. I think it was the parents who gave them the new red Mitsubishi 4X4 as a gift (they DID after all generously provide them a new (pink) bathroom makeover. Why not a brightly colored SUV, too? They certainly weren't lacking in money or feelings of generosity.) But, in the movie, we see Michel's alternate reality of events; we see how he *imagined* it to be, how he wanted it to be. Because he was too proud to admit that, in his real world, he never could or would go out and buy such a rig, nor could he admit that he had to accept such extravagant charity from his parents.(These views are only my interpretation! Others may not agree, but after reading some of the previous comments below, I believe others may also see it this way...) SPOILERS off.Anyway, great movie very thought provoking, nicely filmed, good pacing, great atmosphere, and excellent characterizations (even including the three little girls, who are the most natural kids I've seen in a movie in a long time). The dialogue throughout is very intriguing, but it's also a movie where body language and facial expressions are worth just as much as the spoken word. And is it just me, or does Michel (Laurent Lucas) bear an uncanny resemblance to a young Martin Landau, with a dash of Tom Cruise thrown in? See this movie, and think about all the above.  "},{"Title":"Slow at first, but well worth the wait.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you like Hitchcock or Poe (think 'William Wilson,' perhaps), you may really enjoy this film.  The first half or so was a little bit slow, however, I think it is well worth the wait. The film is simultaneously sinister, amusing, frightening, and fun. "},{"Title":"Excellent suspense","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent movie, creepy practically from the start. The contrast between the beautiful French cottage in Summer and the spooky things happening there is great, as is the difference between the dreamy good-hearted Michel and his suspicious, sometimes ice-cold wife Claire. Magnificent. "},{"Title":"Typical Psycho Thriller with French Fluff","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Slick French production about a hen pecked husband/father who meets a old school chum in a public restroom.  Slowly this old friend begins to show very eccentric behaviors (yawn) eventually exposing himself as a all out psycho (whoopee). Completly by the numbers 'psycho on the loose' story that fails to bring any new angle or twist to this tired genre. Instead it treats the cast and situations on a surface level only. The ending is particularly dissapointing, as it is so low key that it passes before you know it.  Most respected critics were incrediably kind to this film apparently because it is 'French so it has to be sophisticated'. Yet you take away the obvious French touches, the beautiful scenery, and the classical music, and you have nothing left but a pedestrian psycho thriller in the most general sense. No real scares or suspense either. "},{"Title":"Truly scary film","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't find many films that give me the creeps.  Blair Witch Project did and this one did.  I found myself muttering the H word (Hitchcock) several times throughout the film.  From the still camera allowing the action to take place around and in front of it, to the sometimes ambiguous resolution of situations, I found this to be a truly noteworthy attempt at a thriller that made your skin crawl as did Hitchcock.  The camera panning over Michel's little hatchback driving out to his summer home at the beginnning of the film, to Harry screaming as he put his foot to the pedal.  Some of the dialogue was also eerily funny, in a I-can't-believe-he-said-that kind of way.  This also seems to echo Hitchcock in a way.  And the way that the audience is in on what Harry is up to, while we wait to see if the ball will drop with tbe characters.  The interesting thing about this film is that I found myself talking back to the screen, knowing what would happen, while the characters didn't know.  However as time went on, they are imbued with enough intelligence to cotton on to what Harry is doing.  It is disturbing to see such complete implosion of a character as we see with Harry.  It was interesting to see how he reacted when he got upset-with Michel's parents and then when Michel's wife wanted him to leave Michel alone.  The acting is very good.  Michel is strong as an everyman who is crumbling and seems to know it.  His wife is excellent as his foundation.  Harry is eerie.  The opening scene where he stares at him in the bathroom is great.  You nearly laugh out of the unease of the moment.  Truly a great film.  "}{"Title":"Very suspensful and awesome, an incredibly slick remake","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Hitchockian styles in this motion picture are hard to not look at, from the character traits to the camera movements, etc.  But that is because this movie is based on Hitchcock's The Trouble with Harry, and even though I haven't seen it, all of his style is excellently woven into the fabric.Dominik Moll's With a friend Like Harry is one of the best films to ever come from France, right up there with Truffauts's Jules and Jim and 400 Blows, and The recent Dreamlife of Angels.  It is a taunt, sharp thriller that takes time to start up, but once it does, it will make you be in thrilling awe that isn't even in most American suspensers around today. The acting as well is great; Sergi Lopez brings an outstanding and scathingly funny character to Harry who is an obsessive schizophrenic on the fringe of going mad as he tries to pave the way for his old school chum Michel (Laurent Lucas, who is also quite good in just being the serious type) to be at total peace in writing at any cost.  And any cost goes a long way in this story.  Many of the scenes themselves are gems alone; I dare you to find a more realistic view of what it is like to be in a hot car on a summer trip with your family as a little kid.  Must See pretty much throughout, also if this isn't one of the best films of they year, it is definately in one of the better films of the year and certaintly second this year in the foreign film genre to Ameros Perros.  A+ "},{"Title":"A wonderful thriller","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is often compared to Hitchcock, due to the slow build of suspense that leaves you uneasy while watching the events unfold.  There are few surprises to this thriller, however, as you know what the antagonist, Harry, is about to do -- you just can't believe he will do it.What makes this movie different is the use of social satire and creative symbolism.  The main characters represent selfless vs selfish behavior, minimalist vs. excess, good vs. evil.  Michel is thin and average, with little money and a typical family.  Harry is wealthy, well-fed, and polished, with a voluptuous girlfriend.  Harry seems untrustworthy yet he possesses disarming charm and habits that are almost serpent-like -- an unblinking gaze, a fixed smile, and an affinity for raw eggs -- that punctuates his personification of evil.Michel and Harry are bound in this movie through the amateur literary works from Michel's past.  Harry is determined to help Michel rekindle his desire to write, and eliminates any barriers to this end.  Like a human incarnation from Michel's own writings, Harry destroys anyone who stands in the way of Michel's success.The symbolism in the film is excellent.  One can see relationships between the characters and objects such as the eggs, flying monkeys, etc.  The ending is well done, leaving you wondering which character maintained control, Michel or Harry, and which ideal actual won. "},{"Title":"Tired of predictable Hollywood formulas?","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you are tired of formulaic Hollywood movies, where the outcome of each scene/plot can only possibly be a, b, or c I strongly recommend this movie. Although slightly anti-climactic for the first half, at the end you actually realise that you enjoyed a movie for once, rather than leave the theatre wondering if you got your money's worth. "},{"Title":"hmm, Freud","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Often, I feel that critiqueing a movie is like Freudian dream analysis you must first go through the manifest appearances, and then get into the latent meaning which is covered with layers of symbolism. SPOILERSManifestly, I'm not sure how I liked this movie. At times it was darkly humorous, and even lightly humorous at others. I enjoyed a few of the scenic shots; particularly the over head angles covering winding mountainous roads. But the plot... At first it was oddly appealing that Harry would go to such trouble for a long lost acquaintance, but eventually it seemed that the directors were contriving to outdo each of Harry's actions with an even more unbelievable action. Yet, the murder of Plum did stray from this pattern so that I give some credit. Mostly entertaining, nothing astounding though.So, that's the manifest description, now we must move to the manifest meaning. A man is stressed out, unhappy with life, and is constantly being pelted with metaphorical rotten tomatoes. Eventually however, he triumphs. Despite the death of his parents and his brother, financial problems, familial problems, and just stress in general, he overcomes all to return to a loving wife and cheerful children. Manifest moral everything will be alright.But, latently, it was Harry who solved his car troubles, Harry who ended his stressful relationships with parents and brother, and Harry who helped him rekindle his love of writing. Moral everything is alright, but only if you have the luck of having somemore stronger than yourself solve everything for you. Most likely, something would have led him back into writing eventually if it was so meaningful to him, but nothing except for Harry's handiwork would have ended his family problems. So, I see a mixed message here. Either message would be fine, it's just that it needs to be all out, not this anxious indecisiveness moralness. This is not the only problem I had with the movie though. Overall, 7 of 10.    "},{"Title":"Brilliant combination of laughs and suspense","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Director Moll  uses the camera the way a dentist probes for cavities in teeth. With great visual sensitivity he moves his camera to extract the irony and wicked humor he finds in the homicidal encounter between two old school pals. Sergi Lopez gives a stunning performance as the wealthy, self-assured bachelor with bombshell in tow  who takes up with a kindly husband burdened  with a marriage and family gone out of control.Moll has revived the French genre of domestic thriller, best realized in Diabolique.  Even the musical score is fine-tuned to give a tongue-in-cheek twist to gruesome events, like an added twist of the knife. A couple of incidents may be miscalculated in their believability, but the overall effect adds up to genuinely brilliant film-making.Harry also recalls the manipulations of other peoples' lives in The Talented Mr. Ripley, but without the scenery and beautiful people. Harry's suspense is more concentrated, delivered in exquisite doses, through exceptionally fine acting, cinematography, music and direction. "},{"Title":"A bourgeois fantasy","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a kind of bourgeois artist's wish-fulfillment fantasy. Get rid of the horrible parents and mocking sibling, get a big new air-conditioned car & all will be well - you can write and your wife and kids will support you. I don't really know what to feel about this film. "},{"Title":"Movie needs to be seen on different levels","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very well made movie but needs to be viewed on different levels. If seen as is then it's simply a Hitchcock-like thriller. However, one can view Harry as being Laurent's dark side, fulfilling Laurent's unspoken wishes, Laurent's id. He's the devil in all of us. Viewed in this way, the movie takes on altogether different dimension. "},{"Title":"In the vein of Patricia Highsmith and Roman Polanski.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has been popular in France and it's easy to see why. There's great acting, the fabulously sexy Sophie Guillemin (from L'ennui), a neat and suspenseful premise and it's a good-looking film to boot. That premise is (along the lines of Strangers on a Train) - a good family man named Michel while vacationing on a stifling summer holiday with his lovely wife and three spoiled unruly little daughters runs into an old acquaintance  (whom he can't remember) named Harry who, unlike Michel, is loaded with money, an air-conditioned sport car and a lush, adoring young girlfriend whom he calls 'Plum'. Seeing Michel burdened by the heat and the responsibilities of family life, Harry sets about to correct things for Michel. It appears that Harry has worshiped (or perhaps fixated on) Michel for years. He begins by buying him an air-conditioned RV. Too much to believe? Well, that's only the beginning - as things get both strange and funny and eventually deadly.The direction things take is perhaps a bit over the top and it lacks the psychology of a Polanski thriller. The ending, for me is too neat, too easy, and too self consciously disturbing. Nevertheless, what's good in the film makes it worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"I really don't understand what the fuss is all about","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very boring, all around bad movie. Everyone likens this to  the Hitchcock classic and I really can't see the comparisons. It's long and not very funny. maybe it loses something in the translation, like a PLOT, but I have seen movies of the week that were more captivating. "},{"Title":"Creepy but Unsatisfying","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Traveling with his family to a vacation home, a man runs into a former high school classmate. It sets up an interesting premise, but fails to follow through with a satisfactory conclusion, with the biggest question mark being the character of Harry. Harry is established as a mysterious and creepy character, but the film never explains what makes him tick. Why does a fabulously wealthy fellow do the bizarre things he does? Directing only his second film, Moll does a good job of building the tension at a deliberate pace. Lopez brings the appropriate sense of creepiness to his portrayal of Harry, and is well contrasted by the easy-going family man played by Lucas. "}{"Title":"Resolving Issues from High School","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In high school (Lycee), Michel wrote impressive poetry and memorable stories for the school magazine. He looked to be destined for a serious literary career, and Harry hero worshiped him, idolized him. Harry wanted, more than anything else, to be Michel's best friend and help him in his literary career.And Michel barely knew that Harry existed.We first see Michel many years later. He is in an un-air-conditioned automobile in the French countryside on a very hot day. His wife is hot and cranky; his three small girls are even hotter and crankier. Michel is stuck in a job, teaching French to Japanese, that does not have a lot of prospect of advancement. He has not written in years and years. He is feeling overwhelmed and trapped by a number of things.Harry recognizes Michel at a highway rest stop and introduces himself. Harry was so far outside Michel circle in high school that Michel does not remember him.Harry's obsession with gaining Michel's friendship returns, and Harry is determined to do anything that he can to help Michel.And Harry succeeds. He removes some distractions from Michel's life. He jump starts Michel's writing, and it looks as if Michel will continue to write. Finally, he helps Michel to understand how much his wife and his children really mean to him.What more can a friend do? Please don't let me mislead you. This is a horror movie. Some people find it funny, but I don't.A number of people who have commented on this film think that Harry is a projection of what Michel would like to be, or that Harry is a projection of Michel's dark side. Or maybe, that Harry is the Devil. I don't buy any of this, and I have written this review to suggest a different interpretation. One could easily make a film in which Harry is a projection of Michel's darkest impulses, and it might even be a more interesting film than this one, but that is a different film.I think Harry is a very real person who is just trying to resolve old issues left over from high school. Left over issues from high school are quite creepy enough. There is no need to involve deep repressed desires or the Devil. "},{"Title":"Reminds me of Chuck and Buck","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This comment contains spoilers!!!!!!! Just letting you all know!!! *************************** This movie reminds me highly of the homo-erotic movie, Chuck and Buck. Harry is infatuated with Michel, infatuated enough to murder his parents, brother, and anyone that gets in the way of his closeness to Michel. He is in love with Michel..anyone could tell by the obsession with wanting to be near him, following him all the way out to his house and staying at the villa with him and his wife and three daughters. Plum is just something to satisfy him sexually...he even admits it turns him on that she has an animal mentality!!! Michel is his ultimate guy. I think that Michel was very much of a people pleaser. Harry picks right up on this. Michel is very much under Harry's spell and even though he puts up a little disapproval about what he really believes, goes along with practically everything pushy, control hungry Harry wants of him! I think Michel killed Plum. Just look at the movie again, you can see that he doesn't want Harry to go in the bedroom to wake her up. Michel becomes Harry's little robot. "},{"Title":"Masturbation.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let me throw my two cents in, since this is clearly one of those hey pal, make what you will of it, we just make 'em, we don't explain 'em type of movies - and I don't mean that in a good way, either. But first things first...Pretty soon after you begin watching this film, its apparent Dominik Moll found more than just a passing inspiration in some other works. So, let's deal with that right off the top.To an extent I see Harry, un ami qui vous veut du bien as a French version of Fight Club - an American movie I did not care for in the least. Main protagonists in both films are essentially unhappy individuals although Michel's (Laurent Lucas) manifestation of misery is a bit more muted. Perhaps 'confused' rather than 'completely unhappy' might be a better term to describe him. In any event, to combat their conditions him and his American counterpart both 'invent' a confident male friend - an überdude of sorts - who's hopefully going to improve their lives by waking up their hibernating lust for living. In that sense Michel's Harry Balestero (Sergi López) is very much reminiscent of Narrator's Tyler Durden.Noticeable also, are similarities to 1992 Joel & Ethan Coen offering Barton Fink with the entire homicidal friend and writer's block subplots. That much better film and past Palm d'Or winner in Cannes, incidentally continues to be very popular in France.Now, onto the business of reviewing Harry.....When it gets right down to it, this is a slapped together exercise in psychology, mid-life crisis, insecurity and similar esoteric 'problems' of today's well-fed male. After a marginally promising start, things quickly disintegrate to a point where I completely stopped caring about the characters. Even though it's fairly short, Harry..... is still about 30 minutes too long. The thinking on the filmmakers' part was probably that there's something for everyone here thriller elements, family psychodrama, study of characters, sexual tension, and film noir's atmosphere. Unfortunately, in the end it's a lotta nothin'. Ridiculously misplaced free-flowing symbolism (pink bathroom, eggs, flying monkeys), irritatingly brooding performances and many other poor choices heavily outweigh the few brief satisfying moments. "},{"Title":"Great acting by Sergi López as Ballestero","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When you begin to see the movie, you can´t imagine how Harry will show his gratitude and his way of seeing life. Full of extremes. Worth the time. At the beginning I thought it was going to be a real fight, but it was not. This is one of the most unpredictable movies I have ever seen. Take a look. "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've read the comments, but failed to see the thriller/suspense of this movie. I was excited to see it but felt horribly disappointed after dare I say wasting 2 hours watching it.I found Michele's family interesting enough, but thought Harry's character was rather flat. As the antagonist his motivation etc was never fleshed out and found him rather uninteresting. More goofy than scary. The movie seemed horribly predictable and not Hithcockian at all. I hate current Hollywood and was looking forward to this movie given all the word of mouth surrounding it. Was disappointed overall with it though. "},{"Title":"Un film qui veut trop et n'obtient rien","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had been looking forward for quite a while to seeing this movie, partly because of the cast -- Sergi López whom I knew from the excellent Western, Emmanuelle Seigner's sister Mathilde, Sophie Guillemin, the voluptuous seductress from L'ennui (Wa-hey!), and Laurent Lucas ... well, actually I had never heard of him before, I can't know everybody, you know -- but anyway, like I was saying, with a bunch of recognizable actors and a dark story, I was intrigued. Unfortunately, this sentiment didn't last me very long after the title credits started rolling. But let me explain.Michel (Laurent Lucas) is a regular family man with ordinary troubles -- clapped out car, stressed-out wife, three bratty kids who could do with more than a homeopathic dose of whoop-ass, a home-improvement situation and clinging parents -- who comes across a former classmate, Harry, at a service station. While Michel is a bit nonplussed (to say the least) about the chance encounter, Harry is rather more enthusiastic; one thing leads to another, and Harry and his girlfriend Prune eventually invite themselves to stay for a few days at Michel's large (though slightly dilapidated) holiday home. As it turns out at dinner that first evening, Harry nurses an admiration for Michel's writing talents ever since he has read two short pieces in the school newspaper, and consequently becomes hell-bent on helping him to step out of his petit-bourgeois closet. And here the troubles begin, because rather than doing his homework, developing an intriguing plot and drawing the spectator into the action, director Dominik Moll decides to take the blatantly pseudo-psychoanalytic route Harry is Michel's id who indulges, fornicates and kills, and only when Michel finally deals with that side of his own personality does he finally achieve fulfillment. Moll also borrows a few elements from other directors, the bathroom reminded me (and other reviewers) strongly of the hotel in Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, and the whole movie has a somewhat Hitchcockian flair to it (by which I mean that Hitchcock liked to dabble with psychoanalysis in his movies, and his actors had to work on autopilot because he didn't want them to understand their roles, but to do exactly what he told them to).Unfortunately, to me, the whole movie just didn't work out and remains a pale pastiche of allusions to greater directors. I never bought Henry's infatuation with Michel's writing just because of two short pieces that he had read in the school newspaper scores of years ago, and he turns psycho far too immediately and predictably, thereby killing all the suspense. Right at the beginning he inappropriately talks about sex and buys Michel a brand-new car; there is never any unfolding, and he might just as well have mentioned that he was just released from a mental hospital because I see dead people. What's more, I could never credit that Michel really wanted to write in the first place. Prune was supposed to be this hypnotically sexual persona but she comes across as nothing more than pretty and vapid (which didn't stop the producers to use the only scene when she shows a bit of leg on the poster). I didn't see Michel's parents as standing in his way at all, when they decorate the bath room for him I actually thought it was a nice gesture (and I couldn't believe that any father would give his son such a womb-like monstrosity -- not even in France). So, overall, the movie simply didn't give me enough to jive with, and consequently I didn't care much for its intellectual pretensions.On a side note, I thought that Michel Fau was outstanding in his bit part as the central character's idiosyncratic brother Eric -- he is the only character I could develop any sense of sentiment for.  "},{"Title":"YUCK","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Who knew it was going to have subtitles all the way thru the movie????  YUCK!!!  The worst part is - the movie didn't even make much sense.  They never explained why the killer turned out like he did.  No reason or rhyme to anything in this dull movie... "},{"Title":"Not Even Close to Hitchcock","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Plodding psychological suspense thriller in which         psychopathic murderer ingratiates his way into normal family         man's life. But the movie isn't cruel enough to meet the         challenge. It lacks the psychological detail, nuance, subtlety,         and imagination to make evil really come alive; the menace is         never all that menacing, never inevitable as much as manipulated.         Death is sanitized, made remote, just another click of the plot.        Comparison has been made to Hitchcock's Strangers On a Train, in         which a similar tease between normality and deviance drives         suspense, but this movie lacks the impenetrable stodgy façade of         middle-class respectability of Hitchcock, himself a most         repressed punctilious burgher (childhood victim of the malice of         nuns), fond of enclosing evil in normality only to render it all         the more delicious, a plaything in a cage.        Normal man and evil alter ego dance a tepidly vague homoerotic         dance around the possibility of freeing the former from his         bourgeois encumbrances, from duty to family and job. The evil         alter ego is only all too glad to rid the good family man of his         social jailers-- a murder here, a murder there-- but exactly why         is never really made clear. The price of escape from convention         and inhibition is sin and blood. This is a trite formula which         fails to ring true. The movie hangs on, but fails to achieve, the         inexorable proximity of good and evil; tension between the two is         much too slack.        Oddly, the isolated old country house, which is the movie'ssetting, reminded me of the similar setting of Straw Dogs, a         movie also about a middle-class schlump freeing himself by facing         his demons. Here, the good man needed to be more richly         internally conflicted; the demon needed to be more dangerously         goofy à la Norman Bates, certainly a bit more lubricious.  "},{"Title":"Serial killer's victim selection process remains unexplained","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Harry' is a story about an ordinary middle-class couple, Michel and Claire and their three young children. They're on their way to visit Michel's parents when they pull over at a rest stop. While Michel is in the bathroom, he's approached by Harry who identifies himself as a long lost high school acquaintance. Harry alludes to a poem that Michel wrote in high school along with a sci-fi novel as well as pointing to an incident in which Michel chipped his tooth while rough-housing during a soccer match.The problem is that Michel is unable to recognize Harry and this crucial plot point doesn't really ring true. It's unlikely that Michel would forget about Harry completely especially when we later learn that Michel's dentist father did some bridge work for him and Michel's brother Eric also can recall who he is. Somehow, the film's scenarists implausibly suggest that Michel has become emotionally stunted to the point where he's lost some of his basic memories.Harry is traveling with his bimbo girlfriend, Plum, and manage to get themselves invited back to Michel and Claire's summer house (the trip to Michel's parents is cancelled when one of their daughters develops a fever). Before you know it, Harry and Plum are sleeping over. Harry is positively creepy as a good number of his conversations involve one kind of sexual innuendo or another. Claire is a bit suspicious but Michel passively allows Harry to insinuate himself into their lives. It becomes obvious that Harry is totally obsessed with Michel, especially when he keeps encouraging him to start writing again&#x97;an avocation Michel dispensed with early on during high school.At first it appears that Michel will become the target of Harry's creepy obsession. But soon we see that it's Michel's parents Harry has it in for. He ends up showing up at their apartment late at night pretending that Michel is in trouble and coaxes the parents to follow him in his car to Michel and Claire's. On the way, Harry maneuvers his car behind the parents' car and manages to push them off the road, down a cliff. While the parents are killed, we never learn why. The only clue that's offered is that Harry was upset over some poor dental work that Michel's father was responsible for in the distant past.The death of the parents puts Michel into a tailspin. He closets himself away in the bathroom and begins obsessing about trying to finish his 'Flying Monkey' short story which he began in high school. Claire pays a visit to Harry at a hotel where Plum and he are now staying. She mentions to Harry that Michel is trying to write again and crazy Harry thinks that's a good thing. But Claire also makes it clear that Harry's no longer welcome back at the house. Meanwhile, Michel's brother Eric has shown up for the parents' funeral and Harry ends up doing him in too.The denouement makes little sense. Harry returns to Michel and Claire's summer house and kills Plum after she tells him she wants to start a family. Instead of hiding the body himself, he asks Michel to help him dispose of it by throwing it down a well in the front yard. After Michel helps Harry to dispose of Plum, Harry then simply asks Michel to help him slaughter Claire and the kids. Did you ever hear of a serial killer who becomes obsessed with one family member but wants to kill everyone else? In real life, serial killers end up killing everybody but not here! Michel comes to his senses and stabs Harry with a knife; he then throws him down the well and then shovels dirt so that the bodies will not be found.All's well that ends well when Claire asks Michel what happened to Harry and Plum and he tells them they had to leave but left sending their love. The upside is that Harry stoked Michel's creative fires after all. He begins writing a new novel entitled The Eggs (Harry earlier had spoken approvingly of eating an egg every morning to help with virility). Claire tells Michel she read his new story and thinks it great that he's begun writing again.One problem is left unexplored. What happened with the investigation into Eric's disappearance? Wouldn't the police start poking around after Eric's friends start asking about him? And wouldn't they look at Michel as a possible suspect, especially after the recent mysterious deaths of their parents? Some internet posters have offered the dubious theory that Harry is actually the altar ego of Michel and that he is the actual murderer. I don't have the space to debunk that theory here but plenty of well-informed postings refute the entire fanciful idea.'A Friend Like Harry' expects you to figure out Harry's motives in trying to kill Michel's family as well as his obsession with Michel without much evidence. Yes, there are a few tantalizing clues thrown out here and there but the antagonist's motivations are intentionally left quite vague. And the fact that Harry makes no effort to hide his murderous nature from Michel at the film's end is almost laughable.'Harry' is a bit slow-moving but basically keeps your interest until the climax. Sergi Lopez can do little in the part of the demented Harry since the script calls for a character that's not plausible. Equally implausible is the character of Michel who never seems to have a clue that Harry wants to do harm to his family until the very end. Director Dominik Moll is obviously aiming for some Hitchcock-like suspense but leaves us with characters that do not add up in the end. "},{"Title":"voulez vous snoozer avec moi","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is the most predictable thriller I have ever seen! You simply sit there WAITING IMPATIENTLY for the stuff to come down.There is no tension, nada, in the onset of each of the acts of violence. The premise is beyond far-fetched. The cast is so damn unattractive I was just thinking about it exasperated when the brother appears. I mean the chicks are cute but the men, it's practically City of Lost Children. Speaking of children there are 2 whining crying screaming diaper daubing rugrats acting up through the whole thing. This film is not my idea of entertainment.The only nice part is the opening credit helicopter shots. Really slow, one dimensional characters, the suspense just ain't. This movie is NOTHING LIKE HITCHCOCK, OK??!?!?! It's the kind of film that should make anyone think I could do better and you can! Make movies everyone don't just write these reviews! "}]