[{"Title":"Extremely sexy and sad film","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"58 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Upon first impression, Dancing at the Blue Iguana might appear to be just another T and A movie, like Showgirls. After all, isn't Dancing at the Blue Iguana about strippers and pole dancers, and doesn't it contain copious amounts of female nudity, just like Showgirls? Yes, on both of these counts. However, merely to conclude from this that Dancing at the Blue Iguana is just another skin flick is mistaken, and misses the fact that there is something much deeper going on here. This is more a film about the troubles and unrealized hopes of its characters (who happen to work in a strip club), rather than about their bodies. In short, there is a sadness, poignancy, and desperation, which exists at the heart of Dancing at the Blue Iguana, which gives it a dramatic power not found (nor attempted) in a superficially similar film like Showgirls (which, arguably, just is a T and A movie).This film was directed by Michael Radford, who is most famous for his work on Il Postino. The script and the characters in the film grew out of an improvisational workshop which Radford conducted with his lead actors. They each had to research their characters and come up with a storyline for them. Although the acting done in the film is improvised, it sounds polished and believable, and gives the film a raw, edgy feel. The actors for the most part create interesting and sympathetic characters. I'll mention two characters that I liked most. First, Darryl Hannah plays Angel, a character who is naive and innocent at heart, even though she's a stripper. There is a scene in the film in which she gets herself arrested by a cop, and how she gets arrested I will not disclose, but suffice it to say that it is ironic, funny, and sad. Second, Sandra Oh plays Jasmine, a stripper who is secretly a poet at heart. She regularly attends a poetry reading and at one of those meetings, she gets involved with its organizer. He thinks that she is a great poet, and perhaps can even get published. She initially has reservations about their relationship, because she is a stripper, and she fears that he won't accept her because of that. He assures her that it doesn't bother him. Skipping forward, there is a scene between them which is my favorite in the film. He decides to visit the club where Jasmine works (Blue Iguana) after she repeatedly failed to return his calls (and why she doesn't do so is wisely left understated by the film). She comes out and does one of her dance routines. He sees her for the first time for who she really is, a stripper. And although he doesn't say a word, his expression tells all I do not approve of that. The sound track for this scene is Moby's song Porcelain, and it feels like it was written specially for this scene. During the song's refrain (So this is goodbye...), he eventually gets up and leaves, obviously full of disappointment. Meanwhile, Jasmine continues her dance to a crowd of cheering audience, and although her face might remain expressionless, her eyes betray her true emotion during her pole dance, tears flow down her cheeks. That scene really stayed with me for some time after the film ended. The girls that work at Blue Iguana are strippers, but they're people, too. And just like the rest of us, they seek true love, but are often left disappointed, and they have hopes and ambitions, which they often do not follow through. Watching Dancing at the Blue Iguana, I was reminded of a beautiful point that Roger Ebert made in his (print) review of Sid and Nancy, back in 1986 If a movie can illuminate the lives of other people who share this planet with us and show us not only how different they are but, how even so, they share the same dreams and hurts, then it deserves to be called great. Dancing at the Blue Iguana is such a film, and it deserves to be called great.  "},{"Title":"A haunting, thought-provoking slice of life","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OK, so Dancing at the Blue Iguana features wall-to-wall naked gyrating women. But don't let that put you off. Despite the subject matter - the lives of five strippers who work in the eponymous club (played by Daryl Hannah, Jennifer Tilly, Sheila Kelley, Charlotte Ayanna and Sandra Oh) - and the frequent nudity, Blue Iguana is not a T&A movie. Rather, it's a compelling insight into the lives of the underclass of Los Angeles, or indeed, any one of the world's major cities.If your cinematic tastes run to tightly plotted fare where all the loose ends are tied up with a big gift-wrap bow in the last five minutes, you'll probably it find frustrating. But if you can appreciate a film in which some issues are never quite resolved and some questions are never quite answered - just like real life - then you may be seduced by the Blue Iguana.The film has been panned by so many critics that I must admit I started watching with some trepidation, expecting to be embarrassed for the actors. But I became so engrossed in the world of the Blue Iguana that I was actually disappointed when the film ended.Much of the criticism of Blue Iguana is based on the fact that it was made without a script. The actors started with only two things the title of the film and the fact that it was set in a strip club. Everything else, they worked out themselves - their characters, their storylines, and their dialogue - in an intense series of improvisational workshops. This approach may be unconventional, but it gives Blue Iguana a freshness and immediacy which is rarely found in mainstream films. As Michael Radford explains, improv relies on nailing the scene in the first take; once it becomes too polished, it loses its sense of realism.The female cast has been another target for critics - not because they're not superb actors, but because, in their late 30's to early 40s, Daryl Hannah, Jennifer Tilly and Sheila Kelley would be too old to work as strippers in LA where beautiful young women exist in a buyer's market. But they bring a depth of sadness to their characters - you can't help wondering where they'll be a few years down the track.Sandra Oh's performance as Jasmine is a standout. Jasmine leads a double life, stripping on the Blue Iguana stage and secretly writing poetry in the dressing room. After persuading her to read one of her painfully beautiful works at his poetry group Dennis (Chris Hogan) starts to fall in love with her mind. But Jasmine realises the fledgling romance is doomed. In the film's most heartbreaking scene, when Dennis seeks her out at the club, she performs her routine to Moby's Porcelain with its haunting refrain So This is Goodbye. The camera focuses on her face. It's an impassive mask, but her eyes betray incredible sadness. She's wordlessly saying to him, This is the real me. Do you still want me now?Putting aside its improv-based development, Blue Iguana succeeds on its own merits. If you want to see a T&A film, rent a copy of Showgirls. If you want to see a haunting, thought-provoking slice of life, see Dancing at the Blue Iguana. "},{"Title":"Messages in a Bottle","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're partial to the documentary approach to feature films, Dancing at the Blue Iguana is one you'll want to grab, possibly from your video store's for-sale rack or any bargain bin that it has tumbled into. It's interesting work and is considerably more than the soft-core porn for which it might be mistaken. The film was also an experiment on the part of the director Michael Radford, who began his film career as a documentary film maker. To remain true to his school, Mr. Radford allowed the principal actresses to map out their own back stories and interactions, then filmed the results. Many people seem to feel this process failed. I must disagree as I think it worked very well. The slight raggedness that resulted simply made the film more convincing to me. It's a thinking person's adult film. Viewers looking for a straight-up porn hit should pass. This film is more about people who have faced certain facts and settled into lives along the underbelly of Los Angeles. The fact that some of them happen to strip is merely coincidental.Dancing at the Blue Iguana takes an MRI-like scan of life in an L.A.-area strip club, clinically sectioning the lives of the dancers and staff of the club, as well as providing interesting vantage points on the various types that patronize it. There's an elderly gentleman who watches the dancers from ten feet away through opera glasses, understanding that the devil is truly in the details, a Russian hit man who may be targeting one of the dancers. There's even a young woman regular, apparently in the same age bracket as the dancers. The overall slant is so detached, so transparent, that one comes away from the film feeling as though almost nothing has happened. A number of questions are asked but not really answered, but life is that way at times.The entire cast turns in solid performances that simultaneously reveal both the surface and hidden aspects of their characters but the story really zeroes in on the various dancers, all of whom are portrayed with great conviction by several very fine actresses who have really taken the plunge into their roles; Daryl Hannah's wasted, self-deluding Angel and Jennifer Tilly's freaked and superfreaky Jo to mention just two off the top. There are more. But the real depth resides in Canadian actress Sandra Oh's Jasmine whose character, away from the pole, is a gifted poet in deep mourning for the dead end which her life, due to a lack of faith in her gift, is approaching. When Jasmine is finally persuaded to read at a local open-mike event by the owner of the bookstore where the reading takes place, she blows everyone out the door, including the headlining poetess who is touring behind her newly-published collection. But Jasmine can't be happy because her triumph is simply more proof of her, apparently, terminal weakness and lack of belief in herself, as well as the hate of what that lack has made her. It's a heart-rending performance. (You can catch a glimpse of this little-known actress in the beautifully-done Canadian production, The Red Violin, as the wealthy Asian lady who, with her husband, bids on the instrument near the film's climax.)Dancing at the Blue Iguana also contains what may be the shortest 75-second sequence ever filmed in which Kristin Bauer's Nico, a touring professional stripper and porn star, whose anticipated guest performance comprises one the film's wispy back stories, takes the stage. The regular dancers all tend to mime various stages of sexual involvement as part of their individual routines; no such nonsense for Nico. When she confronts the hooting, cash-brandishing, SRO crowd, she operates behind a calm, Apsara smile that might have floated off a wall frieze at Angkor Wat. Nico is obviously the girl who really does this stuff for a living. If you were a fan of the great 80's group, Echo and the Bunnymen, as I was, you'll never hear their hit, 'Lips Like Sugar' quite the same way after Nico works with it. Hard to believe that Ms. Bauer is the same lady who played Jerry Seinfeld's entirely mainstream girl du jour in the 'Man Hands' episode, but it is. Her opening at the Blue Iguana is also set up by one of the most unexpected scene-to-scene jumps that I've ever witnessed. Nico's tough as nails but later, in a touching scene with Jasmine, the girl behind the woman comes out. If you find a VHS copy of this very engrossing movie, (It's probably available as a DVD.) you may want to have it duplicated to provide a backup when you finally wear out the tape under Nico's scene.  "},{"Title":"The anti - showgirls.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all cudos to the people involved with this flick for trying something a bit different it was almost entirely improvised, both by the actors/actresses and by the crew.So, that good idea aside, is it any good?Well, it's the complete opposite of Showgirls, so that's a great start! All exploitation aspects are kept to a minimum, of course to some degree such elements are inherent, unfortunately.Characters are incredibly well brought to life and explored, to the point where the stripping scenes become annoying and you just wanna get back to the protagonist's character arcs. Hey, I'm a red blooded male too, so if I'm saying this, well, that has to be testament to its power don't you think?I found it extremely refreshing how none of the sub plots are really finished off, you are NOT spoon fed. You are given enough information to fill in the blanks, and that's it. And you know what - that was nice, it was brave, and I appreciated it.A lot is conveyed subtly, with looks, or with how a person in the back ground is reacting. There's a couple of stripping scenes in which the came ra actually focusses almost exclusively on the girl's face. The first scene is very short, probably less than a minute. The chick's expression is amazing - like she's only hanging on to her sanity by a thread, so cold and broken, fantastically conveyed. The second intance is longer, and is genuinely heart rending. No words or additional explanation is required for either scene. Cinema at its best.Now for the faults.The characters are, superficially, cliches. You've got the stupid but nice stripper. The jaded and hard stripper. The new girl. The abusive rock star boyfriend etc. However, these things are easily overlooked as they are painted in such a realistic manner.As the aim here was realism I would NOT have introduced a character that was a contract killer! That said, the film almost makes up for this in *sploiler* the moment when he recieves a lap dance. Both stripper and killer just want to connect with another human being here, which they can't, and the scene is most poignant.Finally, the unremitting bleakness expererienced by all characters herein does not ring entirely true. I've been to strip clubs (admittedly in the UK so maybe it's a cultural thing) and the girls are usually bright eyed and chirpy, with plenty going on outside of their line of work. They were all making a bloody good wage too, which certainly seemed to put smiles on their faces! Again though, it was all done so well, with such heart and genuine depth,  that I can't really complain.A much underrated movie. "},{"Title":"Improv at its best!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is my understanding that the most of this project was done via improvisation which would explain for its peaks and drops. I would imagine that filming a project based on improv is difficult but at times this cast of actors make it look scripted. At best, Jennifer Tilly shows one how its done, at worse, you wish Darryl Hannah had a script.Here you are presented a few days in the lives of your regular ordinary everyday working strippers/dance gals at a club that is..where else but the Los Angeles San Fernando Valley. You get it all, the drugs, the cat fights, the sex and the overall portrayal that its just a job, a job that is like any other with all the same problems. The five main characters do it well. Jennifer Tilly is the best, Sandra Oh runs a very close second. I was a tad disappointed in Shelia Kelley's character, but Shelia did great with what she had to work with, and I felt the same with little Charolotte Ayanna's character portrayal as well. But Darryl Hannah, who's character was pretty developed more than all the others was pretty sad to watch under this method of outlined improv. The owners of the club were good as well with what they were handed, I just wish I could have known more about them and what made them tick to be at this club. One of the best scenes that makes this kind of dramatic acting inprov filming/work come together is the end with the stripper/writer character played by Sandra Oh and the overglorified porno star who danced for the evening played by Kristin Bauer.This film had a few small holes here and there to me, but I really enjoyed watching the actresses and actors work with this kind of  project on this kind of level..and if you watch some scenes real close, you can see that a few of the actresses and actors were surprised at the lines coming out of other actresses mouths which is what I believe this project was all about. Only on that level, I grant this film of a peek into the lives of these women -- as an overall success and I hope that other film makers explore the genre. It's brings alot of realism in a fictional background.A must see for anyone studying acting, a rare kinda find for us the regular film viewer, and for those who want to turn in to their cable sets in the middle of the night and watch a bunch of girls strip and dance -- well, that's there too, but Michael Radford lets you know, that is not what is important.   "},{"Title":"realistic depiction of a slice of life","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dancing at the Blue Iguana shows the life of a number of strippers inside and outside of their place of work, a life the more sedate of us normally don't get to see. It appears to be a very realistic portrayal, almost a documentary, which I for one always find fascinating. A few events built in which probably don't happen quite so routinely in normal life, but still believable. I was left by the movie with very mixed emotions depressed by the whole atmosphere of the club, feeling sorry for the girls, but nevertheless enamored by their beauty. First-class acting and directing - every scene, every move convinced. Recommended for all who have a taste for real life reflected in a movie (instead of fancy nonsense). "},{"Title":"Bittersweet and Melancholic","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is an outstanding example of method filmmaking -- in EVERY aspect not only the actors, but the director, writers (which include the actors), and the crew all worked in this style, playing on instinct, on their gut reactions.The performances are varied and uniformly excellent. The characters are intriguing and sometimes funny, though mostly sad. The actors all came up with their characters, did a lot of research and improvising, and the director supervised it all and brought it together (rather like a Mike Leigh film). The camera work is fine, as well, along with the sound, which incorporates a lot of overlapping dialog (rather like an Altman film).Rent the DVD if you can and watch the documentary by Darryl Hannah, and listen to the TWO commentary tracks by some of the actors and by the director. It's all fascinating.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Well Acted But Lacked A Good Story.","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a movie about the lives of 5 different strippers (Jennifer Tilly, Charlotte Ayanna, Sandra Oh, Daryl Hannah & Sheila Kelley). Supposedly, the original script was intended to be built around Kelley's character Stormy, but as the actresses got to know their own characters and grow into them, the script was adapted to feature all 5. In fact, I think the Stormy character had the least amount of screen time. It was probably the worst story of the five. None of the five stories stuck out as being great. All were average, thus, the movie was average.The five co-stars here are all good actresses in my opinion, and that saved the movie from the horrible movie it could have been. One thing I did like about the movie is that the actresses that played strippers were not afraid to play strippers. I mean that in a couple of different ways. First, and in many ways most importantly, they were not afraid to be nude on camera. Usually, even in B-movies, there is one actress who wants to play the character but does not want to do what is necessary to play the character. Lets face it, we watch this movie because it is about strippers, and therefore, we expect to see them strip! The second point I want to make here is that the actresses did their homework as far as how the stripper routines work. They obviously took a class or studied on their own the art of working the pole and lap-dances, etc. This gives the movie credibility. Not one of the girls looked out of place dancing in the nude. If I was grading this purely on the striptease portion of this movie, it would get a 10. Pretty good stuff.Unfortunately, this movie is being graded as a whole, and as far as the plots go, they are not quite up to par. The actresses went as far as they could with the given material and more often than not, the movie dragged on, despite the acting, itself, being quite good. I've just recently noticed Sandra Oh and I have to say, she is a pretty versatile and darn good actress.Jennifer Tilly also stepped up a bit as the rough, biker chick stripper/dominatrix on the side. She played the most troubled girl at the club, Jo, who had to deal with the fact that she was pregnant, on drugs, etc. Everything that could be wrong with her was wrong with her.Robert Wisdom also did a great job as the sleazy strip club owner, Eddie. His character was strong and was the guy who kept the girls in line at work.Overall, this was a pretty average story, despite how well the girls and rest of the cast did. I have a feeling a different cast would have made a complete mockery of the movie. As it is, I give it a 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"A film worth seeing for its process even more than its content","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was produced through an improv workshop technique.  And, since each actor created their own character and contributed to the plot, the results show.  The energy of this film crackles off the screen.  Since each actor knows their character's history better than anyone else it is impossible for someone to misplay their role.  The feeling from this film is incredible and I strongly recommend everyone to see it if only to encourage more films of this type being made.The story, it should also be noted, is very good.  It's one of the best ensemble pieces I have seen in 2000. "},{"Title":"Worth more than a 6.0 rating...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...And it will probably continue to go down as more people see this movie. The thing is when you get movies that people put alot of work into, leave out special effects and coherent dialogue, it rarely stands a chance at 4 weeks in the top 10. Which is what happened to Blue Iguana. It premiered at Film Festivals, went on limited release in the US and over here in England we only got the film in July 2002. Copies were so limited I didn't get to watch it until last September. But, in my opinion it was worth the wait.All of the cast, main and supporting, give it their all, no holds barred. The only dissapointment was 'Stormy' played by Shiela Kelley. Her character is, like the other strippers, a troubled one, but Shiela barely gets any lines out. Even on the DVD commentary Sandra Oh mentions in front of Sheila that she struggled to keep scenes going with her. And what happened to Daryl? She spent so long at a strip club researching and getting to know real strippers, but you wouldn't think so if you watched her improv. She puts on a high pitched voice and acts like a ditz. Simple as that. It's a shame really, because someone else may have made that character more interesting. Angel just lets life and great opportunities slip her by without noticing, and it's sad to watch, but Daryl doesn't make you care anymore than you already do.As for great performances... Sandra, Jennifer and Charlotte are obvious stand-outs. Being improv, you'd expect Tilly to be outrageous watch Hide and Seek! but she plays a good part, giving us both drama and a few laughs. Something the film isn't about, but Jen lightens it up abit.Sandra gives the strongest performance, and possibly the most touching, as we watch her try to get away from the Blue Iguana, but her boss tells her this is you're life. And she accepts it, giving her boyfriend a strip, only for him to walk out. Another strong scene with Sandra is near the end, with Kristin Bauer, who plays 'Nico' the Porn Star. Both give excellent performances, especially Bauer, who doesn't say a word, even after she strips. Kristin gives us the most erotic and daring strip in the film she goes fully nude and then gives us a very touching performance. It would have been good to see more of her in the movie.And then there's Charlotte Ayanna, who plays underage-new girl, Jessie. She gives another sad performance. We see her character start at the club just getting some money, and giving the regulars slow strips, but later in the movie she begins to get into the whole thing, possibly too much, and her strips become more lively and seductive. In one scene we see her in a room where the strippers sleep with the customers, and like Michael Radford says on the DVD, we notice her going down and down, just doing what she has to, to get by, and we wonder if Jessie will still be at the Blue Iguana in 10 or 15 years time, like the other women.Overall the movie delivers what it should, lasts a good 2 hours, which is what we need more of, to get more detail in. Not quick 2 minutes scenes throughout the film where people try to frown and  read dialogue like there's an autocue in front of them. Realistic stuff like this. Which is, as good as real, considering there is no script. It gives it more of an eerie feel to it. Mistakes are even made, by Bauer, and actually left in the film, which I found quite interesting to watch, after Michael Radford explained it on the DVD. Before that I just thought Nico was meant to be so drugged up, she had no clue what time it was.Definately a film worth more than one viewing. However, it's not to everyone's taste. It's probably too trashy for some people. Those who enjoys flicks like The Matrix or Stars Wars, will no doubt find no pleasure in this. If you try to understand each scene, and what is going on, you'll get a better feel for this film. "}{"Title":"Seamy and poignant.","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm going to be brief and succinct. (I have been advised that brevity is not permitted, I have had to pad my comments to satisfy the website rules) I loved this film and all the actress' performances. They made the risky choice of portraying the sleezy world of strippers & stripping.My sister was a stripper and on many occasions I had to contact her at some of the clubs she worked. These places made my skin crawl, the smells were overpowering. (I will avoid description.) All were located in Southern California near the airport.Everything in the film was accurate and well represented. However, the corruption was a bit glossed over.I strongly recommend that everyone who has had a daughter, sister, mother or friend involved in this creepy business, to rent the film and watch it.Many times in the past, I had tried to discourage her from continuing in this field but her response to me each time was, Can you make over $1,000 a week at what you do?Fortunately, after three breast implants (bigger and better for more tips), and ultimate body breakdown, she has since retired 2 yrs. ago at the age of 52. She still looks good but she has NO Social Security to rely upon. However due to class action suits against the breast implant people she has managed to run a business on the big island in Hawaii. "},{"Title":"Blue Iguana Commentaries -- Potentially Therapeutic","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had rented the film twice in two years and decided to buy it about a month after I rented it the second time. At first I rented it because I have always been fascinated w/that side of life. I had seen Showgirls before, and I found Blue Iguana to be much more tasteful. There is no total nudity and the director says why in the commentary. Blue Iguana is also much more realistic than Showgirls. There is no such thing as if you do REALLY good as a stripper, someone may discover you and give you an audition for a more prestigious dancing job. They don't give lap dances to beautiful clientèle. The strippers in B.I. never wake up & suddenly realize that they live in a toxic world. The VIP dancer is not a star' offstage, she's what the regular's lives could degenerate into. When I finally bought the DVD for myself, I did not expect to become so involved in the special features. First there is a documentary that Daryl Hannah did about her research at a strip club. (Side note The documentary & commentaries really made me want to learn how to pole dance. It takes so much muscular strength to do those moves that anyone who was decent at it had a body to die for i.e. Simone in the documentary & Daryl Hannah.) Then, there are two commentaries -- a more poignant, almost poetic commentary by the films director. And another commentary by three of the films actors. Because the film was based on improvisations and the improvisations were based on the intense research the actors and the director did, they were able to comment about what drove these women or what caused these women to have stagnant lives and either not do anything they set out to do or leave everything half finished. I found myself identifying w/ about half of their comments and really wanting to do something about it. Aside from the commentaries, I really enjoyed the film. They managed to put some humor in the film -- via Daryl Hannah's character and sometimes Jennifer Tilly. Sandra Oh is just magnificent. The emotion & facial expression she managed to put in her good-bye dance is just awesome. "},{"Title":"Underrated, in my opinion","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some minor spoilers in here...With a score of only 5.8, I think Blue Iguana is destined to be lost in the attic of the indie film world. Personally, I think it was a moving and compelling portrait five refreshingly real people, and I didn't even know it was improv until I saw the credits. The pace will be a little slow at times for some viewers--I won't lie about that. But there's a grace to each scene, and a lack of artifice that scripted action and dialog can bring. The scene with Sandra Oh and Kristen Bauer in the dressing room is astonishing because I don't think there's a single cut or a bit of camera movement for what felt like ten minutes--but it's still gripping.Not each scene works smoothly, and the individual plot lines of each character sometimes get a little bogged down, but I'm glad I spent the two hours or so winding my way through this film. My main gripe is that Sheila Kelley's (Stormy's) involvement wasn't as well integrated into the film as others, and she could have been completely cut out of the film, in my opinion, without losing the story's power. That always seems to be a pitfall when you do a ensemble cast piece. "},{"Title":"Some really great moments","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really impressed with Sandra Oh's performance in this film. Everything else aside, she was brilliant. Her Jasmine is a sensitive poet who has real potential, but she's stuck in the sex trade and, like so many real women in that position, is afraid of trying to get out. The familiar, even when it is terrible, is easier to face than the unknown. (For the same reason, battered women stay with the men who beat them.) She takes some steps, but when her boss cruelly tells her that her job is who she is, she gives up. Any tentative confidence she felt is gone. Later, she dances in front of her new boyfriend, not so much to say This is who I am but How could you possibly love me? It's like, on some level, she was daring him to still love her. How the audience, and especially her boyfriend, could not see how this was killing her soul, is not amazing, but typical - people see what they want to, and in a strip bar, it's T&A, not despair or no self esteem. Her poetry, beautiful, but so cynical and sad, also show the despair she feels. Having been in a damaging relationship, I can say for a fact that Sandra Oh's performance is right on the mark - from trying to be tough, to pushing away someone who cares (while hoping he'll save you by continuing to believe in you), to sharing feelings of despair with someone in the same boat - this is all so completely real.I was also struck by Daryl Hannah's performance as the airhead, always high, who has hopes that are completely out of reach because her lifestyle is sabotaging her dreams. Without two brain cells to rub together, I wonder what she did with all that money...Jennifer Tilly's character was good too, and provided some fairly uncomfortable humour - when she ripped into the happy mom at the doctor's office, saying I'm gonna have this baby, and he's gonna sell your kid drugs in the schoolyard I laughed, but it had an Oh-my-gawd-she's-completely-off-her-rocker quality to it. Plus her scene as the dominatrix trying to deal with her battered and boozed up stripper friend was priceless.Yeah, the plot (what plot?) goes nowhere, but watch it as a very realistic few days in the emotional lives of some very sad characters. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When ranking movies on IMDb, I try to go through the things i found wrong with the movie. each thing takes off one point. I found nothing wrong with this movie. Each actress did a great job with their individual character, and this couldn't have been an easy role to play They all strip at least once, most twice.Sandra Oh gives the best performance of the ensemble, proof that independent films never get the recognition they deserve at the Oscars, Golden Globes, etc. Her pain is fully visible when she does a strip show in front of her boyfriend. It's a subtle moment, but when the boyfriend walks out, she tilts her head back, and when it comes back down, a tear is running down her cheek.Daryl Hannah, not usually a great actress, gives another good performance. You want so much for good things to happen for Angel, but you know it will never be true. She's on too many drugs, she can't support herself, and at the foster home, it's obvious she wants a kid. I wanted her to get a child, but knew I would be worried for the child if Angel did get it.All in all, an excellent movie that was overlooked at Award Shows last year, especially for the performances by Sandra Oh and Daryl Hannah.10/10 "},{"Title":"After reading other comments on this film I feel I have to defend it","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a film that has a lot of heart to it in a industry where most women are viewed as tramps and bimbos this movie actually shows that strippers have their ups and downs just like women in every other profession. The plot may have lacked at times as other commenters have stated but at least this film is a breath of fresh air from many of the typical strippers being stalked and killed and explotative Cine-porn films out there. Strong performances from Sandra Oh and Jennifer Tilly and up and coming actress  Charolette Anyanna is a stand-out as well. Please before you judge this film too harshly look at the other films that represent strippers in cinema as nothing more than T-n-A and you'll realize this movie is just trying to show them as women with the same joys and heartbreaks of life as everyone else. "},{"Title":"Interesting experiment","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I would have thought there aren't many ways to make a serious movie about pole-dancers and be taken seriously. The list of stripper-specific life crises is depressingly short. Anything you present in such a movie, any plot twist or character interaction, could take place just as easily in a diner or a hospital or a homeless shelter or, for that matter, an insurance company. The only reason to set it in a strip club is to show actresses with their clothes off so as to draw in the geeks. The comedic possibilities are endless, on the other hand. There is a scene in this movie in which Jennifer Tilly's character is having a dominatrix session with some hapless male, and one of the other strippers, drunk and battered, walks in on it and refuses to go away and wait tactfully for the session to be over. Tilly alternates between stridently artificial abuse of her slave and sincere concern, mixed with exasperation, for the other woman in the room. It reminded me a little of the scene in Deconstructing Harry where Kirstie Alley, playing a psychiatrist, alternately delivers calm professional platitudes to her patient and screams obscenities at her philandering husband in the next room. The problem with Tilly's scene is that battered woman in the room with her. We aren't allowed to see any comedy in *that*.So, the movie tries to be taken seriously by being mostly grim and depressing. (Darryl Hannah's character is actually painful to watch.) But all throughout the movie one question kept tugging at my thoughts Why is this stripper film different from other stripper films? The answer came at the start of the closing credits, when it was revealed that the movie was largely (totally?) improvised by the actors. That set me back. It accounted for the eerie feeling I had that I was watching some sort of documentary. The actors and the director deserve a lot of credit for trying something like this. The movie is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"T&A - get over it","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dancing at the Blue Iguana is an interesting film that flies in the face of modern film convention.  Instead of flashy editing with hot chicks looking like Motley Crue's Girls Girls Girls video, we are given shots in this film that defy the glossy norms of MTV era quick cuts.  In particular, one intense scene near the end between Sandra Oh and Kristin Bauer runs what must be an uninterrupted five minutes.  This helps create both a feeling of intimacy with the characters and a sense of reality, that we are watching real people.  Some plot lines go nowhere or do not resolve.  Several characters seem to have no reason to exist in story terms, but not everyone's life out in the real world has a neat, three-act structure.  There is involving drama, inspired comedy (Daryl Hannah at the foster parent agency and Jennifer Tilly in a dominatrix session) and a sweetness to some scenes that is refreshing.  In the end, the creative folks behind this film apparently wanted to present strippers in a light generally unseen before on film.  The filmmakers do not judge, but simply give a window on the worlds of these women.  It worked for me; Dancing at the the Blue Iguana was a modest artistic success.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly realistic","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was shocked at how strongly the critics raped this movie. I spent many years inside this world and I was surprised by the realism. It is a sad world. There is nothing glamorous about it. Except that it is indeed a writer's paradise. I am surprised by the general lack of work that comes out of this environment. It is the front lines. All of these women are pulled out of the Matrix at an early age. It's intention is not to be a great film. It's intention is to capture the strip club world. And to reveal some raw souls that are rarely seen, much less understood. These girls are often stereotyped as empty, but they just started out with bad directions. These people are real. I know them. I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful and haunting character studies I've ever seen.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTDancing At The Blue Iguana is a beautiful melancholy gem of a film. It is a character study of several strippers and what their lives are like both at and outside of, the club. It stars Dary Hanna, Sandra Oh and Jennifer Tilly among others and they all give performances that are haunting, heartfelt and just fantastic. Not only was I very impressed with this movie, I thought it was excellent.Anyone expecting a variation on the movie Striptease maybe disappointed. This is a serious movie and while of coarse there are scenes where the girls strip, it's more about what happens in between that time when night falls and dawn breaks, and reality and the day to day struggles of life take over. It is slow moving, pensive and above all human. This movie has more humility in it's first 15 minutes then a movie like Striptease or Showgirls has through the whole thing. It's without a doubt, one of the best character studies I've ever seen.On occasion, when traveling through movie land, there are those occasional movies, (usually indie films though not always) , where you encounter movies that are less concerned with heavy handed theatrics and special effects, and much more interested in bringing you a dose of reality. I found Blue Iguana to be a wonderful haunting tale of life, love, loneliness, pain, and dreams. The whole cast was incredible and nothing, not one thing, ever feels forced. There are moments of surprising comedy such as an unforgettable moment between Hanna's Angel and a police officer. The movie is done in rather a fragmented way, there is a constant switching around from one story to the next but I found that appropriate to the movie.I liked, very much how all the girls played their roles, I did have a fondness for Angel, a sweet yet incredibly problematic girl, and Sandra Oh's Jasmine had the best scene in the movie, her goodbye dance to her new boyfriend who had not yet seen her dance, was incredibly powerful and flawless, as was the song selection. All performances were great.This is a must see for anyone who likes character studies and likes ones where the makers keep it real. The only complaint that I have is the rather strange way it ended(and that it ended in two hours-it actually should have been longer) and the subplot involving the contract killer which I cannot decide if I liked or not especially since I still don't fully understand it in it's entirety but other then that, I have no negatives at all. This isn't for everyone, it's slow moving nature may turn some people off, but for those who do like these type of movies, I've no doubt you'll find it an exceptional film. My vote is 9 of 10. "}{"Title":"Quite A Nice Surprise","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I bought this movie simple for it's anticipated camp value.  I was looking for another Showgirls or Striptease and in that respect I was sorely disappointed.This movie works.  It doesn't seem trite to me, and it's very real.  The casting seemed really odd to me at first as well.  Jennifer Tilly was the only one I thought would really fit in the film, and by the end I found her performance to be not as good as the others.Sandra Oh, who plays Jasmine is absolutely brilliant, and I think hers was the saddest story of them all.  Having only seen her as the principal The Princess Diaries I was quite shocked, but she did so well.I was expecting mindless crap, and this movie really surprised me.  It's heartbreaking and very realistic.  I enjoyed it immensely.  "},{"Title":"Amazing and put me into tears at times","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Im not so sure if we can all just label the method of the film as based soley on any American workshop improvisational technique. After all, Wong-Kar Wei's Chunking Express was done entirely on improv, but I feel it had better editing and felt more coherent even though it was just a bunch of set pieces, Lone Scherfig's Italian For Beginners follows the Dogma 95 Standard for filmmaking which seems highly similar as well, so I would say Dancing at the Blue Iguana just follows similar ground as the many films before it. Lets not attribute it to just one thing, its the artsy/indie movie industry thats evolving and everyone needs to be credited.I think this movie is on the brink of being something great but cannot get there because the editing is horrible. I think everyone agrees there were some really standout scenes with superb, oscar winning acting, but that they were mixed in with a bunch of garbage as well.  What they should have done is get the entire film back on the cutting room floor and re-edit the film so that the films 4-6 great scenes become the *central focus* of the film, instead of being 4-6 great scenes randomly thrown in with alot of so-so scenes.*spoilers* The intro scene with Jessie calling up her uncle was the key to this movie, and the spirit of the movie in my opinion. Imagine if the beginning was the dominatrix scene with Stormy (Jennifer Tilly) and Jessie pleading with her to stay at her apartment, and then set the rest of the movie as a flashback (starting with Jessie calling her uncle). This movie has LOADS of potential but it just missed the bar because of the editing in my opinion. How tragic. Jennifer Tilly stole the show in the movies best scene, where Stormy is in the doctors office waiting to get an abortion and winds up in an argument about lighting up a cigarette next to a pregnant lady. My god, after the realism in that scene sunk in, I cried really hard just because I know that is exactly what goes on in the minds of millions of women and Jennifer Tilly captured that essence *perfectly*. I would get the DVD just to watch that scene over and over. It is tragic, beautiful for its humanity, and sadly a reality for many. True, there is alot of garbage in between scenes, and many things are just not done quite so succintly, such as the scene where the strip club owner plays back a message on his answering machine of a girl who just crys and crys. We get the point that there is someone in utter sadness on the other side after the first 30 seconds or so and we dont need the fact to be beat into our head (insults the audience intelligence) Brevity, preciseness, and more demanding editing are all this film needed to take it over the top. Still, I  cant wait to get this film on DVD.  "},{"Title":"I did not inhale.","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is amazing what you come across at 2am when you have trouble sleeping. The fact that this film is directed by Michael Radford (Il Postino) is an indication that it might be more than just a T & A film. It is, after all, about pole dancers at a strip club.Yes, it is loaded with T & A. Charlotte Ayanna (Jawbreaker) dances in just a thong. TV regular Kristin Bauer (Everybody Loves Raymond, Just Shhot Me) goes even further. Even at 40, Daryl Hannah shows her stuff and it is hot stuff, indeed. Just a photograph in Mike Myer's hands in So I Married an Axe Murderer, Shiela Kelley practiced at many bikini bars before she showed her stuff here. Even Grey's Anatomy's Sandra Oh gives us her first notable skin scenes. Lastly, Jennifer Tilly is un-Bound, and gives a show to remember.If they gave an Academy Award for this category, it would be Breast Picture, hands down.But, there is more. This is not Showgirls. There is actually a handful of stories going on as we examine the lives off the stage. Sandra Oh gives a super performance. I wasn't too thrill by Daryl Hannah as she acted as if she had an IQ of 30. Jennifer Tilly was just plain impressive and well worth the time. "},{"Title":"Why do we find reality cinema surprising and often somewhat uncomfortable?","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I found this a strange film to watch for the first time, as the principal characters all gave me the impression that I was watching a social documentary showing the real lives of real strippers, even though I knew these characters were being played by half a dozen well known actresses who had presumably learned to strip just for this film. I was expecting a fictional story which involved them all to develop, but this never happened. Ultimately this mystery was partly solved in the final credit sequences which explain that the film's characters were developed during a series of improvisational workshops in which all the principal members of the cast participated. (I understand that the DVD includes additional extras which usefully expand these explanations, but I have not seen these.) This unusual, but in my opinion largely successful, approach has generated a great deal of controversy among the users of IMDb as fifty comments on this film, ranging from highly enthusiastic to extremely critical, have so far been posted. Viewer ratings are widely spread through the whole range from 1 to 10, and show that the film is most highly regarded by young women whilst it has least appeal for young men. I am not clear whether the cast were assembled for the first such workshop in time to contribute to the decision to locate most of the action for this film in a Los Angeles strip club. There have been many films such as Steamed or First Wives Club that largely comprise dialogue between a group of women; usually with the link that they all attended the same school or college at some time in the past, and clearly almost any venue where women characteristically meet together could be used for a film of this type. If this decision was made by the film's promoters before the cast list was assembled, it would be interesting to know the reason for it - the average age of a successful actress is very different from that of the typical pulchritudinous 18 to 25 year olds who most frequently perform in these clubs. Another problem is that all the principal characters are, for obvious dramatic reasons, shown as somewhat dysfunctional. In practice I am sure that many of the performers in strip clubs are perfectly normal, if somewhat uninhibited, local housewives who find that an occasional session 'at the club' provides an easy way for them to keep fit which not only saves the costs of belonging to a health club but in addition enables them to make a little money through part time earnings. Since the operator of the Blue Iguana is shown as a somewhat unpleasant character this singularity is easily explained, but the film might have been more credible if it had been planned as a true documentary rather than a pseudo documentary. If on the other hand the strip club venue was selected by the chosen cast at their first workshop we can have much more fun considering why this was their choice. I recall a comment by one reviewer after seeing the film Striptease' that Demi Moore made stripping seem like an Olympic sport. A psychologist might tell us that most women have the occasional urge to flaunt their charms in this rather blatant way but are held back by propriety, and so an opportunity to do so in the guise of another character would be very appealing; a casting director might point out that a successful role in such a part could provide cast members with a career plus which would significantly increase the probability of landing other very rewarding parts in the future; a health consultant might simply comment that playing such a physically demanding role would clearly be very beneficial to any actress whose recent work had left her a little jaded; a marketing consultant might comment that any film featuring strippers can be counted on to generate a lot of interest; and a gossip columnist might unkindly associate this choice of part with an attempt to recover lost youth. We can easily postulate several other possible motives for the choice - my point here is simply to note that a film structured to provide so much food for thought is challenging enough to have the potential to be a very good film, whether it finally succeeds is a matter of individual judgement.What is the viewer left with after watching this film? Certainly some exceptionally well rounded characters very competently played by the cast member concerned. On this basis I would rate the film as worth 7 on a 10 point scale, although with less competent acting there might not have been enough 'meat' to warrant a rating of more than 3. Full marks to the cast and Director for creating a number of quite memorable cameos (it would be unfair to single out any individual cast members for special mention although naturally some of the parts are much stronger than others). These cameos make it a rewarding film to watch, and it deserves to have been much more successful than it was. The main weakness is its lack of a coherent storyline and its very inconclusive ending, although I personally believe that both these could have been made much less significant by more effective work on the cutting room floor.One warning - this film is certainly not a celluloid version of strip club entertainment in the way that, for example, 'Mondo Topless' was. Those whose primarily interest is in the venue should visit a real club and not watch this film. Although it shows plenty of nudity (which often appears rather self-conscious as camera angles almost always limit it to toplessness), and the dancing is extremely well portrayed; this is not presented in the progressive and provocative way that regular visitors to such clubs would probably expect. "},{"Title":"This is why you don't improvise an entire movie","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a complete and utter mess. Yes, there are interesting characters. Yes, there are good performances. Yes, there are scenes which are compelling in and of themselves. To make the movie equally good and interesting and compelling requires some type of thematic element, a storyline, that will tie everything together. There is none here.There are scenes with characters behaving in precisely the opposite manner of their previous scene. There are moments and concepts that have nothing to do with anything yet keep popping up and going nowhere. There are ancillary characters who come and go without doing anything or adding to the scenes they show up in. Lousy storytelling.If the trivia is accurate, and there are enough alternate takes to create ten vastly different movies out of all the footage...how awful must the alternative possibilities be if this is the best one they could come up with? Congratulations, though, on having so many well-known actresses naked in the same movie. That's quite an achievement. "},{"Title":"I feel like dancin'","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A gritty and harsh view of the Stripper's world. A lot of which was taken from screen siren Daryl Hannah's quirky and informative documentary Stripnotes. The characters are all well developed and easy to relate and symapthise with,the most commendable performances laying with lesbian icon Jennifer Tilly, currently popular Sandra Oh (Grey's Anatomy) and last but not the least the leggy talent showered bombshell that is queen Daryl Hannah of the movie screen. The style and settings of the movie add much to its overall feel and are able to involve the viewer in the reality that is the sleazy but somewhat enchanting stripbar. The dancers,the costumes,the poles,the punters,the drinks,the smokes,the fun,the tears,the hardship,the routine. It'll have you whirling round lamposts like a hulla hoop on crack. A MUST SEE! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Daryl Hannah's Oscar deserving role","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dancing at the Blue Iguana is about the work and lives of women working at a strip club.  Daryl Hannah deserved an Oscar nomination for this movie, although all of the actresses in it are really good too.  Hannah plays a naif.  She is not terribly bright, a stripper and a druggie. The scene in which her performance stands out for me is when she has illegally stopped her car near a billboard.  She is pictured on the billboard, which seems to be an ad for the club where she and the other women work.  A police officer stops and tells her that her car shouldn't be there but she asks him to take a picture of her next to the billboard.  See the movie video to learn the rest of this character defining scene. "},{"Title":"See this movie for Jen Tilly!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I consider myself to be highly critical and easily bored and I liked this movie a lot.  Then again, Daryl Hannah intrigues me (although I don't think her real life personae is much different from the one she portrays on-screen) and I thought Jennifer Tilly produced a stellar performance. Her usual bimbo role but played with a much tougher edge and a greater reach. She had some great lines which made me actually laugh out loud.  A few of the scenes were really thought provoking...some not so deep.  The performances were good enough that I was kept interested.  I thought all of the women looked incredibly beautiful while they were stripping but a lack of close-ups on their faces left you wondering what the color of their eyes might be (strangely enough, except for Jasmine).  A must see for Jen Tilly fans! "},{"Title":"Good (not great) and interesting if you know the process.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this movie and I'm not a filmmaker, writer, actress or anything  connected with the LA movie business.  Yes, it left a lot to be desired - a better ending for one - but it was interesting, somewhat thought provoking and the characters were very entertaining.  I loved Jennifer Tilly's character and her various tantrum scenes.  Daryl Hannah's character was pathetic and annoying, but at least she was consistent in the way that she created the character.  What I was most disappointed in  is that actresses are constantly complaining about having to play girlfriends, bimbos and other stereotypes, yet when they have an opportunity to create a character in an workshop/ensemble piece they decide on strippers.  Seems like a bit of a cop-out to me at least if the movie is no good, they'll watch for the stripping. And in disagreement with another post, I was surprised at how naked the actresses actually got - there were a lot of very flattering shots and lots of unflattering ones as well, including lots of close-ups.  I don't think Charlotte Ayanna has a bad camera angle though (and never heard of her before this movie)! "},{"Title":"Great new flick","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a must see for it's great acting and original style.  You can see the usual junk, or you can see a film like this which pushes the envelope and show us what real filmmaking is all about.  Radford is back! "}{"Title":"The Dramas of Some Strip-Dancers in a Night-club Called Blue Iguana","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The dramas of some strip-dancers in a nightclub called Blue Iguana are the theme of this movie. Angel (Daryl Hannah) is a dancer wishing to adopt a child. Stormy (Sheila Kelley) is a dancer with a secret with her brother Sully (Elias Koteas). Jasmine (Sandra Oh) is a poetess who fells in love with Dennis (Chris Hogan). Jo (Jennifer Tilly) is a dancer who became pregnant and Jessie (Charlotte Ayanna) is a woman fighting to survive in Hollywood. The link between them is the fact that they dance at Blue Iguana, a strip-club managed by Eddie (Robert Wisdom). This movie is not a bad movie, but the shallow dramas of each dancer are not enough to support the story in a higher level. A woman who decides to work as a strip-dancer certainly has had some trouble in her past (or present). The viewer has a chance to see beautiful breasts, butts and naked bodies of many beautiful actresses, especially Charlotte Ayanna, Sheila Kelley and Daryl Hannah. The fat of Jennifer Tilly is justified since her character is pregnant. On the DVD, the director Michael Radford explains that when he joined the actors and actresses, there was no screenplay. The cast developed each character and this type of creative activity seems to be very unique. Further, on DVD there is a documentary directed by Daryl Hannah showing how she developed the character of Angel that is worthwhile. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Divas do Blue Iguana (Divas of the Blue Iguana) "},{"Title":"Represents a movie first introspective sleaze!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Daryl Hannah is so adept at playing spacy little cupcakes that it's hard to discern at first whether she's doing anything new or challenging in Dancing at the Blue Iguana. Her character, Angel--as with ALL the characters in the film--is half-realized and indifferently treated by the director, yet Hannah pulls off one amazing moment in the movie Angel is almost arrested by a friendly cop who stops to take her picture but finds marijuana in her car. It's just a throwaway moment for the filmmakers, who don't allow the sequence to lead anywhere, but Daryl is dead-on here in her impersonation of a child-like waif who seems to make a conscious decision to use her ditzy naivete to her advantage. She broke my heart! Also good Sandra Oh as would-be poetess Jasmine and Jennifer Tilly as a hard-partying stripper who roars through her day until she's out of gas. The film rambles, it has no shape, it has many embarrassing and/or awkward moments, and it's filled with disgusting language. But there are some thoughtful, sad passages that strive to reveal something about the seamy side of life which maybe we as moviegoers might not have seen before. I found something like Smithereens to be more truthful, but I did find Iguana to be intriguing on a minor level. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I lived it.","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had skipped this title on cable even though I knew it was about strippers. I then saw a newspaper article about Sheila Kelly's stripper dance classes, book and video called the S Factor. Being a former stripper I was intriqued because I am interested in teaching women what strippers know. So when I had the chance I watched Blue Iguana wanting to see if the actresses nailed the dancing part. While they got some of the moves, I saw no truly impressive dancing. Tilly's brash in your dancing face style was realistic, showing one need not have dancing ability to play the crowd. The rest of the women showed no variety in their moves. I do think they were trying to show how drunk Angel was on a nightly basis. Only in the scene where the club is not open and she practices her pole work do you see a sober Angel dancing like she can. Contrast with her performance where she  slides off the stage onto her head.  I loved the way no one reacted and she just rolled back up there. Angel's dumbness is totally realistic. The dressing room dialog was very realistic. What did not ring true is Jasmine's boyfriend not knowing she is a stripper and walking out when he saw her dance. Most men would have stayed. "},{"Title":"ambition of more","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Various women dance at the strip club Blue Iguana. Angel (Daryl Hannah) is desperate to adopt. Jo (Jennifer Tilly) is angry, pregnant and wants an abortion. Jasmine (Sandra Oh) is a poetry writer. Club manager Eddie gets star stripper Nico (Kristin Bauer van Straten). Jessie (Charlotte Ayanna) is the new girl. Stormy (Sheila Kelley) is sleeping with her brother.Michael Radford is no drive-by B-movie director. This does have ambition of something more compelling than a simple T&A showcase. He has gathered various stripper stories together. They're fine but I don't find any of them that compelling. The movie feels scattered. I wonder if somebody who actually stripped like Diablo Cody would have more compelling stories. At least, her writing might be more interesting. "},{"Title":"Angel, Jessie, Stormy, Blue Iguana is a Paradise, and my own Blue Iguana loves you!","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the old days, movies about strippers were harrowing tales involving serial killers and they were little more than blood & guts slasher movies which totally defeated their reason d'entre. Fortunately we have evolved past Roger Corman. It is noticed that there remains a murder plot in DANCING AT THE BLUE IGUANA with the Russian hit man, but it is at least not directed at the girls. I am one of the few people in the world who isn't negative about SHOWGIRLS, perhaps in part because it was such an improvement on the usual inane fare when it came to dealing with the subject matter, but in this one, there is a minimum of violence. So this is refreshing in that way. More real. It is filled with flaws, but the positives far, far outweigh the negatives.I thought I was still watching, then realized as those two guys walked off this is gonna be the end of the movie. Shucks, no, man! You can't do this to us! It's like a first-part with no second-part! There's no resolution to the story!Had I been a director, I'd never have gone for improv, I'd have insisted on a script. I'd have allowed improv if they came up with gems. In loads of places in this movie, like the bit about the rats, about Angel 'not being that big in real life' and not have inhaled, Jo's of course I'm not keeping it, it's disgusting!, Jo's abortion clinic scene, and several others, were gems, but then again, loads of other stretches needed to be weeded out. But please note that I'm not knocking this movie. I am simply saying that the finished product needed some sprucing up. Okay, lots of sprucing up. And damn it, more resolution in the ending.I am of course just raring to have a say about the actressesFirst off, Daryl Hannah. I've noticed criticism by some of the first-page reviewers thrown her way. Stuff like one of them wished she had a script. Hell. With her long legs, and her cat-like abilities, and her soft-spoken ways, Daryl is an absolute treat as Angel. She was made for the part. Can anyone be so agile sixteen years after having first wowed audiences? Daryl Hannah in high heels, bare-legged and mostly undressed, all tearful, in the parking area scenes are just heartbreakingly beautiful! Hey, reviewers, please note that Daryl played the part of this charmingly naive Angel and gave a charmingly naive portrayal. She was so utterly vulnerable in the scene with the policeman. There are people who aren't really equipped to deal with the realities of the mean old world out there, and Daryl played it to perfection.Second, Charlotte Ayanna. The newcomer. Does a wonderfully charming (and intoxicatingly alluring) Jessie. Pretty little body. Brings out all the protective urges. Dreamgirl. How anybody could slap her around...! But of course there are people like that in the world. Charlotte, good work. You should just have been in loads of great movies besides this one. Instead of that full- of-himself Ricky Martin music video.Third, Sheila Kelly as Stormy. She has a presence! Wow, does she ever have a presence! Grabs your attention the moment the camera comes her way. Stormy deserves a movie of her own. I'd have bought the DVD.And then there is Jennifer Tilly. Hard to believe this is the same girl as the sad character in THE FABULOUS BAKER BOYS, equally hard to believe that she was that young woman in BOUND. This is a versatile actress, people!I did not find Sandra Oh to be as great as the scores of other reviewers who think the world of her. I do not nearly think that she 'is a truckload of Kleenex all by herself'. The character, yes, the situation, yes, but for the most part, her portrayal fell flat. I would have said that Daryl's Angel was the true truckload of Kleenex.By the way, IMDb, really, 'an unglamorous look at strippers'? Not how I'd have put it. Makes it sound all wrong. Plenty of glamor in this movie, with the girls themselves. It is their doomed lifestyles that present the negative side, but the movie itself is filled with eye candy. Since you won't lure people into the cinema or towards buying the DVD by saying 'an unglamorous look at strippers' let me just point out that there is an a-b-u-n-d-a-n-c-e of fine flesh + lovely, lovely girls + celebrity skin (and a whole lot of sad stuff that makes it really deep!) But there's a lot of Showgirls in this one too! Yay to that!Review brought to you by RavenGlamDVDCollector who thinks its cool that the picture is sensitive enough to be mistaken for a chick flick. But let's do celebrate the beauty of the female of the species. That's why I bought DANCING AT THE BLUE IGUANA. After downloading the trailer on VuClip, because the plot on Wikipedia sounded fraught with totally depressing stuff.I've kept quiet about one thing. Most of the breasts in the movie are surgically enhanced. Not so Daryl Hannah's. Hell, to that Board Post entry about 'wearing out a VHS tape watching Kristin Bauer's scene'... How foolish to salivate over that! How totally off-putting! But, if I could've woken up alongside an Angel lookalike tomorrow morning... Sigh. "},{"Title":"Accurate Movie of the Stripper Subculture","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie. I lived this life and there is no movie out there that gives a more accurate glimpse of this than Dancing at the Blue Iguana. Every character was a girl I knew, a girl I was, a girl I danced with, and partied with. Every DJ, club owner/manager, customer.. everything was very well played. I even heard most of it was improv! I don't want to say anymore because I don't want to spoil it, but it really is a true, raw reflection of what the stripper life is like. This film brought back some bitter sweet memories. Every one who has been in this life needs to see it, and anyone who is curious about this life needs to see it. You will not find a more honest film than this. Thank you! "},{"Title":"While the improve effort is noble, it falls short.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kudos go to Sandra Oh and Kristin Bauer, who manage to give  depth to their characters, and are able to give us both their runway characters and the people they think are.  Unfortunately the rest of the characters seem flat . Even more telling is the Documentary on the DVD, that allows us behind the scenes of real Hollywood Strip clubs, the research for the improve workshops. The film makers should have seen the fact that the real stripper's stories made for a better movie than actors creating these tales. Rent the DVD, watch the movie if you like, but DO NOT MISS watching the Behind the Scenes. "},{"Title":"Was this movie improvised?--I could not tell","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If this movie was improvised, more directors should use improvisation (or these actresses) more often.  The depth of detail of the presentation and the cogent story line are way above the usually linear lines of many mainstream movies.  Daryl Hannah stands out not only for her luscious body (at age 40!), but also for pulling off a naive innocence that was greatly contrasted by the world weariness of younger actresses.  This movie is a complete delight visually, as well as its characterizations.  I can't believe only 7 theaters would book this movie for one week!  The nudity alone should have sparked much more interest. "},{"Title":"A script is an important thing","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dancing at the Blue Iguana is a movie which comes out of an improvisation workshop. Director Michael Radford allowed the members of his cast to develop their own characters, their own story lines and dialogue. Then Radford tied all that together into some semblance of a script and started shooting. Well, he tried to tie it together anyway. But unsurprisingly the end product is pretty much a complete mess. We follow the stories of a handful of strippers. They dance at the Blue Iguana but what is going on in their lives when they're not writhing around on stage having dollar bills tossed in their general direction? All the clichéd roles are here. We get to know the smart stripper. And the dumb stripper. And the underage stripper. And the pregnant stripper. And the stripper who's in an incestuous relationship with her brother. OK, maybe that last one isn't much of a cliché. Happily we spend very little time exploring that particular storyline because that would surely make for rather uncomfortable viewing. Does anything in the movie make for entertaining viewing? Not really. None of the various story lines are particularly compelling on their own and when you add them all up the pieces never fit. It never comes together, the whole movie is so unfocused. There's a bizarre subplot about a Russian assassin thrown in for no particular reason. No, his presence does not make any sense whatsoever. Nothing much in the film does. If there is any star, so to speak, in this ensemble piece it is Daryl Hannah. She plays the dumb one. Her story resolves around her attempts to become a foster mother. Suffice to say she's not really cut out for that gig. Sandra Oh makes a bit of an impression playing the smart one, a stripper poet. The rest of the cast, and the rest of the characters, are quite forgettable. This was an interesting experiment in movie making. But ultimately not an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Getting them out for the lads","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Like other reviewers I found an obvious comparison with Show Girls yet as others have pointed out Dancing at the Blue Iguana deals in depth with lives off-stage with clothes (mainly) on. It lacks the brash trashiness for one thing at least however it is not entirely different.One wonders if the rapt attention and generous opinions of earnest followers of movies-as-art are due to a large extent to their being male and the sight of a (40 year old believe it or not) topless Daryl Hannah squirming at the foot of a pole dancing pole not to mention the less star-studded plentiful T & A very much on display. Do female reviewers similarly share this elevated view of the director's intentions? I would have been more comfortable had the nudity been implied and for example the focus had been more on the club audience's attitudes - that after all is the point - nudity as such is meaningless. Sandra Oh remained mainly clothed throughout yet scored a more memorable dramatic impact. "}{"Title":"entertaining but too stereotypical","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Why do movies about strippers have to be so stereotypical? Strippers are women, an there are happy strippers out there, strippers with loving families, not every stripper has to be on drugs or be abused, or is stupid. After all that work the actors an director put in, I am real shocked that that is all they came up with, I expected more. Not every cliché in the book .... I thought Daryl Hannah's acting in this movie sucked, and Jennifer Tilly was too over the top ... I did like Sandra Oh's acting, and I also liked Charlotte ayanna's acting. ... It was an entertaining movie, and I liked the dancing scenes, specially the scene when jasmine first comes out an dances, she has a nice butt too. Really good body ... I thought the documentary that Dary Hannah was involved in was very good, I was sad when it was over so soon, it left me wanting more, the strippers in the documentary where not 1 dimensional like in the movie, some where strong, others were heartbreaking, others were happy, there was more sides to them than in the movie characters. "},{"Title":"Sexy, swaggering, saucy, silly sluts slink & sashay for psyche stunted, stupid, slobbering studs","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this strange, erotic look into the backstage lives of dancing doxies and their crazed, wasted lives. Although some of these girls are way past their prime they still look good in a g-string. These pathetic losers are all tied up in their own personal bondage ranging from drugs, unwanted pregnancies, aspirations of future glory or loving husbands to one solid, down home, deeply embedded case of total, unrestrained dumbass. The boys running the dance hall were most assuredly not members of the local church choir in fact, the boss was one sweet Hitler. He kept his dancers under his thumb with a balance of cool and meanness designed to keep them filling he house and not making one of their own.  "},{"Title":"Can it look real at all?","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've been to so many adult establishments. I've had friends who were strippers. Why does Hollywood always show a strip joint that doesn't look real? The only real aspect to this movie's depiction of a strip joint is the great discomfort a huge percentage of people have in these places. The strippers I've known are not living great lives, but the job's a job. They go and do it, handle whatever trivial sh** comes along, and that's it. I don't know if all strippers are also prostitutes, at least occasionally, but my friends were. I remember one saying she had to do it with the man who owned the building the club was in, that is, if she wanted to work there. I'll admit, it's been years since I've been to one, but this movie looked quite fictional and overacted. "},{"Title":"Amateur Night at the Blue Iguana","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A group of dancers at a gentleman's club has to deal with personal issues when not performing. This movie is supposedly based on improvisations by the actresses and it shows. There isn't much of a plot and the story wanders all over the place. There is a plot line about a Russian contract killer that seems to have been spliced in from another movie altogether. The characters are mostly stereotypes and uninteresting. There are some funny scenes, such as Oh visiting Hannah's apartment and talking about rats in the air conditioning, but otherwise it's too long and dull, despite the flesh parade. A far more interesting film set in a strip club is Atom Egoyan's Exotica. "},{"Title":"tries not be just another T&A exploitative movie, but it is anyway","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Blue Iguana is yet ANOTHER 'serious drama' about a group of females working at a strip club, but fails as nearly every attempt before it has. If the filmmakers claim they set it in a strip club for any other reason than to get some T&A up on the screen, they are lying. There is NO other reason to set a film in a strip club other than for some T&A. As an earlier reviewer noted, they could have set this film in a hospital or restaurant and kept the same characters and storylines. Not that that would be a good thing. Blue Iguana features the standard stripper characters as a dozen other strip club movies; the only difference is that they are being portrayed by B-list semi-stars as opposed to C-list nobodys.As MLDinTN notes, we got the dumb stripper, the tough/sensitive stripper, the wild stripper, and the young/naive stripper. That's pretty accurate. Then there's the stock stripper movie plot elements there's the abusive boyfriend(s), the strung-out stripper(s), the gold-digging stripper hoping to meet the Knight-in-White-Armor that will carry her away from all the madness, and the owner who cares far more about making a profit than about the dancers who make the profit for him. Not that all of these characters don't exist in real life, it's just that we've seen them so many times before. MLDinTN also notes, And none of them do much. I agree so wholeheartedly with that statement that I won't even bother attempting to sum up the plot any differently. I've seen at least three different documentaries on strippers that have a hundred times more going on in their lives than the characters in this film. They should have just made another one instead of this weak take on a seedy industry.Sandra Oh was good as the intellectual stripper. Robert Wisdom was good in his small role as the Blue Iguana's owner. All the other actors are amateurish at best. Jennifer Tilly and Daryl Hannah seemed to be doing impersonations of a manic-depressive Anna Nicole Smith, with Tilly being the manic half and Hannah being the depressive half. Both were ditzy druggies with whiny voices and a total lack of the powers of higher reasoning. None of the other dancers stood out. Finally, I've been to strip clubs before and I must say that the atmosphere in the Blue Iguana is far too downbeat and moody. Slow music and depressing, lethargic dancers do not mix well. None of the dancers would make more than $10 a night, and the Blue Iguana would be out of business in two weeks. So much for realism.RATING 3/10--for doing the same old thing in a somewhat different way. "},{"Title":"I prefer the documentary","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film as I'd already seen the accompanying documentary on UK television. However, the documentary is far better than the film itself. There was also a series called G-String Divas shown on Channel 5 - made by HBO I think - about real life strippers, which was obviously far more realistic as well as far more entertaining than this limp 2-hour improv. My question is - if there is already so much documentary material around about the real thing, then why make this film at all? What does it add?I never thought I'd fast-forward through a film with so much naked flesh in it. It just shows how uninteresting Dancing at the Blue Iguana really is. The only character with any depth is the club owner. The soundtrack was also poor in that the dialogue was frequently masked by background noise. Subtitles would have been useful. Also, the music used for the stage performances was disappointing. The TV series G-String Divas used music that was more appropriate to stripping and made me turn the volume up. The music in this film seemed inappropriate.Finally, on a single positive note - a special mention for Kristin Bauer who appears at the end with a great acting performance (despite her mistake), as well as a daring on-stage appearance. I don't recall seeing her in anything else, but maybe sexy blondes don't get too many challenging roles. Go girl!Dave K   "},{"Title":"A lot of decent talent wasted","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" For Fans Of Strippers? Date Night No Art Factor None Fun Factor None Emotional Factor None Intelligence Required None Essential Viewing No The Plot Strippers deal with everyday life My Take This was terrible. Bad acting by some decently big names (Sandra Oh, Daryl Hannah, Jennifer Tilly, Kristin Bauer). The script was as boring as you can get. And it's a movie about strippers! I mean, you would think that it would at least be a bit exciting, but oh no, not at all. The direction gave the entire movie a late night skinamax feel that came off as cheesy. I would not recommend this hookers with hearts of gold tale to anyone (unless you are really into seeing name actress nudity). "},{"Title":"A collection of very compelling scenes...","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not a perfect movie by any means, yet still worth the investment in time to experience it. This is a collection of very compelling scenes with fascinating characters that almost anyone should be able to appreciate on several levels. "},{"Title":"Enough T&A To Keep You Interested","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The main selling point of this movie is sex. There aren't any hardcore sex scenes but there's enough nudity (hardly anything below the waist, though) to boost your interest every 10 minutes as the show loses its momentum from one strip scene to another. The girls come off as quite sweet but their lives are a mess. The story is quite difficult to follow with many loose ends but you realize after a while that it doesn't really matter what exactly is going on as this movie tries to depict things as close to reality as possible. There is no real plot to any of it. Charlotte Ayanna, to me, is the prettiest stripper with the most perfect tits while the others seem to have different 'assets' they capitalize on. Overall, if you like girls, you'd be willing to make an exception for this one. Otherwise, your time is better spent watching an exciting B-grade monster movie. "},{"Title":"DIARY OF AN EXOTIC DANCER","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  DANCING AT THE BLUE IGUANA (2001) ** Daryl Hannah, Jennifer Tilly, Sandra Oh, Sheila Kelley, Elias Koteas, Robert Wisdom, Vladimir Mashkov, W. Earl Brown, Chris Hogan, Charlotte Ayanna, Kristin Bauer.  Based on an improvisatory workshop piece this look at LA strippers and their lives offers little insight but much character for a flawed yet off-beat melodrama with some stable work by Hannah as a slow-witted woman/child who wants to be a foster mother; Tilly as an angry self-destructive type and particularly Oh as an extrovert who pines to be a poet.  (Dir Michael Radford) "}{"Title":"Sleeping Through the Blue Iguana","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Summary In a Burbank, California strip club, dancers yearn for something to live for, but don't find it. And neither does the audience.Seriously, this movie was pretty awful. Here's why1. Strip club cliches the movie is full of worn out nudie dancers, pining away for a normal lives. No surprises, complexity or characters you really care about.2. The improvisational script may have worked in Best of Show, but it simply doesn't work here. That's why there are actors and writers. It just felt off and parts that might have seemed clever when they were shot fell flat in the theater. You could feel the actors struggling to say something witty and it felt improvisational, but as I watched it I cringed for the actresses because it just wasn't working.In one scene Darryl Hannah asks a cop to take a picture of her standing in front of a billboard of herself. She says something like That's me on the billboard. I'm really not that big in real life. Hannah's character is the worst cliche of a bombed out bimbo. Embarrassing for her and the viewers. I think the improvisational style is just another way of cutting costs for good writers. Big time.3. So slow. It didn't build to a conflict or resolution. It came. It played. And then it petered out...after the first ten minutes.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining melodrama with some highlights","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A very uneven film that begins unpromisingly, showing its improv background as nothing happens for 20 minutes. Only the rather magnetic nude dancing keeps things going until we learn the stories of four of the women who work at the Blue Iguana. Daryl Hannah shows once again her extraordinary talent as a commedienne, making us laugh with little or no material at her disposal. Her story is convoluted, truncated and whole unsatisfying. Nevertheless, we keep following her character Angel with interest thanks to her charisma. The other stories don't contribute much by themselves to the film but they hold it together towards an entertaining last 15 minutes. An excellent video rental if you like to eat lots of popcorn at the same time.   "},{"Title":"Nothing new here","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was expecting much more from this movie, from the cast and the director (I really enjoy Il Postino and The Merchant of Venice). But it's just another boring view at the lives of strippers... in a Hollywood fashion. Each one of the girls is a cliché the sad one, the silly one, the wild and self-destructive, the woman with a dark past, all of them lacking a real love and a real life...come on, a far more complex point of view could be done. Knowing now that most of the dialogue was improvisational, it's easy to figure it out what was wrong...no script, no story. Near the end, the last character (a porn star on tour, played amazingly by Michelle Bahuer) is a lot credible, but is too late for the movie. The best moment is when Jennifer Tilly, looking for some extra bucks, becomes an S&M dominatrix. Not my kind of kinky stuff, but funny to see! Finally, the music chosen just don't work for strippers, too slow, too sad... like this movie. "},{"Title":"More Angst than T&A","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this on cable and would have been sorely disappointed if I had viewed it in a theater. It's not a very satisfying film because it's so monotone and devoid of energy--all strippers are depressed, self-hating junkies who grow more pathetic as they age. Even the facial expressions are frozen in a way that's more typical of 40-something actresses than of silicone-enhanced 20-something dancers.The movie is ostensibly about strippers, but it's really about five actresses working overtime to create their characters and show that, despite their age, they can take their clothes off with the best of them. It's hard for these well-known TV and movie actresses to submerge themselves in their roles, and apart from Kristin Bauer who plays porn star Nico (an allusion to Warhol's Queen of heroin), none of them really succeeds at it. We're supposed to be applauding them for having the courage to strip bare in front of an audience, but it's clearly an ego trip for these women to show off those personally-trained bodies in which mainstream Hollywood has lamentably lost interest. What would have been truly courageous, I think, would have been to use talented unknowns in the lead roles, but that too poses the risk of leaving the audience with five characters in search of a coherent storyline. The problem may be too many story lines that go nowhere--notably, Sandra Oh as a talented poet whose verse is good enough to get her a university fellowship, but who seems not to know it. She meets a college instructor, and there's a flourishing romance, until he realizes how uncomfortable he is with her stripping and bails from the relationship. The break-up is established through a long, mournful scene in which she dances in the club, knowing he's present in the audience. The camera never really strays from her face, which makes for claustrophobia rather than intensity. Another subplot that fizzles involves Daryl Hannah's seeming rendezvous with death in the former of a stalker who sends her expensive presents. What happens when they get together is both ambiguous and anticlimactic. Sheila Kelley's character is so underdeveloped that it could have been omitted it entirely while Jennifer Tilley's repulsive punk dominatrix suggests she's way over her head.I can't help comparing this film to HBO's plucky G String Divas, a documentary in which the women were no more likable but far more interesting. A number had university degrees, and several saw themselves as entrepreneurs stashing away cash to beat the system. There was a contemptuous, carnival-like atmosphere in which the men were there to be fleeced and discarded. Some women had kids; some were lesbians; some were bisexual and involved in complicated relationships. At the end of the day, it seemed like a business rather than the sado-masochistic playpen for decaying flesh that Dancing at the Blue Iguana makes stripping out to be. "},{"Title":"Nice try but no cigar","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dancing at the Blue Iguana goes round and round, showing us snapshots in the lives of a bunch of L.A. Blue Iguana Club strippers all of whom are having problems. Apparently this plaintive between-the-acts and behind-the-scenes look at stripping is a brain fart from the director...something about improv. Whatever.  The film, however, hasn't legs of its own in spite of its attempt to desensationalize stripping, peeling away the glitzy g-strings to reveal the sad realities of stripping life. Rather, it comes off like a nice-try-but-no-cigar melodrama without the documentary foundation required for credibility nor the story arc for a drama. A  plaintive, stylish, somber, and superficial look at stripping life for the couch potato. (C-) "},{"Title":"boring & pointless","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The documentary on the DVD about Daryl & Co. going into real strip clubs to see what life is like there was much more interesting than the overblown improvisations that were actually put in the movie. If I could stand it, I'd figure out what percentage of the movie was just women dancing. I get it - they spin around poles, open their legs & crawl around. How does it move the story forward? Oh yeah, there is no story.  "},{"Title":"Like mixing whiskey, wine and beer to make one sick dude.","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I guess when all is said and done, if you're going to portray a sleazy side of life this is the way to do it.  It had lots of sex, in various forms, nudity all over, foul mouths by the dozens, murder, greed, and a few other of the deadly sins and should of been given an X rating instead of the milder R it got.  As to the plot, it was about strippers in the night club, Blue Iguana, and their lives on and off stage.  The story has a ring of being true to life, but it was hard to follow as the action jumped around so much trying to keep up with a half dozen strippers. Then there's the added feature of an assassin, which seems to be a red herring, thrown in for good measure. This one is  kind of like mixing whiskey, wine and beer all in the same evening, which makes for one sick dude.   A movie with out any redeeming value. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing....","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're looking for sleeze, you came to the right place.  If you're looking for sex or even a good story, well, you WILL be disappointed. I'm a big fan of Sandra Oh but frankly, she is a much better comedian and I think I like her better with her clothes ON.  She ain't much to look at.  And for you Jennifer Tilly fans one has to ask  WHY did she take this role?  If she is trying to be taken seriously as an actress, this was a bad detour for her.  On the other hand, as a screaming and bitchy, substance-abusing and very unhappy woman (and this is not a stretch for her) she pulls it off - but who cares?  Who cares about ANY of the women in this film???  Perhaps if it had been written and directed by women, there might have been some empathy and pathos here. Don't waste your time or money on this one.  You wanna see a good film?  Rent Bound. "},{"Title":"nothing happens","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Talk about a film with no plot.  Basically, the movie just starts following some strippers around and you get to see what their lives are like away from the stage. And like the beginning, it just stops one day. We got the dumb stripper, the tough/sensitive stripper, the wild stripper, and the young/naive stripper.  And none of them do much.  They should have just made this for the late night cinemax time slot.FINAL VERDICT  Boring and trashy.  "},{"Title":"Sleeping at the Blue Iguana (DVD)","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was very happy to see the ending credits. There was nothing absolutely unforgettable in this flick.The locations a gloomy nightclub in LA, where the dancers don't even give a show. But, as the director would say, the choice was not made to shoot their art (à la Showgirls) but to tell their life.Next, the story Inexistent. We saw the private and desperate life of those women but there is no dynamic, no drama. It is like a collection of small vignettes. The more interesting are the Hannah's one, because she plays a naive dumb character. The acting the choice for uncharismatic actresses but good improvisers is really interesting for the director, not for the audience.In conclusion, the real Dancing at the blue iguana isn't directed by Radford but by Hannah. Her documentary is a fine work and succeeds where the movie always fails. The direction has a good tempo, the real strippers are touching. Thanks to the DVD!!!! "}{"Title":"crap","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is pure, unadulterated crap.  They should have written a script for it because the improvising is horrible to the point of being embarrassing to watch.  Here's a list of what sucks about it, in no particular order.  The young chick, Jessie, is hot, but her attempts at sensual dancing suck.  Instead, she looks like she's just moving her arms around in slow motion.  The Asian chick, Jasmine, is unbearable to look at with that horse face and flat rack, and her tough/vulnerable act is obvious as just that... an act, and a bad one at that.  Is Daryl Hannah trying to portray a sweet, innocent, naive girl?  She comes off looking and sounding more like a retard.  I thought they had laws against retards being taken advantage of like that.  Oh, and where is the story in this movie?  This movie is like a swimming pool that is marked 15 feet at the deep end but is really only 2.  You can't tell from the surface but once you get in it's obvious.  I mean... this movie really really sucks with it's shallow, lame attempts at depth and storyline.  The only, and I mean ONLY good things about this movie are Jennifer Tilly's boobs and Daryl Hannah's butt.  For anyone who watched this movie and actually thought that it was in any way artful or worthy of one tenth of an iota of praise, other than the fact that there are fine naked chicks in it, you need to get your head examined. "}]