[{"Title":"Charming Comedy is No 'Loser'!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling's latest teen comedy, 'Loser', is an old-fashioned charmer where nice guys finish first, sweet girls end up making the right choices, and pushy 'users' get their just desserts! Perhaps nobility is passe in films today, but 'Loser' makes a great case for working class heroes who succeed by 'doing the right thing'.Paul Tannek (Jason Biggs) is a farm boy who wins a scholarship to a college in New York City. Bright, awkward, and shy, and possessing the worst haircut since Adam Sandler's in 'Little Nicky', he accepts his family's celebration of his success with embarrassment, and a fear of failure, but his father (Dan Aykroyd, who is wonderful in his brief scenes) offers simple advice Listen to people, look them in the eye. Be a friend, and you'll succeed.Cut to New York City (which has never looked more beautiful), and Paul's worst fears are coming true. His dress is ridiculed, his roommates are 'too cool' jerks who take advantage of him while dissing him, and his instructors, particularly Professor Alcott (Greg Kinnear, at his smarmiest!) snub him imperiously. Paul is lonely and frustrated, which makes a simple act of kindness by fellow student Dora Diamond (Mena Suvari, in her best performance, to date) take on special significance to him. Diamond is a kindred spirit, although she has been manipulated into believing Professor Alcott loves her, and has become his clandestine lover.As both of their lives take downward turns (he gets thrown out of his dorm, she loses her waitress job), they develop a platonic friendship (he is far too much a gentleman to attempt to break up a relationship!), and the film becomes a game of guessing when these two terrific people will realize they belong together!'Loser' features a lot of very funny cameos, by Andy Dick, David Spade, Andrea Martin, Colleen Camp, many others, and, to Heckerling's credit, these 'guests' never detract from the positive message of the film.This makes a great date movie (particularly if your date loves kittens!), and is a 'feel-good' flick you can enjoy again and again! I loved it, and I think you will, too!   "},{"Title":"Amusing and honest college movie","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unfairly condemned by the critics, this movie worked for me as a comedy and as a somewhat dark look at the mores of college life. Our hero may be branded a loser, but he's definitely a believable three-dimensional character (with a heart of gold, naturally). The story takes for granted some unethical and potentially unsettling behaviour, and allows the characters to rise above it.Lets you smile throughout, and gives you some insights into contemporary life on campus without resorting to cliches. "},{"Title":"A charming and sweet romantic comedy.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"29 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *** out of ****Loser is a breath of fresh air considering the amount of vulgar comedies (American Pie, Road Trip, and Scary Movie) that have been released recently.  It relies on little sex and profanity, but instead has its success rooted firmly in the acting and charisma of young stars Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari.The film centers around Paul Tannek (Jason Biggs), an all-around nice guy from a small town who is now going to college in a big city due to a scholarship he's received.  His personality is a contrast to most people around him, particularly his roommates, who like to party all night and taunt Paul.  Because of his kindness and his apt studying each night, he's considered a loser.Yet, not everything is bad for Paul.  He's met a girl, Dora (Mena Suvari), in his European Literature class, and he develops a fast crush on her.  However, he doesn't know that she's secretly having a relationship with the class's teacher, Professor Alcott (Greg Kinnear).  After some mishaps involving a party, Paul begins to develop a strong friendship with Dora and his feelings for her begin to go even farther as he wonders if he even has a chance to have a relationship with her.A warning before watching this film if you're expecting similar antics from Biggs in American Pie, prepared to be disappointed.  Loser is a contrast to that movie.  It prefers to develop relationships rather than put in some sort of sex joke, and it's all the better for it.  True, there aren't exactly a huge amount of belly laughs in the proceedings, but it's always entertaining, fast, witty, and charming.As I said before, the movie's success lies squarely on the shoulders of Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari, and they're as good as ever.  Biggs nice-guy performance is his best to date and he creates one of the most genuinely likeable and true characters I've seen in movies for a while.  Suvari is equally appealing as the role of a girl whose also kind but is mixed up in the wrong relationship.  The chemistry between them is strong and the best praise I can give this film is the fact that I cared for their characters and wanted to see them get together.The other performances are suitable enough.  The other standout is probably Greg Kinnear as the professor, whose smug performance makes hims a character easy to hate.  There are also appearances from well-known comics like Andy Dick and David Spade, and their brief cameos bring a few good laughs.Amy Heckerling wrote and directed this film, and while her script may be rather predictable, her direction is still good and she shows the same talent she had in the 80's.  This may not be her funniest film, but it's easily the most likeable.Loser also has other little elements that work to its advantage.  The film features a good soundtrack, playing songs that are actually appealing and also work with the scenes and situations it's played along with. With standout performances, excellent chemistry between the two leads, Loser is a great date movie and one you certainly cannot pass up if you're a fan of both Biggs and Suvari.  This is definitely the most pleasant surprise I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but still very entertaining","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Loser is a very predictable film. Plotwise, it follows most other romantic comedy type movies. But still, there is enough here to make it stand out somewhat. Granted, being better than most teen romantic comedies isn't much of an accomplishment, but Loser is a good movie, even though I knew what was going to happen.I thought Jason Biggs played his part as Paul very well. He had the loser-like goofiness that inspired quite a few laughs, but you could also tell how much the character loved Mena Suvari's character, Dora. Greg Kinnear is also very good as Professor Alcott, Dora's love interest at the beginning of the movie. When all is said and done, Paul comes out as a winner, not a Loser, because he realizes that you don't have to fit in with everyone else to be cool. That's what really sets this movie apart from lots of other recent teen movies. It does have a point. Obviously, it's not extremely deep, and it won't change your life or anything, but it's still good, and it makes the movie very worthwhile.I think that lots of people didn't like this movie because they were expecting something along the lines of American Pie, given that both Biggs and Suvari were in that. If you're looking for American Pie, you will not like Loser. Although billed as a comedy, there are some times when it's downright serious, especially further into the movie. If you want non-stop gross-out humor, Loser is not for you. If, however, you want to see a good romantic film, that's funny at times, but serious at other, just like real life, then I think you will enjoy Loser. Yes, the basic plot is quite familiar, but there's enough extra stuff to keep it interesting and make it stand out from the crowd of bad teen comedies that have been around lately.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why people like to bash this movie, it is a nice little remake of the 1960 classic the apartment where in a businessman sells out to his bosses so they can use his apartments to have affairs with other women, but when one attempts suicide in his house, it happens to be the one he falls in love with, the same story is evident here, Biggs plays the role well, and Suvari could play Shirley MacLaine in future remakes, the same with Kinnear and MacMurray, this could become one of those films that could get young people involved into the classics. "},{"Title":"kinda nice, but nothing to write home about...","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well here we go... another teen/young adult college comedy coming your way, spiced up with a little romance, the usual boy-meets-girl-falls-in-love-but-she's-already-with-someone storyline, and that's really all there is to tell, aside from a few notable college pranks that kinda make you wonder what _you_ did with your time back then...The acting is alright, teen-movie poster child Jason Biggs as the Loser delivers well, Greg Kinnear does a great job in his role as the slick, uppity, self-important, boneheaded college professor with a dirty little secret.... an let's not forget the one and only true reason why this movie just might be for you after all Mena Suvari!! (Yes folks, I gotta admit that I, for one, will never find true happiness until one fine day I'll get to be with somebody like her.) Cute as ever, she gives a standout performance as the sweet, attitude-laden little grunge girl. Really something to see! As for the rest of the movie, it's more like same old, same old... - if you like Mena Suvari, you're bound to love it, but otherwise, not that I'd tell you not to bother, but just don't expect to be too thrilled because it's really all been done before (and some of it actually by none other than Jason Biggs in some of his better-known flicks). "},{"Title":"If Only....","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Why don't nice guys like that exist in real life? Or maybe they do and are just overshadowed by the nasty ones. Either way, it's a travesty.I caught this movie on a late-night rerun, and it wasn't exactly what I expected. When I first saw Jason Biggs, I dreaded another 'American Pie'-type teen movie. My main complaint with the 'American Pie' series is that they rely a lot on crude, slapstick humour and placing their characters in wholly unrealistic situations to get a laugh.Surprisingly, not so in 'Loser'. The humour was more subtle, nuanced, with no proverbial big red flashing signs saying THIS IS A FUNNY PART, LAUGH HERE. It was more genuine, gentle and affective - yes I mean affective with an a. We laugh empathetically because we know what he's going through, not because he gets caught with his hand glued to his penis.There are complaints that this movie is somewhat unrealistic, and I agree that the background characters (mainly Paul's dorm mates and the Professor) are pretty one-dimensional at times, but they're the support cast. They're just there to effect (yes, with an e) and support the storyline. Jason Biggs did pretty all right as the nice country boy lost in the nastiness of the city, and Mena Suvari's character complemented his nicely as the girl who makes all the wrong decisions, but is really trying to find her way. And besides, I think it's sad that this movie is considered to be unrealistic because the main character is so nice. Really shows what kind of world we live in if we consider niceness to be unrealistic.Overall, it was enjoyable, not very complex... a movie you'd watch to wind down from a busy day, or on a rainy evening with nothing to do. "},{"Title":"Entertaining teenage romantic comedy","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a teenage romantic comedy about a guy that goes to New York to go to college. He's from the countryside and he feels a bit out of context there, because people reject him for his simplicity. It's a simple story, quite realistic, and it's done in a funny and entertaining way (I especially enjoyed the scene when they do a teenage party inside the vet shop, with all the dogs and cats! It was funny!). There're nice performances from Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari who do the main characters. The soundtrack is appropriated to a teen movie. It's nothing outstanding but it's a nice and entertaining film. I score it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Hits a little close to home","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have always been the outsider as a teenager (why do you think I have hundreds of movies on my comment list), so I can relate to this film.  Not because I have gone to a college from a far off land and am not familiar with the area.  But because I have always known what It's like to not always get the girl, always to be alone and to have such low self-esteem you make eeyore from Winnie the Pooh look like Richard Simmons.  So I can sympathize.  But saying did I like the entire movie, no.  Because the main heroine (Mena Suvari) knows who is the right one in her life (her choices are the teen Jason Biggs and a married professor Greg Kinnear) and takes too long to find out who the right one is (I am not revealing who that is).  While she and Biggs are likeable characters, they also make dumb choices in the dating game.  Sort of like Boys and Girls which came out last month.  Yet, I can reccomend this film to teen film fans, Everclear fans, or fans of writer/director/co-producer Amy Heckerling's work (she is of Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Clueless fame).  Just don't go into it looking for a way to find better love.  B+ "},{"Title":"A poor treatment for the Loser","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jason Biggs stars as the Loser a freshman trying to fit in at New York University. It has the usual likable loser who gets stuck around jerks and tries to win over a girl. It's been done many times before and it's been done better.Written and directed by Amy Heckerling, this is her first film since Clueless (1995). It only has a few funny lines and relies on popular music to make it entertaining. It has very little of the ascorbic wit Heckerling has shown in her other films. The best character was Greg Kinnear as the unscrupulous college professor with great banter. Biggs is his usual likable awkward self. Mena Suvari plays 'the girl' and as usual for Suvari she comes across as annoying and not nearly as smart as her character is supposed to be.If you are looking for the next Clueless check out I Could Never Be Your Woman (2007) it better matches Heckerling's potential. Or for a better version of this Loser genre, watch She's Out of My League (2010) or Sydney White (2007). "}{"Title":"I understand it's not the most amazing film ever shot, but it's one of my favorites anyway","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just love this movie. Just like another review on here said, to me it his kind of close to home. I've never been too lucky with the ladies this movie just seemed very personal to me. and while some i guess thought they weren't that great of a pair, i honestly loved the interaction between the two main characters. this is one of those i really wish that kind of thing would happen to me and it's a movie that i really enjoy watching to kind of escape for a little bit. i also think it is just overall a pretty good movie despite it's incredibly low rating. i think the three roommate characters are quite amusing, it has a lot of funny quotes and plot events, and a lot of the drama is good too. overall this is just in my opinion a very entertaining movie and it has a somewhat unique effect on me and will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...it should be pointed out to those fervently defending it as new and fresh that this is a faithful remake of Billy Wilder's masterful The Apartment, made back in 1960 and a Best Picture winner. The main difference is that the original was set in a large office building rather than a university. Jack Lemmon plays the lead; three co-workers of his keep pushing him out of his apartment so they can carry on illicit affairs, while he falls in love with the elevator operator who is dating his boss.Those of you who enjoyed Loser will probably enjoy the original even more - fresher, funnier, edgier and darker. If Loser stood by itself, it wouldn't be a bad movie, but most critics naturally compared it to its superiour inspiration leading to a lot of negativity. "},{"Title":"what's wrong with you people?","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  guess more than half of the audience of this movie was expecting american pie 2 or something.. well it's not! loser is more drama than comedy, so if you're expecting jokes after jokes thrown at you, well be prepared to be disappointed.overall, the movie's quite entertaining. a bit slow, though, and yes, oh-so predictable. but it does have some good times. go see it. "},{"Title":"A teenage version of Billy Wilder's The Apartment","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While proving to be rather funny, Jason Biggs' provides a very likeable and almost heroic character.  The soundtrack has many good songs, and borrows one from The Graduate.  There are many similarities between Loser and The Apartment.  Mena Suvari finds herself in a relationship very similar to Shirley McClaine (sp?).  The female character even ends up staying with the main male charcter for the same substance abuse reason.  Jason Biggs portrays a shy and vulnerable victim--much the same as Jack Lemmon.  Biggs and Lemon cannot even be compared (i.e. Kevin Spacey said Jack Lemmon's character inspired him, not an American Pie), but Loser does provide a complimentary remake to the 1960 classic (for the teeny-bopper version). "},{"Title":"The Hat and the Hottie","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Amy Heckerling doesn't quite know what kind of audience she is trying to engage. If she's trying to show high school kids the problems and unexpected strife of college life in a metropolis, then she should have shown that world in a more focused way. If she's trying to be funny and quirky for the older subset than her characters should have been better written and less dickish. Besides being clinically underwritten, it's difficult to figure out who is the lead character, or at least the person we're supposed to sympathize with. Throughout the film we follow Paul (Biggs) and it seems that he is our protagonist. We feel for him when his dorm mates are mean spirited, when the girl of his dreams is misguided, and when everything tries to keep him from getting through school, but he lacks character development. He goes through hard times, but there's no resolution to be seen, and he doesn't change at all. Dora (Suvari) on the other hand has a mess of bad things happen to her, and then she changes her opinion about her relationship with her professor (Kinnear), which means she's the only character who evolves throughout the film. It seems that we should be following her, but then interwoven in her tale is that of Paul's, who just seems like some poor schmuck who never wins. Without any proper direction for our characters, and no change in their behaviors or thoughts on the world, there shouldn't really be any reason for this film to exist. It's trying to show the problems of college students, but it doesn't realistically depict them. Paul's three roommates are also pretty distracting, as they're rich, sycophantic rapists, who don't seem to get much comeuppance until the credits. Besides its plot defects it's also drab and very of its time, making this film a tiring slog. "},{"Title":"very realistic","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most teen movies are obnoxious fantasies which insult the viewer's intelligence, but not Loser.  All the major characters closely resemble people I met in college.  The movie is sweet without romanticising the Midwesterner's fashion sense, the rich New Yorkers' morality or the professor's ethics.The dialogue is also very true-to-life.  For example, the loser's roommates greet him by mockingly asking whether he thinks tongue studs enhance sexual please.  That's exactly the sort of thing a rich NY kid would say in such a situation.  In another scene, the loser asks his exploited friend Dora Can't you be in love without being madly in love?  That's a very good question.  "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was surprised how good this movie actually is. It's more romance than a comedy because there were not many jokes but a story, characters and soundtrack made this film great. There were no boring moments. I've watched this film because of Wheatus music video Dirtbag Baby (this song is a theme of Loser) expecting to see something like that in a movie but a movie was different than music video and still I wasn't disappointed. Most of jokes were about Jason Biggs character and it wasn't very funny, actually it made me feel sorry for him. But anyways the movie itself was great. So if you are expecting this movie to be funny you may be disappointed but on the other hand it's a great love story. "},{"Title":"Further proof of my Trailers Mean Nothing theory.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Time and time again, I've seen trailers for movies that look absolutely awful, but then when I saw the movie itself I saw that the trailer had mislead me completely. Such is the case of Loser. Although promoted as a simple 'two misfits meet & fall in love' story, this film actually has a far more involved plot than that. It's also not a straight light comedy, contrary to popular belief. Loser is a semi-serious dramedy, and it functions incredibly well that way. It also has one of the best romance developments of any movie I've seen. It's a heck of a lot more realistic than the cheese-fests of several decades ago.I normally don't think much of Jason Biggs. Basically all he's good for is teen comedies, or so I thought until I saw him as Paul in Loser. We finally get a performance out of him that actually has some merit to it. Plus, he has great chemistry with his leading lady.I also am not a fan of Mena Suvari. Most of her roles lack any depth of character portrayal, and the fact that she usually looks pretty bad doesn't help an actress who often plays hotties. But as Dora, I see the first Suvari part I've ever actually liked. She really does convey the character superbly, and for once she really looks as cute as the rest of the cast says.Greg Kinnear pulls off his usual fine portrayal of the sleazy, conceited guy, in this case a professor named Alcott.Assorted cameos (Dan Aykroyd, David Spade, etc.) fit the situations like gloves and never seem forced like they do in other movies. These were cameos because the actors wanted to do it, not because the director wanted them. The supporting parts, like the roommates, were done well as well. Yes, I realize I just said well as well.*small spoilers ahead. very small.*I hear people complain that the underplot about the drugs was too funny. But those people failed to notice that the plan DIDN'T WORK, which is the reason that the story could be handled so lightly. And I hear people complain about the fates of the 3 roomies. But those people failed to see the comedy at play. For some reason, they have trouble comprehending that Loser is both serious and funny.Loser is a good movie. No great classic, but enjoyable, worthwhile, and well-presented. Go check it out. But make sure you rent the tape BEFORE you pick up the pizza. "},{"Title":"The Right Slot","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I suppose this story will never die spirited young girl makes an enthusiastic mistake in love and eventually finds `true' happiness elsewhere.In fact, I suppose that already an intelligent viewer can track all sorts of changes in society purely through how this female role is portrayed. The edition in this film is heartbreakingly sweet, perfectly groomed to a glossy punk and has some indication of an inherent intelligence that is never shown. All young actresses have to wade through these roles, and one can get some measure of their future in how they approach it as actresses. Mena's vixen has no irony at all, no actor's guile. She plays the sweetness straight, and wears the clothes well. She lacks a complete commitment to the part, and that hampers her portrayal of commitment to the perfesser.Most of all, she seems wholly unintelligent as an actress. As with many such fables, the preying man here is a professor of literature, a figure nearly as common as the confused waif. The preference for literary figures has long been a foundation for self-reference in film the `literary' creations discussed folding into the nature of the film (`Wonder Boys' snaps to mind). In such cases, it behooves an intelligent actress to display some annotative display outside of her character. Nothing here. Instead, she is a simple redhead, an aDORAble diamond. The director's daughter, also a redhead plays a minor role, in fact there are many cameos and redheads here.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"The title says it all...","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although Amy Heckerling (director of Clueless, Fast Times at Ridgemont High) tries to create another teen pop film, Loser is shallow and boring. The script leaves a lot to be desired, which is most evident in the ending sequence between Jason Biggs (American Pie) and Mena Suvari (American Beauty). Both actors give a lackluster performance, riddled with clichés and stereotypes. Greg Kinnear (As Good As It Gets) does a fair job, which seems god-like in comparison to Biggs, Suvari, and the rest of the cast. The trio of Thomas Sadoski, Zak Orth, and Jimmi Simpson, who play Biggs' college dormmates, form one of the worst groups of characters in recent film history. Their senseless mockery of Biggs' character borders on the ridiculous. Cameos from Andy Dick (NewsRadio) and David Spade (SNL, Tommy Boy) were entertaining, but were quickly lost in the abyss of stale plot lines and bad acting. The saving grace of this film is the soundtrack, which features some of the year's best like Wheatus' Teenage Dirtbag and SR-71's Right Now.3/10 "}{"Title":"I really enjoyed this film","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this film! Its a real and genuine feel good movie which will undoubtedly charm you. Many films you watch once and never watch again, but for me i can watch this film many times and still get that same fuzzy feeling from when i first watched it.The acting is pretty good, I think pairing Mena Suvari and Jason Briggs was perfect as they'd already worked together in American Pie. The film is also more plot to it than most teen-comedy movies. It may not be as funny as the likes of American Pie, But it has many of its own qualities. Jason Briggs does really well and you end up really liking his Character, He does a really good job at playing Mr Nice and really charming you.Give this film a watch. You never know, you might just agree with me "},{"Title":"Biggest Loser of a Film.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Loser (2000) Dir Amy Heckerling / Cast Jason Biggs, Mena Suvari, Greg Kinnear, Thomas Sadoski, Jimmi Simpson Title is a misdirection since the so-called loser is actually a smart. Jason Biggs arrives in New York to attend college but his roommates dislike him because he studies. They scam him into another dorm but buddy up to him in order to have a narcotics party. Biggs meets Mena Suvari in a class and they strike up a friendship then he invites her to a concert. She has a relationship with a professor who uses her for sex while embarrassing her in class. When Biggs returns after being stood up he encounters the result of a party plus Suvari passed out in the washroom after drinking what she believed was juice. She cannot see the obvious even when they both deliver kittens together. Outcome is predictable and humour fades quickly. Directed by Amy Heckerling who made the teen masterpiece Fast Times at Ridgemont High as well as the popular and also superior Clueless but she provides none of that observation here. This film is clueless in ways that are exact opposite to the Alicia Silverstone flick. Biggs is totally flat his relationship with Suvari is uninspiring. She at least had a back story until the boring romance over birthed kittens occurs. Greg Kinnear plays a lousy stereotypical professor completely one note. Boring teen comedy misses the mark and becomes just what the title indicates. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"This films gives the message on not to judge others as the way they are...","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have to say, I honestly hate those roommates of Paul's lol! They would be the sort of roommates you wouldn't want to be spending the night with. I really think they are mostly the losers in this situation. I feel sorry for their parents. Although I really have to give credit to the actors who played the three guys!Before I saw this film, I only knew Jason Biggs from the American Pie series and Christ he was a bit sleazy even for a dirty movie. Now that I have seen this film, I realized he really did a great job on playing an awkward sweet character. I was so happy when he finally let his heart out in getting back at the three stooges and the horrible teacher. Heck I'm so delighted himself and Dora passionately kissed!I was so glad that legends Dan Aykroyd, David Spade and Greg Kinner appeared like it was great to see them involved in the project! Watch this film, it's really good ) "},{"Title":"A good movie.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Frankly, i think this is a pretty good movie, this is my favorite movie too, all the actors did their part, i'm amazed by Jason Biggs on how he portrayed his character.Unlike his other movies such as American pie, American reunion, etc. this one is quite different, best suited movie for all you people who prefer romantic,comedy movies most specifically it's best suited for almost summer type of thing. Asides from that, there are other actors who portray their roles, Andy Dick also appeared in this movie as a clerk, and David Spade as a video store clerk, which reminds me of the movie The Benchwarmers this time David Spade portrays Richie Goodman who is also a video store clerk so i find it kinda ironic but cool too, and not to mention that Mena Suvari never looked so beautiful before. the story line of this movie could also happen in real life for people who just received a scholarship and moves to another place for collage and gets a crush on a girl type of thing, this is a really good movie, i recommend this movie for a lot of people but this is not like American pie though, so i'll give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Teenage Romance, nothing more","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, I'm not much into romantic comedies, though I am happy to sit through them as long as they are not really bad. However, I saw this movie once, a long time ago, and really enjoyed it, and recently, when I saw it for sale, bought it. It's not so much a comedy, but it is a romance, more like a teenage romance than anything else.The story is about a college student, Paul Tanneck (Jason Biggs of American Pie) who is accepted into an Ivy League college in New York, however he is on a regional scholarship which means that he needs a specific grade point average to succeed.Paul is an honest hardworking young man from the more conservative parts of the United States, but discovers that life in the city is vastly different. He finds that all his room mates want to do is party, and he simply cannot find any peace to be able to study (though why he does not go to the library is beyond me). To quickly outline the plot, he meets a girl (who also goes to his college) and saves her life one night after she ODed from a spiked drink, but then discovers that she is in love with his English professor (however the relationship is not legal). When Paul's roommates find out, they blackmail the professor, but Paul refuses to stop to their level, and continues to do his work honestly. While he passes the subject, it is not enough to keep up his grade point average. however, the girl (Dora Diamond) dumps the professor and Paul and Dora get together and live happily ever after.I guess this film gives us a glimpse into the college life in New York. It shows the difference between the rural Paul and the rich city kids who are his dormmates. Dora, while being in college, has to work in an industry that is not suited to her (being a waitress at a strip club, in that she is required to flirt with customers so that they end up spending more money). Further, since she lives out of town, she has to catch a train home every night or else be stuck in the city (and in doing so needs to lie to her mother). Paul's dormmates (if you can call them that) suggest that she is the type of girl who will shack up with anybody so they don't have to catch the train home.Is this love? Probably not, but with movies we are not really interested in what happens before (unless it is essential to the movie) or what happens after. It is assumed that once the movie ends, the world continues on in the status quo that develops at the end of the movie. I guess that's just Hollywood. "},{"Title":"The Apartment Without The Class","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rented this as the freebie along with Amelie, and was stunned to discover some 15 minutes in that I was watching the most wholesale refilming of one my all time favourite movies, as Loser, transposed The Apartment to teenflickville. Amy Heckerling's previous reworking of classic material i.e Emma into the very fun Clueless, at least had deftness of touch, sureity of footing and genuinely funny moments, along with a public acknowledgment that she was tinkering with someone elses work. Maybe she was testing out the movie going public and critics to see how knowledgeable we were or maybe she was just keeping her eye down, but it stuns me that I don't recall ever seeing in the (mostly bad) reviews I've seen of this that anyone ever brought up the obvious lift of Billy Wilder's entire movie, right down to the 3 manipulative weasly co-workers of Jack Lemmon turned into 3 manipulative weasly roomies of Jason Biggs.Entire scenes are just reworded and refilmed, with no real spin or new take. Biggs and Suvari, while sweet and a hell of a lot better than a lot of their teen compatriots, are no Lemmon and McLaine, Greg Kinnear just doesn't have the oily charm of Fred MacMurray's original, and the ending doesn't have anything like the understated impact of the Wilder original.Not surprised it bombed, because it's too flacid (the transposition to college life doesn't work) it doesn't work as an original, it doesn't work as a tribute (due to no new insight) and it doesn't work as a remake (class always wins out over youth). Rent the original, sit back and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Honest Sweet YEAH YEAH YEAH","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was good. It was sweet. Funny at times, kind of retarded humor, like it if you were inside the LOSER guys head, you would be telling yourself, okay lets say something to see if she thinks its funny. Like Chill in. no one is that stupid. But, It was a good movie, and I liked it... a bit. i gave it a 7 "},{"Title":"Great American College comedy.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  even bfor i saw this movie i was expecting an enjoyable watch, and was not surprised at the least,when i got one. with a really good cast of unkowns and a  good main character played by american pies Jason Biggs, who holds the part of good hearted and kind LOSER  who ain't used to the life in a city.good thing bout this film is that it ain't a stupid slapstick film, its good comedy that manages to be pulled out of serious situations that are probly undergone by a rather large population of the college student era, i'm getting at drugs,parties and relations etc. worse thing bout it though is that it wasn't released at the cinemas in the uk and so was missed by a large amount of the public even with the famous Wheatus release.anyways, rent this one cause its well worth the watch and if u'r a bit of a movie buff theres a cameo part by comedian DAvid Spade, but its only a tiny part that he ain't even credited for. have a good one ad bye for now. "},{"Title":"Predictable plot, great songs","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was increasingly predictable.  Only momentary plot alterations strayed from typical love stories.  No original writing.  Actors were decent, but the characters were too clearly good or evil.  Character development was limited.  Soundtrack was excellent.   "},{"Title":"Fun but doesn't deliver what it promises","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I checked out this page before deciding to order this film onpay-per-view. What I was hoping for was a romantic studentcomedy. And it was that. It was never hilarious but the story had aninteresting build. When it starts out you think it's a completecomedy, as we have Dan Aykroyd as Jason Bigg's father andJason Biggs in other `hilarious' mishaps, which don't promisemuch.But when the story gets underway of the two trying to get to knoweach other better, it's getting really good. The writing of thecharacters is very true to life, which is a rarerity these days.Unfortunaly, the film looses tracks. The girl passes out during aparty and the guy takes her to a hospital and cares for her. And weare waiting for the moment when she wakes up that he has to tellher what happened. Dramatic moment! Gimme, gimme, gimme!But no, what happens is she wakes up, apologizes for using hisbed then asks how long she was asleep. He says since Friday.She says, well okay I have no memory of what happened but whatdid they say at the hospital? Duh, am I missing some dramaticplot development here?Film never catches it's track back and I think is mostly interestingfor film students (as myself) for Heckerling tried a lot of interestingthings, instead of watching this film for fun and realizingHeckerling this time didn't pull it off.A 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"I really liked this movie.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ever since i saw it playing in movie theaters, i wanted to see this movie. I was too embarrassed though, cause it was another teen flick. ya know, sometimes it's not tbe best to been seen going to one, especially alone like i usually go. So just today, i saw this movie LOSER, at blockbuster for $3 used..watched it right away and...really good movie! Jason Biggs, who you normally think of as getting it on with a pie, actually does a real good job in this movie i think. He's believeable to me at least. His character is so real, and you wanna like him too. but he is the loser of the movie, but it's only titled that way, i think the people that were treating him bad were the losers. plus, mena suvari...her own character has issues in the movie, and i'm glad her character finally released how much jason biggs' cared about her, and how much better they were for each other. This movie really kept me interested. It's a sweet and cute romance with some cute humor. It's partly drama i'd say though. cause it's emotional most of the way. I really recommended checking this movie out. However, if you're one of those people, that only looks for action, and knee-slapping humor, and doesn't like anything serious, then don't bother. but i happen to like that stuff =)oh, and i think mena suvari looks really pretty with dark hair. she should stick with it. but obviously she isn't, but i wish she would "},{"Title":"Not Just A Teen Flick...A Sweet Movie!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When my friends wanted me to go see this movie I thought no way me go see a teen flick!!!! But this movie was a sweet movie about a guy just wanting to be accepted. Funny and Honest! "},{"Title":"Wheatus should be sued for making an awful movie look good.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay well first of all Wheatus should be sued for making an awful movie look good. Other than the fact that the music video for Teenage Dirtbag has NOTHING to do with the movie itself, they don't have the same location, scenes or time setting. I thought Loser was a teen high school flick and i got a college campus with date rape, professor-student relationship and not much laughs. If you want my advice, watch the music video and skip the movie - your getting the better deal. "},{"Title":"Smalltown boy goes to big-city college","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I wasn't expecting anything grand from this flick, and that turned up to be just right. This movie is supposed to be a comedy, well I didn't notice that actually. There's like one fun thing said throughout the whole movie. The only reason for seeing this would be Mena Suvari, not for her acting, rather for her looks. "},{"Title":"Of course it's The Apartment","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a simple modern version of The Apartment, something which everybody who's ever seen it will see. There's a hint to it. Mena Suvari's character's name is Dora DIAMOND. Billy Wilder's co-screenwriter on many of his classic films name is I.A.L. DIAMOND. A coincidence, i think not. But overall it's a decent teen-comedy, but NEVER NEVER compare it to The Apartment.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"It's 'The Apartment'!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser is quite enjoyable - not I thought up to the standard of 'Fast Times..' or 'Clueless'.  However, what really struck me is that the plot is almost identical to 'The Apartment'.  The only major story difference also gives the film its contemporary spin - whilst the Shirley Maclaine character tries to kill herself, the Mena Suvari version is given a drink spiked with Rohipnol - the 'date rape' drug.  It was really creepy to see college kids doing this.  No doubt Billy Wilder would have thought of a suitably ironic way for the date-rapers to get their comeuppance! "},{"Title":"On the tradition of The Last American Virgin (1982)","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser (2000) definitely transported me back to The Last American Virgin (1982). The main characters of each one Gary on Virgin, and Paul on Loser have basically the same problems...bad company and a girl they really love and could die for. The music is also basic for giving the mood for both movies. Virgin had catchy tunes like Whip It by Devo, Keep On Lovin' You by REO Speedwagon, Open Arms by Journey, De Do Do Do, De Da Da Da by The Police, That's The Way I Like It by KC and The Sunshine Band; while Loser contains tunes like Right Now by SR-71, What's My Age Again by Blink 182, Blue by Eiffel 65, Bad Touch by The Bloodhound Gang, Pretty Fly For A White Guy by Offspring, Teenage Dirtbag by Wheatus, two tunes by Everclear, and many other memorable ones; including, oh surprise! Get Down Tonight also by KC and The Sunshine Band. In a few words, the movies were set for the moment they were passing through.MAIN SIMILARITIES Spoiler Alert 1. In both movies we see that the love interests of the main characters are in distress. 2. In Virgin, Gary has to save Karen from having an unwanted pregnancy. He has to sell all his expensive sound equipment to pay for the abortion. In Loser, Paul rescues Dora from dying of an overdose, claims to be her boyfriend and takes her to his place. Also she prevents her from continuing the use of fertility drugs, because of the risk of contracting cancer. 3. In Virgin, Karen returns to the arms of Rick (after their disastrous affair), not giving importance to the help that Gary gave her, and how much he cared about her. In Loser, Dora returns with the Professor Edward Alcott, even though she treated her like trash, and forgetting how much fun she had with Paul. The endings of course are different, but both movies give you a very entertaining time. Great deja vu! "},{"Title":"Very light movie...","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I decided to watch 'Loser' I have to admit I was looking for a big bunch of laughs. The movie isn't as hilarious as 'American Pie' - I think the jokes intended were not presented well enough - especially by the cameos. Now, I'm not saying it's lousy - Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari did quite well, but the script wasn't effective enough for them to portray their characters well.My advice is don't go to the show with an aim to study it deeply - there isn't anything to study! I agree with the other viewers who commented that 'Loser' was predictable, it is. However, it's entertaining - it's a very light movie, ideal for watching to relax. Nothing special, but definitely not lousy. And liking Mena Suvari helps.So those going to watch it, I don't want to discourage you - just try to keep an open mind and forget about finding faults with the show - it might make you feel worse. Best thing to do, chill out and relax. "},{"Title":"High expectations unfulfilled... (spoilers included)","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to Loser expecting to either laugh hysterically or cry uncontrollably while lost in empathy - but did neither. This movie tried to both comedy and drama - but was neither. Paul was unbelievable - literally - in the same fashion as Hugh Grant in Notting Hill; neither were unsuccessful enough in real life (nor apparently skilled enough in acting) to pull off playing nobodies/losers. Dora's character developed incongruently. First, we find her to be a sweet, innocent, *honest* person (despite the sleazy atmosphere of her first job). Later, she compromises herself. Not in the blinded-to-true-love sense which leads her back to the Professor, but in that she steals a loaf of bread and goes on to sneak Paul and herself into Cabaret the same day. This movie should have been rated R so the post-charity party scene would have allowed Paul to slowly yet anxiously search each room finding his true love laying helpless, unconscious on the surgery table - a rape victim (which would have been most plausible considering the nature of the party's hosts). Finally, this movie left me desperate with repressed emotion as the Boy Meets World (fourth season) initial kiss in the end wrapped up the singularly most anticlimactical movie I've seen yet this year.Three out of five stars (which averages a four for the writer's intention with a two for the actuality of the film).  "},{"Title":"Great Date Movie...","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was such an adorable movie. Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari are both great in whatever they do and they were sooo adorable in this movie. It was also hilarious. And like I said, a great date movie. My boyfriend and I both loved it =) "}{"Title":"Loser lives up to its name...","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let the buyer beware is a common enough phrase, and it seems this should apply to movie advertising as well.  When I saw previews for Loser, I was expecting a comedy with a spritz of romance and a dash of drama for good measure.  Instead I got a hopeless mess which wasn't sure what it wanted to be.A college frosh (Jason Biggs, from American Pie) is ridiculed by his three dorm buddies, who love to host wild parties and slip roofies into drinks of the ladies.  They eventually kick him out of the room, leaving him to fend for himself.  At the same time, he falls for a down-and-out classmate (Mena Suvari, of American Pie and American Beauty) who has the hots for her rude & crude teacher.  In theory, it sounds great.  In reality, it's a lot harder to pull off.There aren't that many chuckles, and most of them revolve around Bigg's ability to screw up and get laughed at.  After a while, you stop thinking he's a geek and actually start to think he's not such a bad guy after all, and why can't something else happen besides him getting made fun of?  And why's Suvari still with this teacher for a nerve-wracking hour and a half when it's OBVIOUS the guy's a creep?  Basically, Biggs chases Suvari around for 120 minutes trying to convince her to go for him because he's such a nice guy (which is true, but you'd think the girl would catch on quicker).Add to the mix three moronic dorm buddies who don't even resemble real people (or real college kids, for that matter; all three look to be around 25-30).  The only part of the movie I did like was the ending, when an update scrolled onto the screen to tell the future fates of these three idiots.  I chuckled at that part.  If only there was more to chuckle about.It looks like Amy Heckerling tried really hard to pull this off, but I don't think it's really her fault.  After all, to direct and produce a really wonderful film, one has to have a wonderful script to start from. I don't think she had a chance.If you want a fantastic school comedy, do yourself a favor; Save the $8.50 and go rent Clueless.  So it deals with high school instead of college... it's still better. "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser didn't turn out to be the comedy I was expecting.  I found very little of it actually funny, but I thought the onscreen chemistry between Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari was absolutely excellent.  I'd recommend it for a cute movie to see with someone special, and for those of us that are Mena Suvari fans (isn't there a fan club yet?). "},{"Title":"Enjoyable experience","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've now seen Loser at the theatre twice.  It was excellent both times. Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari have some great chemistry together onscreen. The roommates have some pretty funny moments with Paul (Mr. Biggs).  This movie had great music in addition to its good storyline.  I can't wait for a soundtrack!  If you enjoyed American Pie, I think you will like Loser. "},{"Title":"Cute and Funny but too generic","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling's Loser has many elements that can make it a box office winner.  Led by a strong cast, which includes two American Pie alumni (Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari), a veteran director in the field of teen angst/comedy/romance movies, and New York City, the movie has potential. Unfortunately, Loser falls into the generic plot trap that many romantic movies become, Boy falls in love with girl; girl has another special someone; girl dumps that someone; boy and girl hook up; THE END. Interchange the characters, throw in a couple of plot twists, and you basically have the recipe to most of our romantic comedies.  However, what separates this movie from the other Cheese Balls is the presence of Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari.  Its hard to imagine two other people pulling off the roles of a loser and doofus with as much charm as these two.  And for those who have seen both American Pie and American Beauty, Loser will only strengthen your belief that Mena Suvari is probably one of Hollywood's most attractive, cute, and talented young actresses around.  Therefore, for those fans of Mr. Biggs and Ms. Suvari, like myself, I would highly recommend this movie because you will love them as much as you loved them in American Pie. For everyone else, Loser will seem very generic and predictable, unless you have never seen a movie in your life! "},{"Title":"Jimmi Simpson as Noah was great!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought the room mates were the best part of the movie, Especially Jimmi Simpson as Noah. Hopefully we will see him in more things in the future. Although there was not much substance, (is there ever with this type of movie?) it fulfilled my expectations and provided me with a couple of hours of entertainment. "},{"Title":"A loser of a movie, but with heart","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went in to Loser ready to see an American Pie type comedy.  I had seen previous Amy Heckerling movies (Clueless, Fast Times at Ridgemont High) and enjoyed them greatly, and appreciated the teenage characters and situations. However, I was greatly disappointed when I realized that this was far from American Pie or Clueless and more along the lines of a less funny She's All That.  The comedy is really a romantic comedy focusing on Loser Paul (Jason Biggs) who falls for a classmate Dora (Mena Suvari) who is head-over-heels in love with their professor (Greg Kinner) who is not very nice to her or many other people.  It moves along very slowly and the plot is more or less not there.  To me it did not flow together at all and was too drawn out.  Mena Suvari and Jason Biggs had the on-screen chemistry and both were great in their roles, but the lack of plot, needless to say, made me lose my interest in the movie.  Loser has the right idea and casting, but just couldn't put it together like Amy Heckerling's previous works.  The few chuckles here and there and great young stars didn't make up for the lack of plot.  When comedy these days is humping apple pies (which I do find quite hilarious), Loser becomes a loser of a movie (excuse the pun) with a bit of heart in it.  I would have much rather watched the Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari in American Pie again. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie!  The title is misleading.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I was bored and had nothing to do this particular Saturday night and I had either seen everything else and/or wasn't interested in much of what was playing.  I figured that this movie would be the usual asinine garbage that is made for today's college and teenage crowds, but I like Greg Kinnear and thought I'd give the movie a look.  I expected some ridiculous, sniveling, moronic geek of a character whom everyone would pick on and he would go out of his way to kiss up to the members of the in-crowd only to be made to look even more foolish.  This was not the case, at all.  The character is played straight.  The so-called loser in the movie is not played as I thought that he would be played; he was really a winner, which made this movie surprisingly pleasant and entertaining.  The jerks in the in crowd were the true losers in this movie, as they usually are in real life. It is only in their eyes that people with values are losers.  The acting in this movie was excellent. All of the characters were portrayed in a believable manner.  You either truly liked them or despised them, and you could really root for the good guy (the loser), not because you felt sorry for him but because he really deserved to win. "},{"Title":"A pretty good film","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What stood out about this movie was the great chemistry between Mena Suvari and Jason Biggs. The script was a little lacking, but it was a refreshing break from movies filled with sex and violence. I was entertained by it, and I would also take my fifteen year old brother to see it. There are not that many movies out there I can say that about. My score 10/10 to balance out what the first user gave this movie. Its not at all bad. If the first user had been reasonable, he would have given this movie an 8/10. It beat pointless movies like Down to You and Boys and Girls by leaps and bounds. Freddie Prinze, who?? I hope we hear more from Mena and Jason soon. "},{"Title":"A true Loser","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw the preview and it looked funny and interesting. Well, most of those scenes were shown in the first 5 minutes of the movie.The rest was incredibly boring and not funny at all. Mena Suvari's character is the most naive one in movie history. The way she is treated by the college teacher - ridiculous.And the rest of the movie - well, I don't even remember it anymore.2/10 "},{"Title":"Not your summer teen flick","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A very unexpected kind of movie. It starts out in a Adam Sandler style, portraying a guy who just doesn't fit in. But then, it becomes more philosophical and less humorous. I expected something to the flavor of American Pie, but the movie is closer to American Beauty in the sense that it makes you think, what is more important, fitting in with the crowd or just being yourself.A romantic, slightly sappy movie with humour but without any gross body humour that infested 'college' movies for last few years. "}{"Title":"likeable characters, but it's no Clueless","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film, coming from Amy Heckerling (Clueless, Fast Times at Ridgemont High) was going to be another cute, charming comedy.  Loser had a more sad, serious tone--perhaps because it's set in college rather than high school?  I really liked the characters played by Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari, and they had great chemistry together.  But if I had to tell you what this movie was about, I'd be at a loss.  Well there's these two losers who get treated badly by everyone, until finally they realize what's going on.  That's about it.  I would only recommend this movie to other misfits. Extra points for Mena's terrific wardrobe. "},{"Title":"It's all in what you expect...","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Warning - Loser IS NOT a comedy.  Yes, it's funny from time to time, but that's not the heart of the film.  Most people in the theatre seemed to be expecting nonstop nutty humor, and were let down.That said, it's actually a fairly well done light romance.  Once I made the transition in my mind, I was able to enjoy the film.If you like movies that are cute, sweet, and romantic, with some goofy humor, you'll enjoy it.  If you're looking to roll-on-the-floor-laughing, wait for something else. "},{"Title":"A two hour sitcom","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The cast was good, the sound-track was awesome, but the script, well, I felt like I was watching a 2 hour sitcom. There was nothing surprising about the situation or the result and the best parts of the trailer were not even in the movie. It wasn't all bad however, there were some funny bits and it is worth seeing once. And of course Greg Kinnear rules, even if he does play a jerk.    "},{"Title":"Not as idiotic as the average teen flick...but not much fun","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Note contains a few vague spoilers, although audiences shouldn't be shocked by anything that happens in this all-too-predictable film.Amy Heckerling is responsible for two of the most brutally honest and satirical high-school films ever in Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Clueless, so I expected good things from her newest effort, Loser -- at least something more than today's typical teen tripe.Instead, Loser is mildly charming, slightly funny and mostly boring. Although the two talented leads, Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari, manage to be engaging throughout, and despite a good performance from Greg Kinnear as the unscrupulous professor, there's not much to be excited about in this film.The plot is your basic teen-love material Biggs, the good kid protagonist, must win jaded Suvari's love, but there are numerous obstacles along the way.In movies like this, the female is usually blind to the fact that her true love awaits in her geeky platonic male confidant (most recent example Boys and Girls). Alas, as the film progresses, the guy is too shy to admit to the girl that he loves her, and resorts to clandestine tactics (flowers from someone else, for instance) to woo her.Of course, the worldly girl has a nasty boyfriend (Kinnear) who mistreats her. Somehow, she prefers the slimeball over the good-hearted friend, who can't understand why the girl of his dreams doesn't reciprocate his feelings.It's a tried-and-true story that still succeeds in countless films. This time, however, the jokes are too flat, the plot too predictable and the lines between good guys and bad guys too distinct. If Suvari's character is the literary genius she's supposed to be, why is she so ignorant when it comes to her own love life?There are, of course, obligatory scenes of the would-be lovers enjoying each other immensely on pseudo-dates, which are rehashed in an unnecessary montage at the film's end. Not that the audience needs any extra convincing that they'd make a good couple, since it was evident to all but the couple from the get-go.As is mandated in such a film, the leading man must endure at least one incident in which his hopes of finally getting the girl are dashed by the reappearance of her old boyfriend, who whisks her away right out of his arms, thereby extending the film's conflict at least another half-hour.Neither of the two main characters has many friends -- Biggs' roommates are particularly malicious types who exist only to create plot-advancing situations for the two leads, and Suvari's only contacts with the world are Kinnear, an unseen mother and Biggs. Every character but the couple appears onscreen just enough to move the film toward its ho-hum conclusion, so it's no surprise when the finale, in the overdone style of Animal House and Fast Times, doesn't tell us anything we'd care to know.Loser is relatively honest about young life, considering the films it shares its genre with, but it's a far cry from anything as refreshing as Dazed and Confused or American Pie, in which Biggs and Suvari both had much better material to work with.If you must see this film at the theater, remember that two episodes of Felicity will give you just as much college angst for free -- and they'll be far less predictable. "},{"Title":"Could have been... but wound up disappointing.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have only ever walked out of a movie once before in my life. Loser was almost the second. I had really been looking forward to this movie, and the previews were so charming. The movie fell flat.. I don't know how and I can't say where, but it is not what I was expecting at all. Although Biggs and Suvari are cute, they can't save this... and I'm not entirely sure anything could have saved this movie, except a total reworking. This is not an accurate portrait of college life at all... and I also don't feel it shows my peers and I in an at realistic light. It's not totally without ANY redeeming quality... I loved the Rocky Horror thing in the background.. and some of the cameos were fun to spot. But definitely not worth movie money. Maybe rent worthy, but only when it makes it to the cheap rack. "},{"Title":"Gets better as it moves along.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser (2000) starts out kind of slow, and the editing in the beginning has a number of bad cuts.  But it gets better as it continues.  Amy Heckerling has done better in the past, but I was still entertained (and isn't that the whole point of film/movies). There are a number of cameos. "},{"Title":"Just like they used to be made","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The other day I was thinking about the way teen comedies are definitely not what they used to be like in the 80's. The 80's supplied such classics as Ferris Bueller's Day Off, The Breakfast Club, Better Off Dead, Say Anything, and Valley Girl. But fast forward to the 90's and we have to put up with films like She's All That, Down To You, and Boys And Girls. But finally Loser came along and restored my faith in the teen comedy genre. It's probably the best from recent years with American Pie and Can't Hardly Wait being close runner ups. But out of the three Loser has the best mix of comedy and good story to make it stand out against all the other garbage that is released. Jason Biggs is perfect and there are some extremely funny cameos including the best one by David Spade. To top off the list it may have the best music in a movie ever.  "},{"Title":"Big bore, very cliche plot,,,,","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was horrible! The only part that really got a big laugh out of the audience was when David Spade made his appearance(video store clerk). The plot had more loopholes than a pair of size 15 shoes! The characters were developed ok, but it seemed as though I was watching a synopsis of some kind of love story. don't expect too much from this movie "},{"Title":"Pretty nice teen flick","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Paul Tannek is a small-town boy who is accepted into New York University.But for someone like Paul it's really hard to fit in.But he meets this girl, Dora Diamond, he really likes.The only problem is she's involved with her professor.Loser (2000) is directed by Amy Heckerling.Jason Biggs, who had one big hit under his belt at that time (American Pie) is the right guy to play Paul.The chemistry thing works between him and Mena Suvari, who's also known from American Pie franchise.Greg Kinnear is great as Professor Edward Alcott.Dan Aykroyd is terrific as Mr. Tannek.There are also lots of cameos by some pretty known names in this movie.Colleen Camp plays Homeless woman.Andy Dick is Another City Worker.Steven Wright is Panty Hose Customer.Brian Backer plays Doctor.Alan Cumming is himself/Emcee.David Spade plays Video Store Clerk.Then the band Everclear is seen there.You can hear them on the soundtrack department.And there's also Teenage Dirtbag by Wheatus, which was a pretty big hit at the time.Then there's a song by The Offspring.The song is Pretty Fly (For A White Guy).Remember? And there's stuff by Blink 182, Bloodhound Gang and Foo Fighters.This is certainly not the worst in the category of teen flicks.I liked the character of Paul and the crush it portrayed he had on Dora.Give this movie a chance. "},{"Title":"Please do not watch this unless your life depends on it","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the worst films I have ever seen... ever. It is so painful to watch and although at moments you may smile this is nothing in comparison to the tears you will shed due to the serious lack of quality. I've seen some rubbish in my time but this one really is a contender for the most rubbish rubbish I have ever seen. I'm still slightly confused as to what the purpose of this film is. The characters, the story, the stupid second hat he wears, all of it just stupid. I have given it 2 stars oppose to one due to the fact I liked the song at the start. I am actually quite angry at everyone related to the production of this film and in a way myself as two hours of my life have been wasted and I will never get them back. Please, please avoid. Please "}{"Title":"Loser","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From director Amy Heckerling (Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Clueless), I remember seeing the DVD cover featuring the star one of the most recognisable teen movies, so I wanted to see why it was rated low. Basically Paul Tannek (American Pie's Jason Biggs) has arrived in New York City from the Midwest on an academic scholarship, and attending his new college it is obvious he is pretty out of place. He can't seem to find anyone that he can engage in a conversation or make any kind of friendship, due to a few mishaps, and being put with three spoilt party animal roommates. He is branded a loser by pretty much everyone he has come into contact with, and after being chucked out by his roommates he finds himself a job helping out and a room in a veterinary clinic. It is there that Paul meets and has an instant attraction for fellow coed student Dora Diamond (American Pie's Mena Suvari), the only person who seems to take any notice of him and his problems. He is devastated when he finds out that struggling Dora is dating and having an affair with a man nearly twenty years above her, literature teacher Professor Edward Alcott (Greg Kinnear). Slowly however she may be gaining more of a connection with the troubled Paul, the only thing that the professor wants to do with her is have sex with no affectionate complications at all. In the end, Paul may have made himself a bit more relevant in the stakes at the college, and of course Dora realises Edward is the wrong man for her, and they get together for the happy ending kiss. Also starring Zak Orth as Adam, Thomas 'Tom' Sadoski as Chris, Jimmi Simpson as Noah, Dan Aykroyd as Dad, Andy Dick as Another City Worker, Steven Wright as Panty Hose Customer, Alan Cumming as Himself / Emcee and David Spade as Video Store Clerk. I should start by saying that I did like most of the soundtrack songs, including Wheatus's Teenage Dirtbag, The Offspring's Pretty Fly (For A White Guy), Eiffel 65's Blue (Da Ba Dee) and The Bloodhound Gang's Bad Touch. Biggs is almost the same as his most well known character, Suvari is okay as the teen having an affair, this is a film meant to have some gross moments, but to be honest I was so bored throughout that I didn't notice, not one moment made me laugh, a rubbish teen comedy romance. Poor! "},{"Title":"Slightly above average","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the typical standard teen comedy, although it is slightly less funny than the better ones(American Pie, for example) it isn't all bad. The story is somewhat interesting, and you care about the two main characters, but pretty much every single other character is someone you instantly hate. Which is somewhat annoying, since you'd want to relate to or like at least one character apart from the two main characters. The supporting characters are especially loathe-some. However, to counter feeling bad over how much bad stuff they make the main characters put up with, the director assures you that a lot of bad stuff happens to them, by placing some text saying what happens to the characters after the movie ends. Oh, I feel much better, knowing that all those bad things happen to them. The humor is a lot like the typical movies of the genre, not really anything new there; if you liked American Pie, you might like this too, only to a less extent. Maybe a considerably less extent. Oh well. They can't all be great. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Cute!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Paul(Jason Biggs) has always known to be a little bit geeky and life in college isn't going to change that fact. He starts getting mistreated from his roomates and eventually gets kicked out of his dorm. While all this is happening, Paul befriends his punky classmate Dora(Mena Suvari) who has an affair with Professor Edward Alcott(Greg Kinnear) who doesn't give her the respect that she deserves. Slowly, Paul notices that he's falling in love with Dora, not just because she's a great friendly and outgoing gorgeous girl but also because Paul doesn't feel like a geek with her and he dares to be different, just like Dora does. I thought this was a very cute romantic comedy. Many people would consider it a plain old boring story but I enjoyed it. Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari have great chemistry together and I would give Loser 7/10. "},{"Title":"This flick is carried by its hilarious supporting cast.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film would have been better if its flash-in-the-pan stars, Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari, were even half as funny as the supporting cast.  Jimmi Simpson is ridiculously funny and Greg Kinear is perfect.  Hilarious performances by Tommy Sadoski and Andy Dick are also highlights of this ill-paced frivolity. "},{"Title":"Really funny and good","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have been wanting to see this movie for a long time, and I finally got to see it.  I really enjoyed it.  Mena Suvari is really funny, and perfect for her role.  Jason Biggs also does a good job being a loser, since that is not the kind of person he usually plays.  I think the movie is really funny, and I was laughing all the way through it.  I think the critics were wrong saying this was a bad movie, because it wasn't and I think everyone would really enjoy it.   "},{"Title":"still - it's nice","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, it's yet another highschool-comedy. OK, it's with the guy from 'American Pie'.OK, you know from the beginning who'll finally get whom. But still - it's nice. Really!!! The two protagonists are very sweet, as they're so very shy and unsure and - well - puberty-struck. The lovestory is clear, straight and never overpowered. The jokes aren't a big thing, but at least they're more inteligent than in other teenagermovies of our time. All in all you can have a pretty good time with that movie. Its message is simple - even losers like ourselves will finally find somebody to love. Doesn't that give us hope?! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, an underrated movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I just watched Loser for the second time on Cable TV (but that's not what it's called in Aust), and I now remember why I liked it so much when I saw it the first time.  Jason Biggs plays Paul, the 'nice guy who comes last' who initially gets taken advantage of by his room mates and hides his crush on another student called Dora (Mena Suvari).Dora is sleeping with one of their lecturers (Greg Kinnear)... a bloke who is quite 'high on himself', superficial and emotionally absent.  So the hollywood cliche dictates that eventually the good guy gets the girl in the end.  Jason Biggs does a great job acting this one, his character Paul won't sell his soul to be cool.. and in the end that is why he is really 'cool' and why he deserves the hollywood cliche and gets the girl.Loved it, great stuff.  One of those movies where you think, what an excellent dude he was... I'm gonna be like him... hehehehe. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Biggs is a kind-hearted college student who falls for grunge coed Suvari, unfortunately she's romantically involved with complacent professor Kinnear. Likable and occasionally funny, but it lacks the wit of Heckerling's Clueless and the story has been done before. 2/4 "},{"Title":"GOOD HEART WARMING MOVIE","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  hi im 11 years old and i am sucked into many teenager movies. about 70% there good.10% there really good. 20% arent worth seeing. Loser falls under the 10% which is really good. i was surpised on how good it was. i thought it would be ok. but both menu survai and jason biggs gave great acting jobs. i think that they didnt need the stupid dorm mates. but it was true about college. at the end you know whats going to happen but it has a better ending than you would expect. this movie was even liked by my mom and my dad. my dad likes hunting shows. come on does that prove anything. this movie will make you laugh and cry. you will be surpised how good it is so please do your self a favor and go rent it.  "},{"Title":"easily forgettable fluff.....","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      Loser is really nothing at all.  The movie is just a 95 minute cliche, and a standard teen movie, if not a bit worse by teen movie standards.  I honestly couldn't sit through it, but the sad thing is, that not having seen the last half hour, I am positive I could tell you exactly what happens.  The mark of a bad movie thats been done over and over and over, and much much better before.  Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Loser lost","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Apparently a movie about the loser who becomes a winner in the end.This however is not the case for the movie itself which, in my opinion, loses all the way. The obvious themes It's good to be different and Don't despair if you're a loser - you can be a winner obviously must appeal to adolescents but the message is very poorly expressed. The image of college presented is disturbing. As a foreigner I thought that the average American college student was just a bit dedicated to studying but this is ridiculous. Most of the students are stupid (and seem unrealistic and are badly played), the professors let their pretty young lovers grade other students' work, it is suggested that if a student needs a higher grade the teacher should just give it to him and the standard of education appears to be low. The drugs and alcohol part however was a touch of realism, though still it all looks as though the makers of the film have long forgotten what it is like to be young. All in all Loser is so far the least important movie of this century. "},{"Title":"At least the title didn't lie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A one dimensional story with two-dimensional characters. Very random scenes that didn't push the script forward plus a lot of supporting characters who drifted on and off the screen whenever we needed a laugh. Dan Ackroyd does nothing as the Dad. That jackass David Spade has three one liners which was just enough before you want to stun gun him. Andy Dick shows up and does a fairly decent job. Greg Kinnear seems to try and act like an a-hole macho man to get away from being typecast as either gay, pretty rich boy or both. Jason Biggs was good, but I liked his loser hat more than the really loser haircut they gave him. The girl from American Beauty was probably the best one in it, although if she plays another Lolita character she'll be typecast forever as the young girl who screws older guys. I wanted to like this movie, it just never went anywhere and drifted from serious to amusing to stupid. Did you also notice that $30 Paul had left for the entire semester sure went a long way in downtown Manhattan? Just that pizza and video and flowers alone would've been like 437 dollars. Plus what was with them becoming expert animal vets by living in an animal shelter for a week? Best line was in the trailer --- Ex-girlfriend. She lost alot of weight over the summer, started dating more, you know how it gets. Watch the trailer. Grade D. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Country Mouse's Adventures In the City","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Loser' has exactly 2 things going for it- the good (but by no means great) performances of Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari as a matched set of lovable college kids who are no respectable human being's idea of 'losers'. The rest is pretty lifeless. Biggs' character Paul has 3 roommates who are all complete creeps and kick him out of the room; Mena is working at a strip bar as a waitress and carrying on an affair with a professor. Greg Kinnear plays smarmy, but he did it better in 'Mystery Men'. So Paul and Dora meet in class, and since Dora's apparently the only nice person Paul has managed to meet, (which is an odd and unbelievable aspect to the movie, as college students immature enough to behave the way everyone but Paul and Dora do in this movie are few and far between) he develops an attachment to her. Various plot contrivences then pop up as scheduled. The plot is entirely predictable, although it's still hard not to smile when our two protagonists get together. Definately not great- or even particularly good- 'Loser' is basically a fair and formulatic movie made watchable by its leads. I'll also say, though, that as far as I'm concerned, Paul should have reported his date-raping roommates to the police.  "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but fun.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser is a movie that plot-wise, we've all seen many times before. One likeable character has bad luck or is dealt a bad hand in life, goes from one wacky mishap to another, and ends up at the end of the movie with the girl, the better outlook on life, and his tormentors get their comeuppance.Loser, however, does so with genuine heart and emotion for the titular character, Paul Tannek, played by Jason Biggs of American Pie fame.He is abused by his college roommates, even kicked out of the house they share because he studies instead of parties. Along the way, Paul gets to know Dora Diamond (Mena Suvari, from American Beauty, and also of American Pie), a quite girl whom is having an affair with their mutual college professor. It's no secret going in that Paul will eventually romance Dora, and all the jerk characters will get what's coming to them. But Biggs and Suvari inject a reality into both of their roles that is refreshing, charming, and end up making this movie lean a little into teen romantic comedy territory. Both characters are also shown to be intelligent, considerate people, desperately trying to find each other in a world of selfish, insipid, moronic co-horts.It may seem corny to say it... but this Loser is a definite winner! "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Box-Office Loser","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When first released in theaters during the summer of 2000, critics roundly dismissed Loser, whose unfortunate title made their jobs that much easier.(Hollow Man was another film whose title seemed to write its own reviews.) Loser, however, is anything but. Most seemed to expect the high-school hijinks of Amy Heckerling's previous Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Clueless, but as it follows its characters in a college environment, Loser is a more mature work that is more focused on the relationship between its lead characters than on providing laughs (which it does have).The loser of the title is Jason Biggs's Paul Tannek, a nice but naive small-town boy who experiences a rude awakening upon arriving as a freshman at a big-city New York college. He is met with indifference and scorn from most of his fellow students, who range from the standoffish to the cynical. Things brighten when Paul ends up falling for Mena Suvari's equally sweet Dora Diamond, a homeless classmate who is involved in a relationship with her smug professor, Greg Kinnear's Edward Alcott.The plot which follows is basically Will Paul and Dora end up together? Although this is a standard scenario that has played itself to its inevitable conclusion in many a similar film, Loser is fresh in its lack of pretentiousness and melodrama in getting there. Instead of trying to hold the viewer's attention by heaping on bucketsful of soap-opera twists and turns, it concentrates rather on taking the time to show Paul and Dora's friendship develop and possibly lead to love blossoming between these two appealing individuals. An especially nicely realized series of scenes are those that comprise Paul and Dora's first date. The idea that their day- and night-long tour of New York is a zero-budget one is charming enough, but Biggs and Suvari are the ones who sell the scenes. This is best exemplified in a brief, dialogueless portion in which Biggs's and Suvari's expressions speak to their feelings. Biggs brings off Paul's enthusiastic wonder as he takes in the new environment to which Dora has introduced him, and Suvari is equally effective at showing Dora reading Paul's expression and realizing Paul's guileless appreciation for the gift she has given him without realizing it. It is small touches like these throughout the film that sets it apart from a routine exercise in sentimentality. By the time Dora finally decides between Paul and Edward, the choice seems far less an outcome predetermined by convention than the result of a plausible progression of the interaction that has occurred between the characters. "},{"Title":"Dare to be stupid...","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was 2 hours of shallow and annoying characters, trite dialog, and an utterly predictable story-line. It was the worst waste of 2 hours since I watched Mannequin 2 (who knows why I watched that either). I kept hoping Paul and Dora would grow a spine, (or a brain), and that Paul's roommates would move away and leave the film. None of these things happen, of course, and the movie ends in the most predictable, over-done, worn-out way possible. Also, the 'follow-up' text at the end describing what becomes of the characters was not amusing or interesting, it was offensive and stupid.If you insist on watching this movie, you can at least find some mild entertainment by seeing how many things you can predict before they happen. Chances are, you will guess right more often then not... "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Fun, Thoughtful","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Shame... shame on some of the critics here who dislike Loser because Jason Biggs didn't get it on with a piece of apple pie for a second time... shame on those who thought every time they saw Mena Suvari, they'd have rose petals flying all over the multiplex...The best thing about Loser is that there is no goal at the beginning of the movie.  There's no incriminating videotape which has to be recovered (like Road Trip.)  No one's trying to make the geek sheek (like She's All That.) But you know what, every five or ten minutes, the story keeps pushing you in another direction... and you're actually required to use your grey matter once in a while...Loser is not American Beauty, and its not American Pie... its a good film balanced somewhere in between, which gives both Biggs and Suvari a chance to break out of the stereotypes oh so many people seem to want to keep them in...   well written, continuity is kept in mind, and the strings are nicely tied together, although you don't know what's ultimately going to happen in the end until you get there.8/10 "},{"Title":"Loser is a loser.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad. It was quite predictable, not that funny, and pretty boring. The only remarkable part of the movie is the rather odd and unexplained leap at the end. There is little character development, little plot development, and a lot of characters acting stupid. Idiot may be a better title. "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I saw this yesterday, it could've been better. Jason Biggs is funny but I think he could've done better than this, and one of my fav new actresses Mena Suvari was ok in this but I expected so much more. But this was a low budget flick so I wasn't expecting much, the movie made it's points but the director could've made it look better. See it if u are bored or something, other than that, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie/Best Title Ever.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't have named it better myself.  As for people like me who actually were duped into seeing the movie, I have an even better title STUPID.  The only entertainment provided was the sarcastic the I and the other movie goers provided.  Beyond being unfunny and boring, it is just plain sick and cruel at times.  Mena Suvari isn't hot enough to warrant this crap.  At least give us Katie Holmes! "}{"Title":"its one of the best movies I ever saw","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is this movie criticized? Man, I watched and re-watched this movie about 7 times in two days, I really really loved it. Because I think its very seemed with me. I went through this situation 2,000 times before, and when I watched this movie, I changed my behavior... following the example of Paul, somethings that I thought were worthy to me before is not worthy anymore. I realized my real personality, and I hope more pictures like pictures like this will be released. I really recommend it, if you understand what I meant, and if you think and act like me, surely you will enjoy this movie. Make sure you understand every piece of detail in the movie, because there are a lot of things that I didn't paid much attention, buy, seeing the film again, I discovered it. "},{"Title":"Slow Times at Heckerling High","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling, a once knowing director who could describe the youth of America's feelings in just one word or creatively written scene has shown with Loser that she has lost her touch.  She is clearly out of her element, showing what real life for students is like.  Assuming she would have the same luck that she had in making two successful movies surrounding high school life in California, she figured she would be graced similarly by making a film about turbulent college life in New York.  Her conjecture was wrong, to say the least.  Parts in it such as interesting cameos appear, which is not characteristic of Heckerling's directing.  At other times, obvious traits of hers shine through, like original catch phrases (this movie's phrases failing the pop culture test), showing she still believes she has the luck she previously had. The film is poorly set up.  A touching beginning of the movie shows how Biggs' character acts kindly with his family portrays how nice of a person he is.  But as the movie progresses, it begins to hurt to watch it, knowing such a decent human being is being kicked around by scum.  The antagonists play too large a role in this movie, in both Bigg's central plot and Suvari's side plot of her struggles with her life in general. The film tends to follow the villains more closely than the two main characters, transforming the film into their story, which is now what it should be. The film work on the movie is slow.  The action makes the camera move around it, changing angles frequently.  Scattered references to using actual cinematography are used in the film, but not often.  Many plainly lit interior shots and naturally lit outdoor shots leave the eyes to guess at what is to be looked at.  Excited interior shots are over-hyped with party atmosphere lights. Heckerling's luck has (hopefully just momentarily) dried out and needs a refresher in the basics, namely which a story centers around the protagonist or the antagonist.  Quite plainly, Loser can be missed. "},{"Title":"what a ripoff","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like so many other people, I was led to believe (by the trailers and commercials) that this movie was in the vein, or at least in the genre, of American Pie and Something about Mary.  I thought it would be laughs first, romantic twit-fodder second.  But it just goes to show that now we're going to have to start STUDYING the trailers -- looking for tricks like this.If you're a big fan of romance comedies, then this movie might not leave that feeling of pulsing anger when you leave halfway through.  Even if you are, though, you might expect some of the latter half of the term romance comedy.  No dice.To sum the movie up, the producers figured out that it would be profitable to hire the hottest stars (Suvari and Biggs) of the movie that is the reigning king of teen comedies(American Pie - great movie, btw), throw them together (while they're still relatively cheap) along with some advertising and a bare bones movie with something akin to a plot (geek gets out) and script (character types that don't exist in the real world).The resulting pile of ass is just a drain on our patience and our wallets.  "},{"Title":"One of my summer favorites","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie alot I found it to be very funny Jason Biggs in a role better than the one he had in American Pie and his American Pie Mena Suvari also has a great part and the roommates are pretty funny i was lucky enough too catch this movie on a sneak preview and it is on my list as a summer favorite.GradeAIt's also a great date movie. "},{"Title":"Equal measure of annoying and adorable","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Paul Tannek (Jason Biggs) is a small rural town guy who gets a full scholarship to a NYC college. He's a dork and his partying roommates Adam (Zak Orth), Chris (Thomas Sadoski) and Noah (Jimmi Simpson) don't like him. They don't get along. The 3 jerks band together to kick Paul out, and Paul accepts going to live in an animal hospital. When the dorm tightens security, the guys talk Paul into holding a party at the hospital.Dora Diamond (Mena Suvari) is a fellow student who is having a secret affair with Prof. Edward Alcott (Greg Kinnear) and working a horrible waitress job in a strip club. She's trying to get emancipated from her parents but doesn't have any money or a place to stay. Then she loses her job and she can't even spend the night on the jerk Alcott's couch. She goes to the party and gets drugged almost dying rescued by Paul.The 3 roommates are just so annoying. It's completely overblown while Jason Biggs is such a naive idiot. Everybody is stepping on him. It gets ridiculous and stupid. The pretend friendships are just the most uncomfortable things to watch. The movie is overwhelmed by the three douches' annoyance. Thankfully, the second half improves significantly when the 3 jerks get less screen time. The movie turns into a functional rom-com with the adorable pairing of Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari. The movie is also notable for its 90s indie rock soundtrack. It's disheartening to realize that this was written and directed by Amy Heckerling. It's not her finest work. "},{"Title":"A lame attempt at the 90's teen/college drama genre.","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie came out at a time when people were moving on from this type of movie. Although it's not terrible it also is not very good. I wonder if they tried to quickly pump it out so they could ride on the coattails of the 90's teen movie genre. It just wasn't clever or special enough to be a success.You have your typical asshats, with the loser lead and the pretty yet I'm alternative girl, that same boy overcomes adversity and triumphs in the end. Nothing wrong with that story but this version was very weak.Also on a side note why has nobody started to coordinate dorm rooms in a (I want to party category) and a (I want to study category). Incredibly cruel to inflict there for the experience people on the hardworking people. Everyone deserves to have the college experience they desire. "},{"Title":"Lingering stench of the 1990s","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Even though this was made in 2000 you can clearly see the very ugly and rather pretentious hair styles from the 1990s. Poor acting, sick jokes that are supposed to come off as Dark Humor but rather instead come off as some mentally dark diarrhea. Bad acting, a terrible script, a desperate cling to the 1990's styles that were already fading away by 1998 and a persistent eyesore of clothing style. Besides the aesthetics of the creepy stalker hair that make their heads shaped like hairy penises this movie had a weak premise to begin with. What might have been a feel good romantic comedy is a rather dull pencil. The dark parts were meant to bring the dark comedy humor into this film but fell short as it was out shined by the manic-depressive bi-polar contradictions and oxymoron writing of hacks that just could NOT MELD the darkness with the light. At times it was too light and come off as bleaching out of the dark humor. And likewise the darker aspects shat all over the light whimsy they so failed at. Poor character development, bad choices in actors, terrible script, and an inability for the creators to notice that the 1990's had actually ended culminates in this cranked out film that was clearly made to fill seats and obtain what little profits they can benefit from hipsters stuck in the 1990s. How they got a big name (well once big name) like Dan Aykroyd to accept a role in this toilet paper movie is beyond me. Let alone his willing to actually stay with the movie once having read the script and seen the terrible filming. However this was when his over all popularity was slipping so I'm guessing he was in it to appeal to younger audiences at the time. Though by 2000 this would have appealed to the aging mid 20-somethings that had failed out of college 5 times and had returned to college still spotting the homely hair styles from 1995. This film would appeal to them as they spend a night out at the movie theater desperate to pretend that it's still their earlier college years from the previous decade. It must be hard for those actors after all this time to come to the hideous realization that not only did their acting stink but their outrageously crappy hair styles are now immortalized forever on film. Those puke looking bangs and shaved up tight necklines that shape their heads like some sort of melting-penis phallic symbols is now an immortal embarrassment for them. Their bad & outdated taste in both clothing and hair styles for 2000 is a tribute and exasperation of the films terrible writing, plot, and half backed development. Even if I didn't spend that much time criticizing the god awful hair styles it is a symbol of the ignorant and out of of ideas writing for the time. Heck even by 1999 there were fantastic films being made like The Matrix. Times were changing from music to clothing styles, from hair styles to shoes. But this movie lingers like one of those old moldy hot dogs at a corner store rotisserie that no one wants anymore because it's past it's prime yet remains past it's expiration date. Not judged simply because it's old or out of date but it is now without flavor, devoid of any nutrition or value of any kind, and the simple site of looking at it will make you feel sick even without ingesting it. The title of this movie is meant to be self explanatory but is also rather Ironic. "},{"Title":"Very good teen movie. Suits better for those who were teens in the 90's.","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When this movie first came out I immediately thought it looks awful!. The poster, the cast, Jason Bigg's dumb face, etc. Ten years later I watched for the first time and I have to admit that it is actually interesting and somewhat funny. Not funny like American Pie but has dark humor that could fit for a certain audience.It also deals with real-life problems that some teens can't handle. I mean, the movie is interesting because it inserts humor on difficult situations for young people.The typical plot that deals with a boy that lives in the country and makes his way into city looks pretty real. Jason Biggs is a good actor. The sexy Mena Suvari is lovely. I love her and she looks so hot.If you are almost 30 you still have the time to watch it. It's one of the best teen movies out there. Maybe not for this generation but for those of us that were teens in the 90's, it could work... "},{"Title":"edifying movie","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" well i don't know how to express my feelings to this movie... i cant call exactly feelings.. maybe i have equally opinion with my INREAL world perspectives. thats the real world alcohol + drugs and you think that you are the great man, but far away from the RIght way. the right way is to study (even i cant believe that i'm saying it). Think about in your 'highschool' & 'college' years If your main purpose is to have fun and drink it sounds cool, but when you get failed on exams, and be kicked out of school Then you will realize that the party is over. cant get money, cant find job, cant get a girlfriend when you are stupid(little roughly said). see the results of these 3 idiots in the end of the movie. i definitely like where they went/lived.about the love story... in my opinion he and his acts are little foolish. but it doesn't matter, because the truth came out and all ended happy. he should hide anything for him and give her flowers. in real life i'm 100% sure he would lose her. p.s.-sorry for my bad English ) i tried my best, but i am a half sleeping P "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy about a young man who can't seem to fit in!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" LOSER, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy about a young man who can't seem to fit in! If you ask me, Paul (Jason Biggs) fit in just fine. In addition, all of his mishaps were hilarious. When he and Dora (Mena Suvari) became friends, I was really touched. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, the production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent comedy about a young man who can't seem to fit in. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. Oh, yes, and don't drink or use drugs. "}{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining- Good Chemistry Between Biggs and Suvari","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although Loser is a solid effort and is generally enjoyable, it was certainly not what director Amy Heckerling needed at that point in her career. After the great success of Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Clueless she pretty much went in the director dumper with this one. Ironically the problem was not her directing but her writing. Solid production could not entirely compensate for this flawed screenplay because the flaws are in the characters themselves, they are simply not believable.This is usually fatal because it is hard for viewers to care about characters with whom they cannot identify. Fortunately for writer Heckerling, director Heckerling cast the best two actors in American Pie, Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari, as her leads. They have such unexpectedly good chemistry together that you will yourself to believe in them, even if Paul is moronically nice and Dora is moronically moronic (her failure to connect the bad relationship dots for almost the entire film is not consistent with a character who is portrayed as extremely perceptive and self-aware). Suvari looks and even sounds like Jennifer Jason Leigh which may have you flashing back to Fast Times.Excellent performances by Biggs, Suvari, and Greg Kinnear (as Professor Alcott) save the day or at least salvage the film. They get little assistance from anyone else in Heckerling's cast (although Dan Ackroyd is decent in a small and very straight role) as the supporting players are either neutral or less than zero. Worst of all are they guys who play Paul's three roommates. They start out as typically Party Hard college students but overnight morph into date rape scum and academic blackmailers. Heckerling provides nothing to explain this transformation, which is especially strange because she includes early scenes intended to show that one of the roommates is sincerely trying to help Paul with his adjustment to college in the big city.Heckerling based her Clueless screenplay on Jane Austin's Emma. Franz Kafka is her reference point for Loser; a strange choice given Kafka famous line women are traps which lie in wait for men everywhere, in order to drag them down into the finite. The choice of the Dora Diamond name is an obvious homage to Kafka's girlfriend Dora Dymant. The screenplay for Loser is not a total loss, it has good individual lines like I love self-loathing complaint rock you can dance to.Perhaps the best scene is Heckerling's homage to the Berkeley fountain scene in The Graduate as the dejected Paul wonders around the city while the soundtrack plays Simon and Garfunkel's Scarborough Fair. The rest of the soundtrack is also good.Apparently Heckerling could not resist shooting herself in the foot at the very end as she included on-screen notes documenting the comeuppance received by each of the bad characters. Not only is this tired and unoriginal (American Graffiti and Animal House made use of this along with a high school film I judged last spring) but the notes themselves are not even mildly amusing. "},{"Title":"small time guy in big time city","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Loser is the story of Paul Tannek a small time guy who gets the chance to go to college in NYC on a scholarship he wants to study hard and get the grades but its hard when your sharing a room with 3 party mad room mates, all seems to be lost when he meets Dora and outsider, but Dora's boyfriend Professor Edward Alcott has different plans. the audience just falls in love with Paul even if he is a bit behind the times in his clothes and thinking he's the perfect student and just wants to fit in, in the big apple. Both actors performed perfectly in American pie JASON BIGGS and MENA SUVARI portray a good on screen chemistry, the film shows behind the scene to life in both an American college and NYC ie, the difficulties of working learning and socialising. "},{"Title":"What do you know????","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just read the comment about this movie by Michael. I just want to know that what you know about fiction?? Are you looking for? documentaries???I think this movie was great. I think the movie is not just about the college experiences. It reflects daily life. It is about giving some effort about something you believe. It is about disappointments in life. It is about believing in the right way. I am sorry Michael but you were not able to comprehend these values in life. Also the soundtrack was great. Most of the songs that you hear in the movie is popular nowadays.I think overall the movie deserves two thumbs up. Not for the visual effects, but for the effort in making of the movie, and the acting. Just see it . I think you will find something from yourself in it... "},{"Title":"This movie is good to watch...","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...if you were on drugs! Is this a parody of something? Because then I might consider rating it somewhat higher for self-awareness. But alas it appears to be a serious attempt at comedy/drama. I believe this thing exists solely for the purpose of showing how not to do essentially every element of film, from music, characters, to exposition. In that sense, it has redeeming value for film school students. Indeed, it is worse than a student film. Worse than a bad episode of some trashy soap opera. It is somewhat like reality television, except without any attempt at shocking novelty. There are a few moments of dramatic tension, achieved mainly through the actors' facial expressions (I'm thinking about the scene on the telephones). These account for about 10 seconds of the film. The rest is utter junk. Most certainly the conclusion is the worst junk I have seen. "},{"Title":"Kinda sweet","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS **Paul Tannek (Biggs) is awarded a scholarship, and goes to New York to study. Paul is a interesting character with moral ethics and stuff like that, but being from a rural upbringing, he know nothing about being cool. He moves in into a dorm with three other guys, who are there on their parent's money, and those guys know a lot about being cool like partying and not studying. But poor Paul needs to study to keep his grade average up, so he won't lose his scholarship. His life takes a turn for the more complicated when he meets and starts to like Dora (Suvari), who secretly dates their teacher Professor Alcott (Kinnear). And it gets worse when his friends decide to kick their uncool pal out of the dorm.The story, which is fundamental to all movies, is pretty good in this one. Looking at the title, and somewhat at the trailer, I got the expectation that this was a movie with emphasis on juvenile jokes. None of that. Instead, as mentioned, the story is good with a lot of separate tracks that gives the movie a much greater depth. There aren't any surprises really, it is pretty predictable but enjoyable nonetheless. The characters of Paul and Dora are interesting and the development and interruptions of their relationship is what makes this movie good. Both Biggs and Suvari is good in their roles, and like I said in the summary; the story is kinda sweet. So the emphasis is more on romance than on comedy, in my opinion, and the movie is better because of it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Formulaic snoozefest, quite tedious.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't expect Shakespearean insight on the nuances of the human condition from all movies, in fact I love a teen comedy as much as anything. I'm devoutly antithetic to anyone who jumps on their high horse denouncing classic screwball student movies such as the American Pie series, Animal House etc., but I found Loser to be bloody laborious viewing to say the least. Even satire must have a level of plausibility and the notion of a lad coming into the big city with absolutely no perspective on the drink-till-you-vomit-your-insides-and-pass-out-unceremoniously-half-naked-in-the-gutter-oozing-bile culture typically ascribed to University life is far fetched in the extreme. I found the supporting characters to be caricatured and contrived, the romance plot sappy and poorly handled and the pacing of the film to be lumbering when assessed with respect to the thinly spread material. Having said that, the film was not a total disaster. Kinnear's performance as the super-prick professor was neatly carried off and Biggs delivered a well judged performance as the uncompromisingly acquiescent, courteous country lad. I don't want to be too hard because there's been some bloody awful films made and this is not representative of some of the cinematic dirge we've been subjected to at times. 2/5  "},{"Title":"sweet but predictable","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  as we know from watching many teen movies, the loser always comes out on top (am i right?)so Dora has issues, and then along comes happy-go-lucky Paul who is usually considered to be a freak because he's not into the stuff that other students are. He is so adorable and is blissfully unaware when he first arrives in New York, of how the teenagers here expect him to behave. He seems to concentrate solely on getting good grades, because he has come from a country-type family and they have values. Of course, they fall in love but her boyfriend gets in the way as well as the 'cool' roommates who chucked Paul out of their room for being uncool. its a nice movie, i liked it. and the Wheatus tune 'teenage dirtbag' means you can't help but sing along! "},{"Title":"Slacker.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mediocre comedy about a loser (hence the name) that is a lot like the film Slackers only not quite as painful to sit through. Some funny parts but the film fails to deliver any solid laughs. Greg Kinnear - why are you in this? I laughed but I didn't cry. For that you should see Wayne's World.2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Really Adorable!","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd hafta agree with most everyone here, this is a pretty good movie! It's very sweet, the plot is very good, the dialogue is wonderful, and the soundtrack is totally awesome!  I love the song at the end of the credits (the credits, being so funny and adorable themselves!)  I don't know why all the critics dissed this movie...maybe they are got up on the wrong side of the bed that morning, I don't know.  They prolly are the same people who said My Big Fat Greek Wedding was a racist film that wouldn't go anywhere.... lol "},{"Title":"Jason & Mena have chemistry!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is probably not that well known, but it's real cute andfunny and smart. I like Mena Suvari a lot, and here she is the cutestlittle grunge goth (as Alcott says) girl who can't afford schoolunless she gets a job, and can't get a job unless she stays in thecity, and can't stay in the city because her professor-boyfriend is ajerk. Enter Paul. He helps out and conveys the whole dorky-guything really well. Noah, Adam and Chris are hilarious (theChristian Slater Guy and the James Spader Guy) and there arelots of funny quotes. I would never 'hit your bitch'! And I likedPaul's hair before the haircut. For the record. Watch this movie, it'sway cute. "}{"Title":"It was good!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I respect everyone's opinion, of course, but I personally really enjoyed this movie! Granted, there's nothing ENTIRELY new here- it's a love story, after all. But it does a great job of making the story as modern as possible, with characters that are likeable and fun. It's also great to see Jason Biggs in a good role other than American Pie. He's definitely a talented actor, and when given the right script and a decent supporting cast, he can make movies just as good as AP. I definitely recommend it. Good date movie, anyway! "},{"Title":"I Liked it So Much More Than I Thought I Would","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow, a lot of the reviews for this movie on this website are really bad...I don't know why, because I LOVE this movie. I'd even go as far as to say it's in my top ten favorites.Okay, so here we go. It all begins when I see the trailer for this movie, those two kids from American Pie huh? This must be some kind of American Pie part two or something, and it looks stupid, i'll pass...(I loved American Pie also, by the way), but anyways, so i'd see a preview for this movie every now and than, and just wasn't interested at all. So time passes by, and my bass player says to me, Man I rented Loser, and you've GOT to see it! It's awesome...and I think to myself, well, it doesn't LOOK awesome, it looks really lame. A little more time passes, and my twin brother says to me I caught that one movie, Loser, today on HBO, it's NOTHING like I thought it was going to be, it's really really good!, so I think to myself...hmmmm..if my twin brother liked it, maybe it's really NOT what i'm picturing...maybe i'll give it a try. Well, the try just happened to be on a day that I took the afternoon off of work. The sun was shining, the house was quiet, and I was in high spirits. I decided that the best way for me to enjoy my day off was to open up all the windows in the living room, let the sun in, lie down on the couch, and see what's on TV....Oh, Loser is on HBO in about 20 minutes, what the heck, i'll give it a try. An hour and a half later, and I found myself a new movie to love. What do I love about it? Lot's of things..for starters, I really love the way it looks, the whole movie. It really has this fall season feel, which goes along PERFECTLY to the story and the scenes, and it never lets go in a single scene. The way they filmed this movie really seems to put you there, so to speak. You feel like you're in the dorm room with them, you're in the vet's basement with him when he moves in there, you're there when he wakes up in the morning next to his love interest, the night after the party. That's one of the main things I really liked about it, It doesn't really feel like a big blockbuster motion picture, it seems like an intimate little movie that's meant to entertain, and tell you a story. And I think it really does a good job at that.If you read all the bad reviews about this movie, and decide to not give it a try, I suggest you go ahead and give it a try anyway, you might be suprised, like I was. I think this movie got so much bad press because #1 This movie isn't going to change your life, and it isn't going to make you see things differently. #2, action is not going to jump out of the screen and suck you in this movie, you'll find no special effects here. If you like your movies simple, and easy, than this may just be for you.It's billed mostly as a comedy, but I don't really consider it a comedy at all. I don't consider it a drama either....I consider it a nice movie, that's nice to look at, and nice to watch. Like I said before, It's not going to change your life......But it WILL entertain and tell you a good story about some likable characters.The End. "},{"Title":"American Loser","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  God help me, I kinda liked it.  I don't recommend this film though.  But with Mena and Jason from American Pie and American Beauty wouldn't the appropriate title have been American Loser rather than just Loser?  How could the filmmakers miss that?  From a marketing standpoint alone that was a big mistake.This movie is about a guy who's a loser going to college in the big city and finds romance with a skanky coed.  Everyone's favorite has-been Dan Aykroyd makes an appearance in this so you know the movie is big trouble.  Dan, baby, make Ghostbusters III before it's too late.  Dan was once (and I guess still is, deep down) a comedy legend but he's all washed up now, Baby Blue.There is also a subplot involving the notorious date rape drug that some of the college boys slip there dates.  This is a light hearted comedy and date rape subplots have NO place in a movie like this!  That is just way too grim a subject matter for a flick like this.Writer-director Amy Heckerling is desperately trying to be hip and relate to the new generation, but she fails miserably.  She isn't hip and she doesn't relate to this generation.  And why would she want to?  She's a sixties and seventies person, make a film about stuff you grew up with.  I read an interview about how she was proud of the fact that she went recently to a Limp Bizkit concert.  With age comes wisdom, and she should be old and wise enough to realize that Limp Bizkit is a slightly less lame version of Warrant.  When you try and act younger than you are and you can't pull it off, you start showing your age three thousand times over.  This film screams with the voice of an older woman dying to be hip and current and with it.  The whole film just needed a rewrite, or a younger screenwriter to make it more contemporary.  I even saw photos of her dressed in a Goth fright wig and caked on black eyeliner like Mena's character!  Hello!  Give it up, grandma!  Amy H.'s not a bad looking woman, but a middle aged Goth?  Even Marilyn Manson won't be dressing Goth when he gets over the hill. But Jason and Mena do make a kind of nice couple, but they just don't have very good material to work with.  I could relate to the way their characters had to live hand to mouth and find cheap ways to goto see free plays, concerts, etcetera.  But that isn't enough to save this mass of troubled celluloid.  Adios, weary filmgoers.    "},{"Title":"An excellent morality tale for our times.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An excellent morality tale for our times, Loser transcends the genre with crisp, clean notes of hope, goodness, and thinking for one's self.All in the guise of a coming-of-age, post-teen movie.  Excellent performances by the leads and supporting cast "},{"Title":"Feel-good movie for guys","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking it would be a comedy like American Pie, especially since Jason Biggs was the star.  This movie barely made me laugh.  However, it did make me feel good.  The growing romance between Paul and Dora wasn't overdone.  It seemed realistic.  I could relate to Paul's situation, where you find yourself in a new environment, have a hard time adjusting, and find that special someone who keeps you going.  8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films I've ever seen!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this film from Blockbuster Video on Friday and saw it last night. It starts out with Paul's family throwing him a goodbye party because Paul is leaving for College. When he's still in his room packing his sister tried to take his piece of cake. He was  the funniest guy back when he was in High School. At College Paul was dressed like it was winter. In his room Paul and his friends we're drinking alcohol and Paul believed that he can still drink alcohol and still pass a test. Then Paul's friend Chris told him that nobody likes him. Then Chris showed up in his room uninvited and turned on Paul's radio. Paul's girlfriend works at a bar. When Paul goes out to rent a video and order a pizza his girlfriend dumps him. "},{"Title":"what a waste","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story was o.k. enough to carry a film of such kind as well as the actors. The one who blew it completely was Amy Heckerling. She simply does not have any feeling for telling a story and making the audience to become involved/identified with the characters.Losers is as bad and uninspired as Look Who's Talking was. What a waste of time, money and actor's skill for letting Heckerling destroy it all.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not generally a fan of these hastily made teen-movies, although I should mention that I enjoyed American Pie and Clueless, and I presumed that Loser would be have been a  similar experience. This is not the case.Jason Biggs plays a young lad moving from quiet family life to the big city, and this transition is accompanied by a full compliment of stereotypes, morality lessons, and projected adult fears about life as a teenager. This uninspiring character represents a pinnacle of fine Christian values within the corrupt society of the city, and succeeds in surviving 'untainted' by the evils of modern life. His girlfriend begins the film working as a waitress in a strip bar (as many students do), but ends up at the world's friendliest vets/cute animal sanctuary. Every other character seems to finish in some kind of personal hell. These includes brain damage, prison, and physical deformity.'Loser' furnishes the viewer with an embarrassing mixture of 'comedy' and 'drama', but fails to provide the goods for either element. A rape storyline is provided for no apparent reason, and is neither informative nor serious in it's portrayal of Rohypnol. Instead, the rapist doubles as both evil drug fiend and comedy room-mate; a combination that detracts from the seriousness of the issue.The acting from Biggs and Suvari is standard, but with such a ludicrous script it makes little difference. I felt genuinely offended by the end of the film and would urge people not to watch it. "},{"Title":"One of the better teen movies currently out there","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser is a great film that was sadly underrated.  Even Chris Gore (the so-called Layman's Critic) said this movie deserved to be in the toilet.  Despite all the critical bashings, I saw Loser for myself and I really enjoyed it.  Although it isn't Sixteen Candles or The Breakfast Club, it is one of the best teen movies of this generation.  Amy Heckerling proves that she is the female equivalent of John Hughes (some might call that blasphemy).  Anyway, Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari plays two very different college freshman (duh!) and both are considered losers.  They get shafted at every turn by those they interact with.  One aspect that really off-put critics was the sleaze running off the supporting cast.  Biggs' three roommates (played rather well by Zak Orth, Thomas Sadoski, and Jimmi Simpson) are real ****-offs and they run him out of the dorm.  Suvari sleeps with her professor (played to slimy perfection by Greg Kinnear foreshadow to Auto-Focus) and she just can't seem to leave him.  Eventually, things get complicated but the two losers rise above their problems to become winners.  The cheese and sleaze are dripping off the walls by the end and you can't help but smile that these two get out of their misery.  Besides that, the movie doesn't use gross-out jokes to make you laugh and it doesn't use hokey drama to make you cry.  Overall, Loser should be a stand-out in the teen movie genre but it doesn't get that credit many critics and moviegoers.  With much happiness, I give Loser a 9 out of 10!PS The five best teen movies after 1995 are 1) She's All That, 2) 10 Things I Hate About You, 3) American Pie series, 4) Loser and 5) Orange County "},{"Title":"Not a teen movie, but a realistic drama-dy that wins (Underrated as hell)","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser is not American Pie at all. Jason Biggs takes on more serious role as a loser who is like the mixing of sperm and then test tube creation of Woody Allen and John Cusak with Freddy Prince Jr.  The movie takes on serious topics, like date rape and sexual affairs in college.  The affair the girl has with the teacher is realistic, and the date rape drug scene is almost hard to watch.  This movie is so underrated its not funny, and I cant understand why people would dislike this movie so much.7/10, B, **1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"very funny","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie was what i call very funny, most people do not agree but i do, it was very cute, funny, sweet, everything you want in a movie, i havent seen it in about a year but when i did see it, i was cracking up laughing and i think u will all too if u give it a chance "},{"Title":"Amy Heckerling, writer/director of Clueless and Fast Times at Ridgemont High, tells another story through the eyes of teen.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This time she introduces us to Paul Tannek, played by Jason Biggs. Paul is leaving his small town roots and moving to New York when he gets a scholarship. When Paul really doesn't fit in and is branded a loser, he is forced to live off campus. While struggling with his off campus life and trying to maintain his GPA for his scholarship, Paul falls for a gothic chick named Dora (Mena Suvari.) But Paul's luck just seems to get worse when Dora is madly in love with their English professor (Greg Kinnear).Loser is like a lot of other teen romantic comedies that have arrived in the last couple months. You know, the ones where the film has the same premise and very little laughs? Take Boys and Girls starring Freddie Prinze Jr, for example. Loser has a smart cast and like a lot of Heckerling films, a great soundtrack. But I fear the subject matter here just isn't funny.I really believe that this film should have traveled down the screw-ball comedy lane and developed a lot more pranks, revenge strategies and romantic tension. This routine worked for a lot of college screwball classics including Revenge of the Nerds and Up the Creek. These films developed their losers as victims of their environment and we really wanted to see them survive. What Heckerling does with Loser is brings us a sweet melancholy that makes us choke. The film is way to tender to even arrive at any of the laughs. Sure, I felt sorry for Dora and Paul but I was never near the cheering stage in which I would want them to survive. If I had to pick a favorite member of the cast it would be Greg Kinnear who once more shines in a dreary comedy. Anyone remember Dear God? In this film, Kinnear is a great jerk who loves to ravish college coeds. Within Kinnear's portrayal you can see the little boy forced into being a man. He is immature and quite the jerk. It's definitely a great performance.Don't blame the cast in this movie, though. Blame the writing. It's a loser in itself. "},{"Title":"Not much to spoil....","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes me wish I were homeless. Then I'd never have to watch it on HBO again and again and again. It's not my fault, I have to have something to do.....What's with Hollywood continuing to pop out the same films over and over, demanding people to actually pay to see it? I'm ashamed I've even seen this film. Like confession ashamed. Jason Biggs plays a Middle American hick named Paul who decides to go to New York to go to school. Why? No reason other than to leave home and see the world a bit. His father, the over used Dan Ackroyd, has such a miniscule part in this movie I had to reread the credits twice to remember that he is in fact in it. Why he continues to do these parts I haven't gotten yet. He's got more money than God from the Ghostbuster films. And only one of those is worth watching.Anyhoo, back to the awfilm. 'Paul' goes off to the big city and finds that life there isn't like back home and that people are rotten and blah blah blah....If you've seen this storyline once, you've already killed yourself. He has three rather fruity roommates that are rich. You can tell by their clothes, hair and stuff. And their snotty attitudes toward the hero. They speak the 'cool' kids lingo of today Za, Dust, oink. Yeah, they cool alright. They get their hair done and drug girls at parties so they can get some, but for some reason I suspect they'd rather be drugging guys. Hey, I didn't cast them and I certainly didn't tell Ms. Heckerling to write this drivel. If you look at her track record, she has made films that were well received, Fast times at Ridgemont High, Clueless,Look Who's talking(the first one anyway). This film was edited with a cheese grater, with cameos from all kids of minor known actors and scenes that are so out of sync, you could rearrange the whole film and nothing would change. There are several scenes that have no meaning and there others where it's obvious they should have come before and after each other. Seeing the nothing this film is, I can't see why it so rushed looking. Like they HAD to have this thing out there at a certain date, but needed that extra week to film a scene where Paul walks around. He doesn't do anything, mind you, but they had to have it.And I haven't even got to Mena Suvari, the 12 yr old boy who plays girls in movies. Hot girls, supposedly, but I leave that up to you. She's this quirky, ecclectic type that is really nice but also confused. She also is in love with the evil teacher, Greg Kenear. He's only evil to Paul, but he also misuses Mena. He likes the young girls and blah blah. He's only in here to antagonize Paul and make Mena not like herself. Mena, meanwhile, is the love interest who doesn't know it. She has all kinds of misadventures, like trying to get school money, getting drugged by the 3 guys and living with the teacher. Yeah, typical college student. Why bother, her character is as interesting as tofu. add salt!!!Enough. Don't see this movie if you expect interesting storyline. If you love Biggs and Suvari, bottoms up. I just hope you have some aspirin.  "},{"Title":"A Fantastic movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A fantastic movie about the guy who people perceive to be a loser Paul tannek played by Jason biggs and the girl he likes Dora Diamond played by mena suvari and college life.A comedy with great acting from both jason Biggs and mena suvari. "},{"Title":"Didn't Paul's mom ever tell him First Impressions Last?","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie sunk before it even left the dock...as soon as Loser started, it left people all over the world thinking, hey isnt that that dude who did the pie? And although Biggs isnt an extreemly horrible actor, he should stick to comedy, where he belongs...No offense buddy, but you cant expect to mix a dark and depressing comedy with a feel good ending, throw in a little Everclear concert and expect to make to get results...Rating3 "},{"Title":"decent college flick","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Familiar but not all together disposable college flick/teen romance stars Biggs as an ambitious, bright, but socially inept college freshman who travels from a small town to the big city where he doesn't exactly fit in with his wild, slacker roommates. He develops affections for cute and free-spirited co-ed Suvari, but unfortunately for him she only has eyes for their sleazy English professor. Better than you'd expect, with two likable leads and sharp observations of the college lifestyle, but brought down by a predictable setup, stereotypical characters, and a finale that seems tacked on. Works on some levels when you don't think about it too much, but the story is a bit too pat. **½ "},{"Title":"Sucks? What?","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yep, this movie really really sucked. Waste of time, money, space, film, effort, thought, and one cheesy career. Do not watch this movie, buy this movie or anything of the sort. If you feel that you must punish yourself, watch this movie . . . sober. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I saw the rating here on IMDB and thought this film would not be good, as I expected some sort of goofy Dude, where is my car? like film. Not with the aliens, but just as stupid. So I was surprised to see a well made, honest college romance. One in which Jason Biggs convinced me as a gold hearted boy in college and Mena Suvari convinced me as the naive but also gold hearted female lead. This is not only about making new friends in a strange town, it is also about how difficult and how easy it to become friends with others and about how someone can turn cool. The message for that is, do not try too hard, be yourself and act in impulse. Enjoy, I know I did.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"College Flick.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari went to high school in American Pie and go to college in Loser. Biggs plays a small town guy who goes to college in New York City. Suvari plays the girl that Biggs has a crush on, but is the girlfriend of the college professor (Greg Kinnear). The performances for the actors are pretty good. It is worth to see the film once. "},{"Title":"Couldn't be a better title!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not much for movies nowadays about teens but this garbage was on in my hotel room. Loser is unrealistic but thoughtful love story between a commuter female college student sleeping with her professor and the boy who falls in love with her. It has its moments and charming scenes but overall it's lame just like most of the movies out there. Anyway the film could have been better because it seems to just move in a predictable direction rather than maintain some memorable moments in the film. The acting was mediocre along with the writing and I don't think they shot it in New York City but I can't be sure. Anyway, it's just another teen movie that grossly underestimates the college experience. "}{"Title":"A Hilarious College Movie!!!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"          Loser is a hilarious comedy that is also romantic and fun to watch. Jason Biggs, Mena Suvari, and Greg Kinnear are great in the film. Loser is a fun college movie with lots of laughs and fun humor that makes it very entertaining and enjoyable. I give Loser a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"100 Times Better than I Ever Imagined","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With the exception of American Pie, I have never liked a Jason Biggs movie. He's generally just a typecast actor with little to offer, and I don't like his roles or his films. However, Loser is a wonderful movie. His performance, along with that of Mena Suvari, are great. While many people (not that many saw it) say it's a comedy, I think Loser is more dramatic romance than comedy. Yes, there were downsides. Either Greg Kinnear's performance is very poor, or the writing for his part of the script was bad, or both. Yet when he wasn't on screen, the acting and writing was amazing. Sure, the end is pretty predictable, but in the last decade, every ending to every movie has been predictable (look at the most seen movie ever- everyone knew the ship was going to sink, and it still made 2 billion dollars). I suggest that anyone who has HBO (where I saw it) watch Loser at least once. I almost turned it off as soon as I saw Kinnear and Biggs, but I'm certainly glad I gave it a shot. The acting, not just by Biggs and Suvari but also the supporting cast, was passionate. In fact, if for no other reason, the movie is great because the acting is so above-par. Please check it out, because you probably won't be disappointed. I gave it a 9/10, but that's just my opinion, and what do I know? "},{"Title":"Is it just me, or have we seen this premise done waaay too many times?","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rating 5/10Loser can fall into 3 different genres drama, comedy and romance. The drama element isn't engaging enough to sustain throughout the movie and the comedy and laughs are few and far between. Surprisingly, this movie works best a romance. The chemistry between Mena Suvari and Jason Biggs is great, probably because they worked together on 1999's way better American Pie, but the disappointing thing about the romance is that it doesn't burst out until the end, predictably. If Loser had maybe tried something different and not gone the same way as all the other teen movies in the past 3 years, I would of enjoyed it more. I still found Biggs and Suvari entertaining as a couple, but Suvari surprisingly over-does her character in many scenes, while Greg Kinnear gives a dumb performance as the bastard professor. The rest of the leading cast, Zak Orth, Thomas Sadoski and Jimmi Simpson aren't as funny or memorable as Jim Carrey's 3 sons in Me, Myself & Irene. The film depicts college life unrealistically and much like Biggs' character, fall flats on its face. Although it can be entertaining at some parts of the movie, Loser is too familiar and predictable to recommend to many audiences. "},{"Title":"It's a winner...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thought the romantic comedy was dead?  Think again.  The perfect date-night flick, this angst dramedy is just the thing to remind your girl that the sensitive type is what they really want! Amy Heckerling (Fast Time At Ridgemont High fame) paints a quaint and tepid picture of modern dorm life.  I found myself asking the question, Does everyone feel like the outsider...cuz this all seems too familiar? Sappy and fun, this movie is a guilty little pleasure.  Mina is sweet but seems appropriately out of her element as a strip-club waitress and simultaneous mistress of (gulp) evil Greg Kinnear. Woofy and humorous.  Give it a go. "},{"Title":"Romantic, Funny, And Right!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser!  Jason Briggs (American Pie, Saving Silverman) is a Loser!  I mean he can be a Loser, when you look at him, you see L!  This movie shows how you got to be wearing the hippiest thing, drink beer, do drugs too be cool, if not people are gonna walk all over you!  For both of these two losers, who are getting used by Roomates for a a place to party or by a teacher for sex and not being lonely!  But they are Jaded, they don't see what's happening, untill they each finly understand each other, and more!  Plus in this movie is a Everclear (songs i like by them The Boys are Back In Town, Wonderful, & AM Radio) concert!  See this movie for a good (not the best) Jason Briggs comedy! "},{"Title":"Not worth the $4 rental","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite likable performances from stars Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari, I did not find this to be an enjoyable watch and found myself actually fast forwarding in parts when it became too awful. The growing relationship between the stars was cute enough to watch, but not enough to salvage this film. Hard to know what the writers and filmmakers were thinking when they thought that slipping ruffies to college girls made for a light hearted comedy (won't give any details so I won't spoil it for those who still wish to see this). This seemed to be labeled a comedy, but I didn't laugh once. Not recommended, but I'm feeling charitable enough to give it a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Nothing else was on TV","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rip off of about 15 other movies, all of which are better than this one.  A few funny moments, but not enough to carry the movie.  Rape seems to be a common theme for this movie - date rape, statutory rape - I guess the writers & director thought this is good comedy material.  Good soundtrack and great cameos though.  I wouldn't have even watched it except that I flipped through all 70 channels on TV and this was the best thing on - which is the only reason you should watch it really.  But in retrospect, I probably would have had more fun playing another game of Minesweeper. "},{"Title":"****  Not Heckerling's best, but worthy","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling follows her excellent Clueless with this less successful but still very appealing teenage romance about a big geek (Jason Biggs) who moves to the Big Apple for school and meets a free spirit (Mena Suvari) who sweeps him off his feet. Problem is, she's already attached-to their professor (Greg Kinnear). The film's pace is very mellow, something that won't appeal to the younger crowd, but I really liked the feeling that I was lazily hanging out at a Manhattan café for a couple hours.  "},{"Title":"A Winner!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser is a very amusing comedy directed by Clueless director Amy Heckerling and once again she delivers another brilliant film. Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari are both great as Paul and Dora and have some real on going chemistry. ***SPOILER***It was great when they got together at the end of the film but I guess it was obviously going to happen.***END OF SPOILER***I give Loser a 10/10. Great film!     "},{"Title":"A Different Kind of Comedy","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you expect this movie to be hilarious and full of funny moments as shown on the trailer, you're wrong big time! I don't know why they tried to instill this idea to the audience, but I know that it is not the right thing to do.Anyway, this movie will be better if it was categorized as Drama. At least I could have been more prepared. I went to see this expecting to laugh my heart out, but it was such a gloomy and sad movie that I didn't know what to do next. And I felt terribly sorry for dragging my friends along, telling them that this one would be funny.The story is not bad at all. Jason Biggs was doing a decent job in portraying Paul the Loser. But that's about it! "}{"Title":"The title should have been a clue...","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All the time I sat watching Loser at home with some friends, I kept thinking to myself, it's got to get funny sooner or later. Much to my disappointment, it never did. For me, there really isn't much to recommend this film. Ok, it did have Mena Suvari there to adorn the screen (thank goodness for small mercies!), but the dialog was conventional, and the story itself, was oh-so average. The sign of any decent comedy, is a room filled with the laughter of the audience. Instead there was only the occasional, slightly embarrassed, throat clearing - surely not a good sign.There were at least a couple of saving graces. The producer didn't stoop to lowly 'gross out' gags, and there was no gratuitous profanity to speak of.The bottom line is , if you're after a good laugh, look elsewhere. My pick of the current crop is Meet the parents.4/10 "},{"Title":"A surprisingly enjoyable little sleeper.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After such a long string of so-called romantic comedy junk flicks made for the college crowd, Loser is a surprisingly enjoyable little film about a very square college newbie's triumph over the cool crowd. Though the film is obvious and predictable it doesn't pander to the audience with gratuitous sex, booze, and banality and manages a sort of real sense of itself while keeping moving so the run time passes quickly. The film is also has numerous bit parts played by comics. No biggie but better than most of this ilk. "},{"Title":"Just the same old teen stuff...","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked Jason Biggs in American Pie. However in this he's a bit wooden, like his co-star Mena Suvari. He goes to college, has a hard time, can he overcome it? Blah, blah, blah... Greg Kinnear's the best thing about it, and Everclear are a good band, but overall it's pretty poor, especially coming from Amy Heckerling, writer/director of the funny Clueless (1995).  "},{"Title":"Lost!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loser is a totally misleading film. The title itself misleads you into thinking that is going to be hilarious. And with the casting of Jason Biggs, well I thought this would be funnier.Don't get me wrong, I like romantic comedies just as much as the next guy. As Good as it Gets and Keeping the Faith worked! The problem with this film is that I didn't quite understand why Paul (Jason Biggs) was such a 'loser'. He seemed like just a nice guy to me, and it seemed that the character that became the central one was in fact Mena Suvari's one. It was a miss-mash of poor jokes, romance and animals.American Pie was way better, Biggs was actually a 'loser' in that film and it was funny. Don't get me wrong the performances of the whole cast were fine. Biggs, Suvari, Greg Kinnear and even the annoying trio of roomies all did a fine job, the main problem is they all had nothing to work with!Amy Heckerling's script wasn't that funny and had no character depth what-so-ever, and her direction was pretty average. One reviewer noted that in the scene with Greg Kinnear and Mena Suvari in the clothing boutique was cleverly funny in a subtle way, because all along Kinnear was always looking at himself in mirrors. So in fact, that Kinnear's Alcott has a big ego and self absorbed was meant to be funny. It was so 'subtle' that no-one in my audience noticed that joke and therefore it didn't actually work. The reason it didn't work is mainly because of the direction, it wasn't cleverly subtle so that only intellects get the joke, it was just badly done!Not even any of the cameos worked, Dan Ackroyd, David Spade and Andy Dick did not provide any spark!David Spade had a couple of funny lines but it was the delivery that didn't work. Not his delivery but the way it was directed. Andy Dick's coughing, spluttering cookie eating social worker just ended up being bland again due to direction and script! The worse though, was the montage at the beginning off Biggs doing clumsy stuff at college- this was terribly executed and neither gave us the time or the premise to find amusement in those shots. Unlike Clueless, Loser fails to deliver and fails to stick to it's title. Leaving only a cliche riddling romance with shallow characters that ends up being tripe and hokey! But saying this, this film had potential if it took another direction, and Jason Biggs was such a nice guy! An average film! **1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"A mediocre comedy","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After the gigantic success of American Pie in which both Biggs and Suvari starred, here comes another youth-oriented tale of surviving as a teen. Loser is about country-boy Biggs, trying to get with Suvari while getting around in cynical, unpersonal New York. Acting is good all round, Greg Kinnear makes a nice appearance and Biggs and Suvari are both talented actors. But the story is just too predictable and too inconsequential to really make a mark. Some jokes work, others don't. It' a mixed bag.  "},{"Title":"Boring, unfunny, dull.","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think I might have laughed twice in this film.  Not a real hearty laugh, but more a slight chuckle.  For the most part I just sat there waiting for it to end.  When it did, I had nothing to say about it.  It was just plain uninteresting.  "},{"Title":"Ouch.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had somehow expected this to be a good movie.  Certainly, it was cute and well-intentioned, but it was also incredibly trite and predictable.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone over the age of 15...and even they might be insulted by this one-dimensional dramatization of teenage existence.  Like a painfully drawn-out episode of Dawson's Creek, Loser oversimplifies in an attempt to reach the good parts even faster. "},{"Title":"Another Disappointment","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Last night a friend of mine and I drove an hour out of town to see this movie.  We had been anticipating its arrival in our area since viewing the first preview for it, but were totally disappointed by the movie.  I've had a long string of disappointments in teenage comedies this summer beginning with Freddie Prinze in Boys and Girls.  I don't know whether the movies are getting worse, or I'm just becoming a more critical viewer, but whatever the case, Loser is a loser in my opinion.  Jason Biggs is cute at times, and Mena Suvari has some good moments, but all in all I was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful romance","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though advertised as a teen comedy like AMERICAN PIE (including two of the actors from that film), LOSER is actually a more serious film about relationships, lies, and cliques. The two main characters have to fight their way through malicious deceptions to achieve a friendship which has real depth and is touchingly sweet.Jason Biggs shows his range here as a nerdy but genuine person seeking someone like himself. He and his girlfriend become the real winners while the in-group turns out to be a bunch of losers. "},{"Title":"Heckerling's CITY LIGHTS","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling is a great writer. (She's not a bad director, either.) Check out the scene with NYU Professor Greg Kinnear taking his sweet sexy smart little girl Mena Suvari to a day of mutual shopping at a Prada-like boutique watch how Heckerling primes it so it's not until the scene's over that you notice Kinnear has only been looking in mirrors. Or dig the moment when Suvari foils her grandma's star-69 fetish with the help of a homeless woman. Or how about small-town square peg Jason Biggs' ironic, wistful use of his coolio roommates' phrase for farewell Dust!...? Heckerling knows how to paint characters, write dialogue, shape scenes that sneak in shutting the door quietly, and minutes later rip out your heart. So how is it that this beautifully scripted and directed, quietly heartbreaking movie got ripped by the critics? Like, all of them?It could be the charisma deficiency of the leads. As the schnook with a heart of gold, Jason Biggs occasionally hits a Matthew Broderick-like touchingness, but he seems fitted for the small screen. And Mena Suvari, whose creepy/amoeboid quality is finally fleshing out into beautiful adulthood, has lots of wonderful, natural, tender moments with Biggs, but seems teeny and shrill and whiny in her scenes with her lover Kinnear. But why is it that the press couldn't speak ill of these two, yet savaged Heckerling--the maker of FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH and CLUELESS, two of the best American movies about adolescence--with a brio usually saved for Joe Eszterhas? Maybe it's because Heckerling, like her hero and heroine, puts her heart on her sleeve. In this climate, a wistful, bittersweet movie like this gets eaten up by Harrison Ford and his bathtub. But I can't recall a better movie about being young, poor and heartsick in New York City (no, not NEXT STOP GREENWICH VILLAGE), and Heckerling pulls off epic lump-in-the-throat moments that can only be described as--this word makes me gag too--Chaplinesque. The gaps are way too long between Heckerling's movies. We need people onscreen as deeply filled in as the ones Heckerling gives us. Her work here is about romantic ardor, and it can trigger it, too. "}{"Title":"Loser is a LOSER!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Worst movie I've seen in a long time.  My friend and I spent the evening afterwards, trying to recall a worse film.  It was nice to see Mena Suvari as a brunette, but nothing at all about the film is noteworthy.  Hard to believe the same director/writer was involved in Clueless.  This film even goes so far as to make jokes about date rape drugs.  Weed was funny in the 70's because it is relatively harmless.  Date rape isn't funny and the jokes fall flat.  The entire theater left with a bad taste in their mouths. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time or money...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an absolute disappointment.  It was not funny, nor was it romantic.  The characters were basically caricatures that have been done a thousand times in a thousand different movies that proved to be more creative and more successful than Loser.  The loser, the elitist teacher, the grungy teenage hottie, and the out to get you college roommates are all very hackneyed.  Not worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"This movie definitely isn't a loser","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie, although it should have had more jokes. Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari do very well in acting. However, there are other teen movies that are better, such as Can't Hardly Wait, Detroit Rock City, Road Trip, and American Pie. "},{"Title":"Don't blame the cast here blame the writing.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling, writer/director of `Clueless' and `Fast Times at Ridgemont High', tells another story through the eyes of teen. This time she focuses on Paul Tannek, played by Jason Biggs of `American Pie'. Paul is leaving his small town roots and moving to New York when he gets a scholarship. When Paul really doesn't fit in and is branded a `loser', he is forced to live off campus. While struggling with his off campus life and trying to maintain his GPA for his scholarship, Paul falls for a gothic chick named Dora (Mena Suvari also from `American Pie'). But Paul's luck just seems to get worse when Dora is madly in love with their English professor (Greg Kinnear).Loser is like a lot of other teen romantic comedies that have arrived in the last couple months. You know the ones where the film has the same premise and very little laughs. An example of that was  `Boys and Girls' starring Freddie Prinze Jr. Loser has a smart cast and like a lot of Heckerling films, a great soundtrack but I fear the subject matter here just isn't funny. I really believe that this film should have travelled down the `screw-ball' comedy lane and developed a lot more pranks, revenge strategies and romantic tension. This routine worked for a lot of college screwball classics including `Revenge of the Nerds' and `Up the Creek'. These films developed their `losers' as victims of their environment and we really wanted to see them survive. What Heckerling does with `Loser' is brings us a sweet melancholy that makes us choke. The film is way to tender to even arrive at any of the laughs. Sure I felt sorry for Dora and Paul but I was never near the cheering stage in wanting them to survive.If I had to pick a favorite member of the cast it would be Greg Kinnear who once more shines in a dreary comedy. Anyone remember `Dear God'? In this film, Kinnear is a great jerk who loves to ravish college coeds. Within Kinnear's portrayal you can see the little boy forced into being a man. It's a great performance. "},{"Title":"We are the LOSERS for having watched this movie.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow - this movie is bad.It'd be hard to find anything worthwhile regarding this film. I suppose it's commendable that so many people were willing to play nasty, unpleasant characters in this movie - especially Greg Kinnear. And Jason Biggs does actually go through the whole movie playing a character different than the one in AMERICAN PIE. But that's pretty much it.It starts off as if Jason Bigg's character is going to be a farmboy rube coming to NY for college but that only really lasts about 15 minutes and he ditches his bad haircut and earflap hat when he gets to NYC - while that premise seemed unlikely and pointless, that's pretty much the last idea in this movie.Amy Heckerling, the director of CLUELESS apparently reached the sum of her knowledge about teens/coeds with that movie. She repeats her limited knowledge which is now about 10 years behind the times in their slang and manners. Ouch! But it gets worse. Not only do the college room-mates look to be 29 years old, they are supposedly rich and immoral - which can be played for laughs but in this case, because they look 29 - they just come off as sleazebags - not to mention that date-rape drugs are pretty unfunny.Mena Suvari's character doesn't make sense at all. Jason's Bigg's character moves into an empty room at an animal hospital - whaaaattt??? That's exactly what kind of movie this is - things happen that make no sense - it's not funny - was it supposed to be indie film weird? It's all just a big huh.My guess is the premise that Jason Bigg's character was supposed to be the loser but in reality, he is the winner' and everybody else is a loser. And my guess is that they were so set out not to do the cliches, they forgot to be funny or serious or have a plot. What we have left is pointless. It vacillates between a Lifetime Movie (not kidding) to a bad teen comedy to a bad drama - sometimes all in one scene.Watch this movie if only to see how not to make a movie. "},{"Title":"Appropriately titled.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, what has happened to this director? She who brought up Fast Timesat Ridgemont High and Clueless? She goes woefully wrong here, with aweak story poorly acted and not very funny. I think the crux of theproblem is the casting of Greg Kinnear, who clearly isn't really anactor (although he seems perfectly nice in all his films) and has nochemistry with anyone. The kids are fine, if misguided, and the music isokay. But the film falls flat and was a big disappointment.   "},{"Title":"I expected somewhat better from Heckerling","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie opens up, with a screenplay by Amy Heckerling, writer of smash hit Clueless.  Like most people, I thought it would be good, so I went to see it.  For the most part, it was fine, but some of the sequences in the vet's office might have people from PETA up and screaming.  This movie, in a sense, lives up to its name, but is worth seeing at home, not in the theaters. "},{"Title":"All of you going to see this because you've seen American Pie and/or American Beauty, I've got some bad news...","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of Loser last night and it was a total waste of my time.  There were a total of three (3) brief giggles in this two-hour movie and, if you watched the preview, YOU'VE SEEN THEM ALL.Please, I implore you...  walk away.  It's not charming, it's not funny, it's not even remotely witty...  don't even rent this one.  Go see something else.Loser is, ironically, given the right title.  Sadly, I'll never get those two hours back.Rating 1 (awful) "},{"Title":"Underhanded Remake","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As an old movie fan, I've dealt with many successful and unsuccessful remakes of old movies I like. The Heiress, Charade, the list goes on and on. However, in all of these cases the movie was touted as a remake, and not sneakily re-written in some kind of hope that no savvy viewers would realize what they were watching.I have a secret love for stupid teen comedies, so I watched Loser expecting a brainless fiesta. Imagine my outrage when I realized I was watching a horrendous remake of my favorite movie of ALL TIME, The Apartment. In shock, I watched as characters, situations, and whole sequences were lifted wholeheartedly from Billy Wilder's beautifully dark and comic parable about the value of morals in a faceless urban society.What shocked me the most is that Amy Heckerling has never copped to this being a remake. I have watched DVD special features, read reviews, and even searched here for some word from Ms Heckerling, but there is nothing. I am not so troubled by this being a mediocre at best remake than by it being so shadily remade. Until I read the comments from my fellow IMDb posters, I had not even read about anyone else realizing the similarities.If you're interested in watching Loser, do yourself a favor and watch the Apartment instead. You will feel uplifted and rewarded as a film goer and a human being. (Note Amy Heckerling is an old movie fan! I have seen her doing interviews in tributes to directors like Frank Capra and Billy Wilder himself! So this remake was NOT an accident OR a coincidence!) "},{"Title":"Not a total loss","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  LOSER (2000) **1/2 Jason Biggs, Mena Suvari, Greg Kinnear, Thomas Sadoski, Zak Orth, Jimmi Simpson, Dan Aykroyd  (Cameos Andy Dick, Steven Wright, David Spade, Andrea Martin, Everclear)  Dir Amy Heckerling Writer/director Amy Heckerling has been the arbiter of goodwill in finding the pulse of American teenagers, particularly with their infrastructure class system and the pangs of true love, particularly in `Clueless' and her classic `Fast Times at Ridgemont High'.  In her latest opus she stumbles a little with this Generation Y romantic comedy that falls short on laughs. Biggs stars as the eponymous character aka Paul Tannek who finds himself in his first semester at college away from his humble rural upbringing and tries to employ his father's earnest words of wisdom to look interested when people are talking to him, that way he's bound to have truck loads of new friends.  Easier said than done. Paul winds up a fish-out-of-water and his outward appearance doesn't help with his thrift store ensemble combined with a winter hat replete with ear flaps a la `Fargo' (which his roommates comment on mercilessly) and his amiable good-heartedness is completely out of step with the de rigeur post-grunge social trappings of being cool no thanks largely to his nasty trio of partying roomies from hell (Sadoski, Orth and Simpson, a trifecta of androgynous angst and outright disgust) who have it in for Paul for the simple reason that `no one likes you'. To make matters worse the only person who befriends him is the lovely Dora Diamond (the ethereal Suvari, Biggs' co-star of `American Pie'), his co-ed co-hort in their literature class run by her secret lover and their instructor Prof. Edward Alcott (Kinnear in a fine turn of erudite aloofness), a supercilious snob who treats his much younger plaything as a stick of furniture.  When Paul spontaneously invites Dora for a date to an Everlcear concert (her favorite group he has mentally noted) things take a turn for the near worse when she is sidetracked to a party his roomies throw with her nearly overdosing from ill-gotten date rape drugs.  Paul finds her unconscious, saves her life and watches over her even as Alcott avoids any responsibility (and is conveniently blackmailed by the duplicitous roommates). The two destined to be couple face what seems to be a plague of plot rehashes through the cinema age of being so right for one another that through their blindness to the obvious it takes the entire movie for them to realize what (or rather whom) they've been missing.  Biggs and Suvari have definite chemistry and make their characters believeable and sympathetic despite both displaying signs of being very smart even though they contradict themselves (Suvari stultifyingly putting up with Kinnear's relentless beratings just doesn't ring true and Biggs not really that much of a loser per se).The pacing falls off by the final third of the film largely due to Heckerling's seemingly rushing of the storyline to come to its inevitable head where the duo find that friendship can lead to romance and it feels as if there are entire scenes missing in the characters' new found discoveries. Heckerling obviously cribs some sequences from Billy Wilder's masterpiece, `The  Apartment', which is not so much a rip-off than as an  unacknowledged homage.  And her nice job of adding such comic actors as Spade and Wright in scenes is complimentary only to her choice of using her co-producing partner Twink Caplan and  `Fast Times' alumni Taylor Negron and Brian Becker  in sly cameos. The actors make the most of the situation but there appears to be nothing truly funny about being a `loser'.  "}{"Title":"A cute film and its funny too","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You will fall in love with Mena Suvari. Jason Biggs is a lovable nerd. A great date movie, some funny bits, and overall cute to watch. Not sappy romance, but good college fun. Watch for David Spade, he is HILARIOUS in this one.5/5 "},{"Title":"the most unnervingly honest film to come from Hollywood in ages.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Loser' is Amy Heckerling's 'Candide', in which a naive optimist is sent out into the world, only to discover that it is unjust, exploitative and brutal.  The best thing about 'Loser' is its casting and the expectations it creates where 'American pie' was a sweet romantic comedy disguised as a scatalogical exposure of man's basest instincts, 'Loser' is a scatalogical exposure of man's basest instincts disguised as a sweet romantic comedy.  The ironic references to Mena Suvari's most iconic role - 'American Beauty' - expose the paedophilia driving that work's sentimentality.  This is a film of unimpeachable integrity, as ugly and unpleasant as the characters it satirises, 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' in Hell.  So much integrity, in fact, it's virtually unwatchable. "},{"Title":"A Winner!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I knock a lot of these teen-bopper comedies, but they were way too harsh on this one.  I actually enjoyed it and thought it was quite witty.  It didn't go through all the cliches of the genre.  I'm sure there are people who can relate to Jason Biggs' character, a small town boy making a move to the big city.  Though the characters are a little exaggerated it delivers a good universal theme.  I liked the charming chemistry between Biggs and Mena Suvari.  They were totally believable, and I like how we get to know the two characters really well until their inevitable romance ignites.  The love between them is not done in rushed, standard Hollywood style.  The only thing that bothered me was the relationship between Suvari and Greg Kinnear.  You can't help but think, every time Kinnear is on screen, What the hell was she doing with this creep in the first place?  So that seemed like just another cheap subplot to use as an obstacle.  Loser is a funny, feel-good, heartwarming film.  It's a great joy to watch.  My score  7 (out of 10)P.S.  There's a good cameo by David Spade as a video store employee. "},{"Title":"Harmless yet worthless","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Paul is a small village guy going to college in New York. Once there, he does not exactly fit in and we see his troubles throughout the boring movie. It seems the main goal of LOSER is to make Biggs and Suvari very likeable. Why would someone pay $11 to see this? Harmless cute jokes such as Paul wearing a Sarah MacLaughlin t-shirt or Dora's 'dress' for the professor's Thanksgiving might take your mind off the fact that this movie is a colossal waste of time. There are too many other movies out there that are better than this. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is not a movie, its an exercise in patience.  This was 95 minutes long but felt like it was 14 hours.  No one liked Jason Biggs in American Pie more than I did, but here he is wasted in a unbearably stupid movie.  Mena Suvari does not fare any better.  I can't believe this was directed by Amy Heckerling!  She really hit the skids with this one.  You will identify with the title of this movie if you watch it.  I felt lousy after sitting through this.  Don't make the same mistake!  "},{"Title":"When is this over?!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How long was this movie? 10 hours? 12 hours? That's what it felt like. What a terrible waste of time this was. First of all, this was an obvious and awful attempt to rekindle some of the inexplicable American Pie hype with Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari. Suvari knows how to act, as she proved in American Beauty, she just didn't do it here. Jason Biggs is the biggest mystery in the film industry right now. How did this idiot get on screen?As far as the story, nobody gets treated like that in college. I don't care how small the town is that you're from. There are not as many college students with the mentality of a 9 year old that would be necessary to pull all of the stunts that were pulled in this movie. They were real creative with Biggs' character, too. Dress him up like a geek and put a few obscure words into his vocabulary. And yes, they did manage to squeeze in a falling-down-the-stairs scene for him, what fun. Besides that, what about the housing? Biggs gets kicked out of the dorms by his dumbass roommates and then what, he talks his way into turning one room in a veterinary hospital into his personal lodgings? Are you kidding me?! Biggs and Suvari have no chemistry on screen, and she can't play the part of a reject like she tried to in Loser, it doesn't fit with her iconography. Terrible acting, a terrible story, and a director who did little more than point and shoot, all adds up to a ridiculous film whose stupidity borders on being offensive. "},{"Title":"Oh my Freaking Gawd!!","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm sorry, was there a worse movie out in the last 15 or 20 years? I know Hollywood makes crap, now and then, but HOLY F**K! From the stupidly unbelievable home scene at the start, to the college with not a single decently developed character in it, including the main characters. The producers must have spent 50 times as much on the soundtrack as they did on the screenplay. Holy crap this movie's bad! Ugh! There was not one, single, genuine scene in the entire movie. There's more depth to be had in a subway poster. Oh, there are worse movies, I am sure. There's got to be one out there, surely. I can't think of one, but surely there must. Someone help me out here. Is there a crappier move made with less crappy actors? Man! I think I need a bath to get rid of this stink! "},{"Title":"Just an uninspiring, uninvolving film lacking spark, laughs and any sort of imaginative touches outside of the genre clichés","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being the first child of a poor, small-town family to get a full scholarship, Paul Tannek is excited to be going to New York. However he is poor and hard-working and unable to fit in with his flatmates who eventually lie about him to get rid of him and stop him being a drag on their party lifestyle. Meanwhile Dora is struggling to make enough money to pay her tuition and is stressed by her secret affair with her tutor, Professor Alcott. When the two meet, Paul falls for her but is he too much of a loser to win her over?Despite the fact that this looked like yet another uninspired genre film, I thought I'd give it a go. It was made difficult to enjoy for me even as I started because I was filled with anger at the majority of the students in the film, and got annoyed because I know for many this is the reality &#150; that college/university is just a big laugh that is paid for by mummy and daddy. I felt annoyed by the majority of the characters because I was forced to work several cleaning and barman jobs during university to help get through it and my 7am starts as a cleaner and 2am finishes at the weekend as a barman didn't sit well with other students desire to spend every evening drunk. Anyway, once I got past my personal issues I tried to enjoy this film but found it to be clichéd, predictable and rather uninteresting.The whole college thing is very much paint by the numbers and doesn't really stand out or engage any more or less than other films of the genre. The story is OK but it is predictable and too many characters are just unpleasant while still being presented as the norm &#150; if this is the case then I feel sorry for anyone on a low income who tries to go to college (although I guess they are the minority). Regardless of this the film is surprisingly unfunny &#150; the main narrative is laugh free story and the usual college antics are not funny because they are carried out by people who are about as appealing as slugs. Without laughs the film rests on the emotional core and this is predictable and uninvolving. The ending is a fine example, it lacks spark or magic and the text over the final credits are unfunny, unimaginative and some smack of bad taste and feel like the writer didn't know his film was a comedy (although who could blame him for that?).The cast match the material blow for blow in terms of being lackluster. Biggs just plays a slightly toned down version of his Jim character. He has been badly typecast and doing films like this will do nothing to help him breakout of the mould &#150; he is looking very much the one trick pony thus far.Suvari is sweet and attractive but she is the same &#150; her characters all seem similar (the ones I've seen anyway) and it's looking like she isn't acting so much as just being a variation of herself. That said I did like her in this and found her to be the 'realest' of those involved. Orth, Sadoski and Simpson all have to play party dudes who are real jerks and I was surprised by how natural it all seemed to them. Sadly they overdo it a bit and the film is irritating (more) when they are on screen &#150; and the films attempt to pay them back is lame and in bad taste. Kinnear is a face but no more and all he has to do is make his character a jerk, which he does. Aykroyd must have gotten no more than 4 days work out of this film and I wonder why he bothered (probably the cash). Also in there if you're interested are David Spade and Alan Cumming (as the emcee of Cabaret) but they add nothing other than their presence (which for David Spade is actually less than nothing).Overall this is not a bad film it is just a poor one and is instantly forgettable. The mood of the film is all over the place and it can't seem to settle on one for very long. The characters are mostly annoying outside of the lead two, whose romance lacks any sort of spark and thus also fails. Given that we look to the idiot college kids for laughs then those too are unforthcoming leaving a rather dry and uninteresting film. I know that less than 7 hours after watching I will have almost totally forgotten it and in many ways that is a good thing.  "}]