[{"Title":"A very clever satire","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to disagree with some of the other comments on this film.  In my opinion it is one of the cleverest satires that I have seen but you have to concentrate on it and not expect it to be obviously realistic.  It is very well written, acted and directed with an extremely clever ending. Reminiscent of the ability of Noel Coward or Oscar Wilde to depict human frailty in a comical light (but missing the blistering dialogue of the latter).  The word wry comes to mind and its only faults are some slowness in building up to the ending and, while most of the characters are deliberately portrayed as rather childish and naive, some are a little overdone. In particular, Colm's definition of when an action is a gesture is absolutely superb satire.  This film is wit, not comedy in the rather obvious sense which so often prevails these days.  I would give it a much better than average rating for a discerning viewer who wants something better than what is mostly on offer.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was great for exactly what it was a comedic drama with honest political/cultural commentary.Set during the 1980's in the British-controlled portion of Ireland, An Everlasting Piece is about a Catholic and a Protestant barber who set off to win a monopoly as hair-piece salesman in the north of Ireland.The style of comedy was what I would call very British-like.  It had that dry and witty sense of humor that is so terrific if you appreciate that sort of thing (just for the record, I'm usually a fan).As far as the cultural/political commentary goes, an earlier post pointed out that George's family is non-existent in this movie, and that the story revolves around an almost entirely Catholic cast.  My response is that to include the Protestant side of the story would have been impossible.  To include the loyalist populace (and thus the loyalist paramilitaries, since there would have to be a balancing cinematic force countering the story of the IRA) would have required probably another 3 hours.  I think this movie is really about the Catholic-Catholic confrontation.  You've an IRA man who says I want more than to just survive, in an era of unequal rights and opportunities for Irish Catholics, just as it was for the African Americans 2 decades before the film takes place.  Then you have a Catholic who believes in the cause (ideologically speaking), yet has a Protestant friend who is obviously not concerned with politics or consumed with partisan hatred.  The political/cultural issue here is the fact that the ideal the IRA was fighting for in the '80's (at the time, equal rights through union with the Irish Republic)) was legitimate in many respects- yet at what expense? In the end the film is a movie- it is heart-warming entertainment that gives the viewer a general sense of one of the overall issues facing Ireland in the '80's, and it gives a lot of chuckles.  It'll make you laugh, feel, and even make you think- so it's worth at least the rental price. "},{"Title":"A nice comic angle on the Troubles","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An Everlasting Piece is definitely one of the better Irish comedies I've seen in a long time.  Though not on par with the Barrytown Trilogy or Divorcing Jack, the three leading characters are witty and strong.  I'm very partial to Brian F. O'Byrne's thoughtful, subdued yet humorous portrayal of Protestant George Post.  His best line is arguably, He's as Orange as that chair. The film features many funny and poignant moments that make the film enjoyable to anyone who appreciates Ireland and its people. "},{"Title":"A movie about more than friendship","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everyone I've told about this movie loves it. It says a lot about friendship, love (parental, fraternal, egocentric, altruistic) and about a country bifurcated by war and misunderstanding. As usual, with movies made in Ireland and Britain, the humor is broad and subtle at the same time and even the very minor characters are fully drawn. If ever there was a time for this film it's now. With surreal humor (although what is surreal these days?) it explores the meaning of hate, love, war and forgiveness. It is a movie about common lives that are circumscribed by conflict and about the way people cope with impossible and untenable situations with the way, in short, that they survive. And it's funny! Billy Connelly as Scalper is, as usual, over the top in the best sense. "},{"Title":"Heavy and light, amusing, frightening and dark","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a strange film. It can be very amusing, but also very frightening.  You don't have to take sides in the conflict in Ireland to appreciate that the people there have been living on the edge for some time.If you want Cheech or Chong then stay away.  But if you want to feel uncomfortable, have a laugh, and perhaps feel just a little bit of empathy for your fellow human beings then this is a great film.Personally, I could do with less F*ing language, but it is important to consider the characters involved.  In real life they just don't go around saying 'golly gosh' and 'darn'.Billy Connolly is a perfect choice for his role, and is an integral part of the film.  A mad scotsman? Why?  Because only the Irish have the strengh of character and mind to stay sane under the condition in which they have had to live.  And even then .....Don't watch this film for the laughs.  Don't watch it for the actors.  Don't even watch it for the sake of Billy Connolly.  Watch it to see that spark of humanity that we sometimes refer to as the soul.   "},{"Title":"excellent comedy","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very funny comedy set in Belfast.  It's always an challenge to find  humor in very serious situations but writer and star does a fine job in combining the two.  The plot is clever with a number of nice twists.  The acting is good all around.  I feel the movie is quite well done and worth seeing - it's one I'd recommend to friends. "},{"Title":"Wow! Class film says I.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is a class film about life in N Ireland. Yes, if you are unfamiliar with N Ireland you may struggle with the stuff about The Troubles and the Catholic/Protestant divide as well as the odd word like cat, meaning terrible. Also, but not used in the film is cat melodium meaning catastrophic. Therefor the situation was bad but not that bad. The mad toupee seller played by Billy Connoley is brought to a mental institute having scalped 4 customers. Two hairdressers working there decide to take over his monopoly over all Northern Ireland. However they must sell the most wigs to get the monopoly because another company is in competition with them and is better organised and well established. Thus the film is about their trials, tribulations and trouble with the law as they attempt to sell wigs to anyone and every one including the IRA. Funny, well written and full of life this film made me laugh and smile, as I come from Northern Ireland myself. I liked the double personalities of some characters e.g the milkman during the day IRA member in his spare time. I guess thats what it's like for some people in NI. I like the detail about where the hair for the wigs came from. The Protestants would not like to wear the nun's hair because nuns are Catholic, I think. I noticed also how the two characters had to avoid or got worried when they confessed one was a Catholic and one a Protestant. "},{"Title":"An engaging character study set against the Irish conflict of the 1980's","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barry Levinson hits the nail on the head (or rather the hair on the head) with An Everlasting Piece, the story of an odd relationship that grows out of the toupee business.The film is amusing throughout and while some might consider the storyline contrived, the characters exhibit both depth and morals as the relationship between the toupee business partners grows.It was particularly enlightening to see a film set against the Irish conflict in Belfast during the 1980's and to get a better understanding of what might have been like in that time and place.Highly recommended for what it is; light entertainment with underlying social commentary. "},{"Title":"If you miss the point you won't enjoy the movie","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An Everlasting Piece is a funny, witty and at times dark movie based on the escapades of a Protestant and Catholic barber who team up to take over the toupee market of Northern Ireland.  If you look for deeper meaning in this movie you will find important moral lessons and some insight into the nature of conflict in general.  There are dozens of quotable lines present, Billy Connolly has some real gems.Having never been to Northern Ireland, I believe this movie has given me some limited insight into 1980's Belfast.  Most of the main characters are Catholic-Irish, and the film does seem slightly sympathetic to that side.  If you are looking for more information on the atmosphere and troubles in N. Ireland I recommend reading Bad Blood, by Colm Toibin.The plot is fine 6/10 The humour is great 9/10 The dramatic element is good 7/10 Overall I'd give 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"There Should Be More Movies Like This","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the best films I have ever seen. It never gets old. Very intelligent comedy and a meaningful plot. Its one of my most favorite films. Its a rare film. Rare as in- you don't find 'em like this very often. You hear the phrase feel good movie sometimes and that can sound a bit cheesy. But this truly is a feel good movie. Barry McEvoy's writing is awesome. Brilliant acting all around. Billy Connolly has a role in this as well and as always- he's the icing on the cake. Doesn't matter how you feel about the 'situations' in Ireland. Doesn't matter who's side you're on- and a lot of people take sides- its about sticking by your friends no matter what. Highly recommended. 10 stars! "}{"Title":"If you don't love the Irish, find another movie.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An Everlasting Piece is a lively, smart little comedy which tells of two barbers in 1980's Belfast, one Prot and the other Catholoic, who start a toupee business and struggle to succeed against the adversity of a divided Ireland, commercial competition, and their own religious/political alignments. AEP is solid throughout with fresh faces, a good musical score, a clever and spunky story, lots of wry Irish wit and a few poignant moments too. Not your usual slappy-sticky comedy fare, AEP will appeal most to those who appreciate wry comedic subtleties. If you don't love the Irish, find another movie. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly delightful and very funny film","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedy is very highly underrated and overlooked by many. I love puns, and the title is part of what attracted me ; that and the addition of Billy Connolly to the cast. Colm and George are wonderful as the prospective hair-piece salesmen , and Colm's girlfriend is excellent in her role. My personal preference for less use of the F word aside , this is a terrifically funny movie. The plot is a very good one. I'm American and don't have the emotional attachment to religious controversy as many others to this subject matter - but I feel it is handled in a respectful manner. There are many scenes which stand out in my recollection of the film as being very hilarious , the one about  herpes  being my vote for the best. This is just a funny, feel-good film and I recommend it to anyone wanting a good laugh. The somewhat eccentric family scenes with Colm will have you rolling on the floor.I found the Mom and the knickers on her head to be quite amusing. George and his poetry are right up there with the other scenes in making this comedy stand out. I happen to be a big fan of 80's music , and the soundtrack has some very good songs. This is one film I always recommend to my friends who are unfamiliar with British comedies, and the like. Watch it !! You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"An Underrated, Thoughtful Gem About Hairpiece Salesmen (!)","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One doesn't often encounter movies about hairpiece salespeople, so credit must go instantly to someone who dares to be different when contemporary cinema generally demands something more simple-minded; this film is anything but.From the very beginning, there are visual clues that the story deals with more than meets the eye--beginning with some incredibly vivid coastal shots; the camera will occasionally just sort of cruise off scene to pick up significant wall art, or highlight something about a neighborhood; meanwhile a zany story pits hair salesmen against each other in a race against time. The included preview hints that this is a Christmas film, but it is only in the way that Meet John Doe might be, using the holiday as a vague thematic background. On the surface, there are lots of laughs, but underlying that surface is a touching idea that only starts to broadly surface in the last ten or fifteen minutes, and it knocked me for an emotional loop, gently. By the way, I found that subtitles absolutely necessary, as the dialect is often quite difficult to understand, and its nice to have some assistance. Another underrated gem from Barry Levinson "},{"Title":"Very recognisable, but bites more that it can chew","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The characters and the humour of this film are very recognisable (you might miss the meaning of some jokes if you are unfamiliar with life in N. Ireland). Definitely a story written by a local! Overall, far better than many N. Irish comedies that tend to contain too many primitive jokes. But I have one question to ask how come to sell the wigs to the IRA would be a betrayal of friendship (with a protestant), but to sell the wigs to the British army is OK? Now, if the heroes would have sold the wigs to BOTH the British army and the IRA, at least, that would have been a genuine attempt to be just neutral businessmen. What we see in the film, is somewhat inconsistent logic typical for SDLP (a local Catholic party) voters who pretend to be apolitical, but in fact have chosen sides in the conflict just as all the others. I bet that the script writers votes for SDLP. You learn those things very quickly when you live here. "},{"Title":"Sporadically amusing but not much more than that","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Colin gets a new job as a barber working as the new Catholic barber in a Belfast mental institution. His colleague is George &#150; a protestant with a love of poetry who is also a barber. A chance meeting with a mad wig salesman known as the scalper sees them getting their hands on his leads list and the pair decide to dip their feet into the toupee market. Calling themselves the Piece Men, they start following the leads even though it takes their mixed-faith business into dangerous areas.The general humour in Northern Ireland tends to be quite a dry and cynical affair that has grown out of the decades of terrorism that we've had to endure. As with many places the same, a certain gallows humour grows out to help deal with the violence and it is strange therefore that we haven't had more Northern Irish comedies that use the troubles as a background while trading on this darkly rich style of humour. One reason may be seen here though, because this isn't that good a film and it is very uneven in the laughter stakes. The unlikely plot doesn't help either and, although it touches on the problem of living in Northern Ireland and the community struggles, it never seems to have much substance to it consistently &#150; meaning that when it tries to, it doesn't really work.The laughs are very thinly (sorry) scattered throughout the film and mostly it trades on a sort of Oirish charm that generally the US wants from all Irish films. Being from Northern Ireland I found this push towards that approach to be quite annoying and demeaning and it didn't actually seem to benefit the film in anyway. The cast are OK but they cannot get the laughs and they cannot make characters against the onslaught of Irish sentimentality from the music and the tone of the script. McEvoy and O'Byrne lead the film pretty well although it would have been nicer if both had been more relaxed into the comedy and more able to deal with the dramatic sides. As it is, they rest somewhere in-between, doing alright but not that great. Friel is a strange find but she does well enough in support alongside nice turns from people like Convey, McAleer and McLynn &#150; although what Billy Connolly was doing was beyond me.Overall this is a so-so comedy but not a great one and certainly not one that does justice to the humour of Northern Ireland. The cast are OK but the problems run deeper &#150; the material isn't that funny and isn't as interesting as the community conflicts could have been. Perhaps worth a look but really not that good. "},{"Title":"Breath taking movie. Humor so sharp it makes you bleed.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fantastic film. It was very funny, but also very dark at times, while not being depressing. It can be so dead serious in even fairly absurd situations that it comes across as tragic even though you are laughing so hard your belly aches. Poignant.In short, a protestant and catholic barber who become friends try to break into the toupee business. The back drop is northern Ireland when things were still pretty bad there. I say the humor is so sharp it makes you bleed because for me at least, I would be laughing quite hard during a scene, and then, when it was over, suddenly realize how afraid I'd been for the characters. Or I would suddenly have an insight into the motivations and the time that would be enough to make you weep. But you just have to laugh, because the people in the story move on regardless. Apparently the writer (or someone ) based it somewhat off his father's stories of similar adventures.I cannot recommend this move enough. I plan to buy it. "},{"Title":"Disarmingly powerful script - delivered with charm and wit","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was released before its time. View it today, in the wake of 9/11, and the pending war with Iraq, and the scores would soar. The message - delivered in this extremely funny piece about peace - is extremely appropriate for today. The script is so charming, that its shear power (another pun) is disarming. Go, see it again. And then vote. "},{"Title":"Good laugh","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought of this flick as a nice fun escape. Nothing to heavy about Northern Ireland just a couple of dudes trying to earn a buck. Get a trip to the big luau. Hit the big isle get some sun and eats some poi. Yeh its worth all the crap these dudes go through. A good flick to enjoy. Also the ending had a nice warm fuzzy feeling without making a huge deep statement. The dog chase was cool. Where KFC keeps their secret recipe was also entertaining. I think a lot of good movies came out of England and Ireland in the nineties was pretty good all in all. To bad they don't get enough exposure in the United States of America. I mean come on Hollyweird is pretty slack on quality entertainment. They canceled Firefly and Briscoe County JR great westerns with scifi. "},{"Title":"Too clever by half with much more style than substance","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barry Levinson is a clever director.  Mr. McAvoy is a clever actor/screenwriter.  In this case they combine for three wonderful ideas that would carry a short story or a half-hour sitcom episode marvelously. There is not enough here to sustain a movie, however.  So after the first half-hour, An Everlasting Piece runs out of steam and attempts to reach the finish line with smoke and noise.  A movie that begins combining wry whimsy and clever wordplay with offbeat characters quickly degenerates to a laboured farce that plays like a three stooges marathon. "},{"Title":"Seriously confused bad taste attempt to make The Troubles funny","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is a stinker. In an era when we can see SIX FEET UNDER and SCRUBS on the box, who would want to go to a cinema or pay good money to buy or rent this? It's set (with no real sense of place or time) in 80's Ulster. It's about toupee salesmen in irritatingly stupid situations with story lines wandering in a zillion pointless directions. It features music chosen at random from the Oirish songbook (and this was nominated for a music award!!!!!?????).What on earth Billy Connolly is doing in the film is beyond comprehension? He pops up from time to time at the start, disappears completely in the middle and makes a pointless final appearance at the end. But he's not alone A police detective makes a strong appearance then vanishes from the film too.One suspects that this was a movie that came into the cutting room as a rescue job which never worked. It's a crying shame since there is a good comedy to made out of the conflict in the North of Ireland - but this definitely isn't it. Luckily, 4 years later, first time writer-director Terry Loane's MICKYBO AND ME (2004) filled the gap with style and higher production values despite being made on a fraction of EVERLASTING PIECE's budget. Be warned - AN EVERLASTING PIECE is just what it says on the tin - it seems to last forever with a mere 95 minutes feeling like 10 wasted hours. See MICKYBO AND ME instead. (I have no connection with either production team or am in any way partisan.) "}{"Title":"give it a bodyswerve","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very disappointing film, starts off slowly and slows down. Obviously Billy Connolly had some spare time - his contribution to this film is non existent. Any message it attempts to offer is far too simplistic and the ending involving many young soldiers balded by terror has no humour whatsoever (and yes I do have a sense of humour). The film chops and changes and seems to be many individual scenes strung together. The idea is a good one but we are never able to identify strongly enough with the lead characters to make this movie work, The religious divide is pushed to the front too much and could be done much more subtlely (sp?) and humourously. Conclusion Give it a miss "},{"Title":"Pink Elephant In The Room","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" On the surface, this is a lighthearted comedy. A Prod and a Catholic become best of mates, launch a franchise, some antics ensue, and in the end we can all laugh happily ever after. But look again and see what no one will mention...By the 1980's, the Provos were being funded by Libya(!) and the Loyalists by South Africa to prop up a civil war. This is not, and never was about the ideal of loyal Ulster, or the ideal of Nationalism...ordinary working class folks were the tools in this conflict, and to this day the perpetrators on both sides remain unsanctioned. 3500 dead, thousands maimed or imprisoned...no 'rug' will ever cover that up. Connolly, the Scot, sees through all this absurdity...apropos, he plays it like Brando in Apocalypse Now (swallowing the bug). "},{"Title":"Terry Wogan's wig is more entertaining.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Terry Wogan, for those who don't know, is a veteran Irish broadcaster on BBC Radio 2 who is the closest UK equivalent to the legendary American sportscaster Howard Cosell, i.e. he fancies himself to death, and it's blindingly obvious to everyone that that strange thing on his head is not natural. Were he and his TOGS (Terry's Old Guys/Gals - what his audience is known as) to turn up at some point during An Everlasting Piece, the movie would have been a lot better. (Was this really directed by Barry Levinson?)Though the movie is set in the real Ireland and not some fairytale facsimile thereof, writer and star Barry McEvoy is still guilty of spinning a totally fatuous yarn that strains a bit too hard for whimsy while at the same time never managing to find the right tone; set in Belfast sometime during the 1980s, the movie revolves around two friends and barbers at an asylum, one Catholic and the other Protestant, who get the rights to the only hairpiece company in Northern Ireland, and thereby hangs our tale. (No, honestly - was this REALLY directed by Barry Levinson?)Movies about Irish barbers-turned-wigmakers certainly don't come around every day, but you will search in vain for anything resembling a point or a coherent plot; I was wondering if some key elements of the tale had been left on the cutting-room floor. It can't make up its mind whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama, and it frequently mistakes Irish people shouting F***! for humour - beware any movie that resorts to jokes about pulling off the clothes of a sleeping young man in belief that he's someone other than who he is. Basically, this isn't nearly as charming as it thinks it is. (You're sure this was directed by Barry Levinson?)Anna Friel was the chief reason your scribe got a look at Brookside (until her character was killed off); watching her in this tosh as our hero's girlfriend is one of the few positive aspects, but even she can't turn this sow's ear into a silk purse. (We won't say a word about Billy Connolly. Not a word.) The sight of Pauline McLynn also brings up memories of Father Ted - and the comparisons to this movie aren't favourable to the movie. You wind up wishing that you were joining the characters in watching Stop Making Sense or The Dukes Of Hazzard, as happens during the flick; and in any case, the premise is part of the problem. Be honest - even allowing for Anna Friel's legs, does anyone really want to sit through a movie about WIGS? (This must have been directed by the Barry Levinson who worked on the TV show Storybook International, because it can't have been the other Barry Levinson.)Other than Hans Zimmer's enjoyable score and the credit for Hair Piece Consultant, it's difficult not to think that two words are missing from the title An Everlasting Piece. And the first word is Of. (Come on now, this can't be Barry Levinson! This is the man who did Diner, The Natural, Young Sherlock Holmes, Toys, Sleepers... Wait a minute. Maybe it was that Barry Levinson.) "},{"Title":"A Series of Inside Jokes -- But We're Stuck On The Outside","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barry Levinson is a very clever director (and writer).  He obviously gathered a lot of information and insight on the pressure-cooker known as Northern Ireland.  He delights in the borough's eccentricities and predilections.  And, he endows his main characters with appropriate peculiarities.  The unfolding of events is true to traditions of the region's humor and the indigenous cast know their character well and eat and breathe the area's history.But, we don't!  Nor are we ever brought into it.  Therefore the entire exercise seems contrived and self-important.  It reminds me of being at a spouse's company party and hearing people reference people and projects that you know and understand nothing about -- yet you do not have the option of leaving the party.  It is a series of inside jokes -- but we, the American audiences, are stuck on the outside.    "},{"Title":"A movie so bad it's really bad! 1 point too much!","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Happy, crappy feel good (it made me feel bad) so-called comedy(I thought comedies were supposed to make you laugh?) I come from Northern Ireland and I found this leap upon the peace process band-wangon condesending and feeble. Even the great Billy Connolly and the gorgeous Anna Friel can't save this turkey.....avoid. "},{"Title":"If you have never heard anything about a movie....beware","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie with a friend, we both thought it was pretty lame. It starts out slow and slowly winds down to a crawl.  I almost fell asleep watching it. The acting was wooden, the plot, ridiculous, the characters, extremely unbelievable. I gave it a 4/10 just because I like Ireland. "}]