[{"Title":"A Hardy Take on the Classic Western","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" One of the most remarkable adaptations of a literary work I've seen. Frank Cottrell Boyce completely changes Thomas Hardy's classic The Mayor of Casterbridge - and actually betters it lifting it from its original setting and tailoring it into a tale of the American West during the Gold Rush. Some of Hardy's holes hold (predictable) difficulty for many modern readers, but Boyce's western retelling fills them in and lends strong plausibility. (There's a tad too much faint, fall ill and die for me in the Hardy original). Some have complained that Boyce went too far - but this is a movie based on the book not claiming to be a faithful retelling.Director Michael Winterbottom proves to have an enormous eye emerging in bold style at once stylized and natural. He brings us here images that, once seen, burn, linger and haunt forever be it a Victorian mansion hauled across the frozen plains or a horse's immolation as on fire it gallops across the screen. Winterbottom's cast is a strong one - none remaining as they initially seem, each changing before our eyes. Kinski, first strong and bitter gives one of her most tender heartbreaking performances, Wes Bentley, likable and promising becomes petty and meddlesome. Milla Jovovich serves up, predictably, hearty and hot, yet more delicate than she would like to appear. In all of this Peter Mullan's Daniel Dillon is the focus and the fulcrum by which the story hinges. He is never less than masterful. To see him early on nearly ravaged by youthful greed then watch him in age yearn for salvation that may never come or come too late, one cannot help but be riveted by his endeavor to make up by his plight and his attempt to change it.The Claim is a remarkable film which, while it may take a bit of time to warm up to, burns its own unique reward in a way few modern Hollywood films can. "},{"Title":"Admirable use of realistic pioneer accents","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" One of my favourite things about this fine film is that the characters have European accents; too often films set in the American frontier of the 19th Century have their characters speaking in unlikely modern American accents. It adds greatly to the film's believability, as well as reminding the viewer that these were people who left their homelands, usually to escape extreme poverty, and started a new life in what was (to the white man) unknown territory; this utter anonymity helps explain the actions of some of the characters in the film. Indeed the central theme, the cost of sacrificing what one has for a possible better life, is an aspect of emigration itself; the poem Noreen Bán recited by Hope Byrne recalls the tragedy of mass emigration from Ireland after the Great Famine, so its impact on Dillon is multiplied.Great credit is also due to the actors, excellent performances all round. "},{"Title":"impressive drama","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Although set in a remote Sierra Nevada mining town in 1867, `The Claim' is really Thomas Hardy's classic novel, `The Mayor of Casterbridge' transported to American soil.  The move is a good one.The story concerns a wealthy miner named Daniel Dillon who practically runs the town of Kingdom Come as his own personal fiefdom.  One fateful day three groups of people arrive into town  some railroad surveyors who offer the possibility that a train may soon be passing through the town, bringing with it people, wealth and prosperity; some prostitutes who plan to open up shop in this all-male community; and a sickly woman and her beautiful young daughter, who, it turns out, are the wife and daughter that Dillon sold for a bag of gold in his desperate youth &#150; a decision he has lived to rue ever since.Given this multi-character canvas, writer Frank Cottrell Boyce and director Michael Winterbottom take an almost painterly approach, allowing the drama to unfold at an unhurried pace, so that they can concentrate on the bleak snowy winter setting which ends up playing as great a role in the drama as the characters themselves.  The most compelling of these is Dillon, a figure of almost tragic proportions, a man who seizes the chance to make amends for his heinous sin, yet who discovers, all too late, that, for some sins, there can be no redemption.  Peter Mullan provides a superbly understated interpretation of a man whose acquisition of immense wealth and power only mask the loneliness and guilt he feels inside.  Wes Bentley as the chief railroad surveyor, Nastassja Kinski as Dillon's ailing wife, Sarah Polley as their daughter and Milla Jovovich as Dillon's devoted mistress all turn in outstanding performances.  Although none of these characters are afforded the same richness and depth that Dillon is, they still create a fascinating tapestry of conflicting dreams and emotions.  For the concept of `dreams' is a core element of the story's pioneer theme.   Here are a group of rugged individualists, all enduring great hardships on a wild outpost far away from the soothing amenities of civilized life &#150; yet all dreaming of being a part of the building of a burgeoning new nation, of which the makeshift towns and railroad-building are truly indelible symbols. And, indeed, in many ways, it is the images &#150; of rugged mountains, of the relentlessly falling snow, of a house being pulled by horses across a snowy plain &#150; that stick with us most profoundly.  `The Claim' is a somber, moving and fascinating glimpse into our pioneer past.   "},{"Title":"Turns out, after some will have lost patience, to be fairly good","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Michael Winterbottom's decision to construct the whole movie out of extreme telephoto shots - some of which have a pane of focus so shallow you start to wonder if it's really there at all - is more dogma than style.  It places a heavy strain on the eyes which some viewers will mistake for tension in the story.  (Michael Nyman's music, consisting of something like the endless melody which Wagner threatened to write but thankfully never did, likewise creates a tension which some viewers will mistakenly think belongs to the story.  Actually, for once Nyman's music isn't that bad.)  You have to admire the skill, and the art direction, like the choice of location, is beyond praise, but there's NO REASON AT ALL to make as peer at every single scene through a telescope, except perhaps that it's a shortcut (far too easy a shortcut) to stylistic unity.It's surprising, towards the end, after all the cold, barely focused and rather absent storytelling, to find that the film packs a punch, after all.  It came as a shock when I realised I'd actually been watching something GOOD.  We really had been transported to another place (the journey was just a little slow); not having read Hardy's book, I found myself wondering how he could possibly have placed the story in an English setting.I was also surprised to find myself touched.  Some sad things happen at the end.  I won't say what they are, and a synopsis of the plot probably wouldn't reveal what's sad about them, anyway. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One thing I loved about this film is also the thing that took it down a notch  The place looked so real.  It did not seem like a movie set.  It did not even seem like a movie, with actors saying their lines.  It was more like you were eavesdropping on a town.  One way they showed this was overlapping dialogue.  There would be several different conversations at once.  You'd catch the tail end of one, the main thrust of another, and the beginning of yet another conversation.  All this contributed to make it one of the most realistic movies I've ever seen.The disadvantage in this is that I think the director spent too much camera time on incidental dialogue, and not enough on dialogue involving the main plot.  Some incredibly emotional scenes were cut short.  Just when you think you're going to get hit with it, it moves to a scene where Milla is talking to Bentley about something trivial.  And those shots lasted far too long. I understand that in movie making, you don't want to focus on the sentimental, because if you do, it can come out maudlin and manipulative.  But in this case, I felt a little cheated.Still...I was deeply moved by several scenes in the movie.  So it wasn't devoid of all emotion.  I just felt in places it could have been stronger.Nastassja Kinski was perfect for her role, and I don't say that about her very often.  She looked every bit like she could have an 18 year old daughter, and yet she was also incredibly childlike and delicate herself.  And beautiful, in a pale, pathetic, used way. Actually, the best term to describe her in this movie is haunting.  Peter Mullan was awesome.  I have never seen him in anything, but I was fascinated.  Milla was like an over-ripe exotic bird.  She was excellent at nailing greedy desperation.  As for the subplot with Wes Bentley and Sarah Polley, I was not terribly moved by it.  These two were not bad, but not outstanding in any way, either.Scenery was fantastic.  You know how some movies stick with you for awhile?  This is one of those. "},{"Title":"Worthy but inconsistent","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Based loosely on Thomas Hardy's novel Mayor of Casterbridge this is a valiant recreation transposed from England to the cold mountains of early California. A man sells his wife and daughter for a gold-mining claim. Years later, when he is the local sheriff, his wife and daughter return. A sub-plot documents the arrival of the railroad construction. This has all the makings of a truly great movie but unfortunately is good without being great. The first half is particularly disappointing - the camera fails to linger where there are wonderful scenic shots of  breathtaking beauty or dialogue that could have emotional impact. It lingers over boring, inconsequential scenes. The movie also veers stomach-churningly between episodes of gripping realism to episodes where it simply looks all too obviously like actors on a set reciting their lines. Verging on pretentiousness at times, The Claim still manages to pull through as a worthwhile film, largely because it is worth seeing for the bits that work well. The movie was shot in sub-zero Calgary, Canada, and considering the lengths to which the film makers went to in order to achieve authenticity, it is sad that the finished result was rather less than finished. "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  My fave film of 2001 yet. In another week I may not have gone to see this, so I'm glad there were no other releases that appealed to me, because I wouldn't want to have missed this - I enjoyed it more than I was expecting to. Yes, it is reminiscent of 'Heaven's Gate', but this is probably better, if only for the fact that you won't have to devote half a day to see it. It has its flaws certainly - for instance, Wes Bentley's character doesn't really convince - but its positives far outweigh those it looks great, the performances are excellent, and it's moving without being sentimental. Although her character was maybe just a little too sweet and humble for me (but that's not really her fault) Sarah Polley steals the show. Peter Mullan was class too, but (again, not the actor's fault) I did find it hard to reconcile how old he looked given the timescale and his character as depicted in flashback - though I guess the hard life of a prospector in 1860's America would have taken it's toll. This movie does give you a feel for how life would have been at that time and place, and for the importance the railways played in the country's development. The moral of the story is the old one about selling your soul for filthy lucre, you have to live with your sins and your mistakes, and you can't put a price on love. I rarely pay to go see a movie twice, but I might just make an exception for this one. Don't miss. "},{"Title":"Winterbottom's masterpiece","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have been following this director for a while and I always liked his films but this time he has exceeded my expectations.'The Claim' is like an ancient greek tragedy and Dillon is its' hero. Dillon is a man who goes West with his wife and new born daughter in order to find gold.  In the process he sells his wife and his daughter in exchange for that gold.   Years later his wife will come back to haunt him and Dillon comes to realize how empty his life has been, how irrelevant wealth can be to happiness.  The story is so beautifully told and the last scene where the people of the new city of Lisboa prey on Dillon's gold is a metaphor or at least I would like it to be. I think Winterbottom wanted to show how the world will never change, how people will continue to go after that gold.  Dillon came and went, but he didn't leave anything behind him.  He achieved all those things, he was a pioneer he went out West, he was one of the people who built America but he didn't win his daughter's heart.  And it makes one wonder, what was the point of his life. 'The Claim' is the story of America itself, an America that was built on greed, on the quest for new lands, new conquers and prosperity. Peter Mullan gives us an excellent performance, as well as Sarah Polley as the elegant young daughter and Milla Jovovich. Nastasia Kinsky has a rather insignificant role and Wes Bentley is disappointing. Overall, a very good film, a piece of art by Winterbottom and a story that you won't forget for a while.  "},{"Title":"Hardly feels like a movie at all ...","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  *Possible spoilers*This is one of those rarest of movies; where you do not feel that you are watching a movie at all.  If you are looking for the usual Hollywood drama/romance, look elsewhere.  I challenge anyone to watch the first 10/30/60 minutes and be able to speculate with any accuracy as to the destination of this particular journey.To single out any actor/actress is impossible, such is the quality of all those involved. The script, acting, plot and locations are sufficiently superb that from the very beginning you are immersed in a tale so rich and so honest that you could believe that this is a documentary rather than fiction. Be aware however that &#145;The Claim' is not easy to watch and don't expect any closure.  Rather there is a tale to tell, a middle perhaps of the two ends, and it tells this tale so very, very well.  Love it or hate it, but I challenge anyone to watch this and not take something away.  10/10     "},{"Title":"Beautiful but lacks a real grit and emotional core","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Daniel Dillon owns much of the town of Kingdom Come, an area he obtained in exchange for a woman and a baby that travelled with him as a young man. Now he has the chance to become richer when Mr Dalglish arrives in town from the railroad company to scope the area for a possible railway route.  At the same time, the woman he traded in exchange for the claim to the land all those years ago, Elena, returns with her daughter Hope to ask for money from Dillon.Director Winterbottom is almost enough to draw me to watch a film, while the great potential in the cast brought me the rest of the way.  The film is rather slow and deliberate but this is not a problem as it suits the atmosphere of the town and the film.  However the various threads are perhaps too restrained and insular for the film's own good.  It is clear that Winterbottom is mirroring the coldness of his surroundings in the hearts of his characters, but it makes it difficult to be involved in the emotions of the story.  Also the fact that everything is quite polite and restrained doesn't quite fit with what I expect from a small frontier town based around mining and prostitution.Likewise the characters were too mellow for the majority of the film - certainly Dillon does not seem like a man who has that in his past, he isn't anywhere near as complex as he should have been.  This is not enough to ruin the film though; it still is interesting and reasonably involving as a collection of threads around the town.  If only it had had more in the way of heart it would have been a much better film.The cast are pretty good even though they are restricted by the material. Mullan is always worth watching and he does a reasonable job here. Jovovich is a very risky proposition sometimes but she stands out here mainly because her character allows her to show more of an emotional range.  Kinski is wasted in a role that is key to the thrust of the film but is badly used and badly developed.  Polley and Bentley are both very able actors but neither manage to convince; they are OK but their characters are not allowed to go where they needed to.The story is interesting and, after seeing this, I will now try and read the original material it came from as I can see the potential that was quite missed by this version of it.  The emotions of the story and the characters are not allowed to develop and it really robs the film of much of it's power.  It looks great and feels very worthy but it is hard not to feel like something is missing.  Well worth a look but it requires patience to enjoy. "}{"Title":"McCabe and Mr Hardy","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Michael Winterbottom directs The Claim, an adaptation of Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge which transports the novelist's tale (which was originally set in Britain) to the snow-capped Sierra Nevada mountains.With the largest budget he's ever gotten his hands on (about 20 million), Winterbottom constructs an elaborate nineteenth century frontier town, obviously inspired by the expansive sets built for Robert Altman's McCabe and Miss Miller.The comparisons to Altman's film don't stop there. Like McCabe and Miss Miller, Winterbottom's plot revolves around an ambitious businessman who presides over a stable of whores and who desires to cement a relationship with a woman, in this case his own ex wife, whom he once sold to another man for a couple bags of gold.To say more about the plot would be to spoil things. Suffice to say that this film is a tragedy, and like most tragedies doesn't work fully upon first viewing. Winterbottom's plot unfolds slowly, his narrative arc is hard to tease out and the audience is always unclear as to where exactly things are heading. It's only upon a second viewing that the film's multiple last act tragedies resonate; with tragedy, once you know the destination, things tend to become a bit more powerful. This was the case for McCabe as well.Aesthetically, the film looks good, with its candlelit tents, snowcapped rooftops and icy skies. Winterbottom tries to mimic Altman's naturalism, but his cast is ordinary and his script conventionally melodramatic. Amongst the cast, actress Sarah Polley shines (essentially playing the same character here as she did in The Sweet Hereafter, an angel surrounded by greedy opportunists). Themes of greed, frontier opportunism, and the inability to successfully reconcile family and business abound (the film hinges on little wars between self-serving careerists and those loyal to family/towns/hookers-turned-wives/loved ones etc), but we never leave the level of melodrama.Other flaws legendary composer Michael Nyman's score isn't used to good enough effect, Winterbottom can't compete with Altman, several of the film's characters are too modern or anachronistic, using modern speaking patterns, inflections, intonations and accents, and Winterbottom isn't strong enough a visualist to really maximise his locations and sets.7.9/10 &#x96; Mixed bag, but the film's tragedy plays better the second time around. "},{"Title":"Boyce, Winterbottom and Nyman come up short","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Frank Cottrell Boyce is dismissive of screen writing books, but on the evidence of this disjointed, incoherent outing he may want to take a trip to the library. Bearing a superficial resemblance to The Mayor of Casterbridge, this film lacks dramatic tension, dramatic irony, humour, characters who we can love or loathe, and most essentially a plot that resolves itself on the basis of the choices the characters make. Hardy's novel traces the rise, fall, then rise again of a powerful, cantankerous individual. The novel's tragic irony is that the 'daughter' the Mayor sacrifices everything for is not, in fact, his biological daughter. This plot line is inexplicably discarded by Boyce. It robs the climax of any dramatic power, Winterbottom looking to compensate for the lack of emotional payoff with a show of pyrotechnics.Like Boyce, Winterbottom fails to do justice to the story. Daniel gives up all for his daughter, but the emotional impact is never relayed to the audience. Elena tells Daniel that to embrace Hope as a daughter he must tell her the truth. That conversation takes place with the camera behind Daniel and Elena, their faces masked in silhouette. Why cast actors of the caliber of Kinski and Mullan if you won't let the audience see them act in their most dramatic moments? The only father-daughter interaction between Daniel marrying Elena and the crucial scene where he tells her the truth, is a dance at the wedding relayed in a prosaic, underwhelming longshot. When Daniel comes to tell her of his past misdeed he does so matter-of-factly, she runs away, and the inner turmoil this must have caused for both individuals is never examined. It is symptomatic of the failure to manage any emotional arcs or beats in this film. Winterbottom does not seem to follow the basic rules of action-re-action. When Hope first reveals herself to Daniel with the rosary beads, there is shock - then nothing. A reflective moment, with Daniel fingering the beads, is called for but never offered up. Dalglish loves Hope, sleeps with someone else, blames it on his job, and is forgiven. A sub-plot involving a railroad engineer and a prostitute takes up more screen time than the Hope-Dalglish romance. At two points people are shot dead but we cut to life going on as normal, with no sign of grief or consequences for the community.The film looks like an amalgam of Winterbottom's Wonderland (the fireworks scene is recycled set-up for set-up) and Miller and Mrs. McCabe. However, it has neither the keenly felt human longing of the former or the frailty and mystery of Altman's latter.Perhaps in reaction to the less-than-inspiring efforts of his collaborators, Michael Nyman seems not to have bothered too much with this one. He re-jigs a few notes on his Wonderland score and layers it over The Claim. All the music did was take me out of the film and make me think how sad it is to see a genius plagiarizing his own work.The Claim looks nice in places, though the snow-covered pioneer town invites comparisons with Altman's masterpiece and once again falls short. There are some nice moments, most notably when Jovovich sings about Portugal. But it is all very bitty, ill-disciplined and under-realised. It looks like a work in progress rather than a finished film. Boyce, Winterbottom and Nyman have all done better in the past, and need to do so again. "},{"Title":"Straight","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Rarely do we get a film that is honest, so we should celebrate this.Lesser films think that cinematic truth can come from a particularly `real' story, usually brutal. Or in veristic performances. But they can never carry the power of visual integrity. Not in film.Here, we stumble through a wilderness of images discovering for ourselves what is going on. We find, of course that souls never bond, that nature is rugged and capricious, and that love is all nature is. Hardy's story is blunt, but no matter. It is completely submerged. The eye dominates, leads the narrative. And the score! I'll travel distance to hear Nyman's work. Since his early integration with Greenaway's vision, he has repeatedly placed our ears behind the director's eye, with a congruent consciousness.Check this out. Insecure bonding. Always the promise of stability, always around the corner -- always tentative bonds that test our control over them.If you love film, travel with this one a while. Your relationship to it will also be enticing but loose -- tight, deep connections punctuated by impatient annoyance. It will come to you, like a casually purchased wife, like a dragged house (as also in `Oscar and Lucinda'), like the promise of electricity to bring you back from the dead, like a future rail line, like welcome death in the cold. "},{"Title":"Pretentious drivel","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Some of the things that make this a bad movie I. The movie is confusing, either intentionally (pretentiously) or due to ineptitude.A. A flashback near the beginning of the movie gives no indication that it is a flashback. There's just a shot in which we see people we haven't seen before, without any verbal or stylistic suggestion that this is a scene from the past. The younger actors portraying Dillon and his wife in the flashback bear no resemblance to the actors playing the same roles in the present.B. Although approximately twenty years have elapsed since Dillon sold his wife, he appears to have aged at least thirty years, while she has apparently aged less than ten years. The two actors portraying the woman look so close in age that either of them could have played the part in both the present and the flashbacks. That would have alleviated a small amount of confusion.C. The two unfamiliar actors portraying Dillon and his right-hand man are approximately the same age, have the same build, are the same height, have the same style of gray beard, and wear the same style and color of clothing and hat.II. Much of the plot and the characters' actions seem unmotivated.A. Why does Dillon sell the woman and baby? Near the beginning of the movie, when we see him do this in a flashback, it makes a little more sense. We are led to believe that he has no more attachment to them than to hitch hikers he picked up along his way. His only description of their relationship is that he has been dragging them across the country, and the woman barely protests. There is little or no emotion or hesitation. It's somewhat believable that he might trade them for gold. But what gives him the right to sell them? Does he own them? Much later in the movie we find out that he and the woman were married and the baby was his. Near the end of the movie, there is a vague implication that he was drunk when he sold them (although there was no hint of it in the flashback). Drunk or not, he must have been pretty angry at both of them for some reason we are never let in on.B. Why does Dillon move his house? It seems to be no more than a gratuitous action scene to give this soporific movie a moment of liveliness (like the pointless explosion of the survey party's supply wagon).C. Why do Dillon and many of the town's men go ballistic when the railroad engineer decides that the tracks can't go through their town? Did the railroad have a contract with them? Did the railroad owe them anything? Dillon and his men were not justified in showing up with rifles and threatening the railroad surveyors.D. Why does Dillon murder two railroad men, and why are there no consequences to him for this brutal, pointless act? There are at least two references to a sheriff in the town, yet he never makes an appearance. No one seems to be upset at all as a result of the murders.III. The actors use accents inconsistently. Both Dillon and Lucy sometimes have accents, and sometimes don't. Dillon, in particular, is ridiculous because at times he has almost no accent and then in the next scene he has a thick brogue that's barely understandable.IV. Anachronistic speech. You're full of ****! in 1867? V. Anachronistic hair styles.A. All of the women in the movie, be they prostitutes or not, have stringy, badly groomed hair hanging in their eyes. Try to find a photograph from the 1860s of any woman, anywhere, of any occupation or social class (including prostitutes) with hair like that. Either a studio portrait or a candid shot. You can't.B. Several men of the survey party have long, poorly groomed hair. This is not from the 1860s; it is left over from western movies of the early 1970s.VI. The railroad surveyors are portrayed as semi-literate ruffians. In reality, railroad survey engineers were college-educated, literate men (and real, 19th century college).VII. The railroad survey takes place in deep snow.A. How do they steady their tripods on the snow? B. They are measuring the snow surface, which, in the Sierra Nevada in winter, can be several yards deep. What use would that be? The ground surface would be incorrectly measured, and many prominent topographic features would be overlooked.VIII. The story is set in a mining town, with a large stamp mill next to the hotel and residences where most of the action takes place, yet the mill is obviously never running and the miners seem to spend all of their time carousing and whoring. If this mill had been in use we would have heard it roaring and seen it pouring smoke night and day throughout the movie. Apparently no mining is going on at all. Only the prostitutes are employed.IX. General implausibility.A. A large, wood-framed house is dragged (for no apparent reason) over several hundred yards of ungraded ground, down a hill slope. When it arrives at its destination, no leveling takes place; it's just perfect the way it lands. Dillon, the owner, walks inside and there are no cracks in the walls or broken windows. Even more amazing, the tables and shelves are covered with vases of flowers, decorative pottery, and sculptures that have not tipped over.B. Dillon sets fire to the town with a magic torch. All he has to do is tap any object, be it upholstery, wooden wall, or thick timber framing, and it instantly bursts into fully engulfing flames.In conclusion, the evidence appears to indicate the unfortunate fact that this movie is FULL OF ****! "},{"Title":"The Casterbridge Claim.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heavenMichael Winterbottom directs what is in essence a Western version of Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge. It's Sierra Nevada, California, 1867 and the pioneer town of Kingdom Come is thriving under the strict but effective rule of Daniel Dillon (Peter Mullan). Dillon came by way of a gold claim many years earlier by way of a trade, the barter? His wife and child. But now the past is about to catch up with him and Kingdom Come could well turn out to be his burning hell...Right off the bat it has to be said that The Claim is a difficult film to recommend, even to Western movie lovers. It's deliberately slow and purposely elegiac and ethereal. The literary aspects of the narrative positively sparkle, yet still this doesn't make the story any more vibrant, because Winterbottom and screenplay writer Frank Cottrell Boyce want to keep things in perspective. In a film that is awash with untold beauty, the snowy mountainous landscapes (Calgary standing in for California) stunningly photographed by Alwin H. Küchler, it's perpetually cold and bleak, the ice and snow a constant that marries up with characters who are deliberately hard to like.Technically this is one superior piece of work. Küchler and Winterbottom's panoramas are sublime, the town is strikingly designed by the art department, all wooded angles and smoking chimneys that are magnificently framed by the mountains, while the sound-mix thunders the ears and adds another dimension to the grubby realistic feel. Interior sequences are filmed in low lights, making the lamps spectral in sight, the costume design and the narrative strength of the town whorehouse (which is the fulcrum of proceedings) have a class about them that shines bright in the pantheon of modern era produced Westerns, while Michael Nyman's musical score is evocatively strong.The cast respond well to Winterbottom's requirements, Mullan, Wes Bentley, Sarah Polley, Milla Jovovich and Nastassja Kinski (how nice to see the latter twin euro beauties stripped of make up to show a natural era sexiness) all turn in charismatic and heartfelt performances. Narratively the film is driving towards Dillon's day of reckoning, his shoulders heavy with regret and his soul in desperate need of purging. In the interim we are privy to the lives and loves of the townsfolk, their foibles, faults and fancies, this while the town is alive with the arrival of the railroad company, who it is hoped by Dillon will make Kingdom Come prosper still further...Unfair comparisons have been drawn with Robert Altman's McCabe & Mrs. Miller. Yes, this is similar in style and execution, but why not just see it as the perfect companion piece to Altman's movie? Because it is. How about we instead look at the finale? Which draws a favourably thematic link to the brilliant Boetticher/Scott Western, Ride Lonesome. When push comes to shove, and in honest terms, The Claim is a film that for sure may be hard to love, but it sure as heck fire is a film that is easy to admire. Western fans should see it because they will take something positive from the experience. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Deliberate Western Drama.","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's the Old West in Canada. A young man (Peter Mullan) trades his wife (Nastasja Kinski) and baby (later to turn into Sarah Polley) for a gold mine and years later becomes the benign dictator of the town of Kingdom Come. He builds a splendid home, along the lines of a slapdash version of Mad King Ludwig's.The railroad plans to pass by, but not through Kingdom Come. Along with the rush of people, there is Kinski, now terminally ill, and Polley, who does not know that Mullan is her father. Kinski asks for help and Mullan remarries her in what seems to be an attempt to undo the immoral act he earlier committed. Not that he's in any big hurry to get rid of his monumental stash of stone-heavy gold bars in the locked shed next to his house.Milla Jovovich is present as one of the more prominent whores in the flourishing cat house.You know -- whatever else this movie has or does not have -- it must be said that this is a talented line up of gorgeous babes. Kinski, Polley, and Jovovich. Murderer's Row of pulchritude. And Kinski, though now old enough to play a the mother of a grown woman, is stunning. Age cannot wither nor custom stale her. They all turn in professional performances too.It's all pretty tragic however. It's clear that Mullan is ridden with guilt and love but Kinski's destiny is fulfilled, so he's missed out on the most fruitful time they might have spent together. He's compelled to tell Polley that he's her real father and she stalks off into the snow without a word.Then there's that pesky railroad. Since it will run through the plain below, it leaves Mullan and his mountain empire high and dry. Everyone leaves Kingdom Come to establish the new railroad town down there -- somewhere.It's all too much for Mullan. He burns down the town he built and consigns himself to a snowy death.It's a very deliberately paced and realistic-looking Western. The clothes are suitably heavy and drab. The mountains are majestic and snow-veined but as cold and forbidding in their own quiet way as the people who populate the town. There is laughter and booze, but it all seems forced. Nobody's love is fully expressed. There's no operatic content.There's a little gun play too, but this is a Canadian movie and Canadian movies are always thoughtful, slow, a little dark, and lacking in scenes in which someone's head explodes or an arm is wrenched off or an eye gouged out. I can't even think of a Canadian film in which someone visits a dentist.I admire it for its location shooting and for the performances, however reined in they are by the script and direction. Ultimately it's a gloomy story. No one enjoys seeing someone utterly demolished in spirit on the screen, not even a miscreant like Mullan. At least he was capable of remorse. "},{"Title":"THE CLAIM (Michael Winterbottom, 2000) **1/2","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a rare British attempt at a Western, albeit an uncharacteristic one about a small mining town clashing with the oncoming railroad it's reasonably well served by the stark cinematography, Michael Nyman's dramatic underscoring and a surprisingly able cast (the most impressive being Peter Mullan as the town leader with a secret past and Milla Jovovich as the chanteuse who has hooked up with him).Given the director, the film strives for absolute realism (down to the varying accents of the multi-national townspeople and the kind of entertainment provided in the dingy saloon); this, coupled with its relentless solemnity and a plot which isn't as engaging as it should be - actually containing a good deal of padding, particularly its baffling emphasis on the blossoming romance between a prospector and a prostitute - results in a rather uneasy film, one that's not remembered with affection! However, the tragic finale - with Mullan's dreams literally going up in flames - is effectively handled.Curiously enough, watching THE CLAIM I was reminded of Nicolas Roeg's similar EUREKA (1983) - which also revolved around a family undone by the lust for gold - though it lacks that film's striking imagery (not to mention its equally distinctive eccentricity). "},{"Title":"An understated western, brimming with emotional intensity. (some spoilers)","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The town of Kingdom Come sits atop a hill looking out across desolate planes of snow, its buildings both grand yet near to collapse.  No weapons are allowed to be brought into Kingdom Come; the townsfolk simply go about their business with little toil or trouble, content with their simple way of life, always safe beneath the watchful gaze of their no-nonsense 'mayor' Mr Dillon.  That is until Dalglish - a charismatic railroad surveyor - and his party of workers bustle into town.This is a film about secrets... a story of one man's personal redemption told on the largest scale.  The key elements, betrayal, power, ambition, identity, loss... are all separate elements of one rich-tapestry, creating a sort-of Greek tragedy amidst the decline of the Wild West frontier.  This description may conjure images of Peckinpah and The Wild Bunch.  However director Michael Winterbottom is as far removed from Bloody Sam as any filmmaker can get.  Here, the director's cinematic approach is one of quiet restraint.  The film begins unassumingly with no music and no credits, just rapid, hand-held shots of Dalglish and his posse riding into town. Voices over-lap, horses stamp their hooves into the snow, characters drift in and out of frame, as Winterbottom forces the audience to identify with these outsiders, forcing us to feel their confusion of entering this alien-world.Hostility and camaraderie are both set-up in these opening scenes, as is the quasi-love-triangle between the central trio, Dalglish, Dillon, and Dillon's mistress Lucile, who owns the town's whorehouse and sings flamenco in the local bar.  Added to this troika are two mysterious women.  Hope, a young lady who believes Dillon to be a relative of her long-lost father, and Elena, Hope's TB stricken mother.  Writer Frank Cottrell Boyce integrates these characters slowly, letting relationships within relationships build as if part of an extended chamber piece.  The film's central enigma is treated in a similar fashion, with flashbacks growing from scenes of personal longing, almost seamless in the way they drift into the film - never hurried or forced - they transmit information through confusion, forcing the viewer out of the film temporarily and then easing us back in.The use of the town as a central metaphor - or as testament to Dillon's prevailing greed and anguish - makes Winterbottom more akin to filmmakers like Fassbinder and Herzog, as apposed to Altman or Cimmino, whose McCabe and Mrs Miller and Heaven's Gate are so often sighted as reference points here.  With the town, and to an extent its brothel, used as a symbol of capitalism - of exchange and demand - we see many similarities emerge with Fassbinder's Lola or Querelle.  The naturalistic filming technique and over-lapping dialog, or the heightened sense of confusion employed in the opening scenes can also be seen as a continuation of the German director's 'In a Year of 13 Moons'.  Even one of The Claim's most ambitious and impressive sequences - the moving of Dillon's house - owes an obvious debt to Herzog's Fitzcaraldo - another heavily symbolic film about obsession.Winterbottom takes Alwin H. Kuchler's widescreen photography, which should suggest epic beauty, and couples it with scenes of gritty despair.  Here the technique mirrors that of Fellini's in Satyricon or Casanova, in which the façade of a seemingly sophisticated society is brought into decline by outside elements; but shot through with an antiseptic sheen of designer misery.  The handheld cameras, jarring jump cuts and continual shifts in focus belie the film's literary roots, as does the relocation of setting, so radical in it's approach that one could fail to notice that this is an adaptation of Hardy's very English novel 'The Mayor of Casterbridge'. Here Boyce and Winterbottom have made the change in an attempt to internalise the character's tragedy, to suggest a coldness to their relationships, creating the grand vision of a town swamped by surrounding desolation.The Claim is about restraint, emotional, personal... even cinematic.  It is only towards the film's climax - as the events spiral out of control - that any sign of emotion is aloud to build within the characters.  As Michael Nyman's score grows, the enigma of The Claim becomes clear; with the image of Dillon, his face blank of expression, his eyes burning with intensity, striding through his empty town as fire consumes it.  An echo of the scene in which the trail wagon explodes, leaving a horse to retreat into the hills, engulfed by flames.  This is a powerful, sombre film. mixing notions of western mythology with the codes of social realist drama.  The slow pace and non-reliance on narrative tension may seem off-putting for some, just as the sparseness of information delivered in the opening scenes may prove somewhat elliptical or distracting.This however, is unimportant... since this a film that favours emotion over narrative, offering us a bleak depiction of one town's redemption. Winterbottom - who also directed a version of Hardy's Jude the Obscure - knows perfectly well the limitations of text to screen translations. Thus, The Claim acts in opposition to this, shattering the novel's external window-dressing and instead, creating a work built around internal and individual desires; similar in vain to the director's own masterpiece, Wonderland.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie...","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  loosely based on Hardy's THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE, featuring a man who sells his wife and child.  I agree with earlier comments that there are similarities to HEAVEN'S GATE (I was one of three people in the country who thought HG was pretty good; my wife was another), and MCCABE AND MRS MILLER.I also agree with those who said the plot and flashbacks are a little confusing, tho maybe this is only because I wasn't attentive enough.  Mila Jovovich was good; at least, she was not as hysterical as she was in THE MESSENGER.  BTW, as I recall in the novel, the mayor loses his interest in  his supposed daughter when he finds out she really isn't his daughter.  In the movie, tho, the Sarah Polley character just walks coldly away when she finds out she is his daughter.  The result in both cases of course is alienation.I thought the cinematography and acting were excellent. "},{"Title":"Maybe the best Western I can remember...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ....certainly the best I have seen in recent years.  This movie did have a few flaws, but the integral whole was overwhelmingly positive.  The characters I found believable, the circumstances interesting, and the location beautiful.  There are some very memorable moments such as (don't worry - no spoilers) the scene in the cabin about 20 mins into the movie, and the sequence later in the film where Dalglish is riding back to talk to his superiors about the route for the railroad.Instead of the same old gunfight at the OK corral kind of western, this one is set in what must have been a very exciting time & place - the Sierra Nevada Mtns in California in 1869 - when the Central Pacific Rail Road was being carved through to join the west coast up with the rest of the country. The film has several threads, one of which follows a surveying party for the CPRR.There were also many good slow scenes with subtle dialogue.  I thought this was one of Nastassja Kinski's better roles, although it was a demure one.  There was some vulgarity, but I thought it was functional & showed the distasteful side of the Old West, and it was not constantly in my face.I highly recommend for a mature audience. "}{"Title":"melancholy beauty","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Claim is a story of family tragedy and the inevitability of fate set in 1867 California. It is apparently based on a novel by Thomas Hardy, but I cannot attest to the faithfulness of this film to the novel except to say that it undoubtedly had a change of setting.Daniel Dillon is  the ruler of Kingdom Come, a small mining town high in the California Sierras. Dillon is rich, powerful but fair, and has won the favor of a beautiful young mistress. But he has secrets that that makes contentment elusive. Twenty years before, Dillon committed an unspeakable act to gain his fortune and has been marking time ever since.When two mysterious women, an older woman and her twenty-year old daughter, arrive in Kingdom Come with a railroad survey party, the sins of the past come back to affect everyone in the town. Although I haven't read the source material, the plot and tone of this film has an almost palpable sense of impending tragedy that is a hallmark in all of Hardy's works. The harsh winter and forbidding mountains of the American west fits very well with this theme.Although this is ostensibly a western, there are none of the standard western cliches in this film. There are no heroes nor villains. The sporadic scenes of violence are confused and pointless, as violent situations are apt to be, and the pacing of the film is very deliberate. It is an intimate epic, more concerned with character than grand vistas and set pieces. Nevertheless, the visuals are stunning. I wish could have seen this on a big screen.Watching this film, I couldn't help thinking to myself how this is what it must have been like, living in those times. Many critics have complained how muted the performances are, but in a time when death was so close and a person's fortune was so transitory, not investing a lot of emotional stake into something seems a pragmatic choice. Besides, without a modicum of restraint, this film could have devolved into melodramatic camp. As far as I am concerned the choices were perfect.The standout cast includes Scottish actor Peter Mullan as Dillon. He is the center of this film. His performance brings both gravity and vulnerabitlity to this complex character.The always watchable Natassja Kinski plays Elena, the mysterious, dying woman who has returned from Dillon's past. Sarah Polley plays Hope, Elena's innocent daughter who serves as a catalyst for Dillon's search for redemption. Polley's character is sketchier than the others, serving more as a plot point, but Polley does what she can with this ultra virtuous Victorian throwback.But the real casting surprise is  a nearly unrecognizable Milla Jovovich in the small but intergral role of Lucia, Dillon's mistress. Lucia is Dillon's opposite in every way tough, smart and running from a regretful past. It's a tough role and Jovovich pulls is off beautifully. I had previously dismissed her as a bimbo model dilletante, but this serious sympathetic performance sheds a new light on things. Hopefully she will be given similar down to earth roles in the future.People compare this film to Robert Altman's 1970's anti-western, McCabe and Mrs. Miller. This might be accurate in a superficial way, but I found the Claim much more satisfying. I found Winterbottom's objective, detached storytelling more effective than Altman's gimmicky, painfully self-conscious direction. I was never a fan of that film (or Altman in general)  in the first place, so almost anything would be an improvement.A better comparison would be Ang Lee's 1999 masterwork, Ride With the Devil. Both portray a little known facet of American history in an authentic and unsentimental fashion. They take the settings of a Western without wallowing in convention. They were also both buried by the public. It's sad to think that when garbage like Pearl Harbor are splattered all over multiplexes in the country, a beautiful film like this is ignored. It does not reflect well on modern American culture.The Claim was definitely the best movie that was released in 2000 that I have seen. And I feel confidant that it will be recognized as one of the best films of this new decade.See it. Now. "},{"Title":"visually grand, good casting, strong directorial presence","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Based on Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge, the troubled main character deals with the results of an early life decision that led to his acquiring great wealth at the expense of real love and commitment.  The story is transported to Gold Rush days in the Rockies and filmed in Alberta, Canada and Colorado entirely during winter. It is hard to imagine what the cast and crew must have endured, although the characters seem perfectly comfortable, or at least fully adapted to, their wintry conditions.  I don't think any of the cold breath fog is digital.A breath-taking image brought Fitzcarraldo's boat being dragged over rain forest mountains to mind.  However, the sight of Dillon's house gliding through snowy fir forests was still very memorable. The snow-covered trees part as a two-tiered wedding cake of a house slides through them. Grand scale, visually captivating mountain vistas, strong character development, underplayed acting and excellent period re-creation of a Gold Rush boom town. "},{"Title":"visually grand, good casting, strong directorial presence","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Based on Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge, the troubled main character deals with the results of an early life decision that led to his acquiring great wealth at the expense of real love and commitment.  The story is transported to Gold Rush days in the Rockies and filmed in Alberta, Canada and Colorado entirely during winter. It is hard to imagine what the cast and crew must have endured, although the characters seem perfectly comfortable, or at least fully adapted to, their wintry conditons.  I don't think any of the cold breath fog is digital.A breath-taking image brought Fitzcarraldo's boat being dragged over rain forest mountains to mind.  However, the sight of Dillon's house gliding through snowy fir forests was still very memorable. The snow-covered trees part as a two-tiered wedding cake of a house slides through them. Grand scale, visually captivating mountain vistas, strong character development, underplayed acting and excellent period re-creation of a Gold Rush boom town. "},{"Title":"A fully realized film in every way, a top achievement.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In the sense that it lacks the conventions of any particular trend or mode, The Claim is timeless filmmaking.  It betrays no resemblance to any single period in film's modern history, and could've as easily appeared in 1985, or 1965, as now.  Of all the cinematic influences Director Winterbottom might ally, he seems to have ignored all but one himself.  Leaving behind contemporary notions of style or authorism, he guides us through the story of a pioneer man's creation of himself, his young aspirations, and the insurmountable grief he eventually reaps.  Winterbottom's camera moves softly and beautifully, even in and out of focus, as if navigating slowly through falling snow or sluggish cold air.  But the film, for all it's seemingly languorous pace, never once leaves us for wont of a scene to move on, or for the story to ascend another level of fullness.  The story will chill your heart as deeply as it's landscape will chill your bones. "},{"Title":"So cold the cast couldn't speak properly","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A super but frustrating film from the master of self-evident narrative. Winterbottom tells the story through the drama of landscape, action and relationship - even in flashback there is no voice-over or exposition woven into the script.However, this means that the script must be delivered clearly. My summary joke about the climate muting annunciation may be half true, although a cast largely using pioneer-Irish + a Portugese make us heavily reliant on the action. And on the score - a curious choice of British provenance which kept making me think I was watching a Mike Leigh film...Luckily the acting is first class from many, particularly Peter Mullan's Faustian Dillon and Wes Bentley's fast-maturing Dalglish, who narrowly avoids the same moral crevasse. Mention also for Sarah Polley, and a trouper of UK screens (big and small) Sean McGinley as Sweetly. Throw in beautiful filming (can't go wrong with this landscape) and an extraordinary vision of purgatory as a final sequence and you have 7/10 "},{"Title":"grandeur that is ultimately empty","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The vast majority of movies either sink or swim, depending upon what is up on the screen.  For those kinds of films, it makes no difference what is their literary legacy because they presuppose no antecedent, unlike a sequel or a film based upon a tv series.  The Claim begins with the brownish look of some of the earlier Clint Eastwood westerns and seems to almost attempt to emulate some of that feeling. Naming a town, Kingdom Come, almost immediately brings to mind Pale Rider with The Claim lacking the austerity of that film.  No one can fault the backdrop of this movie - the Sierra Nevada's.  There is hope that this will be more than a decent film with an adequate budget and good actors because it is associated with the BBC.  It certainly has a look to it that strives for authenticity.  So how does it turn out?The British underpinning of this movie can either take one of two forms tally ho and away we go or the stiff British lip that one finds in sound bites from its parliament with those here, here.  Well, the 'here, here gets the nod here.  Even with its nudity, the film is too conservative, indicating a misunderstanding of the feel of the old American west.  Whoever wrote the script should have studied the early Clint Eastwood movies (such as The Outlaw Josey Wales) more thoroughly.  It is just too genteel and lacks rawness.  Nastassja Kinski receives third billing in this film.  Her role is the glue that holds this movie together.  Very early on, for those looking for her, she is seen in 1/8th profile for less than a second and then holding on for dear life as an open ended wagon bounces along the dirt road with her and her daughter in the back.  At best, this role is two dimensional and clearly lacks depth because none was called for in the portrayal of a dying woman.  As soon as she is shown coughing up blood, it is obviously curtains for her with the hope that she can make something out of the role like Clint Eastwood in Honkytonk Man - she can't.  She does what she has to with a convincing cough.  The other actors, with more defined and difficult roles, are simply not up to the task to pull them off in a convincing manner.  They fail to rise to the occasion.  Wes Bentley, as Dalglish, is not credible.  He would appear to be more comfortable waiting on tables in between acting jobs at Campanile, a restaurant in Los Angeles.  He doesn't appear to possess the mental grit to cold heartedly kill someone, much less spearhead the laying out of a railroad in the wild west.  Milla Jovovich as Lucia is passable.  There is no electricity in her performance even with her prosthetic gold tooth.  Peter Mullan as Daniel Dillon is way too conservative.  The role calls for more emotional espression or at least the hint of it.  Sarah Polley being a young actress of 20 or so at the time, must have been thrilled to get the role and isn't pushed very hard on the performance scale.  The Claim is a movie that is very much like a full cup of water in its beginning, but by the end of the movie one realizes that there is a hole at the bottom of the cup because everything has dribbled away.  Simply put, it lacks passion and emotional content.    "},{"Title":"Movie that started out slow, but ultimately was satisfying","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Not knowing what The Claim was fully about, I jumped into the movie anyway.  Throughout the first half of the movie, it moved slowly, in some ways it seemed as to present the stark and remote environment of the West, but the pace was not always replaced with atmosphere.  The plot was also ambiguous and confusing, probably due to the initial cabin scene in which things were not laid out clearly, the Claim exchange was downplayed as almost a side thing.  It was not helped by by the sudden disappearance of a beard from the old Dillon to a younger one in a flashback, at the same time a bearded Burn appears in the cabin.  This lead to a lot of who was whom, who owned Thy Kingdom Come along other false chases based on faulty assumptions until the plot slowly unfolded.The plot picks up later on, when we find the significance of each character and how they are intertwined with others, along with the fact that no matter what decision each person takes, it will have devastative consequences for other people.  It eventually leads to the ending in which we realize how true Burns' (the original owner of the cabin) feeling was when he agreed to the swap.The cinematography really showed the vast space there was out in the West.  With ever expanding views of the mountains up close and in the distance.  Blurring of the images was also used, a technique rarely used in a period piece, but it was effective viaually.  "},{"Title":"A small American story","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The ClaimDirector Michael Winterbottom Producer Andrew Eaton Writer Frank Cottrell Boyce Music Michael Nyman Photography Alwyn H Kuchler Starring Peter Mullen, Natassja Kinski, Milla Jovovitch, Wes Bentley, Sarah Polly, Sean McGinleyThe big American story is that in 1776 courageous American settlers fought for freedom and democracy against British monarchical tyranny.  This story is  reinforced again and again on the big screen. The story of The West is one that is used most often to illuminate the fight for these essentially admirable ideals.   The small American story however, the one often hidden from historical view,  is the one that injects a little reality into this interpretation of the American way of freedom and democracy by revealing what really inspired  the revolution and made America the country it is. In cinematic terms, The Claim is one of those small stories that expresses much about the American economic mentality. `Everything has a price' says the film publicity. That tagline defines not only the action of this story but a whole social context, where the driving force behind the society, the main preoccupation of its citizens, is self-interest, and society itself morally bankrupt. Of course, the story could be set anywhere, its inspiration is credited to Thomas Hardy's Mayor of Casterbridge set in the small, rural backwaters of 19th century England. However, excessive materialism in  this setting is not to be equated with  the general nature of society. The story of a man selling his wife and daughter to finance his own ambitions is such an outrage because it is related to a society with some moral credibility. But  in the 1840s California, in an era of frenzied  gold prospecting where `everything has a price' and economic success is everything, the moral effect of such a story is of a different nature. This is the setting for The Claim. So,  it is not surprising that The Claim is an essentially English enterprise. Setting the Hardy story  amidst the relatively uncivilised landscape of the Sierra Nevada, in a thin society set up by invading hoards of the self interested, ruthless and ambitious representatives of unfettered capitalism, Michael Winterbottom, the film's young English director, and writer Frank Boyce have, with a measure of cynicism,  advanced a new moral context for the original story. Twenty years after the mad rush for gold Daniel Dillon ( Peter Mullen)  is king of Kingdom Come, a town built on gold. Dillon owns everything of value, the bank, the mine, the hotel, the liquor store and his affectionate association with the exotic brothel owner Lucia (Milla Jovovich)  affirms his control of every aspect of town life.  However, his success was financed and made possible only by an apparent act of moral depravity many years before. The arrival of three strangers disturbs his contentment and threatens his success. Two women, the young and beautiful Hope (Sarah Polley) and the ailing Elena (Natassja Kinski) possess the secret of his potential downfall. The other stranger, Mr Dalglish (Wes Bentley), a railway surveyor, represents a purely economic danger to Kingdom Come. Yet, this `moral' tale has, ultimately, limited effect because here is a society where depravity is the norm. So, the film's weakness is based on an irony.  The more accurate  it is at depicting a morally uncharted land, a wilderness of brutality where a civilised social contract is barely recognisable - and here the film is excellent - , the less an immoral act is reprehensible. . "},{"Title":"Classy Hardy retelling delivers the goods","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There's a slight whiff of the classic serial about 'The Claim', the second Hardy adaption helmed by British director Michael Winterbottom. (His first, the respectable 'Jude', was a more straightforward transcription of a classic). Interior scenes are often drawn out into significance, and pauses are pregnant, in a way that British television viewers will find familiar from the BBC's dramatisations of Dickens and Austen. But that's not to say that the film is too worthy or dull. Although some viewers have found the allegedly slow pace of the first half off-putting, the staccato editing of the opening outdoor scenes is actually quite brisk (Immediacy is also gained by the absence of opening credits). Winterbottom's pacing of much interior dialogue may also be explained perhaps by a concern to create a certain novelistic gravitas. Ironically in this light it can be argued that the most important scene in the film - that of Dillon's confession of his secret shame to his daughter - is done too shortly to create the impact that such a pivotal revelation needs.Comparisons have been made with Altman's anti-Western 'McCabe and Mrs Miller', or Cimino's lumbering 'Heaven's Gate' and there are some similarities, particularly with the latter. But Winterbottom's film has other concerns at heart and, not surprisingly given the Hardy-inspired plot, they lay closer to the nineteenth century's obsessions with social propriety and moral duty rather than the frontier entropy that Altman explores. The most obvious manifestation of this can be seen in the figure of Dillon (an excellent, sturdy performance by Peter Mullan), whose iron-backed rule over 'his' town is undermined by the shame of selling his wife and child for gold, years back. At the end of the film he has of course realised where the real duty was (ie to his wife and child), and his cache of gold lays discarded in the ruins of his town.Seen in this light 'the claim' of the film is really more than a geographical concept, although Dillon's sacrifice of wife and child for a stake guaranteed a 'strike' emphasises its significance as gauge of worldly success. Instead it is emotional, worked around the competing 'claims' of heart and body - most particularly those between Dillon, Lucia then Elena Burn; Dalglish & Hope; and Bellanger & his 'lady of the community'. These three relationships develop and mature in tandem in a sequence of scenes and events that are well handled by the film. As background to such relationships we find the world of the town prostitutes. Cigar smoking and socially accepted, they are presented here in refreshingly unsentimental fashion, an un-hypocritical view that Hardy (if not Hardy's original readers) might have approved of.This is a film which has considered matters of presentation with care. In result it has odd moments of great beauty and subtlety, marking it out from standard Hollywood fare Dillon and Hope are sitting in the saloon and she innocently asks him if he has any children. Dillon's face is a mask as he says no. Satisfied, Hope turns away to look towards the stage where Dillon's paramour Lucia (Milla Jovovich) is singing. The camera lingers on the two in the same shot and, for a long couple of seconds, Dillon's eyes flicker back to Hope. Such a moment is revelatory, expressing more regret and self-reproach than a hundred conventional lines of dialogue could ever do.This is a Western with a distinct, wintry feel, magnificently caught by the cinematography. Internally and externally, the authenticity is convincing, while some of the more atmospheric scenes, illuminated by candlelight, reminded this viewer of Kubrick's 'Barry Lyndon'. In addition the film achieves some startlingly beautiful moments  when Dillon has the Burn's new home pulled through the snow their snowy pavilion settling down amongst the trees or, (in a scene reminiscent of one at the start of the very different 'Mars Attacks!') when a wagon detonates on one of Dalglish's surveying expeditions, and a blazing horse escapes into the mountains. At the end of the film too he conjures another strong image, shot from a high angle overhead, as the men rummage like dogs for Dillon's gold in the snow in the midst of his burnt town. Complementing these highlights is Michael Nyman's music, which for my taste, was less obtrusive than some of his other film work.There are weaknesses of course; the film can seem too deliberate and niggling questions over pacing persist. Perhaps mirroring the cold landscape in which they move, some of the characters lack a degree of passion (Hope's burgeoning love for Dalglish seems particularly repressed). Dillon's love making with Lucia is an island of sexual activity which only serves to highlight the relative restraint of relationships elsewhere. Even the public whipping is curiously detached and passionless (although this may be taken as an early sign of Dillon's lack of emotion).But this is a film to enjoy and savour, if you enjoy an atmosphere of literary snow-bound intrigue. All things considered, it's probably the best Western you're likely to see for a while. "},{"Title":"There's gold in these here hills","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film is as much a western as your Western Civ class back in college was about cowboys. Though it is hard to classify (Historical fiction/Love story/Drama) it isn't hard to watch. Perhaps a familiarity with Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge will give you a greater depth of understanding, though it only seemed to get in the way of some reviewers on this page.You say there are some elements of the classic western in this flick good guys, bad guys, saloon brawls, big hats, horses, gunfights, building a railroad, dancehall ladies. No, it's much greater than just the sum of these parts.Early in the tale, roles are clearly defined. Dalglish(Wes Bentley) is a fair-minded gentleman/adventurer/engineer working on the railroad connecting both coasts. Then there's the sweet young thing (Sarah Polley), vulnerable while remaining faithful to the care giving duties to an ailing mother (Nastassja Kinski).  The stern master, Mr. Dillon (Peter Mullen), has an ugly secret putting ambition (all to literally) before family. The tough dance hall singer, Lucia (Milla Jojovich), Mr. Dillon's mistress and stronger than most insinuates herself into every part of this story. Hope (sweet young thing) does mom's bidding to deliver a message bringing closure to a 20 year-old wrong. When she does, is Mr. Dillon, the benevolent leader, transformed and humbled by life's events? Or is he the conniving empire builder willing to do just about anything to win - railroads, women, his legacy. Email me if you can decide. In the end, Dillon is faced with that dilemma and watches his life crumble. In Lucia, I was reminded of the influence that women had on building the western US.  Burns, the original stakeholder of Kingdom Come stated it prophetically that, A man loses heart out here without a woman. Love figures prominently the lives of all of the main characters. And it's more than just something to keep them warm in the cold Sierra Nevada's.Michael Nyman's score is superb as is the cinematography. We see a piano prominently in this film as we saw it in his earlier film, 'The Piano.' (but you could have guessed that one).This film may give you a new perspective on the role we play in the building of  life's enterprise.  Some catalyze, others support, and then there are those who just get in the way. Or it may just be another western. CyCy "}{"Title":"Just because it's set in the Old West don't automatically make it a Western","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  `The Claim' is classified as a western but doesn't quite fit the profile. There's a little bit of gunslinging but it's mostly a love story/human drama set in the period immediately following the Civil War. As with most period films, this one is an allegory of modern times. It has a lot to say about how progress cannot be stopped. Those picking it out hoping to see a Western may be disappointed.Normally a period film like this will try to throw in as many beautiful vistas and open country scenery as it can. Director Winterbottom works such shots in, but only to establish a setting. He instead goes against convention and decides to have the whole thing shot in hand-held. This style is meant to make you feel like a bystander watching the events yourself. It's not something you see often in period films, but it works well here. The hand-held cinematography, engaging characters, sets, and costumes make you feel very close to the events. I wish this film had gotten a wider theatrical release. I did get to watch the letterboxed DVD version, but it's still nothing like watching it on the big screen. Many less deserving films get very wide initial theatrical releases. The Claim is truly a film that is meant to be watched in a movie theater.Grade A- "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Epic-like Movie","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  It's been quite some time since I last saw a breathtaking epic story (e.g. Braveheart). I really think that Mr. Winterbottom (the director) did a very careful and good job in making this movie. For one thing, while watching the movie, you can really understand how each of the character feels. For instance, you know how painful Mr. Dillion's struggle was once he saw his own wife and daughter again(whom he had once sold, just for the sake of getting some gold). The way how he was torn from his past doing and his not-really-effective compensation that he wanted to pay for both of them. Or, you can know how Hope, the daughter, who, aside from wanting to be a very good daughter, also thought about love. dream and hope of her own life. Or, how the mother, despite all the difficult times that she had gone through because of her husband's deeds, she still loved him enough to forgive and accept. And last of all, you could see what kind of person Dalglish, and also the people in Kingdom Come were like.I personally think that one of the best part in the movie was the 'fire' part. And actually Lucia's role was good too. I think Milla Jovovich (Lucia) sang very beautifully in the movie. And that Sarah Polle (Hope) did a neat job as the obeying daughter as well.One thing I also want to say about this movie is that, the cinematography is great. And you can really get a glimpse of how the people's life during the Gold Rush was like.I personally think that this movie is more than just a romance story, and I am sure that everyone can at least get something out of watching it. "},{"Title":"Oscar-worthy","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Saw at a screening at Cannes- and as trite as Oscar-worthy may sound, this film is IT.  A sweeping, magestic epic which astounds the soul as well as the mind, one wonders how it could be looked over when it comes around to Oscar-time.  Wes Bentley is awesome in his second-round role after American Beauty, Milla Jovovich finally silences those who may have questioned her acting ability in The Messenger, and Sarah Polley gives a real, blistering, reminds-me-of-Emma-Thomson-esc truthful performance.  Natasha Kinski is heart-wrenching.  Go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Totally boring","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" What a total waste. This movie should have been good. It had great actors, great scenics, great cinematography, and no story. Perhaps the story was there, as it was an adaptation of a novel, but the director TOTALLY failed to tell whatever story there was to be had. The director did a great job of finding shots, and making the viewer feel as though he was experiencing a developing mining town in the 1800's, but there was just no cohesion of story telling. The pace of the movie was so slow, it was impossible to follow. One scene sets up, and you think as the viewer that you are going to being to get a feeling of what the movie is about, and then it just trails off and another scene begins. I thought it was especially stupid when the band of guys with guns confronts the band of rail road guys. Everybody pulls out their guns, the rail road guy shoots on of the town guys, and then all the town guys just turn around and walk away like nothing happened. The direction was so soft, so subdued, so poker-faced, that the movie never picks up any momentum and consequently fails in telling any real story. This is a failure of the director. This movie should be avoided. If you are looking for a good western about gold miners confronting greedy town folk, then you should watch PALE RIDER with Clint Eastwood. THE CLAIM was boring and pointless. The only reason I rated it a 2 instead of a 1 is because I thought it was shot well. One last point I want to make is the Wes Bently looked pretty much exactly the same in this as he did in American BEAUTY, sporting the same stupid snow cap. That kind of snow cap is a modern one, with an ELASTIC HEAD BAND, that did not exist in the 1800's. Again, a total failure on the part of the idiot that directed this disaster. "},{"Title":"All that glitters...","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It may be harsh to say that Michael Winterbottom is one of the most consistently bad directors working today, but his emphasis on often counterproductive technique at the expense of story or character has resulted in an almost unbroken run of poor films from promising material &#150; which in many ways is far worse than making bad films out of videogames. Ever the alchemist, once again he manages to turn gold into base metal with The Claim, a fairly lavish version of Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge relocated to the California mountains during the Gold Rush. While the basic story transposes rather well &#150; a down on his luck prospector who sold his wife and child for a gold claim and rose to rule the town that grew up around it finds himself on the road to destruction when they reappear and he attempts to make amends &#150; it's little more than an underdeveloped skeletal outline that never grips, feeling less an attempt at subtlety, more underwritten.While it throws out the complexity of the source material, there's enough left here that could have made a good adult Western drama in other hands, especially in the neat turn around from genre tradition that sees Peter Mullan's all-powerful Mayor of Kingdom Come trying to persuade Wes Bentley's surveyor to drive the railroad through his town to ensure its growth. Yet it never gets to the heart of the story, playing the big scenes for less than they're worth (hard to believe any director could botch a scene of Mullan harnessing the whole town to manhaul his marital home across the snow and into the heart of town, but Winterbottom manages it) and constantly pushing characters and story into the background without ever placing anything in the foreground to compensate. Worse, no present-day action in the film has any real consequence, which is fairly disastrous for a morality play about consequences. It's the kind of film where people get killed and their death makes no impression on the emotions or actions of anyone around them leaving a dreary, inconsequential film with no drive.Rather than story or character, Winterbottom seems interested in recreating the world of McCabe and Mrs Miller, but he's taken all the worst of Altman without any of the best. There may be an occasional improvised feel, but it's rarely harnessed to the film's benefit, feeling like undisciplined self-indulgence and all too symptomatic of the way that far too much of the film is played out of focus, both metaphorically and literally. Indeed, it often feels like a film whose few strengths have little to do with the director. Peter Mullan is superb as the Mayor, convincingly essaying the kind of man who can rule an entire town by sheer force of will alone, but while you understand his emptiness, the film never allows you to feel for it, leaving the finale a rather empty spectacle rather than genuine tragedy. If anything, the film's tragedy is that Mullan didn't get a film worthy of his performance. Unfortunately the supporting performances are rather dull and characterless Nastassja Kinski has little to do but waste away, Sarah Polley isn't able to do much with her cardboard good girl, Milla Jovovich lacks the moxie her saloon manger cries out for while Wes Bentley tries to coast on charisma without ever having enough to do the trick. Instead they're outshone by production designer Mark Tildesley's superbly recreated snowy mountain town and a surprisingly powerful and heartfelt Michael Nyman score that abandons his usual mathematical masturbation for something more grandiose and passionate. And you know what they say about shows where you come out humming the scenery&#133; "},{"Title":"good idea with awful result","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Pretentious drivel is about all one can say. Pity because moving Hardy west is an appealing idea but the performers, mood and conceits of the movie are anything but western. Comparisons with Altman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller are interesting but mostly serve to demonstrate that this is (sorry but it is the best description) still pretentious drivel. Perhaps some enterprising auteur can try this again with a different cast and director but again premised on the Mayor of Casterbridge doing his time in the nineteenth century west but this time without the European music and, one more time, pretentious drivel. I would have noted spoiler and mentioned the end but I could not make it through. Paging Julie Christie. "},{"Title":"Bad script, terminally dull, waste of fine cast and location","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The screenwriter must have been autistic. Or perhaps the director,who once had the emotional power to direct the scalding movieJude, grew so exhausted by feeling that he had a lobotomy.In any case, they have both contributed to the stunningaccomplishment of turning an emotionally charged subject, anextremely talented cast, a stunning location, and a dramatic moviescore into a finished product that conveys the emotionalresonance and flavor of a mouthfull of slushy oatmeal.Caution, spoilers ahead I am not someone who uses this adjective often, but there is noother word for this film but boring. The story itself is potentiallyshocking. A young man from Dublin is so exhausted and  discouraged by the trek out to the American west that he carelesslysells his wife and daughter for gold. Twenty years later, when hehas it all-- enormous riches, a town he founded, local respect, asexy mistress-- his wife comes to find him.  Yet in striving forunderstatement, Michael Winterbotom gives us two hours ofemotional muteness. The learn very little about any of thecharacters, and oddly enough, such supple actors as Wes Bentley(the captivating Ricki Fitz in American beauty) and Sarah Polley(consistently good, and notably poignant in The Sweet Hearafter) come across as frankly uninteresting. Even Milla Jovovich, whosestilted speech and little girl sexy posturing I usually find tiring  (Istill think her squaking performance in the 5th element was herbest to date) was unusally subdued. This is the danger of literary adaptations. I haven't read the originalHardy (and this certainly does not encourage that impulse) but doubtless the characters that seem so alternately silent andpredictable on the screen would have more depth. I am sure thatthere are more than a few short flashbacks to the crux of the wholestory-- the scene of desertion and what that disertion meant. Thecentral problem with Winterbottom's film is that it really meansnothing-- the wife forgives him, the daughter doesn't know. Butthere is that little issue that TWENTY YEARS pass. As portrayed inthis thin script, the late Dillon is just too good a man, too just aman, to have SOLD his family without ever once trying to find them,and without ever once trying to explain himself. I can't overemphasize how good the cast is-- even the model whomakes her acting debut as a young Elena is absolutely stunning(and it doesn't hurt that she is one of the most gorgeous women tocross the screen in recent memory!). Natasia Kinski, Sarah Polley,Wes Bentley have all proven their acting chops. Solely on thestrength of his performance of Dillon, I am eager to watch all 16 ofPeter Mullan's previous films. If you are going to watch this movie, I'd suggest doing so insummer. That way you might enjoy watching the snow swirledscreen and hearing the howling of wind passing through the placewhere the films emotional core should be. Personally, it left mecold.  "},{"Title":"Boring and confusing mess of a movie","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a bloated pompous mess of a movie that looks really good and wants to be good, but cannot be.  The editing is mostly to blame.  It jumps around from time period to time period without much warning and then there are the events in the movie that make little sense.  For example, why does a fully furnished house moved into place by men and horses, not have broken dishes, crockery, paintings on the floor, etc.?  Instead everything is perfect when the actors step inside.  And why is a train circa 1930's running around in 1900 California?  And how on God's green Earth could someone be buried six feet under when there is a good two feet of snow on the ground (anyone who lives in a snowbound area knows this is impossible)?  Wes Bentley isn't so much acting as just saying lines.  The one thing this movie had in its favor is that none of the actors had straight teeth - and that would be fitting for the era... "},{"Title":"Somewhat pretentious, but ultimately powerful.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Probably more reminiscent of Heaven's Gate than the filmmakers would like, The Claim ultimately works much more effectively than Cimino's movie, for reasons that include Michael Winterbottom's ability to reign himself in a bit. One can almost feel the director yearning to make the movie bigger and more grandiose, but that would not be to its ultimate benefit. The first half hour is interminably boring, but the film ultimately overcomes that with a fine second half. I felt Wes Bentley was good, but may have been a bit miscast. He doesn't have the edge or mystique that one might have wanted from his character as a wandering surveyor for the railroad. Sarah Polley is excellent, and strikes an uncanny resemblance to the young Sondra Locke. Fortunately, she has more going on than Ms. Locke. The centerpiece performance really belongs to Peter Mullan. While Nastassia Kinski's role as a dying woman might give her a little more to play off of, Mullan usually has to play his role with more subtle looks. He does quite well at that. Winterbottom attempts to give this Western a very spare, haunting feel, and has mixed success. As mentioned, the first half seems to be regarded with more gravity by Winterbottom than the forward motion of the story should allow. The scene in the cabin that reveals the secret that Peter Mullan holds comes much too early, and is much too short. One misses the weight and import of this scene, simply because Peter Mullan agrees to the Faustian bargain much too soon. By the end, Winterbottom and the writer have managed to fashion a rather engrossing Western with a fairly classic feel. One feels that it would have been something Eastwood might have considered twenty-five years ago. The music is a real high point, with composer Michael Nyman using the requisite inspiration of Ennio Morricone's Once Upon a Time in the West (it is subtle, but it is there), while fashioning a haunting work in his own right. Cinematography by Alwin H. Kuchleris is tragically average. While the vistas are beautiful, and the look of the film should have been amazing, the work is too inconsistent. In the end, The Claim can be considered a flawed success. It isn't perfect, but it contains enough of value to sustain it, and the mere attempt at creating a Western of great artistic magnitude is appreciated. "},{"Title":"Classic story, sharp historical accuracy","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Claim is a story fans of Dickens will recognise. No spoilers here, but the wind-up packs a classic one-two punch moral of the sort 19th century literature made famous. Given the period setting, it works very well. The Old Testament flavour (in a story set in a town literally named Kingdom Come) is also blatant and well-written. In a nutshell you got Paint Your Wagon, minus the song and dance, plus meaningful commentary and careful attention to detail. As a historically-accurate, painstakingly-filmed New Western, this movie deserves to be shelved alongside such other outstanding titles as Jeremiah Johnson, Little Big Man, and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. If you liked those, see this. (PS Some reviewers are mad because the story is slow, grey, bleak, and understated, with little action. That's also a fair description of the Old West. When you're done watching The Claim, you've been there.) "}{"Title":"Moody western","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's 1867 in the town of Kingdom Come, Sierra Nevada, California. Daniel Dillon (Peter Mullan) runs the town. Donald Dalglish (Wes Bentley) comes to town to survey for the railroad. Lucia (Milla Jovovich) is a singer. Hope Burn (Sarah Polley) comes to town with her mother Elena (Nastassja Kinski) looking for her father. Twenty years ago, Dillon had sold his wife and daughter to another gold miner for a mine.It's moody, gritty, and meandering at first. It's not clear what's going on or even who the main characters are. It's a mystery slowly unraveled. It does payoff but it makes the audience work for it. It doesn't always flow fluidly. There is a stark beauty to the mountain location and the tragic characters. "},{"Title":"The Mayor of Casterbridge gone Western","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A very good film, one that is not easy to get into initially but is very rewarding once you stick with it. The Claim does take its time to set up and is a little pedestrian in doing so for my tastes, and will test the patience of others(looking at previous comments The Claim seems to have divisive opinions and understandably). Wes Bentley and Sarah Polley's characters are also not very well developed, not helped by a subplot that is unmoving and under-baked and a rather detached performance from Bentley. What is especially good about The Claim is how it looks, it is filmed absolutely beautifully and the scenery and wintery wastelands are both stunning and brooding. Michael Nyman's music is tense and hypnotic, though one asset that not everyone will have the same opinion about because people will argue that it's repetitive as well. I can understand, the chord structure and progressions are relatively so but the atmosphere it has and the orchestration are done really well. The songs are lovely, and sung as effectively sung and placed. The Claim is a very intelligently written film, one of Michael Winterbottom's strong points has been that even when a story is loose or not as linear as one expects(nothing wrong with that, there are a lot of great films that are somewhat unconventional) the script always comes alive in how thoughtful and intelligent it is, and that is the same with his direction as well. The story once it gets going is fascinating with mostly engaging subplots and well-fleshed-out characters(especially Mullen's Dillon), it is slow and deliberate but it is a film that is very rich on atmosphere. Also The Claim is based on The Mayor of Casterbridge, Thomas Hardy's writing is vivid stuff and the storytelling is also paced deliberately, The Claim makes an effort to stick to the spirit of that story and also to match its pace but admittedly more slowed down to allow the atmosphere to come through. And come through it does making the film really elegiac and haunting in tone, the moving scenes like the ending are really emotionally powerful. The Claim may not be your traditional Western, rich in atmosphere but not so much on action. But from what action there is, it is well staged and not that confusing. Peter Mullen is mesmerising giving his conflicted character a lot of meat and brooding intensity. Milla Jovovich has a beguiling presence, Sarah Polley while not having a well-developed character is still very able(much more so than Bentley) and Nastassja Kinski is very touching in a smaller role. In conclusion, The Claim is beautiful to watch, intelligent and brilliantly atmospheric, one of those films that proves that ambitious does work. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The gap","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" In 1840's Missouri, the launching pad for manifest destiny, they used to say about people preparing to go West when it was most of it unsettled wilderness, that they were jumping off. The film is about several such people who have made the jump from faraway homes, some are Irish come West with the famine, others Polish-born or from Lisbon.Jumping off, the phrase connotes the vastness of no man's land, a kind of cosmic gap.Ford's western wrote the legend, but left out those gaps of muddled life, which had to wait until around the time of Altman's McCabe & Mrs. Miller. The filmmaker shoots in this mode, so muddled life, drifting gaze, lingering shots of ordinary nothing. Vast mountain nature.But he also wants this to be an elegy to the passing of the West in that reflective vein of recent westerns, and some questionable acting, soporific drama and overly-emotive Nyman score, negate the unobtrusive lightness of just life. So this was probably ruined on a technical level, but there is something to recommend it.One of those who jumped off is a man, who in a log cabin one night with snow-blizzards raging outside, bartered everything he would need to be whole as an old man for what he would eventually have too much of to have any use for. He has built a town with his gold, but that night of years ago which has left a gap in him comes back one day.The notion is that you wake up one day and life has gone, and so long as it settles on this in a visual way, the film has spark. There is a great shot worthy of Herzog, where he has a two-story frame house hauled by horses across the snow, a home for his loved one&#x97; this is how deeply he regrets that night.This will be later mirrored in the whole town relocating to where the new railroad is going to pass through&#x97;which leaves him stubbornly alone in his empty town. This is followed by a great finale of madness and ruin.But there is too much doodling in the snow with second-rate romance and elegy, it never takes off from the edge. It's ultimately a letdown, which is a shame, because when you go through it all, there is a great film somewhere in there. "},{"Title":"McCabe and Mr Henchard","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge must rank as one of the greatest English novels never to have been made into an English-language feature film, although there was a good television serialisation during the 1970s and a silent version made in 1921, during Hardy's lifetime. (He even acted as an adviser to the film-makers). Michael Winterbottom's The Claim is very loosely based upon Hardy's novel, although the action is shifted from the Dorset of the 1820s and 1840s to the California of the 1840s and 1860s. (This was Winterbottom's second film with a Hardy connection; he had made Jude four years earlier). The Michael Henchard character is Daniel Dillon, an Irish immigrant to California during the Gold Rush of 1849, and the equivalents of Susan Henchard and Elizabeth-Jane Newson are his wife Elena and his daughter Hope. Like Henchard, Dillon sells his wife and daughter to another man, in this case a prospector named Burn in exchange for his the gold claim. The claim proves to be a profitable one, and Dillon makes a fortune. Eighteen years later he is the Mayor of the small town of Kingdom Come and the richest man in the district. When Elena and Hope reappear in the town. Burn has died, leaving them penniless, and Dillon, whose conscience still troubles him, marries Elena for a second time, abandoning his Portuguese mistress Lucia in order to do so. (As her name suggests, Lucia is roughly the equivalent of Hardy's Lucetta). There are a number of differences between the film and the book which inspired it. The Farfrae character, Donald Dalglish, is not a business rival of Dillon but a surveyor with the Central Pacific Railroad whose job is to decide whether or not the railway line should be routed through Kingdom Come. (If he decides in favour of the town, this will greatly increase Dillon's prosperity). In the novel Newson, the sailor to whom Henchard sells his wife, is wrongly believed to be dead after being lost at sea, but later turns up alive, whereas Burn really is dead. Elizabeth-Jane turns out to be Susan's daughter by Newson, Henchard's daughter of the same name having died in infancy, whereas Dillon really is Hope's biological father. Besides Hardy's novel, the greatest influence upon this film was Robert Altman's McCabe and Mrs Miller. Like Altman's hero John McCabe, Dillon is an entrepreneur whose business initially prospers but who is eventually ruined by forces beyond his control. Whereas Lucetta was a respectable lady of good family (although compromised by her extra- marital liaison with Henchard), Lucia, like Constance Miller in Altman's film, is a brothel-keeper. Both films end with a scene of a building burning in a snowy landscape, and both have a haunting musical score (provided in McCabe and Mrs Miller by Leonard Cohen and here composed by Michael Nyman). Nyman's score is one of this film's two main virtues. The other is the striking photography of the snow-covered mountains; all the action takes place in winter. (Although the film is ostensibly set in California, it was actually filmed in Alberta, Canada). Apart from these two points, however, The Claim has little else going for it. The action is ponderous, slow-moving and often confusing, a particular case in point being the flashback scene where Dillon sells Elena and Hope to Burn. There is nothing to indicate that this is a flashback, especially as the actors playing the young Dillon and Elena bear no resemblance to those playing their older selves. Peter Mullan never brings Dillon to life, although this is perhaps not surprising given that Dillon is not so much a character in his own right as an amalgam of two other fictional characters, Michael Henchard and John McCabe, from two other works in different media. Nastassja Kinski disappears from the film all too soon (her character, Elena, dies quite early on) and although Sarah Polley as Hope is reasonably good, Milla Jovovich as Lucia never does anything to dispel the view I had formed of her from other films, namely that she is one of those actresses (Bo Derek being another example) whose Hollywood career owes less to her talents than to her looks and influential connections. For all its chilly visual beauty, The Claim is a film with little to recommend it. I am surprised that, following Jude, Winterbottom did not opt to make a straight version of The Mayor of Casterbridge. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Ozymandias in the Old West","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I wasn't expecting much when I bought this DVD for $4. The cover showed one of those forgettable everybody-stare-at-the-camera-and-try-to-look-cool images, and the title itself makes it seem like a forgettable pulp novel. The Claim. Wooooo. The only reason I bought it was because I'm a fan of Natassja Kinski.Well, Natassja didn't really have a leading role; instead the film focused mostly on Peter Mullan as Mr. Dillon, the wealthy, powerful owner of Kingdom Come, a small but promising town at the base of the Sierra Nevada mountains. Although there are several interesting subplots, the story is about him, and Mullan delivers an excellent performance. He is neither good nor evil but a believable human character who is caught up in his ambition....which leads me to the title of my review. I highly recommend you read the short poem Ozymandias by Percy Shelley before watching this film. The film itself uses it briefly in the beginning where a stage performer recites parts of it to an audience. This immediately piqued my interest, since Ozy is one of my favourite poems. As the story progressed, I realized that this injection was not trivial; the film is essentially built on the story of Ozymandias, and once you realize that, you'll be able to focus on the main theme.As I said, there are several sub-themes that are interwoven Milla Jovovich plays a great role of a singer who's not the marrying type (and by the way, she sings some great Portugese songs). Wes Bentley plays a young official for the railroad, sort of a play-by-the-rules boyscout type who is at odds with the subjective rules of the old west. Natassja is a woman slowly dying of consumption and haunted by a bitter past. Sarah Polley is her daughter, innocent and oblivious but learning quickly. They all deliver great performances with my only criticism being their accents which are a little too modern, but if you can overlook that, there's no problem.The director used some unusual techniques which caught my attention. For one thing, when switching to dream sequences, he didn't do the stereotypical sepia tint and harp plucking to announce hey we're going to a dream sequence. It may confuse you at first, but it keeps you on your toes.This film has a very epic feel to it, perhaps like Sergio Leone's classic Once Upon a Time in the West, and at just under 2 hours, the length and pacing seem right. But somehow I didn't quite get as much character development as I would've wanted. I suppose that's plain math... if we have 5 main characters, that gives each one only 24 minutes. Less if you consider that the main focus is on Mullan. But perhaps upon repeated viewings, you can get more of a story on each of them.One other criticism I have is that the musical score wasn't very dynamic. It seemed to repeat the same 2 sweeping chords over & over. Then silence. Then back to the same 2 chords. Repeat. But this is a minor criticism, and I doubt you would've even noticed it had I not said anything. Oopsie, sorry bout that. But like I said earlier, Milla's singing provides enough to impress us musically.Overall, it's a good film and a great interpretation of Ozymandias in the Old West (again I urge you to read the poem so you may find the same beauty in the film as I did). Also if you have a Blockbuster near you, check out the used pile where you can find this for $4. Definitely worth the price. "},{"Title":"Engaging film experience disturbed by anachronistic speech","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" In this otherwise engaging film, the speech by the female actors is disturbingly anachronistic. Their speech sounds like generic end-of-the 20th century American rushed, slurred, decreasing volume and clipped or swallowed at the end of their sentences. The film is set in California, but long before Valley Girl became Hollywood movie standard. Contrast this with Mullan's accent. The interpersonal communication, especially in the more casual dialog, displays a distinctly late 20th century urban/suburban attitude. This seems like a directorial problem, an attempt to produce a natural/naturalized immigrant speech which only a great UK actor like Mullan can do, while the others, from their European roots, have only the accents and speech patterns they absorbed in 20th century California and environs to fall back on (another IMDb commentator half humorously suggested that this regression was due to the very cold weather during the shoot). "},{"Title":"Altmanesque","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I found this to be a good movie, against all warnings to stay away. It had a quiet, natural feel, which is more refreshing to me than a big Hollywood epic that always has to be showing off. Beautifully shot and well-acted, this is a good film for watching on a Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A special snow-western","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film from Michael Winterbottom was the only film I saw twice on the last year on Berlinale. It was a great event. To the story The change - my wife and daughter for your gold was a great mistake, a sin, and the man who do this know this. That's the tragedy of the hole film, he never will become happy, because he is only rich (and that is not nothing  but never enough). Later when his wife is come back to his town, because her husband is dead and she had no money (the film is starting her) the man goes back to comunitiy, because his house was taking from the mountain to the city. But than he lost - first his wife, who was ill, and than is city, because the train will come but it goes not to this town. At last he is dying - because he rich, with all his gold, but without society, love and power anymore. He daughter loved him but she is coming to late. He has burned up his town and dies alone in the snow. "},{"Title":"They were like Kings, the early settlers. They built a town and then ruled it. <Dalglish>","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  SPOILERS - This film, The Claim, is set in northern California mountains in 1861, as immigrants move west, and in many cases are there to prospect for gold in them thar mountains. This is Dillion's story, as a younger man he traded his wife and young baby for a gold claim and, in the ensuing 20-or-so years he developed his claim, recovered a vast wealth in gold, and was king of the frontier town Thy Kingdom Come. Trouble was, over his life he finally realized that all the gold in the world couldn't buy him happiness, he missed his family he had traded away and would trade everything to have them back.But he doesn't have to. They show up when little Hope (Sarah Polley) shows up with her sick and dying mother (Nastassja Kinski). Dillon kicks out his lover (Milla Jovovich), asks his wife to marry him again. They do, he brings in a special house on sleds, he finally has his family he long ago abandoned. But the railroad has decided to run through the valley below rather than through Thy Kingdom Come, and everyone else moves to the new town. Mom dies, Hope begins to leave to follow Dalglish (Wes Bently), the railroad chief engineer who was studying the proposed rail route to the east through the mountains, when Dillon explains, also using the old photo, that he is really her father. She completely rejects him for what he did, she leaves, and distraught he burns down his remaining town buildings, including his stash of gold bars, wanders out into the snow, lies down, and freezes overnight.  Next day, all the prospectors are shown scavenging his melted gold bars as Dalglish and Hope look on, not interested.Life was difficult back there! This story was inspired by the old British novel The Mayor of Casterbridge.  It's been 30+ years since I've read it, I need to refresh my memory. In this film, Dalglish sounded like dog leash as the characters pronounced it!  Wes Bently (Dog Leash) played Ricky Fitts, the strange young man in American Beauty who was constantly filming things. All throughout the film we are treated to typical prospector behavior, the brothels they became friendly with, the bars with the drinking and occasional fight, the rather amateurish entertainment. But hey, they didn't have cable yet!!This is a good film, all done in winter mountain snow in Canada and Colorado. Acting is good, not an action-packed film but not dull either. We enjoyed it. The DVD is plain, Dolby 5.1 sound but no extras except the trailer.  "},{"Title":"An interesting revisionist Western, but disappointingly flat emotionally.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" As many viewers have noted, The Claim has much in common visually with McCabe and Mrs. Miller. Like Altman's much more entertaining and memorable film, The Claim offers gorgeous cinematography replete with snow-covered mountain vistas, realistic sets of a gritty pioneer mining town, and authentically costumed anti-heroic characters highlighted by a contingent of distinctly non-glamorous prostitutes. Its highly evocative musical score includes a stunningly original and effective diegetic use of the Portuguese fado.In addition, The Claim offers some fascinating period details about the creation of the railroad and other little-seen aspects of 19th century pioneer life (like the medicinal use of electricity!). It also offers some stunning special effect fire and explosion sequences and generally fine acting (despite the dubious casting of Wes Bentley and Sarah Polley as the romantic leads). All in all, The Claim is in many respects a worthy latecomer to the revisionist school of the Western genre and is definitely worth viewing.However, it does have a serious weakness that I believe derives from its verbally minimalist adaptation of a classic literary text, The Mayor of Casterbridge by Thomas Hardy. In place of Hardy's verbally constructed world of dark consuming passions, cosmic irony, and heavy fatalism, The Claim offers a visually rich but emotionally remote, dreamlike air that some critics have described as richly poetic, but that left me often feeling utterly disconnected from the events befalling the major characters.Establishing characters' motivations and building/releasing tensions in their relationships is just a whole lot easier to do if words are allowed to reinforce (not substitute for) images. Instead, The Claim seems like it was filmed directly from a treatment that offered only the barest smattering of dialogue. In a story that wasn't so dependent on character this approach might have worked much better than it does here. "}{"Title":"long and not too exciting, but has its merits","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  having only seen welcome to sarajevo, and i want you, i'm not too familiar with winterbottom's work, but this film was interesting due to the cast and subject matter. any film with sarah polley *swoon* and peter mullan, gets my attention straight away. wes bentley and his beard gave convincing performances as well. the film i thought just tended to drag a bit, and the dialogue didnt seem to have much flow. but the cinematography and sarah polley close-ups made up for that perfectly.6½/10 "},{"Title":"Another opportunity to strike gold is lost","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I've waited a long time for its release here and have to express my disappointment at the final result. Hardy's work has long been a rich source for many British television dramatizations and a few successful films like 'Tess' and 'Jude'. Given the setting the film should have looked spectacular and yet colour, clarity and/or composition spoil beautiful images that Ridley Scott or Terrence Malick would not have wasted. The story of betrayal and shame is interesting but it is exposed by too many awkwardly staged scenes, often with banal dialogue. No role is given enough flesh by the screenwriter and much of the acting talent is wasted, particularly Wes Bentley after his electric performance in 'American Beauty'. There are too many snowbound vistas and insufficient character exposition. Like 'McCabe and Mrs Miller' the deprivation and conditions of a frontier town are not hidden, yet the only thing to thaw the ice and snow is the climactic fire rather than any real emotional warmth from the characters. However Nyman's music does do justice to the mountainous panoramas.     "},{"Title":"Visually breathtaking and realistic","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  T saw this movie on the recommendation of a friend.  I thoroughly enjoyed it though the plot is the Mayor of Casterbridge with some twists.  I gave it a 7 out of 10 for the absorption factor.  I found Mullan's performance haunting, the only flaw was Bentley who seemed totally miscast and at sea.  Between smirking and bedding a variety of prostitutes he seems oddly detached from everything, even his job as an engineer.  A highly embarassing performance which impacted on the young Sarah Polley, his love interest.  Her devotion to him seems misplaced.  Kinski is superb as the mother and i found the scene of the house being towed surreal and as gripping as the church floating on the river in Oscar and Lucinda. I found I was not beaten over the head with the 2X4s of what passes for plot in a lot of movies these days.  There was sublety, a real feel for the era with the railroad coming through.  Even the bawdy house had an atmosphere all its own.  Hats off to the director and cinematographer. "},{"Title":"Fun Stuff","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Dillon and his daughter Hope tramp thru deep snow to visit an isolated gold mining cabin.  There should only be two sets of foot prints.When Hope leaves, the snow had clearly been shoveled. The passage through the snow is now over a foot deep, full width of Hope's dress. "},{"Title":"90 minutes of pure bliss!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film magically transported me and my significant other to 1862 and evoked many fond memories of my youth growing up in suburban Calcutta. Everyone loves a parade, and no one more so than yours truly.  This movie invites the audience to re-experience the gold rush of the bucolic west, and pictorially gave me goose bumps!  I hadn't experienced this much psychodrama since McCabe & Mrs. Miller.  The Claim inspired me to sojourn westward myself, and I am now the proud owner of a prime chunk of Nevada desert, where I hope to open a house of ill-repute and a soda shop.  Thank you for this movie! "},{"Title":"Does The Mayor of Casterbridge ring a bell?","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If you have read The Mayor of Casterbridge by Thomas Hardy, then you don't need to watch this movie.  The entire plot is very similar to that play; the only difference is that the character names are different and the location is different.  Other than that, the whole storyline is the same.  So if you want to watch a movie with a rip-offed story, then watch this!  "},{"Title":"There is no changing the past","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I am not a winter person, no, not in the least, but there is wonderful imagery in this movie, in large thanks to Cinematographer Alwin H. Kuchler.  One in particular has a runaway horse in flames with these Shane like majestic mountains in the background.  I think that image will stay with me for some time.  This is a though story about mistakes that people make along the road of life and the answer is painfully clear even before it comes, that we can't change the past no matter how hard we try.The premise is that a man swaps his wife and daughter for the claim to a gold mine.  The story takes place years later in a moment of transition not only for the characters but also for the town which the holder of the claim has built, for changing times are at hand with the arrival of the railroad.It's obvious that it's because of ticket sales that Westerns have become a rarity in films, and that's a shame, because there's a stark realism to the look of this western, the town and saloon give the impression that perhaps it was really like that once upon a time in the west. If I can find fault with anything, it would have to be the pacing, which is slow to say the least, done deliberately to signify how we can't recapture the past it works against the length, by being too slow, I found myself wishing that it would speed up at some points, like when it lets us into side characters that I really had no interest in.What works well is the knowledge of what happened in the past and the futility (and these characters know it's futile) to make everything all right.  Most times everything can't be made all right.  This is a wonderful example of that truth.   "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, thoughtful disappointment","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Claim, an American Westernized rewrite of Thomas Hardy's _The Mayor of Casterbridge_, inherits the problems of its source material; no matter how one tries, this is not an easily adapted or filmed story. The novel used to be one of my favorites, but a re-reading shows some cracks that make the structure collapse easily when moved, kind of like an antique bookcase. So it's forgivable that  <POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT> the mayor's duality (his heinous sin in selling his wife and his daughter as a drunken youth versus his exemplary leadership in running a peaceful town) is not well communicated. (For example, the whipping scene you think that this'll be a brutal and sickening episode - surprise! it's kind of ordinary, and the point is not that justice is rough out here in the West, but that because of this mayor, justice has a chance at being fair and merciful).And it's forgivable that there is practically no tension between him and Nastassia Kinski when they meet after many years. And it's forgivable that the house-moving scene (and the fire at the end) didn't make much sense. (Good cinematography on both, though).Some things, though, didn't make sense dramatically Is Wes Bentley's character Dalgliesh supposed to be a good guy? He's supposedly written as one, but really he is directed to be a non-character; he makes no moral choices, has no vulnerabilities or character flaws, and has little to recommend him (or condemn him) other than being good-looking enough to attract Sarah Polley. It's too bad they couldn't have written a part for him. Sarah Polley, however, is a winner in everything she does, and this is no exception; she has two things in her favor; she can underact and she isn't always gorgeous onscreen. She's the center of attention of every frame she's in - except the few she shares with Milla Jovovitch, who is a real revelation here. Jovovitch comes off as the strongest and most interesting character in the film; I want to see what she can do now that she's away from stunt casting.All in all, I wasn't enthralled with this film; too much of it just lay there. Many reviewers compared it with McCabe and Mrs. Miller; I agree, except Altman's movie came back at you after you saw it and many scenes are still riveted in my mind. That being said, however, this is two orders of magnitude of intelligence, sensitivity and craft above recent summer masterpieces like Pearl Harbor and Lara CroftTomb Raider. I'm really glad I went to see it and am looking forward to more from this director. "},{"Title":"6 comments on dull movie","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A few thoughts1. Most of the lead actresses have particularly strong noses Kinski, Jovovich, Polley and Henderson.  The first two have especially full lips, the third fairly full.  This bugged me whilst watching( sign of dull film). It seemed an unlikely density of strong nosed full lipped women.  Nice to see Jovovich in a more mature role though.2. Movie is dull.3. Scenes are short, with the actors on for short bursts, delivering a line or performing an action for just a few seconds, rather TV like and, I suspect, inhibiting to the cast.4. SPOILER ALERT Film is adaptation of literature, obviously things have to be cut down and expressed visually.  There is a sequence in which the railway engineers go to survey ahead, an accident occurs and some background characters are killed.  This in no way impacts the characters or changes the audience's perception of the landscape we are viewing, it is pointless.  This includes a scene of a live horse on fire which looks very unrealistic; I am not sure I would want to see a convincing portrayal of this.5. Film tries to cram lots of action in, the camera cannot linger and the cast have too little time- at this length there needed to be more focus.  I think that had the film been longer, say 2 hours, things could have been given time to develop and been much more satisfying, I suspect a Japanese or Russian version style would have been better.6. Winterbottom is doing something interesting visually, presenting the background in a sort of medium short and attempting to focus upon the characters.  Sort of the world is beautiful and mundane and ghastly all at the same time and this is what the inhabitants are doing about it, rather like an externally conducted experiment with a compassionate experimenter. It did not work here but is better in Wonderland  "},{"Title":"BIG SCREEN EFFORT","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A good stab at transferring Hardy's Mayor of Casterbridge. Mullan is once again excellent. The sub-plot with Bentley serves the film well. It's well-written, well-acted and awesome to look at.One of those films that you need to see at the cinema. Winterbottom continues to prove himself one of the foremost contemporary directors. "}{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I must say, I for one was impressed with this film.  The beauty and the majestic, Wintry look.  When the film first appeared on the screen, there was an big aahhh.......from the audience.  It was like being right in the middle of that open Mountain  Landscape.  The performances were good, the Burning scene was really tense to me, I am still thinking about that.  I have long been a dedicated fan of Natassia Kinski since I saw her in the film TESS, which is part of the reason I wanted to see this film.  She was so great in her role as Hope's Mom, the character of Elena was sad and haunting.  I wish that they had made this movie a little longer. Milla Jovovich as Lucia, well I am at lost for words, her singing put the icing on the saloon scenes.  A must see, if you like good scenery, beautiful film scores and character study.  A must see on the Big screen. "},{"Title":"Majestic","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film is amazingly beautiful and wonderfully done. Congrats to director Michael Winterbottom and especially Milla Jovovich who is excellent.The cinematography will knock your socks off!I think this will be the sleeper of the 2000-2001 winter and will listen for it on Oscar nomination night.  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous and haunting!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Another adaptation of a Thomas Hardy novel by Michael Winterbottom.  In many ways, this film is an anti-Western in the vein and tone of Altman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller.  Though there is gorgeous location photography and stunning snowscapes, it never becomes just a pretty movie.  Unusual and complex characters, a tragic story (that may be a little hard to follow) great performances by all especially Peter Mullan, Sarah Polley and Wes Bentley. A truly original film unlike any you will see this year.  Nice score by Michael Nyman.  See it.   "},{"Title":"Wake Me When It's Over","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The first thing I couldn't help but notice was the old timey, sepia look that is so common in most of the newer period pieces. I get the mood that's trying to be created; 1800's, no light bulbs, times are tough,, but must it come at the expense of my eyesight. Even the outdoor scenes, which should have been bright enough to make a person snow-blind, where to say the least,,, dark. Please, anyone out there who wants to recreate this effect, at least turn on one 40 watt bulb,, for the sake of my eyes.And once again, close-up, after close-up, after close-up,, flip flop, flip flop, flip flop,,, why is this so popular. Is it a low budget tactic, so they need to rent only one hotel room. One actor comes in for a day, shoots his scenes and the next day another actor does his,, until they run through the entire cast,, then it's all spliced together. Surely this must have been taught in an economics class and not cinema school. I can't be the only person on the planet who gets severe headaches from this strobe effect.Had I not read it here, I would not have known that the first flash-back scene was,,, a flash-back scene. I thought it was just some old guy sitting in the next room. But it was much in line with the rest of the movie,,,, disconnected. The only part of the movie that had any connection at all, was the constant trudging through the snow. It had no meaning and added nothing but it certainly was consistent.In all honesty, I watched only 30 minutes, which should have been plenty of time to,, in the very least,, hint of some sort of plot. Maybe it's me, but I think a plot is somewhat important to the film. If this dog ended like Bonnie and Clyde, only the projectionist would know, if he happened to be awake. I can't for the life of me figure out how this sleep aid got a 3 outta 4 star rating.Lastly, I've seen every western ever made, an this ain't one. I've seen plenty of horses in Central Park and Belmont. Don't let the horses fool ya. Giddyup............ "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Set in California in the 1860's. When Dalglish(Bentley) comes to the small town of Kingdom Come to bring a railroad to it, Dillon(Mullan) must confront the terrible secret of his past, of what happened twenty years prior. I didn't know what to expect from this, and the front of the cover certainly didn't give much of a clue. Honestly, I got it(on sale) because of my seemingly never-ending crush on Milla Jovovich(I can see worlds beyond in her eyes... and for anyone else who might watch this for her, she's in it a pretty reasonable amount, and she is gorgeous, charming, and sometimes pouty and raunchy in it), and as usual, she does a great job acting(everyone in this does) and is a sight to behold. This is the only version of this story that I've seen, so I can't compare it to any other. I haven't caught anything else by this director, either. This moves at a gradual pace. It's an epic drama(complete with breathtaking scenery) set in the same time, but it is not a Western. The accents come and go. This shows how relationships and gender roles were back then. There is a bit of strong language, female nudity and sexuality in this. The DVD comes with the original theatrical trailer. I recommend this to fans of the cast and/or this genre. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great scenery but an incredibly boring movie","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The scenery is breathtaking, and the pervasive sense of cold in the high Sierra in winter is communicated well with a howling wind that will have you wanting to curl up near a nice hot fire.Unfortunately the rest of the movie will make you want to go to sleep. There is one stereotype after another of the old west portrayed in the bar/bordello and the main plot creaks out at a snails pace, telegraphing every move well in advance. Dillon the Younger sells his wife in exchange for a gold claim. He builds a little town empire that he rules like a king. Then Dillon the Elder gives it all up with guilt and remorse and literally burns it down.OK. And? Would anyone actually do this? The central plot is unconvincing to say the least. A man who is coldly calculating enough to sell his young wife and child suddenly leaves his beautiful mistress 'to make it right' with no explanation as to the source of this massive change in attitude. And yet he is too weak to tell his daughter that he is her father until her mother is dead? There is no consistency here at all.Yet it could still be interesting if there were some underlying tension developed, perhaps with a twist or two. But alas it just plods along, the actors almost sleepwalking through their parts until the slow as molasses in December ending.Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"McCabe Without Leonard Cohen","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie borrows much from McCabe and Mrs. Miller, unfortunately there are no Leonard Cohen songs to make things interesting as Altman used in his movie. The plot of The Claim is somewhat more interesting than McCabe and Mrs. Miller. I gave this movie an eight. "},{"Title":"Trudging through snow","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie should have been titled Trudging through Snow, because that's all I remember from it.  Thank goodness I saw it on video because I was able to fast-forward through many of the trudging through snow scenes.  Sometimes people were trudging, sometimes horses, sometimes horses and people--but trudging, trudging, trudging.  When any character went from one scene to another, the audience was forced to watch the entire walk through the snow from building to building--even if the buildings were miles apart.  Hey, I got it, there's lots of snow there--all right, give us a break!  It seemed to me that the movie wanted to prove to people that California is not just the beautiful, sunny, beachy place people think of, so it showed us a comparison with the northern Canadian Rockies.I watched the whole thing because of the link with Hardy's Mayor of Casterbridge.  Both Hardy and the movie portrayed a dark, negative story, but Hardy's seemed more beautiful and more real to me.  I know it's wrong to compare the two, but if the filmmakers intend to make money using someone else's material, then they should expect the comparisons.Kinski, Mullan and Jovovich did a decent job of acting.  Pollan played the usual innocent looking young teenager she always plays--boring.  Bentley seemed a bit miscast.  Bentley played the role analogous to Donald Farfrae from the novel.  Farfrae had extreme charisma which arose from his good looks and his magical singing of old ballads.  Bentley couldn't carry a tune in a bucket.  Bentley had none of Farfrae's charisma, which disappointed me, even though I know that the movie didn't have to copy the book.The greasy hair and minimal makeup on the characters gave the movie more realism, but I kept feeling the urge to throw all the actors into a bathtub and give the women bobby pins with the order to either wear their hair down or pin it up all the way.  The half-pinned-up-half straggly hairstyle that they all wore was annoying.Instead of spending so much effort on creating realistic stark scenes, the filmmakers should have put more effort into creating memorable characters.  I didn't feel any empathy for any of the characters, with the possible exceptions of the Kinski character, and Mullan's character toward the end of the movie.  Jovovich decently portrayed a Hardyesque survivor, though I felt that the director might have used her talents a bit better.By the way, the reviewer who posted the plot summary at this site stated that Jovovich was the daughter, when it was actually Pollan.  "},{"Title":"I was waiting for months","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  My town is a small one and we can only have the chance to see the big Hollywood productions.I had to wait for months to see this movie and I found it at Blockbusters yesterday.The cast is a dream cast for me I always liked Peter Mullan after My name is Joe.Milla Jovovich is an actress which I really find passionate.When the film was over I could not believe how bad it was.Meaningless details,bad picture quality and  unbelievably bad story. I am so sorry for the cast and the director. "},{"Title":"Beautiful screening","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Beautiful screening of Hardy's novel which, while just 1.20 minutes long ,achieves epic proportions due to it's well paced narrative, great acting and setting, some breathtaking winter landscapes. The music is great with a special mention to the performances of Lucia.The movie tells the story of a family divided by the greed and naivety of the man, greatly played by Peter Mullan, who sells his wife and young daughter for a claim to a gold-rich land property. He will achieve wealth, but will always be haunted by his past. Twenty years later he will try to make amens, but will have to pay the ultimate price in order to regain his honor.While shot in a blue tint, the movie is very colorful in depicting the life of multi-ethnic immigrants, as well as the life in the American gold rush at the turn of the 19-th century and also the end of a town which fate didn't favor to be crossed by the yet to be built railway. The ballad of Noreen Bawn remains haunting and furthermore accentuates hardship and turmoil these settlers went through their quest for a new life, gold, or redemption. "}{"Title":"Disappointing clunker.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Peter Mullan is good in most things that he's involved with. I'm definitely a fan, he's a damn good actor. Plus I enjoy Kinski and Thomas Hardy storylines and the slant on this was interesting. Beautiful scenery and some fine camera work. But overall this was a clunker. The actress Sarah Polley was just simply awful. She spoilt it so much for and irritated me that I wanted to turn it off. Why do actors/actresses get parts based soley on their good looks. Perhaps she is good in something else, but this movie really did hang very much on liking this young lady and she lost a good opportunity with this part. Pity. I'd like to see this novel made again but this time, base it back in Wessex where it belongs. Nice try.  "},{"Title":"So I just lost 2 hours of my life","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie has two main and huge problems First, the plot is TERRIBLE. I thought there would be some psychological drama going on, but no and nothing. From the beginning to the end it's just dull dull dull, nothing going on, no good storyline, there were plenty of things I just did not understand at all, it was all confusing. I mean, the original idea was good, but that's about it. Second it seems the director didn't think about how the scene looks like at all. Everything was new, it was obvious it had never been used before. People had new clothes on, even those working on the railroad, new tents (very clean, newly bought, newly built, not a drop of snow fell on them, although it seems to be snowing none stop.), some people have sunglasses (that could be my mistake, but were sunglasses common in the Sierra Nevada in 1887?), and nothing was realistic.The first twenty minutes I tried to watch the movie, then I had fun commenting it with my sister, but the second half, I was looking on the internet about it, see if some people liked it, because I couldn't really watch it anymore.Why do people shoot such movies? DON'T DO THAT ANYMORE! Please. "},{"Title":"Piece of Shite!","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Let's face it. Michael Winterbottom is an overrated director. Plain and simple. Name one movie of his that you think is brilliant. Can you? Surely not. And this movie is the exact opposite of brilliant.Most of the negative comments here are entirely accurate. The movie is boring as hell -- and from the get-go -- and this director seems to be totally in love with the cinematography. Shots go on way too long, way beyond any point, and there are many shots in this film that have no point whatsoever. (Well... that's true for most of this movie, there is no point whatsoever.)The premise of this film is not bad, but the execution was horrendous. Bad directing, mediocre acting -- and I blame the director for this, and a script that should never have been made. And least not by this director. I've never seen one movie of his that I could say Wow about, not one. And while it's perhaps not fair to compare this film to, say, Once Upon a Time in the West, given the only thing they really have in common is the subplot of a train line that is coming... not one second of that film is boring, all 2 hours & 40 minutes. Yet at least 3/4ths of The Claim is utterly boring. Uninteresting. Dead. How is that possible for an under 2-hour movie? Put Mr. Winterbottom at the helm, that's how. "},{"Title":"not as authentic as it wants you to think","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If William Shakespeare's plays can be staged as Freudian science fiction or medieval samurai dramas, and Jane Austen re-written as an airhead Beverly Hills teen comedy, why can't Thomas Hardy's 'The Mayor of Casterbridge' be transplanted from rural Dorcetshire to a rough and tumble California mining camp during the 1849 gold rush? After all, the change of scenery in Michael Winterbottom's screen adaptation (here given the more marquee-friendly title 'The Claim') is only geographic, putting a visually restless Western spin on an otherwise typically mannered Old World allegory of guilt and retribution.The title character of Hardy's novel is now a wealthy, influential magnate in a Mother Lode boomtown likely to go bust unless the Central Pacific can lay its proposed trans-continental railway within whistle distance of the mines. His town is named (with undisguised significance) Kingdom Come, and in true literary fashion its leading citizen is hiding a terrible secret.Flashbacks (early enough in the film to not require a spoiler alert) reveal the awful truth as a starving young immigrant he coldly traded his own wife and infant daughter for the lucrative grubstake that would give him all his subsequent prosperity and power. Years later, his dying wife and now grown daughter (the latter ignorant of her pedigree) have returned to Kingdom Come, and their arrival by stagecoach, together with the young engineer from the railroad survey team, is the fateful curtain opener and catalyst for what follows.It sounds compelling, and on a purely cosmetic level the film is a welcome relief from the usual medley of Hollywood sequels, spin-offs, remakes and rip-offs now crowding the nearest multiplex. But somewhere in translation from print to screen some of that dramatic potential was lost, smothered under the too relentlessly grim and oppressive presentation.One hundred and twenty minutes of overcast skies and drifting snows can leave a bitter aftertaste with even the most stalwart viewer, although it needs to be said that the near palpable winter chill is more or less faithful to the spirit of the original novel. According to the Concise Columbia Encyclopedia (a handy one-volume, all-purpose reference guide) Hardy was known for writing generally gloomy, naturalistic studies of character and environment, which is about as tidy a description of the film as anyone could ask for.Paraphrased in less formal vernacular, the gist of it can be summed up even more simply Life stinks &#x96; get used to it. Winterbottom goes out of his way to vividly depict the Old West in all its true, unromantic squalor, creating a ramshackle plywood metropolis populated by a rootless community of bickering whores, drunken miners, unlucky gamblers, and other assorted vagabonds on the muddy road to El Dorado. Even the more lavish boudoir of the local nabobs ('mayor' Peter Mullen and his 'Portuguese' mistress Milla Jovovich) is under lit to the same shabby monochrome.Add some fashionably sloppy cinema veritè camera-work and the result is a handsome but frigid retro-70s downer, heavily in debt to Robert Altman's 'McCabe and Mrs. Miller' but conspicuously lacking Altman's anti-Hollywood iconoclasm (not to mention Warren Beatty's marquee value charisma). Winterbottom certainly deserves a round of applause for at least attempting to de-glamorize the traditional silver screen whitewash of frontier life. But despite the rich texture of the period detail he still can't resist putting a halfway romantic halo around the raw vulgarity of his setting. Maybe it's an unavoidable side effect to spinning a Western tall tale. Heck, even Sam Peckinpah's 'Wild Bunch' had their moments of misty-eyed, sloppy macho sentimentality.You can see it here in the majestic alpine scenery, meant to be California but shot (somewhat obviously, to this displaced Westerner) in the more visually epic Canadian and Colorado Rockies. (A quick historical nitpick the California gold rush took place in the lower Sierra Nevada foothills, nowhere near the timberline location of Kingdom Come.) You can see it also in the glistening teeth and glowing complexion of Wes Bentley and Sarah Polley, looking perhaps too fresh and contemporary against the mid 19th century grubbiness of their surroundings.Bentley is the young survey engineer attracted to Polley, the unsuspecting long-lost daughter of town boss Peter Mullen. And it shouldn't surprise anyone to find their budding relationship given center stage over what should have been the real meat of the scenario the troubled reconciliation between a conscience-stricken Mullen and his estranged, dying wife, played by Nastassja Kinski.Maybe it wasn't written like this, but somewhere in the editing room the focus shifted away from the tragic consequences of Mullen's Faustian bargain, upsetting the already lopsided narrative balance in favor of the (more photogenic) younger actors. Consider it a token olive branch extended to an audience asked to endure a long, cold, and otherwise uninvolving drama.Bentley himself is allowed the final, inexplicably optimistic epitaph, after the town of Kingdom Come, and the compromised reign of its founding father, have both achieved their (not unpredictable) fiery purgation. They're like kings, he tells Polley, gazing in awestruck admiration at the gray parade of pioneers bringing civilization to the untamed American wilderness. Nobody mentions the fact that all this activity is at the compulsion (and to the ultimate profit) of the railroad monopolies, but never mind. It's a silver lining to send the paying customers home happy, and set the shade of Thomas Hardy spinning in his grave. "},{"Title":"What a big budget movie can become when transcended by the conjunction of great inspirations","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Every time I catch this movie, I'm reminded of the haunting, overwhelming spell I experienced with works like Cimino's Deer Hunter or Heaven's Gate (as well as several others) that convey this raw feeling of being there mixed with lyrical, poetic power. They seem the result of a mysteriously invisible success at combining rhythm, camera work, set design, sound, acting and what not.Funny, though, how each time, I'm left with a drilling question what is *wrong* with this incredibly inspired movie? I found some answers reading the following reviews I almost completely second the views of1. sumrrain, April 25th 2001, who mostly nails my feelings better than I could have *AND* offers some possible explanations as to what prevents the movie from being even better;I found also found valuable ideas in the review by2. gpadillo, November 9th 2004 I haven't read Hardy's book, but I like to hear gpadillo's take on, amongst other things, what kind of adaptation we are dealing with here.Now, I personally feel the urge to give credit to Sarah Polley's performance. Her presence in most every scene she appears in is so intense and profound as we perceive the multiple layers and the strength in this girl much less fragile and lost than she appears. As I see it, she provides the second underlying main story, hidden literally by the more spectacular Mullan and Kinski, just as well as her character is sort of hidden and hushed to silence by the painful relationship between her parents.I can't think of a lot of young women coming of age characters portrayed this powerfully. Nathalie Portman in Beautiful Girls as well as Bryce Dallas Howard in The Village come to my mind; not much more, in my very subjective opinion. Both actresses which I have tremendous respect for (and I really couldn't care less if Portman made some career choices considered as poor, or sometimes unfortunate...)This is one of the most ambitious and successful cinematic challenges undertaken in the last ten years, and I really think one can hardly afford to skip it if interested in what a big budget movie *still* can be nowadays. "},{"Title":"Black and white in colour the greatest revisionist western of this decade.","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I can see why this particular film (and many of the director's other works) had such a hard time finding an audience when first released in 2000 - what with the endlessly roaming camera and those flashbacks that seem to come out of nowhere - but for me personally, the problems have less to do with Winterbottom's aesthetic choices as a filmmaker and more to do with audiences pre-conceived opinions about the film due to poor promotion and marketing. In my opinion, the film was woefully misrepresented by the people at Fox Pathè (the distributors) and even by the producers themselves, who seemed to announce The Claim as something of a traditional western along the lines of Unforgiven, or even as a precursor to the glossy, chocolate-box picture Cold Mountain (a film greatly inferior to this). Both of these examples are, however, worlds away from the style and atmosphere of The Claim, with Winterbottom and his screenwriter Frank Cottrell Boyce here providing an almost biblical downward spiral for their central characters that is as far removed from Hollywood as you can possibly get.As you can probably deduce from the title of this review, The Claim is a bleak film, dealing with characters pushed to the edge and pent up with all manner of secret shame, guilt and fury. The story takes its inspiration from Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge, but it is in no way a straight interpretation, but more of a re-investigation and analysis into that central predicament. The story therefore becomes a simple morality tale, though made all the more austere through the director's unwillingness to complicate the proceedings with bouts of melodrama or sentimentality. However, Winterbottom's films are merely simplistic on a superficial level. Like his cinematic countryman Mike Leigh, he creates work from a rough sketch that is elaborated on by his actors as the whole process goes along. Thus, in a way, the act of making a film is a lot like the building of the railroad here, and the stark changes that fall into place within the mood of the dwellers of the central town, Kingdom Come, are therefore representative of the always-shifting viewpoints and overlapping narrative time-lines that emerge as the picture unfolds.The railroad that is so central to the proceedings here has a number of meanings subtextually linked to its involvement in the plot. It is a representation of an uncertain future; about change and progress - the complete antithesis of everything that the character of Dillon represents. It is also the device that brings the pivotal outsiders into town (Dalglish, the charismatic railroad surveyor replete with a posse of men, the dying immigrant Elena, stricken with T.B. and finally - and most importantly - the aptly-named Hope; Elena's daughter here in town to search out her long-lost father). Added to this troika of outsiders, we also have the headstrong and exotic Lucile, Dillon's mistress and owner of the local whorehouse where Dalglish's wayward men spend most of their spare time. Here, the remarkable thing is how Boyce manages to bring the characters together, establishing relationships slowly, like an extended chamber piece. As the story progresses, the emphasis on Lucile, Elena and Dalglish become less apparent, as they begin to merge into the not-too-distant background as Dillon and Hope take precedence over the narrative at hand.Despite the numerous allusions and comparisons to Robert Altman's classic anti-western McCabe & Mrs. Miller, Winterbottom's directorial style is more indebted to European filmmakers, like Fassbinder, Kieslowski and Herzog; as he composes his images in a pallet of stark monochrome, with black-clad figures frost-bitten by snow juxtaposing with the void-like whiteness of the locale; all the while using the editing to break or undermine the rhythm (unlike other films of this genre, that are all about 'establishing' rhythm). The Altman references are merely superficial ciphers, with the exterior of snowbound locations, crumbling bordellos and ever-winding railroads giving way to a depiction of obsession and redemption that has more in common with a film like Fitzcaralldo. It is the character of Dillon that really carries the film, as the director singles him out as a lost soul whilst the town he once loved becomes a metaphor for his prevailing greed and anguish; an idea that goes alongside that other figurative interpretation as the town as a literal whorehouse (with Lucile its newly appointed mayor/Madame); all allowing Winterbottom to draw parallels with a film like Quarelle or Lola by Fassbinder or the latter's inspiration, The Blue Angel.That final scene offers us a haunting evocation of pride in the face of defeat and has the ability to work its way into your subconscious via Winterbottom's use of almost universal iconography. A searing depiction of one man's personal redemption played out against the largest scale; with the key elements of power, betrayal, identity, ambition and loss being worked into every subtle nuance of the script to from a rich tapestry of inter-linked vignettes that come together to create a sort-of Greek-tragedy amidst the decline of the 'wild west'. As Michael Nyman's evocative, bombastic, Morriconne-inspired score begins to intensify, the images of Dillon - eyes devoid of expression as he marches through the town slowly crumbling all around him - plays off an early scene in which a horse caught in a munitions explosion gallops off into the hill, engulfed by flames. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted, Naturalistic Costume Western in Beautiful Scenery","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I was sold on seeing The Claim from the preview of a hunky bearded Wes Bentley looking longingly at one of my favorite Canadian actresses, Anne of Green Gables herself, Sarah Polley.It's been decades since I read Mayor of Casterbridge or years since I saw a Masterpiece Theater version so I can't remember how closely this is inspired by Thomas Hardy (the women certainly seem pluckier) but it's far more McCabe and Mrs. Miller than Yorkshire.The snowy Canadian and Colorado Rockies landscape is breathtaking and the Michael Nyman score rises to the peaks.The melange of French, Polish, Irish, Scotch etc. accents are suitable for the uncivilized West of lonely gold miners, pioneers, fortune-hunters and adventurers on the cusp of the railroad changing the country forever.The Ozymandias references are a bit thick; perhaps Brit Michael Winterbottom doesn't realize that we're all familiar with the Western movie convention of the town controlled by one king (usually played recently by Gene Hackman), though unusually here Peter Mullan is not evil but sympathetically complex (strong and vulnerable, sexy and paternal), as he comes to grips with his past, while the rest of the town is coming to grips with its future.Bentley too is no stiff hero, but a regular guy on a mission of progress thrown into a series of temporary situations that become permanent.It's unusual that a costume drama set in the 1900's can seem so naturalistic.(originally written 5/5/2001) "},{"Title":"Watch/Read The Mayor of Casterbridge","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Rented this movie knowing nothing about it, but realized immediately that it was The Mayor of Casterbridge. Some years ago Alan Bates starred in a Masterpiece Theater version, and it was one of the most moving stories I'd ever seen, sending me to the book which I've read many times.  It certainly seemed like a good idea to transfer the story to the 1860's frontier, but for some reason this film lacks the emotional power of the Hardy story. The scenery and realistic portrayal of both life and death are so rarely shown, that I thoroughly enjoyed that aspect and the beautiful scenery of The Claim.  Thought Sarah Polley (and everyone else)looked cold, disheveled and plain enough; they just didn't seem to have much to work with.  Had to keep rewinding to hear the dialog over the music which was just an annoyance, not an addition.  Please don't let this keep you from reading the book or catching the BBC production.  "},{"Title":"Close, but no cigar","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Other than the beautiful soundtrack, there's not much here that is memorable. Most of the cast looks out of place and uncomfortable in their roles ( see Milla sing, see Milla act - not ). It's like a puzzle with too many pieces improperly placed. Not plot driven, with only free floating situations with a couple of fragmented flashbacks, which only give away too much too soon.  Coupled with a gratuitous sex scene here and there, it all makes for an anti-climatic, predictable ending. I would of liked to see more of Peter Mullan's character fleshed out a bit more instead of the incessant close-ups of Sarah Polley and Wes Bentley. It's like Dawson's Creek meets Jeremiah Johnson. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but empty","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film needs a laugh or two in the script.  It comes across as if a film student with a lot of Daddy's money made it.  Hey, I have this great idea for a Western And he happens to be friends with a lot of actors.First off, what is it with films today using Nastassja Kinski as the sickly/abused mother?  Stop it!The film has it's imagery and cinematography going for it.  However, the film uses all these handsome women and men who drift about scene to scene without any motivation.  I am never quite sure as to what is going on nor do I care after 30 minutes in to the viewing.There is no one to identify with. Perhaps the point of the film was to show shows how nobody seems to really care about anybody in the old west.But, hey, if the director got to make his dream film then all the power to him. I look forward to making mine.  I would like to use the same actors if I could get so lucky.  "}{"Title":"The story of a ghost town","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Anyone who has driven through a ghost town in Nevada or Arizona, only to leave fascinated, should watch this movie.  The story is about a town in the Sierras, circa 1867, with an uncertain future after a railroad surveyor comes into town.  There is a buried secret in town, harbored by the town's founder and lawkeeper, and the arrival of the surveyor slowly brings the secret to surface.  New stars Wes Bentley and Sarah Polley seem a little too squeaky clean and are certainly no match for Warren Beatty and Julie Christie from McCabe and Mrs. Miller, which this movie resembles in many ways (right up to the climactic fire).  And Natassja Kinski is all but wasted, spending most of her moments in bed.  But the film has a good premise, and is beautifully photographed.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"THE CLAIM (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The two most known actrices from East-Europe, Nastassja Kinski and Milla Jovohovic are united in here and strangly enough the theme is as American as American can be. Director Michael Winterbottom tells the story of a certain Dillon (played by Peter Mullan who is most known of his typical Irish productions from Ken Loach) is one of the pioneers who starts setting up a new town (Kingdom Come) in the unexplored America in where there's still a market for people who do everything illegal (he owns a brothel at where his wife Jovohovic takes notice if all the money comes to the origin. Years ago he had a relationship with mrs. Kinski and as his heart was where the wallet fits he then sold his daughter, but when a sick and dying Kinski comes to visit him again Dillon's empire literarily burns. It's an okay movie with some spectacular scenes but it's bit too dull filmed and Mullan, a superb actor, seems a bit misplaced in here and even the beauty of both Kinski and Jovohovic can't rescue the movie. Not bad but not good either. "},{"Title":"McCabe and Mrs. Miller was better","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Peter Mullen was unintelligible - I couldn't understand a word he said - the editing was pretty byzantine. The movie had promise in terms of its' feel- like McCabe and Mrs. Miller - remote winter in the goldrush mountains but M&MM was better. The singing was great! It sounded like Fado music from Portugal. The singer was listed as a model- was the voice dubbed; If not I'd buy her CD.  "},{"Title":"McCabe & Mrs. Miller Wannabe","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Disappointing effort based upon interesting storyline.  Forlorn expressions don't take the place of a good script.  Who did the editing-- found the pacing to be odd- certain scenes should have had more time to play out, others were rushed.  Get rid of the flashbacks- let us discover the connection and reach our own conclusion as to the circumstances that led to the trade of the wife and infant. "},{"Title":"Slow moving, highly pictorial, McCabe & Mrs. Miller wannabe.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  You can not escape the very close parallels between this rather tedious, PBS/BBC like (earnest,artsy,pretentious) film and the brilliant and evocative Robert Altman masterpiece, McCabe and Mrs. Miller. Where Altman's central characters are the co-founders of a profitable, freewheeling frontier town until big business (railroad then, Walmart now) blows into town lured by the smell of money. Altman's warmly sympathetic portrait of the title characters who are loners isolated from each other as well as the community they founded together is in stark contrast to the melodramatic, paper thin characters Michael Winterbottom props up like stick figures in a picturesque landscape. In McCabe and Mrs. Miller, the town pulls together to form a community as they fight a church fire. In The Claim, the townspeople scramble for gold in the ashes of the town they deserted for economic reasons. Altman's view of the railroad suggests the ruthlessness of corporate enterprise. Winterbottom straddles the fence, celebrating the railroad and endorsing the naive technological boosterism that one of America's worst attributes, while condescending to the townspeople who are depicted as avaricious in the film's climactic scenes(the murderous railroad engineer is the love interest and hero of this capitalistic epic). Altman evokes a lost era with sympathy, while Winterbottom wallows in cheap irony, shamelessly borrowing from Altman while defiling a great film's memory. This movie would be perfect PBS fodder, as it lacks any spark of originality while it clings to its serious art pedigree (based on a novel by Thomas Hardy) for dear life. If you want to see a great Northwestern try Anthony Mann's The Far Country, which would pair wonderfully with McCabe and Mrs. Miller in a double bill. Don't waste more than two hours with this pointless, meandering pastiche of Thomas Hardy by way of Robert Altman. Go and enjoy the originals instead.    "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this film. The Mayor of Casterbridge upon which this film is based is one of my favorite books, I like Westerns, mountains and snow. So why did I have trouble staying awake? The acting is okay, but the characters are under developed, and the screenplay gives them very little scope to involve the audience. It's a shame because this could have been a great movie if handled properly. The music is good, and the sets are also excellent. The last ten minutes are quite good but overall I find it left me as cold as the town it was set in. "},{"Title":"To Horse Lovers Everywhere - Beware!","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ***Spoiler alert of a difficult scene involving horses*** Although overall a beautifully filmed movie with a great story, there is one scene that I'll never be able to get out of my head, that of the exploding chemical detonation materials wagon used by the surveyors of the railroad. It was not so much the presumed facsimile (were they?) animal parts lying in the snow near the burning, blown up wagon, but the haunting image (for what seemed an eternity) of the surviving horse dashing full speed away from the remains with it's body mostly on fire. I kept waiting for relief, for the fire to be quenched, but alas, this horse never did drop and roll, and the scene is cut without resolution. As the movie was filmed on location in both Canada and the United States (Colorado), I waited expectantly to see the AHA credit (or Canadian equivalent) roll at the end to assure that indeed, no animals were harmed in the making of this film. There was no AHA credit or any other disclaimer. I searched online to see if anything had been written about this scene, and whatever happened to that horse, but have been unable to find any additional information. I want to believe that it was special effects, that the horse was not harmed. But it looked too real, and I'm sure that was the desired effect, to reflect what historically happened to working horses of that era.Please, if anyone has any other information to share about this particular scene, kindly post it. I don't want to discredit this otherwise engaging movie just because of this scene, if its animal actors were truly protected during filming.Thank you. "},{"Title":"Inspiration for Deadwood","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Beautifully photographed, but slow moving epic about a king of a gold rush township with demons that haunts him to the point of madness. Having seen the HBO series Deadwood before this movie I find some similarities, but Deadwood has the upper hand in my opinion because of the more intense gritty realism depicted. Ultimately this fails due to my inability to feel anything for the characters - there really is no one to root for, it is just a depiction of human misery, suffering, greed and need. Allthoug I can understand the endings epic martyrdom I personally find it immensely stupid - Really - why not make sure the poor daughter gets her inheritance instead of getting the corrupt train engineer... "},{"Title":"Interesting but also disappointing","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  An interesting modern western that wants to emulate the American western movies and is heavily spoiled by its annoying voyeuristic sex scenes and its tendency to show people only interested in sex and/or dirty talk. Milla Jovovich and the character she portrays are rather annoying (the whore with the oh so golden heart). Kinski and the other actors are good to excellent. The directing is interesting at times, but sometimes I wondered whether the director wanted his movie to look like a romantic MTV pop video, take the scene with the burning horse for example. The score is a nice work and typical for its composer I think. I guess the director didn't know which way his movie should go. Btw, the German title is great.  "},{"Title":"Brrrrr!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Claim tells the tale of a '49er (Mullen) with the glitter of gold in his eyes who swaps his wife and baby for a claim in the rugged California Sierra-Nevada mountains. A beautifully filmed period piece which attempts to portray the difficulties and realities of the time with fidelity, The Claim offers excellence in all aspects of the film though it may be too austere, too Spartan to have broad appeal. A great film for realists into stories of the old West. "}{"Title":"Casterbridge Was Never Like This","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I kept trying to figure out what the Claim meant.  I watched this film without any real advanced knowledge.  The minute the scene appeared containing the bargain between the claim-owner and the young man with a wife and child I knew I was looking at a variation on Thomas Hardy's Mayor of Casterbridge.Hardy's tale is a sturdy structure so my expectations moved higher.  The film also bears more than a passing resemblance to Robert Altman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller.  The two films inhabit the same spirit. The snow-filled Sierras above Sacramento are also a place I have visited and skied in during the winter season in which this film took place. It was here also that the Donner Party failed to climb the pass on the last day of October in 1847 and lost all but forty seven of their party as a result.The Claim has that same slow pace that The Good The Bad and the Ugly had in the mid-sixties and very similar music.  One more movie it resembles Paint Your Wagon.  Eastwood might have directed a film like this one once upon a time.  The lead actor, a man named Mullen, was reduced to mere looks to reflect his feelings.  As Dillon the owner of Kingdom Come, Mullen very much reminded me of the characters in Once Upon a Time in the West all looks and no dialogue.  The Claim is a far better film than Once Upon A Time in the West, however.  The Sergio Leone film with American actors like Henry Fonda and Charles Bronson, finished the spaghetti western as a strong script type for a struggling TV actor to make his move up in.Mullen looked Italian, looked like he could have played in the old Spaghettis of the mid-60s.  He looks like Ronald Coleman, who lookedand acted like Russel Crowe does today.  But Mullen doesn't look a bit like the young man the film suggests he once was.  In fact, Mullen's resemblance to the claim-owner that his character sold his wife and child to as a young man, was so strong, I went around for another 40 minutes visualising the wrong character.  I thought the screenwriter had played a little trick with Thomas Hardy and made his Mayor the man who bought the wife and child rather than the man who sold him.The film was produced Shane-like, very little dialogue, a lot of beautiful vistas.  I wish it had been a little more written and a little less photographed.  The characters were all subservient to the photography.  Only the fellow who played Daglish stood out.  That was because of his spectacular looks and his important role in the movie.Someone in one of the earlier reviews pointed out that the young girlwho played Hope reminded one of a young Sandra Locke.  The guy who said that claimed this girl is better than Sandra Locke.  No she's not.  Sandra Locke was note perfect at this age playing in her first movie the Heart is a Lonely Hunter.  Both of these actresses use their looks very effectively to convey innocence.  Its not acting exactly, its more like being a personality.SPOILERS There are a couple of stupendous scenes in the film.  One is the moving of a pre-built house, assembled outside of Kingdom Come, into town, drawn by horses and men straining at their straps.  It reminds me of the moving of the boat in Fitzcarraldo.  This scene never occurred in the Mayor of Casterbridge.  In the last scene, Mr. Dillon, owner of  Kingdom Come, has lost everything his townsmen, his consumptive wife and most importantly, his long lost daughter.  He has nothing to live for so he torches his own town.But the railroad marches on.  Dillon's former Whore founds a town in the valley after the surveyors discover that building the town through Kingdom Come will cost more per mile than installing Cable TV in Boston did in the 1970s.  Mullen freezes to death. His daughter Hope and Daglish discover the body.  Hope should be heartbroken since she knows her own rejection of her father drove him to his death.  But that would get in the way of Director Winterbottom's ultimate scene, which borrows heavily from Erich Von Stroheim's Greed.  In the end, the townsfolk who have come up from the new valley town Lisbon to fight the fire, abandon that futile effort and take pick and shovel to the smouldering bank, foraging in the ruins where Dillon's gold is buried.  In a mining camp in the 1860s Sierras, the miners are paving the way for the emergence of Karl Marx and the Robber Barons. "},{"Title":"Goes no where","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie was just plain boring. It leaves you thinking what the heck is going on here and when is something worth making a movie for going to happen. I got sucked in because it stars Milla Jovovich and I adore her but this movie just stinks. It is boring, boring, BORING. She looks great as usual and does a good job with what she is given. Her character is one of the only ones that is remotely interesting as she plays a whore with a heart of gold ( and tooth to match) type character. But it just went on and on and it went... no where. I saw potential and thought this movie could have been good but it was like the director and writer just got in a car and took it no where. "}]