[{"Title":"If truly watched, you cannot walk away from loving this gem!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"102 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Usually I rely on the voting averages to give me an idea of how good a movie is. I have to admit that a 5.6 rating is much different from what I would give this film.Original Sin seemed to be the movie that everyone walked away from. The only thing I remember about its opening was all the chatter about the nude scenes. I guess it reminded a lot of viewers about the whole Wild Orchid/Showgirls fiasco which is still etched in the mind's-eye of every self-conscious moviegoer. Perhaps this apparent smoke screen of an issue caused Angelina Jolie's (often chapped and super-pouty) lips to be sealed regarding her role in the movie. Likewise, the dependably silent/aloof Antonio Banderas was even harder to locate when it came to any promotion of the film. And after making sure every radio listener heard, The Music of My Heart, even the inconspicuously conspicuous Estefans forgot to drop the hint that they contributed to the film's lushly romantic score.The fact that this was not a perfect movie didn't prevent it from being an excellent one. I think the film's real problem was that it couldn't quite fit into the typical Hollywood hype machine that has crowned more inferior material with non-stop publicity and gratuitously glowing reviews. It could also be due to the fact that the plot, not a love-story, but a story about love, didn't match the small space many viewers have reserved in their hearts for Romance and Drama - just not both!Anyone who takes the time to TRULY WATCH THIS MOVIE will find that they cannot walk away from loving it. Banderas and Jolie succeed in being both glamorous and gritty. Antonio Banderas is one of the most beguiling actors in contemporary cinema (believe it or not). I am always amazed by the vast artistic depth that lays beneath the stereotypical Latin-lover super-bronzed matinée-idol exterior that he has been assigned to. Banderas' talents, like this movie, are grossly underrated and marginally explored. His every motion gives Vargas the pitch-perfect blend of simplicity and passion. Banderas' portrayal makes it hard not to hurt when Vargas hurts or trust when he trusts. This makes it easy to see why the naive Vargas and the lethal Julia/Bonnie are integrally compatible.Wacko Jacko antics aside, Jolie, in all her un-Gwynnethness, is a site to have and behold. As the mysterious Julia, she is one mail-order bride who can both sell her body and steal a man's soul. Jolie succeeds in revealing every aspect of Bonnie's internal struggle to achieve personal authenticity while accepting a once-in-a-lifetime chance at true intimacy.In many ways, the film is about humankind's universal need to be, who we truly are as well as the long, winding and often treacherous road toward love's salvation (closely examine the play Julia & Vargas went to see). The movie's many twists and turns represent the bloody sacrifices/transgressions that often mark the way. This was constantly echoed through a script which foreshadowed the story's theme (in a manner both poetic and hypnotic). Equally intoxicating were the use of nontraditional cinematography and sound techniques. They perfectly complemented the period-heavy scenery and costume. All these elements melded to create a picture that was at once abundantly sensual, visually stunning and emotionally sensitive - with an excellent ending!Oh, and as for the much talked about skin scenes. I thought they were well done. Gratuitous, yes. Gratifying - definitely! If you've got it, flaunt it. Banderas and Jolie absolutely have it, and then-some! "},{"Title":"il Purgatorio","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"78 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"   It is unfortunate that American audiences appear to want three things in a film action, action and more action.  Original Sin is a tale of emotion.  With beautiful cinematography, wonderful costumery, the plot is rivalled only by Hitchock's Vertigo.Set in Cuba in the late 19th Century, the story revolves around a man, named Luis Vargas, played by Antonio Bandaras, and the mail-order bride, with whom he falls in love.  Vargas, who at the start of the film is marrying for convenience alone, because of his business, finds himself emotionally capsized by the sumptuous Julia Russell, played to the hilt by the fulsome-lipped Angelina Jolie.  But when Vargas's new bride suddenly disappears, the businessman discovers that his life is now totally based in her.Let us go back to Vertigo, the obvious source of this film.  In it, Scotty Ferguson, played by James Stewart, is obsessed with Madeleine Elster, played by Kim Novak.  When Scotty witnesses Madeleine plummet to her death, his world takes a dismal tern, until he meets Judy Barton, her physical twin.  The thing is that Madeleine and Judy are one and the same.  Here was Hitchcock's irony of the illusion of Madeleine falling to her death actually gives rise to the demise of Scotty's soul.In Original Sin, Angelina Jolie plays Eve to Thomas Jane's serpent.    Antonio Bandaras is poor Adam, with only one woman in all of the world for him.  There is even Lillith, all too quickly dispatched.  But forbidden fruit, once swallowed, the loss of Paradise is soon to appear.  From my point of view, this is a must see film with intelligence, symbolism and beauty. "},{"Title":"Overlooked erotic thriller","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"53 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin slipped under the radar and in fact tanked at the box office back in the summer of 2001 despite the fact that it starred Angelina Jolie at the peak of her fame. The movie itself is not bad at all. There are surprises a plenty which of course I won't reveal. Since the expected doesn't occur that provides plenty of incentive to follow the story through to the end. Since the movie is an erotic thriller there are of course... erotic scenes! Ms. Jolie is definitely an attractive woman by conventional standards! It goes without saying that her smoldering looks keep the viewer fixated on her character, Julia. Banderas fans should note that his chemistry with a female costar hasn't been this good since his hookup with Catherine Zeta-Jones in Zorro.  Thomas Jane, whose other work I am not familiar with, is also excellent in his role. Very good entertainment, 7/10. "},{"Title":"wow...","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was surprising to put it mildly.  When I saw the cover, I figured it was going to be just your typical dark love story...ha ha, guess again. This movie was awesome!  Not only does it keep you guessing throughout the entire story, you can't help but notice all of the eye stoppers.  The cinematography was absolutely stunning, the filming locations were impeccable for beautiful scenery and spots, and the graphic love scenes...well, as much as I could have done without them, they certainly did add a lot to the film.  Every part of the movie was exceptionally well done, and I fell in love with this piece.If you're a movie buff like me, you might remember a little film that came out in 1994 with James Spader entitled 'DreamLover'.  Now, although that movie is surpassed by Banderas and Jolie's hit, they do share a bit of the same flavor as one another.  I remember seeing the Spader flick on t.v. one night and thought it was really great, however after seeing this I was reminded of the film, and thought that they shared similar traits.  Though, as I said before, this movie was a lot better. Much more A quality, bigger names, bigger production, and basically more money was spent making it, which more often than not, is a good thing, and helps the film rather than hurting it.Jolie and Banderas have never been favorites of mine, and in fact the only movie I ever liked Angelina in before this was 'Girl Interrupted', and Banderas in 'Two Much'.  This one, though, made me think twice about both the actors abilities on screen.  They executed such a great chemistry between one another.  I found myself even crying by the end of the movie.  It is truly unlike any other movie I've ever seen.  Sure, the premise was similar to others that I have seen in the past, but the directing, acting and just whole feel of the film was so unique and so on its own.  I loved it!  I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a great intense romance.I would advice, however, that some of the scenes especially at the beginning are a bit crazy (sexually that is).  Bare breasts, and well, just a whole lot of nakedness kind of take over the movie from time to time, so parents caution.But, otherwise I give the movie two thumbs up, it rocked! I give it a 10/10!  Great story about love! "},{"Title":"One of the better Erotic Thrillers","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"40 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The film's plot, script, and acting are only average, but the film is buoyed by some sizzling chemistry between Jolie and Banderas. Their sex scenes are extremely memorable, so make sure you get an un-edited version (unrated).Banderas plays a wealthy Cuban coffee farmer whose dedication to his trade has thus-far distracted him from the important business of finding a good wife. Using a matchmaker, he agrees to marry a woman from Connecticuit. He has been dishonest, however, in describing himself as a man of only average means. Banderas admits his dishonesty to his new wife (Jolie). However, it soon becomes clear that there is more to her than meets the eye, as well. Soon Banderas becomes so obsessed with Jolie that her lies destroy his entire life. He is well aware of what is happening every step of the way, but he doesn't care.So, this is an interesting movie for a few reasons. As stated above, the sex scenes are among the best ever filmed. It is also novel to see a film about a man who is actually obsessed about his own wife. I personally could identify with Banderas in his willingness to give up everything for woman he knows he cannot trust. Heck, it happens to the best of us. "},{"Title":"Much underrated!","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately I saw this marvelous film on TV last night-unfortunate because it was on the small TV screen and not a large movie screen. I admit it-I am totally taken by period pieces whose setting is somewhere in Latin America and if those movies have good sets and/or locations then I am smitten. Original Sin, set in Cuba and filmed in Mexico had the visuals down perfect-throw in the acting of Jolie and Banderas and you have a visual feast.The book/script were fabulous vehicles for the acting of the majors as well as a framework that works beautifully for the intrigues that pepper this film. This script should keep viewers interested throughout and I will definitely be renting this film so that I can savour it without interminable commercials. I want to wallow in the beauty of the images and settings at least one more time.Any viewer who likes settings and images from slightly earlier times owes it to themselves to look for Original Sin in their local rental shop because it is a wonderful film that seemed to slip by the reviewers when it was released. "},{"Title":"No, this is not a love story, but is a story about love and the power it has over life, the power to heal, or to destroy. <Julia>","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Set in the late 1880s in Cuba, Luis (Banderas), a wealthy coffee magnate, places an ad in a Maryland newspaper for a wife, because America is the future. He tells his close friend, She is not meant to be beautiful, she's meant to be kind, and true, and young enough to bear children. You see, Luis also thinks, Love is not for me. Love is for those people who believe in it.  He just needed heirs. The boat is due in at 6AM, they can be married at 9AM, and I can be back to work by 10AM.The boat comes in, he finds Julia (Jolie), who isn't homely at all, but beautiful. She tells him she sent him a photo of someone else, because she didn't want him to want her just because she was beautiful. To which he replies, I'm not really a clerk with a coffee company, I own the company. I didn't want you to marry me because I am rich. The we both cannot be trusted, she says. some SPOILERS - The movie's title is aptly chosen. Julia is really Bonnie, who along with Billy ran away from the orphanage at age 14 and the two of them have lived a life of deceptions ever since. In another version this film could have been called Billy the pimp and Bonnie the whore. Everything during the first half of this story was their murdering the real Julia on the boat, then assuming her identity so that Bonnie and Billy could steal all Luis' money, which they do after Luis foolishly converts all his accounts to joint accounts.I found the first half of the movie more interesting. Bonnie is narrating from a jail cell, we know she was caught at something, not sure what, and they are preparing to execute her. The second half gets complicated as Billy, posing as a P.I., gets into the mix. The problem Luis has is this, even though he despises what Bonnie has done, he falls inexplicably in love with her, the person he finds in reality, with all her good and bad.  She eventually reciprocates, they both end up wanting to get rid of Billy. They do, in an altercation when she shoots him.Bonnie at the last hour works one more deception, convinces the priest in her cell that she is sorry and seeks forgiveness, and he swaps clothes with her so she escapes right before her execution. In the end we see Bonnie and Luis in Morocco, he is gambling, she is serving, and flashing secret signs for him to win by cheating. He started out as an honest man, she was his Eve, this has become his original sin.  I can recommend this film, if for no reason than the remarkable job Angelina Jolie does with a script that doesn't deserve it. However, it also tells a good story of how love, in this case Luis', has power over life.  Most of us have done something out of character in the guise of love.  The cinematography is lush, and surround sound is used for good effect. Terrence Blanchard (New Orleans trumpeter) adds a very good mood-setting soundtrack, like the wailing and sensuous trumpet tune, accompanied by percussion, during the first love scene.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at this film. Thinking it was more or less about Jolie's T&A, it actually had a decent plot with some twists and turns running throughout. I liked this film a lot. Her character had many levels that you didn't see coming. It seemed like a one dimensional character as most temptresses are, but Jolie was nothing of the sort. She attacked the role with her usual vigor and gave life to what could have been a meaningless character. Banderas was a little overdone I think, but it kinda makes sense with the lines he was given. Being all obsessed with his wife like that can make you seem overly dramatic. I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cheap Melodrama","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I rented the unrated version because of - I admit it - the sex scene. What a letdown! As I watched, I kept thinking aren't they supposed to be in love? because they sure didn't act like it. There was no romance, no nothing. Like two wild animals. It left me cold.The costumes were as yummy as the sets were fake. The leads were badly underwritten. Banderas nails Luis's little-boy innocence, Jolie nails Bonnie's ice-cold cunning, but I didn't care about either of them, nor did I believe that he would willingly ruin himself for her. That he winds up taking Billy's place was beyond belief!And I have a silly question how did Billy find out Luis was actually loaded if poor Ms. Russell thought he was just a humble clerk at a coffee company? "},{"Title":"Should have been steamy and suspenseful-it's deadly dull.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  * out of ****Ah, the erotic thriller, a genre that now mostly exists in the form of straight-to-video or made-for-cable TV releases.  But there are always the occasional theatrical releases, such as Basic Instinct (great sex scenes, sporadically interesting story), Bound (steamy sex scenes, good plot, Jennifer Tilly is annoying as hell), Wild Things (dull sex scenes, fun plot twists), and Color of Night (ludicrous story, but features one of the best sex scenes in mainstream cinema!).  Original Sin can be added to the list, but it's easily the worst of the lot, giving us two stars who generate no heat, and a story that isn't ridiculously convoluted enough to be trashy fun.  Really, this movie's all talk, without enough genuine passion, suspense, and not enough bare skin (and I saw the unrated version).Antonio Banderas stars as an incredibly dumb coffee mill owner who's just been arranged to meet his mail-order bride.  He's written letters to her and has seen some pictures of her, but when he meets her face-to-face, she's nothing like he expects.  The bride turns out to be Angelina Jolie, whose sensuous looks and curves captivates our protagonist.  It seems she sent a different picture of herself so that a man won't be looking to marry her for her looks.  What a great, deceptive star to their marriage.  Oh, yes, their marriage is bliss, as they continuously make love and declare their love for one another.  But then it turns out she actually isn't his mail-order bride; she's taken all his money, leaving poor Banderas heart-broken and dead-set to find her.  Enter Thomas Jane, whose role is obvious from the start to any semi-keen viewer.Original Sin is the kind of film that will probably have your eyes rolling from all the overdone dialogue (Can't you see I cannot...LIVE without you?!) and squirming in your seat as you wait for something important to happen.  Story-wise, well, you'd be surprised how little plot there is.  Aside from what I've described, there's hardly anything else to be mentioned.  None of the plot twists are surprising or even amusingly over-the-top, so you'll probably find yourself tapping your feet out of boredom.This might have still been a somewhat engaging venture if I cared about the situation and the characters, but no, Banderas' is too gullible to root for and Jolie is...well...I've honestly never much liked Jolie; she's always one-note with her performances and her huge lips and really creepy resemblance to Jon Voight (her dad) is a distraction that not even decent acting (which she doesn't qualify for) can account for.  The fact that both actors (as well as Thomas Jane) don't even seem to realize they're starring in such a trashy film only damages the film further.  They take this material far too seriously.The only thing worthy of note in this entire film is a somewhat graphic sex scene between Banderas and Jolie.  Cinema these days has grown rather tame with on-screen sex, so I guess it's nice to see nudity on display in a big-studio release (though, make no mistake, even unrated, this scene is not as graphic or even as well-directed as the sex scenes in Color of Night or Basic Instinct).  Unfortunately, director Michael Cristofer manages to even screw up this scene, giving us way too many dissolves, fade-ins, and odd camera angles as if though he thought he was spicing things up.  No, it just adds a yawn.  Hard to believe, but Jolie managed to star in the two worst films of 2001, an accomplishment I don't think any other actor can boast.  As far as erotic thrillers go, you'd be better off renting any of the films I mentioned above or better yet, Brian De Palma's edge-of-the-seat 1984 voyeuristic thriller Body Double. "}{"Title":"Enough to make it watchable","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"29 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin, a movie with scandal, surprises, and a whole lotta love (I mean the physical kind) has Antonio Banderas as a wealthy Mexican coffee maker owner who orders a mail order bride (weird to have this in 1900) played by Angelina Jolie.  They get married, seem to start falling in love, but then the film turns into a twisting film.  These twists give some great scenes of power for Banderas and Jolie to work off of, plus a excellent amount of sex and nudity from Jolie and a good feeling for the movie throughout.  Unfortunately, the film has some flaws including an overused music score, overacting, scenes that make the film confusing, and an ending that had me a little dissapointed, then really dissapointed.  Still , it's OK.  Thomas Jane has some wicked fun playing a, uh, detective.  B "},{"Title":"Flagrantly ridiculous; one can have a good time laughing at it in spite of Antonio's strong performance...","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A wealthy, handsome businessman in 1880s Havana advertises in the States for a marriageable woman to sail to his country, become his bride, and bear his children; however, the sultry, lusty young thing who arrives from Delaware curiously bears no resemblance to the photograph she has sent (she's even hotter!), and soon a private detective is snooping about asking questions. Cornell Woolrich's novel Waltz Into Darkness would seem an ideal murder-mystery/sexual thriller to absorb a modern-day audience (as a storyteller, Woolrich was far ahead of his time), but writer-director Michael Cristofer doesn't have the teasing personality, nor the sure-handed style, to bring out the juicy twists of this tale. Leads Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie look good together in and out of their clothes, but his forceful, full-blooded acting eclipses hers by a mile. Jolie is not convincing in this period setting; she has little range and, once the camera begins feasting upon her features in Mount Rushmore-like close-ups, her focus visibly wavers (it's a dreadful performance). Told in flashback, we are immediately privy to Jolie's mysteries, with an outcome that defies explanation. Cristofer intermittently tries out different photographic tricks and editing techniques, presumably to pad the running time but in effect showing off his uncertainty as a filmmaker. The dialogue (and Jolie's indifferent delivery of it) is often ludicrously funny, though Banderas deserves credit for at least attempting to take his part of the project seriously. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A grand and shiny monument to implausibility.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I'm trying to remember a worse movie that I've seen....can't do it. Maybe it'll come to me before I finish this review. Let's see, how to begin A rich, handsome, outgoing Cuban businessman(Banderas) intentionally decides to screw up his life. Why?? Blank-out. No answer. The Plan he decides that a bad marriage will be his downfall. Okay, but how does one intentionally design a marriage to be so bad as to destroy oneself financially, emotionally, spiritually.**********MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD***********************Since the antihero is handsome, rich, and outgoing he could easily marry one of any number of women, most of whom would jump at the chance. Many of these theoretical matches might possibly work out. No, no...there's got to be a worse way. I know the man must marry a complete stranger found via a newspaper ad placed in a foreign country. That's it. And to lessen the probability that she is compatible with the man, the woman must arrive in the man's country no more than 3 hours before the wedding takes place. The man and woman must know nothing about one another except the lies they've exchanged with each other in establishing contact via the mail.Okay, now here's the shocker. Are you ready for this. Hold on to your seat. Despite these elaborate plans to undermine the marriage from the start, the marriage does not in fact work out and the man is destroyed financially, emotionally and spiritually. What I have just related is the precise opening premise this movie expects you swallow in order to grab your attention for the movie's remainder. If it sounds implausible to the point of imbecility, well, that is not my fault.To be fair, although this movie in no way deserves it, the woman he marries is a con artist(Jolie) who has helped kill the actual intended bride and assumed her identity. But that absolutely doesn't matter, because it may just as well have been the con artist who answered the  man's marriage ad as any other woman.I really can't discuss this movie much further...the level of irritation Original Sin caused me makes it out of the question. Let me just say that the account I've related so far is not the most implausible element in the movie. For example, let's assume for the sake of argument that you are a psychopath. Somebody tells you they love you a total of 999 times. But you are a psychopath and it has no effect. So you decide to poison the person who loves you. Hey, it's what psychopaths do. Somehow the person finds out you've poisoned their drink and they tell you. Right before the person drinks the poison they tell you for the 1000th time that they love you. They knowingly begin to drink the poison. Suddenly, the scales of psychopathology fall from your eyes and you see everything in a different light. You spring to your feet with all the good-hearted innocence that a recently cured criminally insane person can muster and try to knock the poisoned drink from their hands.Here are the crucial questions Do you find this plausible? Possible? Psychologically realistic? If so, let me state in the strongest possible terms This movie was made for you.Hey, I just had a revelation. I just remembered a worse movie I saw Ed Wood's Love Feast, aka Pretty Models All In a Row. I knew I could do it!! "},{"Title":"erratic characters, implausible story, but nice lighting","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was expecting a good story, good character development, excellent acting from Jolie & Banderas, and some great erotic scenes.What I got was a very implausible story that zigzags from love to murderous revenge and back again, no backstory, unsympathetic characters with erratic behavior, and a weird sadistic bisexual boyfriend/pimp (Thomas Jane's character). The sex scenes seemed passionless and were barely erotic. The acting by Banderas and Jolie was good, as were the sets, locations, and lighting, but it didn't rescue the film.Don't waste your time on this movie. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  No long comment here.  I just thought it was a great movie. A lot if intrigue and plot twists, and of course, Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas were well matched as lovers. There was a lot more to this movie than just the sex scenes.  10/10. "},{"Title":"overrated and cheap","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The movie's poster attracted me, seemed dark romance and I got much less than what I expected. The wealthy businessman played by Banderas is dumb and stupid who doesn't care if his wife is not what he thought of during their letter writing period. It also, doesn't matter to him that his wife vanishes with his money and is found with a chain of men. Jolie is in the movie to play the sex card from Banderas to Thomas Jane both had a nice time with her. Aside from her super pout and intimate scenes there's little she brings to the screen. I have never liked her acting aside 'girl interrupted'. The dialogs are stupid and immature and the ending is far more than disappointing.Watch it if you are an admirer of either one of the leading actors or for the nude scenes. There's nothing much to say here. "},{"Title":"Felt like a made for TV movie with some nudity thrown in!Predictable!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I will give away spoilers that were in the trailer or TV ads. This movie felt like  a made for TV movie with some nudity thrown in.I felt at times like I was watching a Red Shoe movie or the movie Body Heat starring William Hurt. The movie was predictable .So was the ending.Wait for it at a cheap movie theater or on DVD/videotape.It should be coming out soon due to it's poor dismal Box Office. I wonder if MGM lost any money on this movie? "},{"Title":"just a vote of thanks","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  for putting two of the most charismatic and sizzling actors together on-screen at last. the chemistry oozes from their pores, and it has been a long time since two such sexy actors have been seen in a clinch.their passion is tangible and gritty; while their story is not complex, their desires are. kudos to the casting agent.  "},{"Title":"so sexy...so hot","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie very stirring.  I found the chemistry between Banderas and Jolie so enthralling. Leaves you breathless and wanting more.  Jolie is the perfect actress to play this bad girl with such grace and sexuality. Banderas becomes every woman's ideal...rich, handsome, passionate, and that ACCENT!! A perfect movie to watch with a signifigant other...if you know what I mean.  "},{"Title":"Terrible script-good acting","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  *contains a spoiler*I guess MGM overestimated the movie-goers desire for this type of love story.  It is made very clear that this, in no way, was a love story, but a story about love.  It seems that the main point of the movie was to show how love gets into your every pore, where it makes a person incapable of being outside the intoxication of their complement.  Although this idea is both romantic and great in theory, seeing it on screen was a bit sickening. Even the summary on the back of the dvd made me feel uncomfortable and nauseated. Angelina Jolie does an excellent job with this monstrosity.  She delivered my favorite line in the movie *SPOILER* Jolie He needs a doctor! cop what about him? bang Jolie he's dead, now get him a doctor!Thinking about successful movies, Original Sin should have been great because it included, plot twists, sex, beautiful women, beautiful men, great acting, and love.  Somehow, I think is was just too over-the-top.  I guess the mail order bride idea should have been abandoned after Nicole Kidman's Birthday Girl --with Original Sin, I felt the same twinge of hatred as I did for Birthday Girl.  But movies that are so terrible at first glance permeate throughout my body being the only thought in my mind, until I have to watch again and again, forcing movies I hate to transform into some of my most treasured pieces of entertainment.  I love Birthday Girl and I'm sure I will love Original Sin.For those who I have completely confused, just watch the movie.  Even if you don't like it you should be able to say at least you tried.  Plus, Angelina Jolie is brilliant (even though she got the razzie award for worst actress-don't ask me where that came from-whoever nominated her needs to take a good look at the brilliance it takes to turn a terrible script and terrible characters into tangible people.)  Just watch it and find out for yourself. "}{"Title":"What a shame...","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie could have been so good, but it turned out to be anabsolute waste of talent.  There was no chemistry betweenBanderas and Jolie, the acting was stilted,  the lines and dialogueoften causes the viewer to crinch, and the plot is not very engaging. The fault does not lie with the actors, but really with thescreenwriter and director. An actor can only do so much whenpresented with lacking directorial guidance and a bad script.  "},{"Title":"what was the point ?","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I think all part of this movie was expectable, we can guess who is a cheater, who is going to die and what is to be with all character! the exiting parts of movie was Banderas and Julie were making love but in spite of this strong love between them why Julie was convinced to poison Banderas when she was not in love with her fellow lover (Thomas Jane)? especially it went so silly in the second half . since i am a huge fan of Antonio Banderas i just sat down and watched it all. i liked the songs and Banderas playing, but as we know that Original Sin is almost identical and imitation to something that was made before, i want you guys to tell me what was the point??? "},{"Title":"absolute waste of time","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers ahead, but who cares.Every now and then an avid movie theater goer is bound to stumble upon something like this, but it still took be by surprise. In fact, having seen the Tomb Rider recently, and bearing in mind Girl interrupted, because of Jolie alone I had some mild expectations going to see this summer afternoon time killer. Alas, what a mistake.A female beauty is really not a matter for discussion because everyone has his/her own taste, but I can't sway away the feeling that there is a way too much hype about Jolie's physical appearance than can be justified. A nice woman, but nothing more. As for her acting, she somehow fit into the roles of a schizophrenic or a comic/computer game type of characters, however, as la femme fatale she completely fails. Rapid transformations from a cold blooded rascal to a passionate volcano leave the sensation more of a sitcom style parody then some subtle introspective struggle of her character. Stick to Lara, Angie.Would someone tell me what it is about Banderas that they keep hiring him over and over again? Ok, he looks good and throws that sexy broken English at us, but come on the guy can't act. It's as simple as that nothing more, nothing less. Pass.The story, ah the story of this 'movie', I guess there is more sense in answers to Jay Leno's questions in Jay Walking. Absolutely unimaginative and absolutely absurd and absolutely boring from the beginning to the end. If you make through it without dozing off at least a couple of times, than you're either a single lecherous 17-year old with a thing for Jolie or a bodyguard on duty. Several examples why would a con team choose a poor Cuban clerk as their victim, as he described himself in the ad? what is the purpose of that charade with a private detective impersonation? how come they rent huge houses all over Cuba while being looked for by the police as the biggest public enemies? would a modest righteous monk agree to help a death row convict assuming serious consequences for himself, only after hearing her not-so-convincing story without any repentance? An so on, and so on, there's more, and some of it I surely missed due to the drowsiness.Other elements of the whole project barely jut out from the swill. The soundtrack is nothing close to what it might have been given the plot time and location. The scenery is again a disappointment given the huge opportunity to capitalize on the Caribbean surroundings. Instead, we mostly get the rundown backyards of big Cuban houses. The way the supporting characters are pictured as well as the nameless Cuban natives stenches miles away of the obsolete bourgeois colonial treatment which focuses exclusively on the petty preoccupations of the lame main characters.The end is more than annoying, not to use any stronger word. After seeing movies with tragic ending, one feels either sadness for the loss or the sense of helplessness for the inevitable. After seeing happy end movies, usually one feels relieved and optimistic. With this movie, one feels disappointed - that everyone gets away after choking the audience to death for almost two hours.1/10 "},{"Title":"Love Is Blind","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Here's a steamy film - at least early on - about a Cuban (Antonio Bandaras_ who marries an American woman he had only previously written to, only to find out later she (Angelina Jolie) wasn't that woman but a scheming impostor (Billy Bob found this out in real life!) This is nicely photographed, lush being the best adjective to describe it. I didn't find the story very involving, yet it wasn't boring and I could relate to Bandaras' character. Perhaps many men could with the old love is blind story.This is one of those films with poor messages here and there where corrupt people live happily ever after despite their overt sins. There is an R version and a unrated version of this film, the latter being two minutes longer. "},{"Title":"Not So Original.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Original Sin (2001) Dir Michael Cristofer / Cast Antonio Banderas, Angelina Jolie, Thomas Jane, Jack Thompson, Gregory Itzin Stupid title as if there was any such thing. Antonio Banderas plays a successful business man awaiting mail order bride Angelina Jolie. She has strange dreams, visible scars and a sister who claims that she is not her sister. Banderas makes the mistake of allowing Jolie access to his account and she leaves him dry. Crushed, he seeks her with murder in mind. Well directed by Michael Cristofer with spectacular art direction and photography. His only previous film credit is Body Shots besides work in TV. Begins well then falls into steamy sex scenes and a revolting conclusion. Banderas plays a man whose love is real but his deeds are the result of corruption. Viewers will likely groan at anyone who leaves their accounts open because they are blinded by lust. Jolie is difficult to visualize as a mail order bride but the relationship is just a sexual tease and boring erotica. The ending is also difficult to swallow when factoring in issues of trust. Thomas Jane as a sleazy detective is the one good performance. Other roles are pretty much useless and never develop into anything worthwhile. The film's purpose is clear to anyone with any form of intelligence. It is sinfully pointless and stupid with laughable excess in steamy sex and other nonsense. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"slow moving erotic thriller","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's 19th century Cuba. Luis Antonio Vargas (Antonio Banderas) is surprised that his mail order bride Julia Russell (Angelina Jolie) is that beautiful. She tells him that she deceived him with fake photos and he misled her about his wealth. They get married but later, she disappears with all of his money. Detective Walter Downs (Thomas Jane) arrives to find the real Julia for her sister Emily.This wants badly to be an erotic thriller. With the beautiful Jolie and sexy Banderas, this should be simple sexual dynamite. The problem is that the plot is slower than molasses and all the explosive eroticism in the world cannot drive this movie forward. Jolie can be extremely hot but she leaves me cold here. This movie doesn't have any excitement and certain no thrills at all. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie shows herself to fine advantage","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" What to say about this film? Set in Cuba in the late 19th century (with steamships and trains, but before electricity and the war) the Mexican shooting locations look very good. Also looking very good is Angelina Jolie, before her current anorexia. She shows herself to fine advantage and looks lovely in the late Victorian dresses and hairstyles. She showed real acting chops as well in this movie. Antonio Banderas did a fine acting job as well in this period drama. They both have the photogenicity and charisma that makes a movie star. This film has a bit of an unlikely plot, complete with some holes. It also goes to show you about the wisdom (or lack thereof) in trusting a woman. "},{"Title":"Lush, Lurid, and a Little Lame","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If You are a Fan of Sexy Stars Angelina Jolie & Antonio Banderas this Might be a Movie that is Worth Checking Out. If You are a Fan of Jolie's Lips than it is a Must See. Because there are Numerous Closeups of those Famous Kissers. There is Also a Generous Amount of Nudity and if You Catch the Unrated Version, More.The Film is Lavishly Produced and Looks Sumptuous in that Steamy, Tropical, Lurid Way that these Types of Antiquated Stories Set in an Antiquated Cuba must Deliver. Otherwise You pay Too Much Attention to the Dialog and the Expected Twists and Turns that are Forthcoming.Noir Writer Cornell Woolrich is the Source Material here and it is All Double Crosses and Unreasonable Love (or is it lust, someone asks) and the First Ending before the Real Ending will Answer that Again and Again and Again and Again.Not the Worst of this Type of Thing it has Enough Chutzpah to Carry the Heavy Handedness for the Duration. Just Don't Expect Anything too Snappy. It isn't Exactly as Crappy as the Critics Insist and its Mega Failure at the Box Office Speaks for Itself. But here it is, Take it or Leave it. Both Stars went on to Better Things and this Semi-Embarrassment did Little to Halt Them with Their Limited Appeal. If Anyone Noticed or Cared, the Flashbacks are a Horrible Misstep and Thomas Jane is Miscast. "},{"Title":"Unravel the Mysteries of Original Sin","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Original Sin starts with an improbable premise that a wealthy man would venture to marry a woman he had never met and a beautiful woman would agree to marry a man she had never met. When we first meet Luis Vargas (Antonio Banderas) and Julia Russell (Angelina Jolie), there is the inescapable feeling that neither would have trouble finding a mate. We are half correct.This story has a number of twists in it, twists that I won't divulge so that the viewer's journey is more enjoyable. Luis owns a coffee plantation in Cuba. He falls in love with Julia. Their lives seem idyllic until the young woman disappears. The romance now becomes a mystery. In his efforts to discover what happened to Julia, Luis crosses paths with those of the lower social strata, shall we say, and his love propels him to make choices that he never would have dreamed of in his pre-Julia days.Along the way, the story of Original Sin takes a turn near Vertigo then continues on its winding way into unforeseen areas. The plot involves mistaken identities, a few red herrings, and some major grifting. In the end, all the piece of this puzzle come together, leaving us with a tale about love, faith and, maybe, redemption.The entire journey is lovingly filmed in some beautiful Mexican settings. The two lovers are beautiful in their own rights and the camera dwells on their images as part of the lush environs. But Banderas and Jolie are more than pretty faces; their acting is convincing. For the most part, the other actors also feel like they inhabit the places and times of Original Sin.Anything more I might say about this film could reveal some plot lines, so I will just say I give it a score of 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"High On Lust But Low On Logic","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Original Sin is an erotic thriller based on the novel,Waltz into Darkness by Cornell Woolrich.Also,it is a remake of Mississippi Mermaid. Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas stars in it.Michael Cristofer directs.Luis Durand,portrayed by Antonio Banderas, is an 18th century coffee merchant whose supposedly plain mail-order bride turns out to be a sexy bombshell American Julia Russell,played by Angelina Jolie. Handsome and rich,Luis has never married. His expectations for the bride are realistickind,true and young enough to bear children.She does not have to be beautiful.But obviously,she sent the wrong photo.She sent someone who is of a plain woman.But she is far from that for she happens to be sultry and beautiful.She confesses she sent the wrong photo because she did not want a man who was attracted only to her beauty. He confesses, too He owns his plantation and is not simply a worker there. He didn't want to attract a gold-digger.Then,both get married.At first,they seem happy. He is so smitten that he allows her access to all of his considerable financial resources. But the happiness ends when Julia vanishes in possession of her husband's money. He sets off in pursuit, although whether to kill her or to win her back, not even he can say.Too bad that the movie is contrived.Also,what's worse,it started to become illogical and absurd as the story progresses.Later,we learn a lot of the information from Julia herself who is in jail and being prepared for execution. Soon after Julia's disappearance, we learn she is not actually Julia at all, and that the real Julia was murdered. And many more plot twist until it provides the audience an ending where everything is turned around and it ends up cheating the audience.The acting was great in the early scenes for Banderas and Jolie have great chemistry but once Julia's loyalties are brought into question repeatedly, this chemistry is sacrificed for the story.Indeed,both the characters that they have played have become machinations for the plot. The only good thing about it is that it is high on lust as there are a lot of sensual and sex scenes between Jolie and Banderas that the audience would surely enjoy.But nothing more. "}{"Title":"Sinful romp","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Set in the 19th Century, the film is about a Cuban Coffee planter, Luis Antonio Vargas played by Antonio Banderas, who advertises for a wife in an American Newspaper. She duly arrives in the form of Angelina Jolie. When she asks him why he wanted an American wife he answers, Here we are the past and there you are the future.He marries her, finds that he really loves her, is then deceived and robbed by her, seeks revenge but falls in love with her again only to be enmeshed in her deceitful lifestyle. It was a tall order to make it all work; the film bites off more than it can chew then chews like crazy for the rest of it's running time.Original Sin has enough packed into its 116 minutes to provide the material for a six-hour mini-series. The film is based on Waltz Into Darkness, a novel by Cornell Woolrich, who must rank just behind William Shakespeare for producing the largest number of works that have been turned into film.Original Sin is fast-paced, beautifully photographed, and features two charismatic stars &#x96; it all works perfectly as long as you just go along with it. Where the film runs into trouble is in consistency of tone, especially in the second half. But even if the only consistent tone in Original Sin is Angelina Jolie's nail enamel, part of the fascination is seeing how the filmmakers manage to get the story out of the many corners they have painted it into.One thing is for sure, Angelina Jolie dominates the screen. The filmmakers also showed a fascination with those famous lips; so much so that a couple of sequences start with a close-up of her lips before the camera pulls back to reveal the whole scene. In fact, she is photographed to great advantage in this film, and her Victorian era costumes suit her so well she looks as though she could sit for a portrait by John Singer Sargent the moment the director called cut.The interaction between Jolie and Banderas is fascinating and actually carries the movie over the rough spots in the plot. Calm and controlled, their performances have considerable depth despite the mounting implausibilities of the story. A couple of the supporting roles are also interesting; Australian Jack Thompson, who did brisk business around this time playing portly Southern gentlemen, plays Vargas' friend who warns him against Jolie's character. The other is Thomas Jane who plays a detective in a somewhat bizarre role.Original Sin is a throwback to an era in Hollywood filmmaking when the audience accepted a fairly far-fetched plot as long as it was wrapped in the gloss of fabulous stars and a lavish production. Anyone looking for reality in film can forget this one, but the two attractive stars light up the screen, and despite everything that has gone before, it has a satisfying ending that brings a smile to the face. "},{"Title":"Lukewarm at best","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie star in an erotic thriller which is not particularly erotic and certainly not thrilling. Yes, the obligatory Banderas-Jolie sex scene sizzles. But after that the movie fizzles out completely. The heat goes out of this movie very early on. The story relies on myriad plot twists which never really convince or satisfy. The dialogue is awkward throughout, often downright laughable. The acting leaves much to be desired. Banderas and Jolie are not very good. But they're better than Thomas Jane who, in the movie's one key supporting role, hams it up to ridiculous extent. There are a few interesting moments sprinkled throughout. But not nearly enough of them to save what is ultimately a rather bad movie.The movie's story is told in flashback with Jolie's character, Julia, narrating. She does so from a prison where she is awaiting execution. How did she get there? Should be interesting finding out. Should be but really isn't. The story unfolds in 19th century Cuba with the Banderas character, Luis, having sent for a mail-order bride. Julia duly arrives from Delaware but she is not the woman in the photograph she had sent ahead of her arrival. She is not the woman she claimed to be but Luis is not who he claimed to be either, much wealthier than he had let on. But while it becomes apparent that Luis truly has the best of intentions it is just as clear that Julia is a woman with some demons and secrets. What darkness lies beneath the surface? Detective Walter Downs, played by Jane, shows up to help Luis sort out the mess Julia makes. From here the story relies on tricks. But you can see the twists and turns coming a mile away. There's nothing to surprise you. There's really very little of interest at all. The story limps along towards its conclusion. Yes, we find out why Julia's in that prison cell. But by the time we do most in the audience will find they really don't care anymore. The movie has completely lost its hold on us. And then as a final insult the ending is just ludicrously stupid, a tacked-on bit of nonsense which undercuts the whole movie. Not that there was very much worthwhile to be undercut anyway. "},{"Title":"Remake","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Original Sin is a remake of the French Mississipi Mermaid, aka La sirène du Mississipi (1969), direct by François Truffaut, with Catherine Deneuve and Jean-Paul Belmondo. In Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean, the owner of a cigarette factory Louis Mahé is engaged through correspondence with Julie Roussel and he does not know her. When Julie arrives in the island to get married with Louis, he waits for her in the docks but Louis does not recognize Julie in the passenger vessel and finds that she is totally different from the picture she had sent to Louis. They get married and Louis shares his bank accounts with her. When Julie's sister writes a letter to Louis asking her sister to write to her, Louis discovers that the woman is not Julie that is missing. Further, he finds that the woman has cleared his bank accounts and left the island. Louis and Julie's sister hire an efficient private detective Comolli and Louis travels to France seeking the woman, but he has a nervous breakdown in Nice and is submitted to an intense sleeping therapy in a clinic. He recovers and finds that the woman, actually Marion Vergano, works in the Phoenix Club Privé in Antibes and lives in the low-budget Monorail Hotel. Louis breaks in her room and when she arrives from the club, she tells that she was happy with him but her former dangerous lover Richard had blackmailed her. Louis is still in love with Marion and escapes with her to the countryside. But Comolli is chasing Marion in France accused of murdering Julie. Written by Claudio Carvalho, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil "},{"Title":"Acting is really well played by Angila Jolly","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I came here and saw this information provided with the details, as I have seen this movie already and I saw here again the trailer provided by the IMDb, I am really impressed the way of presentation and information given here.Angila really did marvelous job here. As I have seen this video here, I found her role played very sensibly in this video. I think, it would be possible by the view of Pay Per Minute Webcam Chat Script or Web Cam Chat Software that is Pay per Minute, as I see that here- www.uniqperformer.com Story is really explained here very well and movie is really good, as I found some story here - When a man selects a mail order bride, he is surprised to see the beauty who appears before him. She alleges that she sent false photos to him to assure that he would love her for what she is and not for her beauty. However, what she is a con artist, prostitute, and actress, who teams with a fellow actor to steal money from men. What she does not expect is that she falls in love with her new husband and ultimately must decide between him and her sadistic former lover. Contains explicit sex including sadistic acts as Thomas Jane cuts Jolie's back with a knife as part of their lovemaking. "},{"Title":"Love will tear us apart again (DVD)","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Back to back with director Cristofer and this time, he finally has a decent movie Gone the stupid scripts, the flashy pain because here it's a good love story mated with a riveting thriller.At first, when i discovered that the story was set in Spanish culture (explaining the casting of Banderas), i was dubious but the director really focuses on the characters and their relationships. In addition, his camera is quick and it has the exciting move of surrounding, traveling the characters, even as they walk. But, he is maybe too fast because i don't understand two moments first, when Banderas meets again with the detective, why there's no mention of their Sunday meeting? Two, why did they go then to Havana? Overall, I think this movie offers great lines about love (to give) and lust (to take) and portrays true lovers, because Banderas and Angie are ready to follow whatever the blows they got. (Personnaly, i lived that and i quit!).I admit that Banderas is a truly gifted actor and that it was cool to see Angelina back in her old powerful characters after her recent failures. Jane (the actor) is really the irritating guy because he has already annoyed La Bellucci in Under suspicion. "},{"Title":"Related to François Truffaut's Mississippi Mermaid (1969)","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie seems to be a remake of François Truffaut's La sirène du Mississipi (1969, Mississippi Mermaid). Although this might be becauseboth quote Cornell Woolrich's novel Waltz into Darkness as source.I consider Truffaut's movie to be of better make. The erotic charge is much less in Mississipi Mermaid. The tension between (young) Belmondo and Deneuve is of a very different nature than the relationship between Jolie and Banderas. If you're looking for hot scenes, go for Benderas & Jolie, if you're into classic cinema, then Truffaut is your choice (but you probably already know that. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece of Love and Lust.","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was move by this movie. Love Story at its superb presentation. If you think you know what love is, say that after watching this. Have you seen a man, cheated on his own eyes, rob up to the last cents and almost killed many times by his wife who getaway with it.until he saw her again, then what he did is&#x85;taddann..kiss her.I own a tape of this movie so i have the chance of watching it allover again.It is one of those few movies that gets you involve while watching it.The character of Angelina defines a woman-tempted,weak,fearful yet glamorous,smart and full of guts.It makes me re think of the Garden of Eden,how Eve persuade Adam to bite the forbidden fruit.Antonio Banderas in here is the typical in love person-how he defeats his mind and let his heart rule him.How he practically choose to be dumb over all the lies,deceit and hatred she caused him.This is a perfect love story for those who sinned against their love ones hoping for redemption...and also the best story for those who loves someone who hurt them badly but waiting for apologies in open arms. "},{"Title":"A beautiful picture with a mediocre story, watchable though for sure.","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I find it difficult to pass judgement of films based on novels when I have not read the novel. (unless of course the novelist was the screen writer like Michael Blake with Dances with Wolves) Original Sin feels like somewhat familiar territory. I cannot quite pin point a film off the back of my head which used this idea. I suppose though, that if labelled an erotic thriller anyone can name fifty films off the back of their heads. I think I can see Original Sin working as a novel. As a movie though, it has some storytelling problems, which depending on your attention span may weaken the experience. I am reminded a bit of Basic Instinct. What we have here a sexy and erotic game which sort of goes in circles. Original Sin is the superior movie in part because it is more beautiful, the sex is less distracting, Banderas and Jolie are a better screen couple, and the ending of the movie is a nice touch.Set in Havana, in what looks like the late 19th century. The curtain rises on the luxurious home of Don Luis Vargas. He has recently mail ordered a bride from the states, who shows up the next day. Her name is Julia. They are married in the sunshine of a beautiful afternoon, and they are happy. A few days later however, Julia disappears. Not only that but Luis' bank accounts have been cleared. Not only that, but he finds out that the girl he married is not the Julia Russell he has been sending letters to in the months leading up to their wedding. Oh and not only THAT but the real Julia may have been killed at this woman's hand. suddenly Vargas is in the middle of a very dangerous game, once he goes looking for his apparent wife.The film is sprinkled with several contrived twists and turns, which are typical of almost all thrillers. It is not inventive in the least, but it IS aesthetically evocative, and fairly engaging. In the same way Titanic was a contemporary love story set a hundred years ago, Original Sin is a contemporary erotic-thriller set around the same time (give or take a couple of decades) It turns out to be not bad, there is certainly room for improvement, but it's watchable. "},{"Title":"A real story about love","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most tasteful romantic dramas I have ever seen I absolutely loved it the chemistry between Angelina and Antonio was superb I didn't really mind the sex scenes as much I thought they were pretty tasteful and fufilled their purpose. I also thought Angelina was perfect for the role of julia/bonnie she really captures the essence of the femme fatale and I greatly sympathized with her character she wasn't really playing a villain she was more influenced by her accomplice/lover Billy who manipulates and twists her mind into thinking that no one could ever love her.In my opinion Julia/Bonnie was struggling with inner emotions and was even more confused by what she was feeling for Luis which is why she tries her hardest to deny that Luis does indeed love her. My favorite moments in the movie is when the two Luis and Julia are arguing in the hotel and Luis goes into a rage telling julia how much he loves her and the last few scenes in the movie when Julia poisons Luis' coffee and Luis practically pours his heart out before willingly drinking the poison telling Julia he loves all of her good and bad inspite of all the hell she put him through(I even cried a little. I totally recommend this movie to anyone who isn't looking for a simple cliché love story "},{"Title":"great script and acting","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Banderas excels in this period grifter piece about a man's love for a woman who believes herself unlovable. Jolie pulls her weight, too, giving glimpses of just enough vulnerability to temper the extreme mean streak her character exhibits, not least when she attempts to kill her husband not once, but twice. Thomas Jane as antagonist keeps up the high-calibre acting. The script twists and turns without ever letting down its theme, the redeeming power of love. What stops Original Sin from being great is the camera-work and editing. In one scene in a brothel the 360- degree pan distorts the edges of the frame and induces nausea. Jump cuts are over-used, and seem out of place in terms of the feel and period setting of the film. Less obtrusive craftsmanship would allow the audience to give the story the full attention it deserves. "}{"Title":"Strong movie, but was the idea stolen?","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The casting was well done, but in the progress of the movie I kept thinking that I had seen this one before. Then it came to my mind that the story was the story of La sirene du Mississippi with Belmondo and Deneuve. The producer must have a nice sense of hummer to give his film the right title then .......... Anyway, Iliked the story (again) and I always find it an entertaining pleasure to look at Jolie and Banderas and being a European it will be quite obvious that I am definitely not offended by some modest nudity as shown in this movie. This was well acted and it seems to me that the cameraman was knew very well what he was doing. "},{"Title":"Love. Obsession. Deception.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Started out a little dull but picked up the pace. In the beginning, the part where you learn about some of the characters, was a little boring, but I decided to keep watching. I ended up loving the movie entirely. It was a story of true love and what it takes to be with that one, special person. Angelina Jolie and Anotonio Banderes were perfect in portraying their characters. One of my favorite parts of the movie was when Luis (Banderes) and Julia/Bonnie (Jolie) were yelling and screaming at each other and he said that he couldn't live or breathe without her and then held her. I got a little teary-eyed, I have to admit. "},{"Title":"Drags but saved by good ending","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" From the beginning this movie struck me as melodramatic and poorly acted. The director is overly fixated on 'creating the scene'. As the film takes place in Cuba sometime well in the past (maybe the late 19th century?), it's understandable to flaunt the romance of the setting, but it comes off like a slutty romance novel. Of course the erotic scenes with Jolie and Banderas (and later other men), only add to that feeling.The purpose of the music is to add to the mystique and romance of old Cuba even more. The problem is that while it's adding to the setting, it's hurting the story. This movie is supposed to be a bit of a thriller, and music is always a big part of creating suspense in film. The music here just doesn't get the job done, and it really hurts the flow of the movie.Because of all these issues this movie really drags. A lot more footage should have been chopped in the editing room, but its redemption is that if you wait long enough, you find it does have a point and a good one at that. The melodrama never really leaves, but the story nonetheless comes together in the end. I can't say I'd particularly recommend it, but it's watchable if you're patient. "},{"Title":"A  Passionate, Decadant Romance","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Angelina Jolie and Antonia Banaderas were well matched in this twisted yarn based on the Cornell Woolrich novel, Waltz Into Darkness. From the lush backdrop of 'Havana', Cuba, and absolutely mesmerizing musical score, I was instantly hooked.And yet these, as well as the darkened lighting throughout most of the film, were only indicative of the surprise twists & unexpected turns of plot which are hallmarks of great movies & their ability to transport you into another world for a time.This is not a romance for the faint-of-heart or cynic, but for the passionate and the fearless. Not a modern-day negotiation between conference calls & board meetings, but an all-consuming flame which can burn or redeem a life.Angelina is the classic femme fatale & Mr Antonio the perfect match for her. I cannot believe this movie bombed at the box office; some people just don't get it. "},{"Title":"watch it at least once. the acting is great!","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First of all, i think it a great story of ultimate passion to the point of obsession and love making blind. The acting by all parties was great, it has some nice twists, and on top of that, its very erotic. In the US the movie was a complete flop. And I think the reason is, because its too erotic, to the point where people consider it porn. I think this movie is great. My only complaint is, that i'm not a fan of the constant use of jump-cuts throughout the film. I think the scenes would've been better if well-rehearsed and use the camera a little more creatively, so the pace is still present. but thats just my opinion.Some people say this movie was slow. i partially agree, but on the other hand, everything that was said was necessary to move the story foward.To sum it up, and as stated above, i think its a great movie! watch it if you can!! "},{"Title":"A Different Type of Romance","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie.  Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas made a beautiful-looking couple.  This was a great movie for husbands and wives to see together because it was filled with drama, action and romance.  I have never seen a movie combine all three this way.  It's a movie that both men and women could enjoy.  Angelina Jolie is beautiful, and her wardrobe was very elegant.   "},{"Title":"I don't know why its not liked","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Now the film was fair all in all but what i really liked were the personalities of both angelina jolie and antonio banderas. I think the writer masterfully portrays the human conscience to the utmost perfection.The idea that the  storyline wasn't good was blanketed by the great performance of the two leading star in the end of the film.A person who watches this film for the sex, or the actors, or the romance, will not be pleased as this story tries to pry the human soul and tries to give a reason behind everyones action good or bad.*Spoiler* Now all though you may not have noticed but the idea that Jolie's background and history is very important for her character as it explains why she is so under the mind spell of Thomas Jane and it answers the big question Why does she do this to antonio banderas and her disbelief of his love for her?The movie generally had a bad storyline great characters and a great Director.                                     (9 of 10) "},{"Title":"Check Out Truffaut's version, 1969 Mississippi Mermaid.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's a real movie.  Mississippi Mermaid has a plot, dialog, character development.  Mississippi Mermaid also has the most important elements necessary for a good film.  It left me with lingering thoughts and the feeling that I did not waste two hours.     "},{"Title":"A Great Sin","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I found Original Sin to be very well done. It was a great story (not a love story) and should have had more praise. Most did not come because of the explicit scenes with Jolie and Banderas, they should have looked past it. I loved the ending. I wont give it away here,but it ends like it should.To me there was chemistry. Not any normal actor can go and do a movie like this successfully. They were great and I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Hey!It's not that bad!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin was released after Tomb Raider in USA, cos' MGM thought that opening the movie after the smash hit of Lara Croft's debut in the big screen, would call atention of the viewers because of Jolie.Sweat ilusion!Nobody went to the cinema to watch this `caliente' movie.It is not good but it is not the worst movie of all times.You can count here with a sexy Jolie and a usual Banderas always playing the latino guy with the strong accent.The story is full of twists and turns and it ends very well for a forgetable movie.Original Sin is just entertainment for adults who wants to see strong sex scenes and a poor plot that is just excuse to show the nudity of both Jolie and Banderas.5 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Original Sin I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. The suspense was great. I was yelling at the t.v screen! Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas are great! The title and cover put some people off but other than the sexual content, the movie is great! "},{"Title":"I am a gullible guy, moviewise, so I bought the premise.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When it comes to movies, I have no problem throwing aside my disbelief. This is true for this movie, too.  I became the rich guy.  Okay, he was a little kinky.  I ignored that.  The two lovers took me along on an adventure I would never have in real life.  Thank the movies for that.  I would watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Angelina is steaming hot","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely adore Angelina Jolie, so you can guess which parts of the film males such as myself will enjoy. Angie is steaming hot and plays a sex siren-style role very well, and the nude scenes really fit into the plot while being pleasing to the eye. The plot feels contrived, though, and in terms of erotic thrillers, this isn't a patch on Basic Instinct. The thrills are oddly placed and ultimately this film lacks a lot of direction. 5/10, if only for Angelina's easily believable performance (and very killer body).  "},{"Title":"Original Sin","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great. It had a little to much sex than I thought, but the movie was very good, It had a great cast and a good story plot. I would definatly recommened this movie to other people. I thought the ending was fantastic!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Sad Rendition of Great Noir Novella","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is based on Cornell Woolrich's Waltz into Darkness, which is a hair-raising pulp-noir novella by the same author who penned Rear Window. I would highly recommend reading the novella, but this movie, sad to say, simply stinks.It seems like the director and producers didn't care much for consistency or flow.  Neither Angelina Jolie nor Antonio Banderas keeps the same accent throughout the film - a little detail that is quite annoying.  In addition, the movie is broken up by obviously slapped together stock footage (eg - the now we travel to Havana scene) in places where, I suppose, they must have run low on production funds.  This, needless to say, significantly interfered with my attempts at a suspension of disbelief.All the production funds must have been spent on all the diffuse-lit footage they got of Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas in bed - but that's a pity - because that footage was mostly gratuitous and not necessary to the plot of the film at all.  The novella doesn't elaborate on any of this, and it makes its points about obsessive love quite nicely anyway.This could have been a good movie.  The cast wasn't terrible (Antonio Banderas does the desperate, melodramatic romantic hero very well, and that is what the film called for.  Also, kudos to villian Jack Thompson who was a worthy bad guy.) and the script wasn't even that bad with screenwriter/director Cristopher adding an interesting plot twist that isn't in the book.I'd guess the potential of this film was ruined by somebody who thought more pictures of naked body parts would be a bigger selling point than the credibility and continuity of the picture.  Whoever they were, they were dead wrong.  We know Cristopher can do good work, and that Angelina Jolie can do it with him (Cristopher directed her in Gia for which she won a Golden Globe)...but this time something went way wrong. Bummer.I give this movie a big fat D.  "},{"Title":"Been done before, been done better","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Predictability=bad.  Some movies can be predictable but still so enjoyable that you don't mind.  Original Sin is not one of them.  The characters are cut and pasted from any similar movie you've ever seen, with nothing to redeem them.  Considering the talent involved, this was rather disappointing.  The plot was just as one dimensional and predictable.Aside from the blah characters and blah plot, my biggest pet peeve was the film editing.  I don't know enough technical stuff to ascribe a name to it, but the movie was edited similarly to Traffic, with a couple random seconds of film tossed out here and there.  In Traffic, this worked really well.  It just seemed to fit.  In Original Sin, I got a mental picture of a twelve year old with a reel and pair of scissors shouting whee.  When the movie is (I think, though I couldn't be sure) going for a deadly smooth kind of mood, jerking the film around doesn't help anything.There are a couple of funny moments in this movie, and in one or two places there is a palpable sense of eroticism that is excellent.  In particular, the first love scene is very well done.  Still, this movie is bad.  Unless you have a desperate desire to see Angelina Jolie out of her clothes, leave Original Sin in the video store.  3/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Film I have Seen This Year!!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Missed this wonderful film in the theatres and rented the DVD, I could not take my eyes off the screen! The beauty of its two stars is overpowering! Angelina is great as the sexy Julia/Bonnie. The locations and photography were also excellent! The ending is a real twist! One of the best overlooked film of the year! "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Angelina Jolie did a great job in this as well. This movie was quite calm and had some violence and confusing matter, but all in all it came out quite well. Antonio Banderas did a good job too as well. Although I didn't get to see this movie in Theaters. When it came out on DVD and VHS I just wound up buying the Unrated Version on DVD. Although I thought their was going to be a lot of sexual content. To me their wasn't as much sex as I thought there was going to be, but the movie trailer set off a good vibe to the sexual content though. This movie was good for an old-timer movie. A movie that's like set in the late 1880's it looks like. Im not for sure. The romance was good and I'm glad the sex was toned down for the whole movie even the unrated version wasn't bad either. It was more a romance/violence story then just a sexual movie. I wasn't disappointed after it was over. All in all check this movie out. I do warn you that this movie is for mature audiences only though! Just a word of advice. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Quite a good movie with Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas.In the late 1800's Luis Antonio Vargas (Antonio Banderas) is going to meet his upcoming wife, Julia Russell (Angelina Jolie), he never met before.She will arive by boat from the US, unfortunately she is not coming that evening.  He's staying for the night and the next day, there she is.She is even more beautiful than she is on the picture she sent.Unfortunately for Luis she's more than just beautiful.Although she's giving him the best sex (which appears in all it's glory in the unrated picture), she's also taken something away from him.The story is very well done, but the overall and the picture quaility are some less, unfortunately i'll have to say, because it could have been a very good movie instead.  But if you're not feeling very ashamed of heavy sex scenes i can recommend this movie picture to you. "},{"Title":"Not that bad.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERThis movie was not as bad as some would have you believe.  Though, it wasn't great.  Its taken from the biblical parable about the wealthy man who loves a prostitute.  She doesn't feel she deserves such love so she returns many times to selling her body for money.  Each time the wealthy man cleans her up and brings her back to his mansion.  How true love won't let him give up on her or let her give up on herself.  Finally, love won't give up on them together.I will admit the performances could have been a little better.  There really didn't seem to be much chemistry (for whatever reason).  Yet, I did appreaciate them making up for it with gratuitous sex scenes.  If that was all they could do.I say watch it, though.  Each of us could learn a little about the self-sacrificing nature of love. thank you.  "}{"Title":"This was an excellent film!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent film. The loves scenes were great. Angelina Jolie was once again amazing. The on screen chemistry between Jolie and Banderas was truly realistic. The plot was intriguing, the costumes and settings were beautiful. "},{"Title":"Hard core, soft porn","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The film Orignal Sin started out as a decent movie. Then it goes into to a detailed sex scene. I understand that maybe a little bit of a sex scene would have been tolerable, But the film just clearly stated to be this movie which was based on hard core sex. Some of the sex scenes were very much unneeded... I like the movie, myself. It would have been more of an impact on people around if there wasn't so much sex involved in the movie. I would suggest this movie to the hopelessly in love type of person. The tag-line says after all No matter what the price. You can not walk away from loveShannon "},{"Title":"Trashy bodice ripper","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  You know it's gonna be bad right away when there's a closeup of la belle Jolie's lips uttering some drivel that sounds like it was lifted straight from a romance novel. The sex scenes are beyond cheesy - completely gratuitous, and although I don't on principal mind looking at beautiful Angelina or hunky Antonio, I found myself bored and wanting to fast-forward - there was absolutely no chemistry there, and it was badly choreographed like late-night soft-core porn on cable. Corsets, boob shots, odd protestations of love after what? two days? He wants her back for what reason exactly? Because she's a good lay? Stupid camerawork. Bizarre accent from Jolie as Julia. Predictable ending. I knew this was gonna be a rainy-day cable flick, but I expected good cheese. This is strictly Kraft Singles. "},{"Title":"Great actors - predictable ending","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As a huge Angelina Jolie fan, I couldn't wait to see this movie. Her acting ability was once again superb.  As well as Antonio Banderas'.  They have a hypnotic chemistry, that, with the right story, would've been much more enjoyable.  Unfortunately, I found the movie to be rather slow at times and very predictable most of the time. I seemed to always be one step ahead of the movie, often asking aloud why the characters were making such obvious moves.Overall, the movie was good, but not excellent. I would recommend it with a caution to watch to enjoy the actors abilities rather than the story line. "},{"Title":"ATTRACTIVE CAST FAILS","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Interesting idea and attractive cast falls flat. A mail order bride turns out to be far more attractive than the picture she sent and her husband turns out to be a wealthy business man and not the simple clerk he claimed to be. Sounds like a plot for a pleasant romantic comedy right? Well Jolie turns out to be a plotting gold digger with an accomplice who murdered the real bride to be and Banderas turns into a mushy, lovestruck moron. On top of that a maddening bongo drum beat tries to establish suspense where there isn't any. Waste of talent and time. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but not enough.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I was a little surprised watching this as I kept waiting for Angie to save the movie but sadly it didn't happen.  It has beautiful images but it's a mess everywhere else.  Angie is great as always but Antonio could have been better used somewhere else.  The direction in the movie is horrible and quite dull if it wasn't for Angelina this movie would be horrible in every way.  The sex scenes are way over the top to the point it's just sad.  If the movie had less sex, better directing, better editing and was a little shorter it would have been a great movie.  Watch it for the awsome power of acting Angelina Jolie has but other then that I can't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Almost Boring.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasn't quite boring to me, but it was almost. It really did not keep me rooted to my seat. It started out a dud, and it ended with no fireworks. I was looking for fireworks throughout the entire movie, but I never found any. It reminds me of many movies I have seen before. It had somewhat of a 1940's twist to it. They had a lot of movies with this sort of plot in the 1940's. This film did not shock me, I thought it was somewhat on the lame and stupid side. No, it WAS stupid. And you knew almost everything that would happen, before it did. I HATE movies like that. They aren't a bit of fun to watch. I like drama, I like twists and surprises.   "},{"Title":"Not sure I can recommend it","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Lavishly filmed and with high production values this movie none the less fell short for me. It was simple to put together who the villain was, and the Hollywood oh so happy ending killed everything. An ending that didn't pull any punches would have given the story more credibility.Featuring two of the best built human beings in Hollywood may be this film's one redeeming quality. You will have to judge that for yourself. "},{"Title":"Shakespearian storyline - a classic","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin was like watching a classic Shakespeare tale. The love story was sexy, hot and mysterious. I'm not typically a fan of Angelina Jolie, but the two characters were so intriguing that my preference went unnoticed. One of those movies to keep in your collection. "},{"Title":"Nobody does her better...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I must admit to being caught completely by surprise after this movie. From it's title, 'Original Sin' to it's marquee stars to it's trailer, one would expect a by-rote movie-of-the-week type production about sex and betrayal. Yet, even saying this, I almost can't say that it is more than that...a movie about love and betrayal. Yet, Michael Cristofer has done what any great director does...he takes an old story (is there such thing as a new one?) and makes it new simply in it's honesty and conviction. Cristofer has convinced me that no has, or maybe will, use Angelina Jolie (if one CAN actually 'use' her) better. He gets her...in all her sexuality, danger and, more importantly, vulnerability. Of all people to keep me from seeing this theatrically, it was Banderas casue of a string of bad choices. Well, this was mine, cause he was everything he became a star for...alluring, charismatic and dangerous, as well. I seem to be rather singular in my admiration of this film but I'll take the critical burning. The themes of being loved, or more precisely, the fear of being loved and the difficulties of accepting it when it's true are truly, and nastily, addressed here. I don't think this film should be overlooked for it's sexuality or just because it's attractive...how far these characters are willing to go to get, and get away from, love is not exaggurated in the slightest. At it's core it is saying that to get to honesty and trust takes alot more than words.  It takes sacrifice and work. And last but not least...when, oh, when, is Thomas Jane going to be in a successful movie so he can be a star and just get it over with? "}{"Title":"Where's the climax?","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not much of a movie.  Although I liked the happy ending, the rest of the movie leading up to it was pretty bland.  The trouble Julia/Bonnie got Luis into was never ending.  They kept going on in this miserable state and acting like suicidal lovers.  I would not recommend this movie too highly. It was entertaining on some levels, but mostly it was an over-dramatized romance with no REAL plot. "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent Acting Spoils A Pretty Good Story","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The setting was unique and rife with possibilities.  The script was workmanlike and intriguing.  If only the director had done his job.There is shot after shot after shot of Jolie's puffy lips, dark eyes and tidy breasts, and Bandera's admittedly attractive derriere.  But the story got left behind under mountains of adequately, but unprovacatively photographed skin.   It was actually fascinating to see how non-sexual two such beautiful bodies could be together. What a pity.  These actors have proven their ability any number of times.  If they'd been told to do their job this might have been a suspenseful lovers-on-the-run movie.Thomas Jane was unconvincing as the sadistic, bullying heavy---a major casting error, but not the death of the movie.  That was handled by the director. "},{"Title":"Jesus hates this movie!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Roll out Antonio Banderas!!! Roll out Angelina Jolie!!!!!! What the hell do you got in that bag?!?! Hey Antonio where'd you get that naked chef in yo kitchen fixing you three course meals? Where'd you get that diamond in your mouth......and house! Ludacris says this movie sucks huge wee wee of the third kind! 2/10   "},{"Title":"not one of the best banderas and jolie movies, but its a better ones.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  first of all, i'd like to say, the reason why i watch this movie, 95% because im a big big fan of angelina jolie, ive watched 14 movies of hers and i wouldnt wanna miss out on this one, and the other 5 %, because the release of this particular movie has been postponed for alot of time. If you want to see the most beautiful women of the new generation (lets not talk marylin monroe, audry hepburn,and sophia loren here), watch this movie, angelina jolie is better looking than ever! she is looking absolutely stunning with or without dress in the movie, great acting as well, even though she is the female fatale in the movie, but shes not using any sorts of violence on banderas nor any of the other characters, infact, her manners, her love, her slickyness slightly p***es me off, all the while i wanting to shout  get rid of her Banderas! shes poisonous! dont trust her! yet u find that shes so irresistable, u want to love her no matter how much she screwed up.banderas sucessfully potrays the character of luis, a loveable husband, a person who goes weak when it comes to loving julia/bonnie, a person who would do anything for love.i'd say if ure up for a smooth , quiet friday night, check this movie out, watch it properly and catch every single word, you will love it. "},{"Title":"Standard good commercial film","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In the way back home from Caracas to Milan this christmas time I saw on the plane this film which honestly my major interest was initially on the acting, and not only, of Angelina Jolie. At the end the film is a non standard love story, with some pieces of mystery and a sort magic realism coming from the Mexican dusty environment. Antonio Banderas plays a standard role of abandoned lover by a femme fatal of Angelina Jolie, but things change and the end is quite interesting. Is a good commercial film which could be easily seen in VHS/DVD or TV.Rating 5/10  "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's not a deep and stunnin movie. but I like it. if you ask me why did I,I'm not sure why .  for the beauty of Angelina Jolie? no, not just for this, she plays quite well indeed.   for banderas? absolutely not.  A. banderas also is not one of my favorite but he plays the desperate lover very well.as you see,  cast is good, story is nice, photography and the places are well designed and shown. as I said in the beggining it's not stunnin' movie but it satisfies.  PS I like the this is not a love story but its about love sentence. it explains the movie very well. "},{"Title":"highly watchable adaptation of a forgettable two-dollar paperback","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When the gang at MGM saw the finished print of Michael Cristofer's Original Sin, they may well have been so disturbed by what they saw for their 26 million dollars that they suspended the release of the film for a whole year. Their trepidation would have been less than paranoid -- seldom in the United States has there been a film so unanimously and entertainingly battered by the critics. While the bulk of their boastings were hilarious to read almost all of them noted that Waltz Into Darkness, Cornell Woolrich's 1947 novel on which the film is based, was much more delicately represented in Francois Truffaut's 1969 film Mississippi Mermaid.Frankly, to compare the two is a bit like comparing Fellini's Romeo and Juliet to Baz Luhrmann's -- different approaches, different reasons for existing and, most importantly, different generations of audience, with very different expectations as to what makes a film swing. I enjoyed the hell out of Original Sin, mostly because I'm simply not convinced Michael Cristofer didn't receive the howls of outrage and laughter with a kinky sense of satisfaction.Original Sin is set in Cuba in the 19th century, where Luis Varga (Antonio Banderas), a rich Cuban entrepreneur, is pleased but perplexed when the American woman he's been corresponding with, and who's just arrived to marry him, isn't the plain Julia Russell whose photo he'd received, but instead the gorgeous and seductive Angelina Jolie. He believes her story about not wanting him to have been interested in her for her looks alone, and they quickly wed. Cracks appear immediately in the more than satisfactory scene Luis finds in his lap; a letter from Julia's sister complaining that Julia hasn't written, then a private detective, Walter Downs (Thomas Jane) appears looking for her. By this point, Luis has begun to notice strange anomalies regarding his own luscious-lipped Julia. She never bothers to unpack her trunk -- always a disturbing sign early in a relationship. She seems to rather like coffee, despite having once written him that she hated the stuff. Most worrying of all, Julia has an unhealthy interest in the Mephisto of a travelling theatrical troupe. Luis begins to follow her as she wanders through the streets and ducks around corners. From there the plot enters twist after turn until finally contorting into a structure that would have amazed M.C. Escher, and I haven't seen an audience react with such howls of cheesy delight since Jeremiah S. Chechik's overblown 1996 cliffhanger, Diabolique.That Original Sin curves to the melodramatically outrageous should not come as a surprise to fans of pulp American post-war romance (which is, in fact, all Waltz Into Darkness ever was). Nor should it come as a particular shock to anyone who sits through the first half-hour of Original Sin, during which Michael Cristofer furnishes us with visions of how far he is prepared to go in the name of entertainment. Opulent scenes of a corrupted Cuban paradise abound, with all the burlesque and choreographed decadence of Luhrmann's Paris or Fellini's Vienna aristocratic cloth billows in slow motion as children beetle through streets festooned with transvestites. And all through the eye of a lens that sweeps in a contemplative, panoramic arc. It's a bit much, no doubt about it, but I suspect there's a tongue in a cheek behind that lens -- the dolly slides just that little bit slower than that of the humourless Europeans who've been moving festival snobs to standing ovations for years. In any case, it's fun to watch. We don't have these big screens just for Taco Bell commercials.So now to the sex, the stuff that earned Original Sin it's R rating and where Cristofer's over-the-top attention to styling becomes a spectacle indeed.As a director, Cristofer has been stalking Angelina Jolie for years. He made no bones about his fascination with her various features in 1999's Gia, and in Original Sin he's all over her like a pox. Her body is the plot pivot, and we see so many lingering close-ups of those incredible lips of hers its a wonder they didn't get a billing of their own. If Cameron Mannheim had been cast as Julia this would have been a grave mistake. With Jolie, it's a gift to the audience -- her dental airbags are a work of art.Most of the sex is either styles, sweltering nudity (Jolie and Banderas both) or implied (finger sucked in close up, wandering hands all atremble) but, when it becomes full-blown bedroom stuff, Cristofer uses everything at his disposal to make the lengthy experience swallow us whole. It's basically a foursome with a camera and boom mic (one reviewer referred to Banderas and Jolie's loud and passionate kissing sounding like a couple of preschoolers woofing down greasy hamburgers) and it's really a credit to the stars that they didn't either burst out laughing or worse (if Billy Bob Thornton has a temper at all, Banderas would no longer be with us, I'm sure). At one point, Jolie and Banderas strike a passionate position that I don't believe is quite possible (although I'll get back to you on that). Once again, it's all very syrupy, slippery arthouse stuff but I doubt anyone really wants to see trains going into tunnels or chimneys collapsing backwards these days and, if it's raw grit you want, check out the Canberra video circuit.Film critics come over all troubled when filmmakers mess with novels, which is pretty rich when the novel in question is a forgettable two-dollar paperback. They also come over all pious when a film made in the name of fun does not respect historical and geographical context, particularly when you're talking about Cuba, knowledge of which is surely the most smarmy medal on the name-dropping leftist's lapel. I suppose if aliens ever do come to Earth, films like Star Wars will have their film critics steaming inside their alfoil skivvies.Basically, Original Sin is a bad film to see if you are interested in matters such as fidelity to the novel, or whether Cuba is portrayed with the historical accuracy of a Mikheil Kalatozishvili flick. If you're into Jolie (as all men and most women are) or Banderas (as some men and some women are) and films so escapist they make you laugh out loud at the sheer absurdity of it all, Original Sin is a great night out.As a first date, I believe it might be unbeatable. "},{"Title":"some nice scenes with boring parts","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I went to Original Sin for one shallow reason, I wished to see boobs on the big screen, and not just any boobs, but the breasts of Tomb Raider's own Angelina Jolie. Call my original sin oogling or something, but not coveting my neighbors wife, as Billy Bob Thornton doesn't live near me.I went having seen about one commercial for this movie, and the lack of advertising showed. I believe there were six other people in the entire theater that Saturday night. This is not a good sign for a movie on its opening weekend. Original Sin stars the aforementioned Mrs. Billy Bob Thornton, and Antonio Banderas. Who, I have concluded is perhaps one of the luckiest actors in film today, he has romped about with Salma Hayek, (in Desperado) and now Angelina Jolie. The Story  Cuban rich guy, Luis (Antonio) corresponds for a while with a woman in America, she decides to come down to Cuba and they will get married. Angelina, as Julia shows up as the woman, a woman who doesn't match the description or picture of the woman he had been writing to. The reason I didn't want you to love me for a pretty face. Shortly thereafter Luis begins noticing inconsistencies in what he knows of her from her letters, and her actions. Is this really Julia? Things begin to get stranger when Julia refuses to write to her sister back in the states. Julia's love for the theater is immediately apparent, and so might be some telling signs of infidelity. Luis great sex is about to end when a man claiming to be a private investigator shows up and wants to see Julia. Mr. Private Investigator, Billy, is an evil man, and I cheered for his death. Luis, blinded by the great sex, (as we men are prone to) stupidly goes and puts Julia's name on all his bank accounts. Julia disappears, leaving Luis with about $65. Gee, Didn't see that coming did you?  Luis decides he is going to devote himself to hunting her down and killing her, then the story takes some interesting twists and turns, and we find out that Julia isn't really the bad girl at all, she's totally controlled by someone else. We feel for Jolie's character, that's for sure.Luis genuinely loves Julia, and it would seem that the controlled Julia honestly has fallen in love with Luis. So, how can they be together when Julia is ordered to kill Luis? You'll have to see the movie to find out, I won't give it all away.Instead, I shall discuss the scenes.  The scenery, the story set in Cuba has great sets, there are numerous elaborate looking houses, all set to a period long ago. The place sure looks like it would be nice. Of course, it's only in the movies.SEX!  Umm, the sex scenes I mean.  OK, so we get to see Angelina's Boobs, they aren't all bouncing all over the place, instead we get some tastefully done love scenes between her and Antonio. Guys will have to endure seeing Antonio's butt in order to see Angelina's boobs, not a bad trade off. But, this wasn't a film which left me needing to go home and change my underwear.  The number of nudey scenes aren't even that many, and this isn't terribly disappointing. I had expected some big time erotic thriller story, but instead, was left with more of a love story with some sex and killings thrown in. How about that acting?  Seemed awful good to me. What I did find nice was how this film is narrated at points by Angelina's character while she is telling a priest her story as she waits to be executed in Jail. You are left to wonder throughout most of the film, OK, what did she do? Who does she kill? How did she get caught? It is my opinion that the narration and the incarceration helped the film, rather than took away from it. It kept the audience with questions.Most of these things will be answered. We don't know exactly why she is thrown in jail to be executed, but it could be one of a few things. We also must assume she is caught when trying to save the one she loves. Finally putting her love of someone above what she has been forced to do for so long, and her own self preservation. Antonio plays the left behind lover filled with rage very well, and we see the internal strife he must combat when he finally catches up with Julia, does he love her enough to not kill her? Of course. Does he want her back? Of course. Shortly after catching up with her, there is a GREAT scene where he answers the door. Well worth not spoiling it by giving it away.The Private Investigator or Billy  He is convincing to Luis as someone who is there to help him, but really has ulterior motives. He is evil, he needs to die, and needs to die a slow painful death. See, he had that kind of effect on me, therefore, his performance was very well done. God, I really love Angelina Jolie's lips, don't you think she can do a real good you know what? I'm sure she swallow everything.The implied gang rape.  Sure, it isn't shown, and that's a good thing. But I abhor rape, and found it not necessary to the story in the least bit. The Cutting.  Julia/Bonnie has some scars on her back. We even see another line added to her four scars, but we don't really know what the point of them is. If it is a way of keeping track of how many men she's seduced and stolen their money, it sure seems stupid. Finally.....  I would say that Original Sin will come and go from the theater in another week or so do to terrible marketing, and judging by the size of the audience, terrible ticket sales. This is to bad, Original Sin is a decent film which would better fit in the winter film line up.Oh, and one more thing.  It is just amusing to hear how often who-res are brought up in the film. Someone even tells Luis to just go get a good who-re and everything will be better.   "},{"Title":"Get Your Nude Jolies Here.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoilers For those of you who are prepared to spend the price of admission just to see Angelina Jolie's breasts and Antonio Banderas' butt, this is the film for you. If nudity offends you, or you like to `get your kicks above the waistline' (with thanks to Murray Head), give Original Sin a wide berth. No matter what the serpents may tell you, the worms in this apple are not a value-added source of protein. Directed by Michael Cristofer, who brought Angelina Jolie to the world's attention with Gia, this is a ham-fisted attempt at an erotic thriller with film noir pretensions that falls well short of the mark. Based on a novel by pulp fiction writer Cornell Woolrich (who also gave rise to Hitchcock's Rear Window), Original Sin is simply trash with a highly paid cast and the odd bit of nice cinematography. Luis Antonio Vargas (Banderas) is a Cuban in the coffee trade, who has decided that it is time to take a wife. Uninterested in affairs of the heart, he places an advertisement in an American newspaper, thus contacting a young, plain, Christian girl named Julia Russell, who agrees to travel to Cuba and become his wife. Waiting at the dock, Vargas is surprised when he is approached by a beautiful young woman who claims to be Julia (Jolie). Julia admits to having misled Luis, sending the photo of a much plainer woman, so that she could be assured that he was truly interested in marriage, and not just a (very) pretty face. Somewhat taken aback, Luis admits that he has also lied &#150; he is not a clerk for a coffee company, he actually is a part owner &#150; he wanted to be sure that her intentions were not monetary. Before the shock fully subsides, the couple rush off to be married immediately, and the businesslike Luis quickly finds himself falling headlong into love and lust with his new bride. For those of you who need to have it spelt out, this is the part of the story where they &#145;get it on' with a series of shots and close-ups that are (believe it or not) overlong and overtly revealing. If this is what you paid for, you'll certainly get your money's worth, with a series of revealing images of the beautiful pair in various states of post-coital bliss. Unfortunately, there's still about 90 minutes of the film left to go. You may want to walk out now. Of course, all is not well in this paradise, and Cristofer leaves clues and foreboding signs across the next 15 minutes like banana skins at a Clown's Convention. Luis couldn't be happier, until people begin to start asking questions and he wakes one day to find that his wife has cleared their joint accounts and done a runner. Still hopelessly in love, Luis decides to track her down with the help of a private investigator employed by the &#145;real' Julia's sister. At this point, Banderas runs through the rest of the script with a big &#145;Kick Me&#133; Again' sign taped to his back. Angelina Jolie gives a pretty good account of herself in this villainous, femme fatale role, adding a certain amount of haughty spite and vitriol to the talents that puberty blessed her with. However, neither she nor Banderas has the charisma to pull themselves from the quagmire of this sorry, sordid tale. There is one scene, quite early on in the film, in which Luis and Julia head off to the theatre to see a touring American theatre company presenting (without much subtlety) Faust. They are accompanied by Luis' business partner and his wife, who describes the production as cheap melodrama. Julia, obviously thrilled with the production (for reasons that become apparent later) retorts that she likes cheap melodrama. While the director may have meant this as a dig at the critics, all he really did was write Original Sin's review for them. By all accounts, this film has bombed miserably in the U.S. and given the costs of period drama, it is unlikely to have recouped its expenses. Plastic surgeons, on the other hand, probably made a packet from the extensively altered Melanie Griffiths after she saw her hubby getting his on-screen Jolies.  Yes, it's a cheap shot &#150; but it's a cheap film. SABIAN WILDE.  "},{"Title":"Original ending","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have seen some comments on this movie and realized that many people didn't like it at all, especially the ending. But it has certainly been a good one, although it wasn't that understandable. Angelina Jolie was amazing as Julia Russel and Bonnie Castle. This woman really knows how to act. What an excellent actress!!. She is beautiful as well as clever. As for Antonio Banderas, he was outstanding and dashing to play Luis Vargas. Original sin has a very good cast; However the plot wasn't as great as I thought it was going to be. Many odd things happen over the course of the story, that's why many people didn't like it.  Nevertheless look at the scenery, costumes and musical score, they are very flashy. I never thought Hollywood producers could have made a film like this in Spanish countries like Cuba. It's extremely interesting and highly recommended by me. It's important that people learn a little bit of other countries like Cuba, Mexico, etc. Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas made it worth watching, especially Angelina since she got an academy award for best actress in a leading role in Girl interrupted. She showed us her wonderful talent.The story is about a rich man Luis Vargas who wants to get married to an honest woman. He meets a mysterious American woman Julia Russell (whose true name is Bonnie Castle). He marries her, but Luis's marriage does not bring him the happiness he so desires. His headstrong love for her proves no match against her manipulations and deceives. Julia is always lying to him; however she finally falls in love with him because she realizes that Luis is absolutely in love with her even if she is a duplicitous person. Many things can happen at the ending. It depends on you to be either amazed or disappointed. I was kind of both things. I was amazed as well as disappointed, but I can really say that it was a very different love story that had the weirdest and happy original ending. 8/10   "}{"Title":"I thought it was good.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am confused as to how I can like this movie so much and everyone else that I know hates it.  I am a fan of Angelina Jolie.  I never was to big on Banderas.  I thought Tomb Raider was the worst movie Jolie has ever done.  So I went in with high hopes. Up until the argument scene between Jolie and Banderas in her room after she left him, I thought I was in for a bad film.  But it was that scene caught my attention and made me sit up and watch the rest of the film thinking it was extremely good.  Extremely good acting in the film.  And very good character development and change.  Drama. I've seen it twice now.  Maybe the first half isn't very good or its supposed to be like that.  But overall I was touched by this film and story and connected with it. I recomend a second look.  Or a first.  "},{"Title":"Very Sexy, but disappointing","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When i first saw the preview for original sin, in movies theatres sometime in July, i was excited, because  a film actually looked good for once this year, and My favortie actress Angelina Jolie was in it... but i didn't get what i was looking for.The film stars people like Antonio Bandereas and Thomas jane, and is directed by Michael Cristofer, the same man who directed The wonderful Gia with Angelina Jolie in that as well. When i heard that Michael was directing this film i thought right away this is going to be a good movie... and once again i was wrong. Antonio Bandereas and the always fabulous Angelina Jolie both deliver good performances and the film was also very sexy... but it ruins the good story at the end with the whole deal with Ms. Jolie. And what is even more disturbing to me is that in the film Angelina has an english accent... but she is from Delaware. Thar just didn't make sense. But it was a decent film, the best part of the film was everytime Angelina was on the screen. (j/k)I give it ** stars out of ***** stars.  "},{"Title":"Great drama, but 10 minutes too long...","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Truly a great movie. The story is compelling, the acting superb, the music - almost to die for. The camerawork is strange and jumpy at times, which I found rather distracting, and the same goes for the pieces of soft porn thrown in, but the atmosphere of the movie is just perfect.As the movie progressed, the plot gripped me, and pulled me right into the movie. I was in total awe as a great, almost unprecedented dramatic ending unfolded. And when the end came, I thought this is the best movie this yearBut even though the end had come, and gone, the movie went on. What should have been an awesome dramatic ending was lurched 180° around towards what can only be described as a Hollywoodesque happy end. As if somebody had quite literally glued that ending onto the movie after it was already finished.I was left feeling completely disoriented, and even moreso, disappointed. What could have been a solid 9, turned to a meagre 6 in the last 10 minutes.My advice Walk out. 10 minutes before the end. "},{"Title":"You must have something better to do than watch this.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I had reasonable expectations of this film with the Woolrich source, the lead actors and the Cuban period setting. What I saw was an awful film with some very banal dialogue and affected performances from Jolie and Jane (sounds like a new double act). Angelina Jolie is certainly a good actress as witnessed by 'Girl, Interrupted' and can play a plausible seductress as in 'Pushing Tin' but here she is simply unbelievable as someone who can manipulate men without effort or conscience. She and Thomas Jane seem to play their parts from the view of what they think the audience expects, so that they are performing parts and not acting at all. Antonio Bandaras is the only one of the main parts who shows a naturalism and it is a shame to see Jack Thompson wasted in a small and unimportant role. The basic story is interesting and certainly the sets, costumes and music lend the film good production values. Oh and as for the card sharping I've seen children cheat with more conviction and skill !    "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Ok first I have to explain why I loved that movie and I rated it 8/10,maybe because I am sick of those movie where the girl cheat theguy, and we know it since the beginning because of the previewsand because it is obvious...  but in this one I think they bring it in avery nice way, of course we know it but it is because Bonnie istelling us her story, so we don't miss the punch of the end likewhen we know that the actress is the bad girl since the start andthey will reveal it as the final plot.  Ok the major points about thatmovie 1. The music was very nice, old Latin and Cuban song that fitsexactly with the scenes. 2.  The costumes were very beautiful, Angelina's dresses werestunning. 3.  The picture and the location were it was film was terrific. 4.  The performance of the actors were very nice, Angelina amazedme one more time. 5.  The story and the ending was great, I never expected that lastmoment of the film...  and it was very nice... I don't really like happyending but that was a well done happy one. So guys go see that if you are a fan of Angelina, she is absolutelygreat and very sexy in that movie.  Girls, see it!  It is a very nice storyabout love and not a love story!Only thing that I might say I didn't like was the Spanish accent ofBanderas when he spoke even in only just little lines, It is far to bea Cuban accent, so I kind of lost my fate in the character at thatpoint, he should a practice the Cuban accent a little... (LikeAngelina for Tomb Raider, she had a good accent, to bad moviewas bad!!!)  "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie Superstar","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original sin has some very good moments but almost all of them are Angelina Jolie. She is more sexy than Marilyn Monroe, shockingly beautiful and also has tremendous acting ability.  This movie dies whenever she is not in it.  It is worth it just to see her handling of the role.  The film itself seems to be Hitchcock like at moments and is interesting to watch but at moments degenerates.  Unfortunately as it progresses it all seems so pointless.  The film almost turns to comedy near the end and the end for me was a real failure and flop.Antonio Banduras was also excellent in his role and their acting elevated this film which would not be worth watching without Banduras and Jolie.  Angelina Jolie seems like such a nice, sincere, and honest person that it would be nice to see her in some roles that reflect her instead of a continuing string of neurotic roles.  I know she mentioned she want to play more action roles which would be fine also.  But she should also be given some roles in which she could show her abilities in which I am sure she could eventually take home the Oscar beyond the one she recently got for Best Supporting Actress.   "},{"Title":"strongly acted, overcoming a weak script","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Some of the dialogue is predictable and even corny. Unlike most flawed dramas, this movie is actually better in the second half, when interesting plot twists occur. Antonio Bandaras makes his character three dimensional. Angelina Jolie is given less to work with, and we never quite understand her character. No matter, she is a gem. Worth seeing twice. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This 'Original Sin' Movie was an unpredictable plot about love.   It casted the sly Angelina Jolie as Julia Russell, and lovesick Antonio Banderas as Luis Vargas.   You never knew what Russell had up her sleeve.   Jolie will make you hang on the edge of your seat.   This film was also riveting with suspense.   In conclusion, I recommend this film to anyone who likes suspenseful love stories. "},{"Title":"Passionate, engrossing, powerful","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The acting was superb. Banderas is at his best, commanding our sympathies, and Jolie is as versatile as she is complex. The motivations  were strong, except for one fairly big one, but I so enjoyed this film I'll let that one slide. Even if one could argue that certain plot sequences were predictable, I didn't care. I still was intrigued at how the mains' emotions would show up on screen. The cinematography was captivating as well. "},{"Title":"Very sensitive acting, clever plot, important theme, and lush photography","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Angelina Jolie has this way of looking at you that assures you you are seeing through an entirely transparent woman. Her wide eyes, at-ease stare, evincing no effort to judge, suggest you just look at her and there's nothing more to know.The character she plays is somewhat less than this, and that is too sad. But then, there are women who, raised in poverty, were required to learn con games.  And, so, Jolie has been chosen to portray them.  Personally, I'd rather meet the Jolie outside of this movie.As it has been so far no Jolie, only movie.PLOT SPOILERThe plot is written from humor, one must understand that.  Probably no one ever puts out an ad for love claiming to be much poorer than they are! ...The theme of the movie is in favor of love, which is agreeable enough for a theme.  You don't walk away from love, says the Banderas character often. The story illustrates this by two men who both believe they are in love with this woman and are not willing to get over her.  The illustration places this moral in doubt.  You would wish you would be able to walk away from a woman who is no longer interested in you or your deal (Thomas Jane) or who has schemed against and stolen from you (Antonio Banderas).On a background of pleasing scenery and architecture and gratifying sexual endeavors, the movie's glib humor comes with ease.I wouldn't bother reading reviews.  Just go see the movie from ... caprice. "}{"Title":"Good except for the ending","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Overall was an OK movie but the ending was a little poor.  It was interesting and building story until the end it just got wrapped up too quickly.  I think this movie would have been better if the ending was different.  In particular I think they tried to hard to have a happy ending. It could have been a very good movie but the ending kind of harms the overall movie.  I'd give this a score of 6 out of 10 (would have been a 7 if the ending were better). "},{"Title":"More exciting that you'd think.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Aside from all the sex and scandal, I was fascinated by the story, it was not what I expected.  I think that Angelina Jolie is great for the part, and no one could have played Julia Russel better than she did.  I thought that the movie was full of surprises, you definitely won't be bored whether you like it or not. "},{"Title":"I wanted to leave, then I liked it, then I wanted to leave again...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  With much trepidation I ventured to go see Original Sin.  It was with hesitation and angst because I really didn't think there was much to look forward to in the film.  The trailers didn't make it look overly appealing and to be honest I really didn't hear much from the stars in the promotion department.  But, today it is about 45 degrees here in Toronto ( that is about 110 for our metrically challenged American friends ) and even though I had pretty much seen everything else, the idea of spending 2 hours in an air conditioned theater and only paying six dollars to see the film, appealed to me.  So I did.  And to be honest, I can't decide if it is a film that I enjoyed or I despised or if it is somewhere in between.  There were times when I was mildly interested, times when I was emotionally involved and there were many times when I was completely apathetic to it.  So what do I say about a film that makes me feel so much yet so little.  Well it was better than many of the teen gross out comedies that have come out in the past few years and not as good as almost every other film I have seen.  So that means it rates around a 6 out of 10.Spoilers ahead!The film is about deceit and how love can blind you and make you do silly and/or stupid things.  Antonio Banderas has it all at the beginning of this film.  He is a handsome man that enjoys the fruits of his coffee business and he is now looking forward to meeting his new bride that he sent away for from the U.S. ( leave it up to those damn Americans to ruin everything ).  What was puzzling was why Jolie has a British accent if she was from Delaware or Maryland or wherever.  But no matter.  Jolie is that bride and when asked why she replied to newspaper about a Cuban that wanted a woman to marry and bear children, she replies that she is looking to forget the past and start a new future.  So they move on and get married that same day. The beginning of the film moves along at a snails pace.  For the first half an hour, nothing happened.  They met, they married, they had sex, in which we get to see lots of Jolie and her ample bosom, but it was actually quite boring.  Then something wonderful happens.  We find out that Jolie is not who she says she is and she has taken all of his money and left him, penniless and heart broken.  Now I was intrigued and for the next half an hour we get to see the deception involved.  Banderas goes to Havana to find her with the help of a detective from the U.S. and low and behold, he finds her in Havana.  They make up and then get back together and then the real deceit begins.Original Sin is good when there are elements of surprise flanking the story but incredibly mundane when they are telling the rest of the tale.  There are two many shots of Jolies' lips and to agree with some of the other reviewers in here, the editting in the film was bothersome and annoying.  I don't know why they would edit it that way except to think that they did it because it is like they were editting it the way someone tells a story, with deliberate breaks and rebeginnings.  Sort of like... and then she did this  and then he came to her and so on.  But the editting process was not at all done properly and no matter what effect they were going for, it failed miserably.Finally we get to the end where it makes the film sort of misunderstood, at least by me.  I couldn't understand what they were trying to tell the audience, and they were clearly talking to the audience as they looked straight into the camera and told their tale.  It reminded me a bit of The Usual Suspects in the sense that you are wondering if this was a story all told from the two leads point of view, therefore never knowing what was real and what was a fabrication.Original Sin is not a terrible film, it isn't a great film.  It is a little murky and if that is what they were going for then they succeeded beautifully.  I wouldn't want to see it again, even though there are many unanswered questions.  It was just too... strange.6 out of 10--  Not something you want to spend your money on in the summer time.  Bring on American Pie 2!! "},{"Title":"Another movie where Antonio gets kiss by a man","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin (2001)Antonio Banderas as Luis Vargas   Angelina Jolie as Julia Russel(No true spoilers, anything revealed was revealed in the movie trailers)Rich man Luis (Antonio Banderas) sends for a mail order bride and Angelina Jolie as Julia Russel shows up.  Is she or isn't she the real Julia Russel? Well if you've seen the previews you know the answer to that.This is a story about murder and deceit for the purpose of financial gain and it's a love story; correction, it's a story about love, according to the narration.  Actually to call this love would be stretching it, it's more a story of obsessionThis movie has a lot of twists and turns and is surprisingly unsuspenseful.  Antonio and Angelina are quite seductive and it's not hard to imagine them being attracted to each other, but love?  How do they fall in love with each other?  Do they have common goals?  An understanding of who each other is deep down?  Why they should fall so deeply in love with each other is not shown.  I've read criticisms of the nude love scenes in this movie and unless you are the type of prude who gets upset at the sight of naked cats and dogs which roam the streets and are unable to order chicken breasts in a fast food place because it sounds naughty, you won't find it offensive.How far would he go for her?  Would he kill for her?  Is she gonna kill him?  These issues are explored in the movie and the story is good but unfortunately it is executed in a way as to be very dull.  "},{"Title":"one of this summer's guilty pleasures...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ***1/2 out of ***** starsImagine the typical cheap romance novel that you used to pick up (or still do?) at the local `Five & Dime' or K-Mart. It had melodrama. It had exotic places. It had SEX. You enjoyed it, because it took you to another place, but deep inside you knew that it was no more than so much fluff to pass the time. Now imagine making a movie out of one of these novels. Not high art, and it wasn't meant to be. But you might be intrigued enough, despite yourself, to check it out. Now, imagine the same adapted novel, with the star power of an Angelina Jolie and an Antonio Banderas. Now you want to go, don't you? And you don't care that the plot might be implausible, that the stuffier critics are thumbing their noses, and that the Academy is not impressed. So what? If `Original Sin' is a mere cinematic diversion, it is at least an entertaining diversion. And more than a small amount of credit for this should go to its headliners, Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie, who may go down in cinematic history as the unlikeliest pair to make use of a mail-order bride service. Luis Antonio Vargas (Banderas, suave as always), who is looking more for a bearer of his children than romance, is pleasantly surprised that his betrothed is much more fetching in person than the photo that he is carrying. Julia Russell (Jolie, demure one moment and sensual the next), in turn, is mildly taken aback that her husband-to-be is a wealthy part owner of a coffee bean plantation. Needless to say, a relationship built on misinformation and/or deception before it is even begun will not be without its share of&#133;difficulties. What soon follows this initial meeting and subsequent marital bliss is a series of incidents & acts of mistrust, double-cross, & complicity that one would expect to read in pulp fiction novels. Added to the mix is Walter Downs (Thomas Jane), an enigma with a ridiculous moustache who is introduced as a private investigator. He gives the faintest impression that there is more to him than meets the eye, yet his ulterior motives (if any) are unclear. Add these ingredients, the exotic locales, and the undeniable appeal of the lead actors, and you get something less than high art but more than the sum of its parts. Jolie is so mesmerizing and Banderas so charismatic, you'll just want to sit back & enjoy one of this summer's guilty pleasures. You do want to see it, don't you?  "},{"Title":"I just bought a hat!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  ..Spoliers..funniest unintentional American comedy since Bram Stoker's Dracula. the entire opening weekend audience i saw it with was rolling on the floor.some of the fifty cent lines in this thing rival Bad Girls' poor Mary Stuart Masterson asking We sold our bodies, why can't we sell some wood?At one point, an hysterical Antonio, announces, after shooting a man, I've just killed a man! in case we were too busy laughing at previous melodrama to notice & to which Just call me Angie responds, Well, I just bought a hat, but I'm not dwelling on it. I don't walk around thinking I just bought a hat! I just bought a hat!go see it when you're feeling sad.  "},{"Title":"Not much good, really.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This seemed, from the trailer, to be the only interesting thing on in the cinema. In fact, there was nothing interesting on in the cinema.First, the idea is not original. Quite apart from the previous adaptations of the source book (none of which I've seen), there's Sommersby (itself a remake), The Talented Mr Ripley, and possibly many others. I'm not saying the plots are identical, but where this one splits off is in its slavish attention to banality and predictability.The principal catchphrase from the film, uttered three or four times by Jolie, declares that this is not a love story, but a story about love. Such a statement does not excuse the total lack of chemistry between the leads - the only one who really seems emotionally involved is Thomas Jane.On the plus side, the sets are occasionally gorgeous, and the editing not so bad as some previous commentators have suggested (mostly a question of style than skill, though the style seems misplaced). And if you're *really* into Jolie, yes, you *do* get to see a lot of her. Whoop-dee-do. "},{"Title":"Expected Better","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Ok, this was a pretty decent film...but what was up with the editing? Did anyone notice how choppy the editing was? I mean, I'm sure they meant to do that, but it was very weird. Otherwise, it was kind of hard to follow, but still very predictable. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Give me my sin again...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As the title implies, Original Sin is full of deceptions.  Though many of the plot twists are predictable, the films is beautifully shot and well acted.  I especially enjoyed the frequent panoramic shots, displaying Cuba as it might have been.  If it was ever as idyllic as shown is not for me to know, but I was satisfied with the scenery I was presented by the screen.  Jolie is beautiful as usual, and she plays well with Antonio Banderas.  While the story starts kind of slow, there is enough foreshadowing to keep an observant viewer happy.  There is a lot of sexual content, and I fear many people will let their puritanical nature prejudice them towards the rest of the film because of it.  I wasn't bothered.  The acts performed by Jolie's character are extremely atypical for a supposedly innocent lady, but they would only be gratuitous if they were not within the bounds of her character--which has no bounds.  The powerful emotional outbursts which occur never seem forced, showing perhaps Baderas' and Jolie's skill at the craft.  I can't wait to see it a second time to see what I missed the first. "},{"Title":"To be Original is not a Sin","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have found if you go into a movie with a certain kind of expectation, no matter how hard you try, you will either be let down or you will be delightfully surprised. I went in with no expectation at all, and by the end of the flick I have to say I was shocked. Granted, the editing was a little weird and a few things were left unsaid but thats what makes a film unique. If they all were the same word for word style of film, then it would get really boring. I have this bad habit of trying to figure out suspense movies though and I thought I had this ones number, but I guess it had mine because I was thrown for a loop a number of times. Eventually, I caught on, but I would honestly say this was an interesting movie. A little more naked bodies than I care to see in a days time, but I'd see this again.  "}{"Title":"A yawn-o-rama","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm very disappointed with this movie.  Two good actors wasted in such a big yawn-o-rama.  The love scenes look like bad soft-porn where there's no chemical between the 2 actors.  They're irrelevent to the story line anyway. I'd give it a 4/10.  I wonder if anyone notices that this movie is a RIP-OFF of much better Francois Truffaut's La Sirene du Mississipi (1969), starring Catherine Deneuve and Jean-Paul Belmondo.  Both movies were based on the same novel Waltz Into Darkness by William Irish.  Truffaut was already ahead of his time and did an excellent job of having brought this story to the big screen. "},{"Title":"What a yawn-o-rama","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Very disappointing!!  It's a sin to spend money to go see this movie.  It's so sad to see 2 great actors wasted in this yawn-o-rama.  The love scenes are irrelevant to the story line and look like bad soft-porn where there's no chemical between the 2 actors. I'd give this movie a 4/10.I also wonder if anyone has noticed that the original sin here is also that the movie is a RIP-OFF of Francois Truffaut's La Sirene du Mississipi (1969), starring Catherine Deneuve and Jean-Paul Belmondo.  Both movies are based on the same novel by William Irish Waltz Into Darkness.  Truffaut was so ahead of his time and already did such a beautiful job bringing this story to the big screen.  "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is one thing that I have to make clear from the beginning I'm not a fan of either Banderas or Jolie. But you don't have to be their fan to like this movie. It has a great plot (I would really like to read the novel it is based on), great performances and really good direction.  Plus, 19th century Cuba looks quite fascinating. The story is about a rich Cuban, Luis (Banderas, obviously) that is set on marrying an american woman.  He posts an add on a Boston (I think) newspaper, and he finally finds the bride of his dreams Miss Julia Russel, a not very pretty but young and strong woman that will give him an heir. But when Julia arrives, it is non other but Angelina Jolie, not quite like the picture Luis has of his bride to be. With this intriguing start, the plot gets thicker and thicker as love and passion, as well as treason, lie and crime come into the game, so you can never get bored.  The characters' acts seem a little unbelievable sometimes, but the tagline is how far would you go for love, so be prepared. And in spite of what many people said about the ending, I personally liked it - it was almost exactly what I wanted to see. I give it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Some editing problems, but great acting saves this one!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Finally, after bombardment with teen flicks and airhead characters we are gifted with an adult movie. This film does have many flaws, most occurring in the editing department, but the story and acting more than compensated for those.  Angelina Jolie was perfect in the role of Julia/Bonnie and Antonio Banderas certainly showed some of the depth from his Spanish films in his portrayal of Luis, a man totally in control of feelings and situations until meeting Julia.  The characters are multi-dimensional and emotionally draw you into their story. There seem to be a range of reviews for this film...evidently, it is one you will love or hate, but definitely decide for yourself.  I think the critics have really missed the mark on this movie! "},{"Title":"A Beautifully done romance","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is NOT a comedy. It is intense, and superbly acted. Beautifully photographed. Intense story. Not a cookie-cutter movie. And the love scenes in this one actually have a purpose -- the joining of the two people, the intertwining of them so that the rest of the story makes sense. Magnificent. "},{"Title":"Thomas Jane steals this movie!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A lame attempt at a Hitchcock film, but Thomas Jane had an interesting part. Antonio was lovely as usual girls, but Thomas Jane is destined for stardom! I fear that some of his best stuff was left on the cutting room floor. There were some things in the story that were left unexplained, so I assume they were edited out. Very sexy movie, I want to see it again.     "},{"Title":"A Weird Story","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The first half of Original Sin is a bore. But the second half of the movie kinda redeems the first half. It's a definate sit-through type movie, you have to be patient. But if I could pick one up side the the first half...Angelina Jolie's bare breasts. Ok, that might sound bad, but it really is the highlight of the first half. And I mean, guys, in all honesty, you wanna see that. She's a super hottie. During the second half of Original Sin, the movie picks up a lot and things start coming together. The end is very good,it sends a good message to those who question their love for someone. So my tip is to just sit through it all. "},{"Title":"seen today","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  i saw the movie today and it was an enjoyable film. no it is not of cannes or academy material, but does every movie have to have some deep meaning. The filming was interesting, the scenery goes with each scene, the actors hard working, sensual; and for a couple of hours you are transported out of yourself. quit looking for fellini or spielberg, go, enjoy,and see it for what it is, a romantic love story.  "},{"Title":"Better than Expected","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I will be honest with you.  I went to see this movie for one reason and that was to see Angelina Jolie naked.  I planned to leave after it was obvious that there would be no more sex.  After the first sex scene I had definitly had my fill of sex, however, I was not ready to go.  There was only slight nudity in the rest of the movie, but I enjoyed it.  Yes it was slow, but I think the critiques were way to hard on this one.  I would go check it out for you.  It has a great story line, it just should have been about 20 minutes shorter. "},{"Title":"ambitious aesthetics, poor plot","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is one sequence in the film, that I liked a lot, because it a  good and enjoyable example for the kinaesthetic movement of the picture. It is the take, when Antonio Banderas is looking for his girlfriend in the brothel by night. The camera chases his look around the quadrangle with a wide-angle shot, that makes you dizzy. There are a few other takes, that impressed me (i.e the wedding), but in general, the film suffers a lot from the predictable story and the disappointing ending.  "}{"Title":"Banderas good, Jolie great!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  With this movie, you think that you can anticipate the end, but it´s yet surprising...The performances are incredibly Jolie shows all her weapons for seduction and also great transitions, amazing! Banderas is so charming and exquisite performance...A little bit slow, but good "},{"Title":"Overall, very impressive","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First of all, i saw this movie in another country, as there are no plans that i know of to release this movie in the UK.  That's appalling as this film is actually very good.  Of course, the fact the Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie are my favorite actors may have sweetened the movie a little, but really, i did enjoy it.  A pretty period piece, yes, but erotic drama is more on the mark.  I guess now we're all familiar with the world not taking to this film but i would recommend it.  Although the script and directing is a little uneven, the leads and their support turn in good performances and give it their all.  The story, although flawed in many places, is simple to follow, although i did find myself thinking 'Well...' half way through. Not perfect, but good nonetheless, Original Sin, although given a stiff rating (Well deserved, definately not for the kids!!!) is a good film.DL "},{"Title":"Could have been an epic romance - it was not - not bad though","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First to say This was one good movie, entertaining and interesting and somehow even exciting. Cast and the core of the story were really not bad....not bad..actually that's, what this movie was. But it could have been really great. It was not because the actors sometimes could not be convincing enough. Actually it was not an actor-problem, but more a screenplay- or director-problem. The adjustment of the original story with a standard hollywood-template simply was too obvious. The atmosphere was not bad, but it was not really continuous. The cuban flair and atmosphere of the setting also could have been brought to the screen in a more intense way. So it lacked the great excitement. But you always can do it better. In fact it was a really romantic, erotic, entertaining and thrilling lovestory (sorry...a story about love ;-)). Compared to the horrible standard crap-romances you could see at the cinemas the last years it was very refreshing. Watch it without great expectations and you will be surprised. 7 Stars!! "},{"Title":"Could have been an epic romance- it wasn't - not bad though","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First to say This was one good movie, entertaining and interesting and somehow even exciting. Cast and the core of the story were really not bad....not bad..actually that's, what this movie was. But it could have been really great. It was not because the actors sometimes could not be convincing enough. Actually it was not an actor-problem, but more a screenplay- or director-problem. The adjustment of the original story with a standard hollywood-template simply was too obvious. The atmosphere was not bad, but it was not really continuous. The cuban flair and atmosphere of the setting also could have been brought to the screen in a more intense way. So it lacked the great excitement. But you always can do it better. In fact it was a really romantic, erotic, entertaining and thrilling lovestory (sorry...a story about love ;-)). Compared to the horrible standard crap-romances you could see at the cinemas the last years it was very refreshing. Watch it without great expectations and you will be surprised. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast - disappointing result","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Louis B Mayer would be spinning in his grave. With a cast headed by Banderas and Angelina I was expecting ORIGINAL SIN to be an emotional drama displayed in the once powerful MGM style- it was a let down.The story had the potential to be dynamically projected but with an over abundance of soft pornography tended to lose its way.An interesting supporting character role was provided by by Jack Thompson.The print viewed tended to drift in and out of focus from scene to scene and the colour was a little muddy, although in some respects this heightened the atmosphere of the late 1800's.The musical score was excellent.The audience was predominantly in the 30 - 50 age group and generally expressed some disappointment and considered that the feature was a little on the long side. "},{"Title":"Exhibition A. Jolie' exuberance","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's based on the novel Waltz Into Darkness, American writer of mystery novels and Cornell Woolrich (1903-1968).In Cuba in the late nineteenth century, a coffee vendor, Luis Vargas (Antonio Banderas), succeeds in business but not in love, so request a mail-order bride service to American marriage.The answer is a woman, Julia Russell (Angelina Jolie), as lovely as mysterious and the result, a relationship marked by secrets, passion, jealousy and deceit.This period crime drama has an erotic exhibition by the leading couple. Given the intensity of the sex scenes between two actors during the U.S. premiere in the press circulated the rumor that had lived a romance during filming.Original sin brings together two stars as Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie in a romantic drama that finally commented erotic scenes were not so. The umpire is the handsome and good actor Thomas Jane. A. Jolie acts well, exuding eroticism and perversity in a character of femme fatale that fits like a glove. She is what saves the result of the film, a certain mediocrity, as the story is weak, A. Flags do not get a convincing performance and feel of the scenes have a nice exotic touch, then straight out of a notice of Colombian coffee. The film entertains the audience. "},{"Title":"a cheap remake","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I just happened to watch this movie on TV. After a few scenes I realized that it was a remake of Truffaut's very entertaining  La Sirene du Mississippi ( 7.1 IMDb rating). Like all of Hollywood's remakes that I have seen so far , this one is just as unsatisfactory ( to say the least )as all the others (The Day of the Jackal, The Manchurian Candidate etc.).All of the reviews I read ( the first 20 or so) were all raving about this in my opinion silly remake. They are too young to know that many , many years ago there were so much better originals( mostly European)which is also expressed by IMDb ratings ( for The Day of the Jackal 7.9 vs. 5.7 and for The Manchurian Candidate 8.4 vs. 6.7 ) "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a wonderful film.  I am a HUGE fan of Angelina Jolie, she is my idol.  There are wonderful actors in it, and I loved the end.  There are some scenes that made me cry.  There are a few sex and nude scenes, but then again, there is in Gia, too.  Angelina is a goddess.  Anyone who didn't like this film is dense. "},{"Title":"better than I thought","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought this one could be a real stinker. I ended up kinda liking it. All right, the sex scenes were ludicrous and the ending is just plain *stoopid*, but I loved the music and the costumes. Poor Antonio Banderas was rather nice, but his character looked quite dumb. Angelina Jolie couldn't save this film but at least she tried to. On the other hand, I really liked the supporting actors Thomas Jane was the only sexy thing in the whole movie as everyone's favourite sadistic bully. His character was loathsome, but there was some strength in Mr Jane's performance, I thought his Billy was the only one who cared about something. All he knew was violence, that's the way he was raised, and he expressed his love with violence. Very compelling performance. And it's always nice to see Jack Thompson he was typecast but he's always a first class actor. "},{"Title":"Good for 30 minutes, then return it.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie had a lot of promise as some sort of exotic drama when it started.  For the first 30 or so minutes, it had the making of a good movie, but then the bottom fell out.  In the end, I hated all the characters and I was sorry that I paid $4 to rent it.  Stick with a better film. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I Love this movie. And this is why. This movie is about Love. What you will do for love. Now the greedy bastard in all of you can't figure out why he bothers with her. This is why. Love True love, the kind you die for. This is why we watch movies. To feel the way this movie makes us feel about love. I know Bonny/Jolie seams like she doesn't deserve his love. But, you have to understand Luis/Banderas doesn't care. He loves her. Bonny doesn't understand this kind of us-selfish love till it is almost too late and then in the end, finally she figures it out. Bonny finally gives into love and trusts Luis. Please watch this movie and try not to be greedy and think about all he is loosing to be with this woman. Try to understand, he doesn't care. He just loves her and will do anything to be with her.  Think of it this way, you are going to buy a new car you opt for the one that is a bit cheaper and comes with out.  I don't know, let's say a rear bumper. You don't think it is important. You are going to save 1000 dollars on the car because of it. Then a week later your husband gets in an accident and dies. They tell you if you had a rear bumper the accident would have been minor. Now, if you could go back in time just for one moment and buy the bumper, but now it is 100,000 dollars (just for the bumper). Would you care? No! You would buy the bumper. No mater what it cost to save his life. You can't put a price on true love. In this movie money and wealth are not a factor. It is just about love. I hope you will give this movie a chance and watch is just in the name of love. Also watch it for one of the best love scenes ever. It is right up there with the `Legends of the Fall' love scenes. But longer! It's Great! "},{"Title":"Excellente!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Hmmm.....now this is a real film. I thought these kinds of films were dead. Original Sin shows me that they are not and they are better than ever.I tell you, I absolutely loved this picture. It grabs you from the first shot and never lets go. Its s thriller, but it is also a story about love, not a love story. It examines love and its consequences. It will show you what love is.The chemistry between Jolie and Bandera's is fantastic. You believe it. You believe that they are in love and will do anything to be together. Its fabulous.Go see it. You will love it! "},{"Title":"Original Sin Is A Disappointing Thriller","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Original Sin is a disappointing thriller starring Antonio Banderas, Angelina Jolie, and Thomas Jane. For those of you who haven't seen it I wont say anything else about the movie except for the solid acting by most of the cast the movie failed to entertain and left me disappointed. The director does an all right job of bringing this movie to the big screen but unfortunately the pacing is slow and the film could've been a lot better. The only reason I gave this movie four stars out of ten is because of the attempt by the actors and the very steamy sex scene between Banderas and Jolie that really pushes the R rating. If you're a fan of either of the stars than you might like this movie more than me. There are a few twists and surprises you might not see coming but then again you might expect it because I for one did. Despite the talent of Banderas and Jolie who try to bring life to the characters the same can go for Jane who does an okay job with the supporting role he does have the movie itself just isn't that great. The film does have strong sexual content, nudity, language, and some violence so this is no movie for parents to see with their kids at least not until their seventeen or over. Overall Original Sin isn't that good of a movie and you're better off watching something else. Unless your a kid who wants to see Jolie featured in a graphic sex scene and without her clothes on then this is the movie for you. Otherwise skip Original Sin and watch a better thriller that's worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I am a huge Antonio fan, Angelina I can take or leave, a bit of an over actor. but she fit this part well, her role was about an actress who used her acting skills to seduce unwitting men. so I guess it required a bit of mellow-drama. I found the plot twists to be very refreshing, you never quite knew where it was going and how it was going to end. for me the ending was not disappointing. I preferred to see them end up together and not living back on the plantation that he re-built from the ground up with his honest sweat and blood. I rather liked that they ended up together and living the bonnie and Clyde life style. it just seemed fitting to me. a happy ending, but not too happy. I give it a solid 8 "},{"Title":"Didn't think it was that terrible...","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I must confess before you read this that I am truly a period costume freak, and this time period is one of my favourites.That out of the way, I still enjoyed this movie.  In fact, I had avoided seeing it after it had screened, then after it was released on video... until my best friend and I decided to give it a whirl.I was NOT disappointed.  I was even expecting to be disappointment, and was instead actually pleasantly surprised.  Angelina and Antonio are both admirable actors and are not hard to look at either.  Sure, it's got sex, love, period costumes and scandal... but so do a lot of other movies that aren't even half as well-made as this one.  If you don't expect great things from this movie, if all you want is a decent story with some beautiful eye-candy, then this movie is great.  You may even be enthralled like I was with the way the plot twists and turns, or how the power over someone is all in the mind... or the heart.Overall, give Original Sin some credit and the benefit of the doubt.  It might surprise you. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film many times but each time i enjoy watching it, it's the best film I have ever seen, Antonio Banderas did his best , he's a Cuban man loving an American girl but there's a problem  She was such a lier girl and a thief as well .Simultaneously she was in love with another man so after a while she took all Banderas money and ran away, Banderas started to find her in order to kill her .He Employs a detective to do so but guess who the detective is  It's her lover missing her too and is searching for her.What would happen next? See the film.It's the beginning of one of the best films in the History. I recommend you if and only if ( I Like math) there's just ONE day left from your life(I'm sorry for you) GO SEE the film,don't miss it or you'll regret for it afterlife. "},{"Title":"Beautiful scenery, interesting plot, well casted","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Have seen this film 3 times and stay intrigued with the great lighting, camera angles and decorum. Yes, it starts out looking like a Bouquet-romance but changes to a darker tone quickly. Most interesting is the storyline of Banderas and Jolie when they learn the truth about eachother. Well done Banderas! "},{"Title":"The rating is an original sin","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Now here is a film that that makes the most of this medium and gives it its worth beside or, if you like, above a book. The settings were so beautiful the environments, the historical portraying, the story, the clothing and, not the least to mention, the acting. I so much admire the skill of creating such a masterpiece; it's like depicting one's dream to become reality. There has been paid so much attention to every detail, you can tell the director is a true artist. And I must say, the play of Jolie and Banderas is excellent and they fit so well in their roles! What's that with the low ratings? Have people lost their sense of beauty? Or is this site mainly used by that flat type of action lover? Is recognition of quality a dying feature? Let's not hope so; for it would be an eternal sin to be, for lack of interest, restrained of these kind of movies in future. "},{"Title":"Impressive Angelina and Antonio (good couple)","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Angelina is one of my favourite actresses. She is of a natural beauty and grasps your attention nearly automatically. She is very professional in acting and gives herself totally for a role. I think you can see that in this movie as well. In this movie she has to play a bad person (Julia). But there is some good in the character as well. You will notice this in different parts of the movie. The mysterious beauty and serenity of Angelina are important for this role. It gives the movie character bad and good sides at the time. From the beginning of the movie, you'll know something is wrong with Julia. This is also emphasized by the way the filming has done. The whole movie is shot with great camera perspectives and good sphere setting. This is due to the good work of the director Michael Cristofer.Antonio Banderas is also playing well. Antonio is the perfect romantic figure that the movie needed. On the other side he is aware what happens but lost himself in the love for Julia. This gives the tension between Antonio and Angelina which is an attractive aspect of the movie. Maybe you think this movie will be too romantic for some, but there is a good lot of tension in it. It's just not a simple love story. I think the acting, pace and storytelling in the movie are just right for the type of movie. If you like more than simple action movies, you like this one as well.  "},{"Title":"what?","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  to all you people that thought this movie was a waste of money or had no potential then i guess you have a thing for movies like she's all that'. this movie was very good in more ways than i care to type at the moment. some of you said that you wanted to watch it because of angelina jolie and antonio banderas as headliners. well maybe you've all learned your lessons, which would be dont judge a book by its cover. i happen to think that no other actors could have pulled this off. the plot was good but this movie couldnt have been the way it was if it wasnt for angelina jolie, antonio banderas, and thomas jane. they added much depth to their characters. i'm puzzled as to why it didnt do good at the boxoffice. i guess most of america just needs their she's all thats and maid in manhattens. well i gave this movie at 10/10. it really was great. "}{"Title":"Great acting, original story","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dispite the critics dislike of the film, I have to say that its problably the best dramatic flick I've seen this year. I especiallyenjoyed the acting. I have to say it was beautifully directed and the screenwriter did an amazing job to hold all that together. Angelina's best film to date has to be this one. Antonio Banderas was just mindblowing. The set design was great. The movies topic on a mailbride's secret motives and a good intentioned man with a good mix in characters. I reccomend this to anyone in a start os a serious relationship. "},{"Title":"bored me to death","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  what a boring movie.. every step was foreseeable, the dialogs were crap and the tension build-up didn't work out at all..after i saw the movie, i found out that it's called an erotic thriller.. oh well.. erotic?? what???   thriller??? okay, they tried... "},{"Title":"So sexy...","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have yet to find an actress as enchanting as Angelina. This film did wonders for me!! It was so primitive, sexual, intimate. BRAVO!! I would love to see Angelina in another film similar to this. It excited me the power of her lover over her when she seemed to be so calculating and strong.And the final truths that come out at the end...I watch this movie again and again, and it never ceases to animate me. An apt title, 'Original Sin'.The original sin of the woman as a seductress. Or perhaps, in the game of love, the original sin is to fall in love. I think that perhaps some of the comments posted about this movie are shallow. It's important to really watch this movie a couple times, and read between the lines.  "},{"Title":"You can not just walk away from lust in love.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It is the 1880s and Cuba is a hotbed of commerce and personal manipulations. A wealthy businessman(Antonio Banderas) is thrust into a dizzy world of danger and mystery after marrying a sensationally beautiful woman(Angelina Jolie). Her past governs her future and her newlywed husband is obsessed with giving her his whole world. The story line seems at times a bit haphazard; but the steamy love scenes are worth more than the cost of admission. And we are talking about full redeeming nudity, because the story's very meaning lies within. Banderas has not been this powerful since MASK OF ZORRO(1998). And Miss Jolie evokes sex period. The sizzle between the two is what holds the movie together. In supporting roles are Thomas Jane and Jack Thompson. This movie may not be the best or even that memorable; but it will damn sure give you something to talk about. "},{"Title":"There are bad movies, and then there is this one...","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have never commented on any movies on this website.  However, this movie is so useless and lack originality that I have to give it a comment.  I wasted two perfectly hours of my life on this film...how do I get my money back?Steven "},{"Title":"One second you buy it, the other you don't","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" SOME SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW.First of all Antonio Banderas does a very fine job in this movie. This screenplay is quite interesting, and when Angelina Jolie leans ahead of the dead body and says Billy, you really got what you deserved this time, you're thinking oh, nice plot-twist. From the beginning of the movie until that moment, you are entertained. The problem is that right after that the body wakes up, and a lot of other, less interesting plot-twists ensue. After a while, you don't really care if Banderas' character is going to die or not because his character has lost all the respect you had of it; and you don't care about Jolie's character anymore either because of what she's tried to do in the film. Such a manipulative and untrustworthy character as her doesn't draw my interest, such a weak and unthinking character as he, doesn't either. Love, to me, isn't a trait of personality sufficient enough in a movie character so that I care about it. Therefore, when the only thing that remains in both these characters is the love for each other, and when they have left their jobs, friends, integrity, and should I say, mental sanity (because they become guilty of murder) to stay with each other, you can pretty much guess that from there the movie can become vulgar and raw. Which it does, when Angelina turns into a prostitute again at the end - not a least bit worried by the love she says she carries for Luis - and offers herself to 4 or 5 men, while she already has a relationship with Luis and one with her pimp. So in the end I'd say that the film is pretty graceful - gracefully written, acted, shot, though out - from the beginning to Billy, you got what you deserved, and after that it turns into something else, another type of movie which we could call the-plot-twist-contest-kind-of-movie. Unfortunately for that almost good part of the film, Angelina Jolie was cast as the main actress of Original Sin. Her blown-out of proportions lips invade the screen from the first seconds of the film, and sadly, her acting is proportionally emphasized. One can regret that she was chosen for the part, and while some may enjoy the view of her naked body, true film lovers will regret the choice of her for this role. Not a whisper from her, not a glance, could give a man goosebumps on his back. Everything from her, up to the register of her voice, is cold and slow. While Miss Jolie was compelling and true in a film like Girl, Interrupted, she is nothing here but a commercial value on the movie poster. An actress with such passionate eyes as Mia Kirschner's, or with a sin-inspiring body as Sherilyn Fenn's, could have saved the part very easily. But Angelina Jolie looks in no way like the character she portrays - and maybe simply doesn't fit with period dramas. The music plays unnoticed in the action's background - no theme remains in your mind after the end credits, no lyrical moments have flashed your ears - but then again, you didn't come see the film for its music did you? The cinematography comes where needed, as needed, with as little boldness as expected. No image from this film is sheerly beautiful or picturesque, but the sceneries and actions are properly lit and shot with imagination. If you hesitate between watching an old film and this, go for the old film! "},{"Title":"That was a film!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really liked it! We enjoyed the show! The story had a sens, at least!!! Now that was what I call movie. It was the best movie I've ever seen! In fact, I haven't seen a lot of films, but I was touched by this one.  "},{"Title":"Weird!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The only reason this film was ever made, was probably because the director or producer or whatever found out that casting had gotten Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas to say years to a potential project, and in their glee they just wanted to come up with something that would make both actors (famous for their smoldering sexy looks) sizzle on screen. A lot of the stuff that goes on in the film does not make sense nor look good but because it's Tony and Angie we're expected to either pardon it or just gulp it up. Too bad the Razzie people weren't buying it. There were so upset with Angie that year that they nominated her twice for worst actress for both this film and the first Tomb raider film. Maybe it was her accent in both films that ticked them off? I didn't buy her accent in this one either...Anywho, the film is about a rich Don (ala Zorro) who advertises for a wife from overseas and gets one, just not the one he ordered but falls in love with her anyway. Sooner than later things begin to unravel and he gets a bad comeuppance when he doesn't take heed to advice. But will that be the end of him or will he pursue toxic love till the very end? Watch the film, if you dare to find out. "},{"Title":"Attention Grabber","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was so well done. The Storyline was so interesting. This is one of those movies that you watch to see what happens next. It's very sexual but for the right reasons and used properly. The acting from everyone in this movie was excellent. Angelina was magnificent in this as usual. The scene where, Louis (Antonio) was looking for Julia (Angie) and and saw her at the hotel and came into her room, that scene was amazing. Both of them created this intensity that they were feeling and brought that out very clearly. I have the unrated one and the whole movie from start to finish is a definite attention grabber "},{"Title":"Jolie & Bonderas Burn Up the Screen!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"                This film was fantastic for the great acting performed and the beautiful location in Mexico and great photography.  Antonio Bonderas (Luis Antonio Vargas),Imagining Argentina,'03, ordered a bride who was really very much like himself in many ways.  However, Angelina Jolie (Julia Russell),Taking Lives,'04, had a mind of her own and enjoyed all sorts of men, especially Actors who played the DEVIL! The film kept you guessing about where this love between these two lovers was really going to lead us.   Antonio and Julia made a charming couple and especially when they were both involved in gambling with cards.   There were hot scenes in the bed and a giant old time bath tub which got quite steamy!  Angelina Jolie looked very beautiful and the close ups of her face and lips were FANTASTIC!   ENJOY. "}{"Title":"A great big trashy, campy film!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie sizzle in this movie!  There is a lot of sexual passion and intense love in this movie that it redeems this, otherwise, trashy, campy movie for me.  This is not a great movie, but in this instance, the performances of the actors really saved the movie.  Watching this movie reminded me of those really, stupid, overplotted, overheated romance novels that I used to read as a teenager whenever I can steal these books away from my mother!C for storyline, A for sheer campiness! "},{"Title":"talk about irony","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERAngelina plays a con artist in the movie and in reality, she conned me out of the price of a movie ticket.Two of my favorite actors in one of my least favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The only thing that saved this movie was the fact that Thomas Jane can play a bad guy and play it well. Antonio was ok in the film but I don't think  this film was any good. In fact it wasn't good at all. It was boring, boring, boring, and just when you thought it couldn't get any more boring it goes and gets boring on you again. If you want to add a little bordism to your boring day then rent this boring movie. But like I say it is boring, boring, boring, boring, and slightly boring. "},{"Title":" I am not yours!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Antonio Banderas is perfect as Luis in this outstanding suspense movie. The following cast is phenomenal. The costumes are sophisticated. One of the good films in the genre, Original Sin will seduce the viewer to pleasure. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intriguing plot compensates for lack of chemistry - spoilers","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Written and directed by Michael Cristofer from a novel by Cornell Woolrich, this film comes across as being a slight disappointment.  Two the sexiest stars in films today (Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie) fail to demonstrate even the slightest hint of sexual chemistry.  This is compensated for by an intriguing plot that deals with the nature of love.Luis (Banderas) is a rich Spanish aristocrat in the late 19th Century, who is eagerly seeking a wife to share his life with.  It comes in the form of shapely Julia (Jolie).  However, just a few weeks after marrying her, she takes off mysteriously and it quickly becomes apparent to Luis that she was not the poor peasant she said she was.He sets in pursuit of her, blinded and confused by both love and intense hatred of her.  Along the way he meets a private detective Walter (Thomas Jane), who is more involved with Julia than it first appears.The film is largely narrated in flashback by Julia, who relates her tale to a priest as she languishes in prison awaiting execution.  The script is adequate, but there is nothing especially spectacular about it to lift it above the norm for this kind of sexually charged thriller.  There are a good few twists and turns along the way but the inventive conclusion (where a principal character attempts suicide) is spoiled by a predictable cop-out happy ending.The core of this film is the relationship between Luis and Julia.  Banderas and Jolie are well-cast but, in spite of couple vigourous sex scenes, they have no chemistry together.  Banderas, despite an occasional moment of flippant humour, seems to be going through the motions and makes no real attempt to get to grip with the exciting complexities of his role.  Jolie, to the delight of her many male fans, does go nude in a couple of scenes, and it is she who delivers the best principal performance in the picture.  Thomas Jane completes the trio as the scheming villain, and he does bring a certain element of threat to the picture.In conclusion, the film is not too bad.  The plot and occasionally quirky script ensure it does hold the interest throughout.  However, the lack of chemistry between the two leads mean the film is not everything it could have been.   "},{"Title":"What a piece of junk","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie with very low expectation, and came out disappointed.With 30 minutes or so into the film, I thought to myself, OK, this is one of those slow sudsy plots that doesn't have much going on except for the great settings, lots of music scores to fill in the void and gratuitous nude scenes.  Inserted in it were a few blatant attempt to warn the viewer to remember such and such an event with the emphasis on specific scenes like the prolonged shot on the suitcase or the signing of the account.  You think to yourself, OK, signs to the logically challenged, but lets leave judgement until later.But when the suspicion started to rise with the appearance of the sister and private investigator, things started to fall apart with plot holes developing left and right.  With scenes where when both the sister and investigator appeared around the same time, it did not occur to Luis, played by Antonio Banderas, to inquire about the investigator to the sister, since it was supposedly her that hired the him in the first place.There were so many ham fisted attempt to lure the viewer to notice what is coming up and clumsy setup to many scenes of deception.  They included scenes where the bird died with a broken neck right after Julia, played by Angelina Jolie, complained about the bird's singing, and then they show her in the next room singing.  The restaurant scene with the newspaper and the so obvious clue they are throwing at our face.  Or the poker scene where the wife walks all around looking at other people's cards while serving drinks, and making blatant signs as if nobody know why she keeps making the throat slitting gesture.Why would she need to turn off the lamp after Luis is dead so the other man could sneak in?  Isn't it easier just to go downstairs and open the door?  Of course, the whole escape and ensuing chase would not occur if it was done in that more logical way.  And doesn't Luis know the gun was loaded with blanks when he went to reload his it and saw the unused bullets?  Why did the plot keep going that way, even with him asking Julia about how did the investigator survive him being gunned down, and her telling the gun was loaded with blanks.There were so many instances with the intention of leading the viewer so that they are always a few steps ahead of the clueless Luis, this becomes one of those cheap horrors where everyone except him knows what is going to happen.  That included Julia telling Luis to report the murder while she cleans pack up and for them to run away as fugitives, but at the same time telling him not to touch the body, just so that it won't be revealed that there wasn't any penetration by bullets.  Why is she trying to shoo him away when she herself did not know the man was dead.  The whole concept of not touching the body so as to leave no evidence, while reporting the murder, having the body disposed of, going off selling all your assets and being on the run as a fugitive when there is apparently nobody after you totally throws whatever little logic that the plot had out the window.  The holes, inconsistencies and cringes goes on and on.The acting by Angelina Jolie is so bad, with her bi-polar personality and one second shoot me if you dare, and next second breaking down, it is unbearable.The pacing is not consistent, with altering melodrama and deception, breaking any continuity and buildup of suspense.  Resulting in a movie that drags on and on.The only thing that might have been good is the cinematography in the beginning, which helped pass the time of their sappy romancing.  "},{"Title":"Un-original sin","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood has long had an unfortunate tendency to take good foreign films and mess them up in Americanized remakes. Original Sin is hardly original in that regard. Never mind what the credits claim this movie is based upon. Director Michael Cristofer has merely remade Francois Truffaut's Mississippi Mermaid...while throwing in a bit of Truffaut's Such a Gorgeous Kid Like Me for good measure.Unfortunately, Cristofer is not Truffaut. What's worse is that Cristofer seems to understand this only too well. Lacking Truffaut's cinematic style and ability to create suspense, Cristofer tries to shock us with graphic images instead. Oh sure, most men will appreciate seeing Angelina Jolie nude and most women will enjoy seeing the many shots of Antonio Banderas' rear. But do we really need to see Billy spit into Bonny's mouth? Or cut notches into her back?The rest of Original Sin suffers from comparisons to Mississippi Mermaid as well. Antonio Banderas doesn't even come close to being Jean-Paul Belmondo. And Angelina Jolie's beauty and talent both pale next to that of Catherine Deneuve.Worst of all, once again we must suffer through an Americanized ending. I swear, one day Hollywood will do a remake of Romeo and Juliet and have them both survive in the end. After all, that is what the test audience will demand.Too bad the test audience for this one didn't say Ah, forget it Cristofer. Truffaut already did it better. "},{"Title":"Critics are who? This was one terrific movie!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Who are the critics other than some old men who love to hate everything, especially if it gets people talking. Angelina is one of our greatest assets as an actress in America today. She seems to be nutty as a fruitcake in real life but who cares, she is quite a wonderful actress and anyone who didn't get turned on by this sexy steamy film with a fine plot is simply out of touch. Banderas as also come a long way as well. I enjoy him more and more. The two have a chemistry that steams us the theatre. Everything about this movie was well worth it and so the critics should find another job.  "},{"Title":"Original Spin-off","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was wonderfully strange.  It gave me shivers at times.  The built partnership between Angelina and Antonio at the end of the film was satisfying and gave a feeling of closure, but there is absolutly no doubt about it that Thomas Jane stole the whole film.  He was amazing.  The scenes with him were the best scenes in the whole movie and it was obvious that his character was the smartest one of any character in the cast.  The scenes with him made me shiver with disgust and fear, but in the end it was the only thing that saved the movie.  Everyone keeps talking about the sex, but I didnt think it was such a big deal.  Other than seeing the upper bodies of both main actors, there really wasnt all that much to rant about, there was no frontal or anything.  Anyway I thought that the love scenes were vital to the rest of the movie.  Id give it a 7 "},{"Title":"Sumptuous!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I certainly enjoyed this more than I thought I would. Antonio is of course sexy, but also very vulnerable. He gives the impression of a man who has been deeply disappointed by love, but a man of his social position needs a wife and family. He sends away for a bride, not caring what she looks like. When Julia turns out to be beautiful and interesting, he opens himself up to her romantically and falls hard. The first third of the plot is too heavily foreshadowed, but then it becomes more clever and interesting. Antonio and Angelina have great chemistry on screen, but the third most important element is the lush turn-of-the-century Cuba setting. The cinematography is rich and evocative. I gave it an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Pretty people, pretty places, story with promise...but....","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Ms. Jolie is of course beautiful and undressed a lot.  Mr. Banderas shows real promise as an actor.  The story...well it is sort of trick in spots.....but.  Man is there always a but in these things. This but is a disaster in the cutting and editing room. The movie is too long.  The flash back starts twenty minutes into the thing and it seems to run forever before it gets to the climax. Sorry about the pun.Ok to the editing.  Looks early WWII in vintage, you know we have a limited amount of film...find a home for what we got and....well if it is a bit choppy so what.If this was not such a critical and blatant flaw there might be room to let it slide, but this is a real distraction. I gave it a two when it might have been a bit better than that, but folks have got to start drawing the line and demand that professional film makers make movies that are at least technically correct even if the material is a bit stale. So don't waste your money. It will disappoint. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin is one the most laugh-out-loud funny movies I've seen all year. However, it's not being billed as a comedy by the studio.First of all, you have to buy into the fact that a man who looks like Antonio Banderas needs a mail-order bride. Then, you have to believe that the woman who responds to such an advertisement in turn looks like Angelina Jolie.  Original Sin is based upon Cornell Woolrich's (Rear Window) novel, Waltz Into Darkness, which Francois Truffaut adapted in 1969 and titled Mississippi Mermaid. It starred Jean-Paul Belmondo as a tobacco planter whose mail-order bride, played by Catherine Deneuve, turns out to be an impostor. This time around, the steamy story is adapted and directed by Michael Cristofer, who helped poise Jolie for stardom in the HBO-flick, Gia.In Original Sin, Banderas (Spy Kids) is Luis Vargas, a 19th century Cuban coffee mogul, and Jolie (Tomb Raider) is Julia Russell, a young American who wants to make a change in her life. She steps off the boat, pouting and vamping, and affecting a Madonnaesque English accent for no apparent reason. Just hours later, the couple are wed. Extreme close-ups on naked bodies, smoldering brown eyes, massive lips, and arty post-coital contortions follow (I was looking for the game of Twister under the sheets, but didn't see those telltale colored dots). Before long, the bride not only steals his heart, she cleans out the joint bank account and disappears (pouting and vamping as she goes). Luis begins to suspect that perhaps his bride isn't who he thought she was after all. American PI Walter Downs (Thomas Jane, Deep Blue Sea) shows up to investigate at the behest of the real Julia's sister, Emily. Luis decides that, since he can't live without his conniving wife, he wants to be the one to kill her. So he hires Downs, too (even though he only has $11 left in his bank account). But instead of killing her, he ends up killing *for* her. (When Banderas says, with an admirably straight face, I have killed for her. And I would do it again, I felt like raising my hand, Me, me! Pick me!)The dialogue is so corny, I kept looking for a Niblets product placement. I think I got Jello instead, when one of Julia's would-be suitors, standing outside her bedroom door as she undresses, declares, My heart is pudding. I will go, but my pudding is all broken! Of course, this screenplay *does* come from the same man who wrote this dialogue for Gia I do be da pittiest pittiest girl, I do be dat.The cinematography is under-lit and as one-dimensional as the screen, at times blending the actors' heads into the dark backgrounds. Not only do the actors fade into the woodwork (maybe they were *trying* to), Jolie actually looks flat-chested. That's a mean feat. In addition, Banderas's pores were bigger than life and the bulging veins in Jolie's hands, arms and forehead were so blue, I checked my press kit to see if the makeup was by Stan Winston. The loud, irritating soundtrack is upstaged only by some of the oddest editing I have ever seen, jam-packed with jump-cuts, step-zooms, blurry pans, incongruous dolly shots, and floating crane perspectives. The only wannabe arty shot I *didn't* see was kitchen-sink.Prior to seeing Original Sin (which was supposed to come out in November of last year, then February... for some reason, can't imagine why, this film's release was repeatedly delayed), I read that Jolie's brother, James Haven, would be appearing onscreen. I looked and looked, then concluded that unless he was  Banderas's body-double for the love scenes, he wasn't in it. I waited for the end credits and saw that he played a masked character in the stage-play scene. He probably took one look at the dailies and volunteered for that role. He's smarter than I thought.But kudos have to go to Jolie and Banderas -- who allow themselves to have their mouths spat into and be mano-a-mano soul-kissed, respectively -- for fully immersing themselves in this tawdry tete-a-tete and for playing their roles to their fullest folly (while pouting and vamping, of course).I don't know if Original Sin will become a contemporary camp classic like Showgirls, but there is nothing original in it and the only sin is, this movie was finally released. At any rate, if you decide to shell out your hard-earned dough, you will certainly keep watching to see what outright outrageousness will be thrust upon you next. The original sin was murder -- and so is this movie!  "},{"Title":"Angelina at her smouldering best!!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film was a surprise, I caught it one evening when I couldn't find anything else to watch. The plot line from beginning to end was good, the sexual tension brilliant.Angelina (as Julia) is smouldering with a hint of vulnerability, her true character emerging slowly at first. Antonio (as Luis) the man who at first seems to feel marriage is purely for the provision of a family, only to fall deeply & passionately in love with his bride.In places this film is a 'bodice ripper'!! Showing that women in the 1900's COULD be very sensual.A MUST FOR EVERY ANGELINA JOLIE FAN!! "},{"Title":"Utterly  and Completely over the top.","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUT Original Sin is a movie that is completely over the top in every way particularly the dialog. Of coarse that doesn't mean it wasn't entertaining, I was most definitely entertained-hence the 6 rating. Original Sin is a movie that should have come out in the eighties, it's got a kind of lush, glamorous, larger then life, feel to it and since the eighties were full of these type of movies, it feels more suited to that time period. I actually moderately enjoyed this movie at times, though, at other times I wanted to go to sleep. It probably should have been a bit shorter.Original Sin stars two of the best looking movie stars in the world-Antonio Banderus and Angelina Jolie. Yet strangely, their chemistry together was not strong. Not to me anyway. They were almost to good looking, their looks detracted from the storyline, instead of seeing a female con artist and her hapless husband, at times I saw-two larger then life, gorgeous Hollywood movie stars. And it REALLY didn't help that the Banderus character was given so little to do. Except follow Jolie around that is. Banderus is an incredibly talented actor and his character should have been a bit more multi dimensional, this role didn't play to his strengths. The general acting however was fine by all. It was the way the story progressed that I had trouble with.Firstly, all of the plot twists were dizzying and rather then being edge of your seat exciting it was, at times, a bit to melodramatic. I like psychological thrillers where the suspense seems natural and not force fed and it didn't here. You always know your watching a movie although the sumptuous visuals and just the general sultry, balmy quality of the movie keep you moderately involved all the same which is why I still gave it a 6. It wasn't BAD at all, just over the top and took itself way to seriously. I liked the premise, love psychological thrillers and like and admire the performers featured in this. I just thought the movie seemed to be playing more for outrageousness then for slow tension building excitement which it really didn't have so much. And there is such a thing as a movie having to many twists and turns.I was however interested in seeing how it all played out and it did get way more interesting toward the end(the romance starts to gain in intensity and intrigue) and I could see even watching it again if I'm in a certain mood as it's one of those guilty pleasure type movies. My vote is 6.5 Out of 10. "},{"Title":"Insane Infatuation","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" How wrapped up can a guy get in a she-devil? That is, perhaps in a nutshell, the best portrayal this film attempts. You have the usual lies, sex, deceit (just another way of saying more crafty lies), and false identities (more lies) in a canvassing masquerade of betrayal (oh, more lies!). The title of this should have actually been Original Sin(s), as it achieves just about all of them at least twice and in a short period of time. I am reminded by the old adage of messing with a snake and getting bit in this film. Or playing with dirt and getting dirty. In either case, good people fall victim to bad over some misguided concept of love. The harlot gets her knight-in-shining-armor and the knight succumbs to a succubus' poison apple. In the end, nobody really wins anything. But what you do get is Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie in some steamy scenes together after arranging a blind date marriage. The film is set back a bit, I would say in the 1800s, with Antonio as a wealthy coffee merchant and Angelina acting to be someone else, who's acting to be someone else (where the deceit comes in obviously). Antonio's foreign wife turns out to be anything but what he expected in more ways than one. He soon realizes that marriage truly can be a dangerous thing when he is left alone and penniless.Infatuation then seeks to change the suitor and the ill-suited (as was the extent of this film). 4/10 "},{"Title":"What was all the fuss about???","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I remembered this movie when it first came out because there was all this drama & controversy about some explicit sex scenes between Antonio & Angelina. When I saw it at the video store, I thought, Hey, let's see what all the fuss was about. Well, instead, I became immediately intrigued with this dark, mysterious little movie with plenty of twists and turns. Yes, there's some sex scenes. So what? Nothing you haven't seen before.Angelina undeniably has a great body and is just gorgeous. She never puts a foot wrong, although this is an unusual movie choice for her. The costumes are *fantastic* and the acting's really not too bad.I found it confusing in parts and sometimes hard to follow, especially where Thomas Jane's character is concerned. Maybe I'm just dumb.3.5 stars for atmosphere, great sets & costumes and Angelina Jolie alone. She's a great actress and even when she's not that good, she's still great. "},{"Title":"you cannot walk away from love","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the best movies i have seen i have recommended it to all my friends it is truly a story about love and the power that love has how one is willing to change their whole lifes for a feeling called love the moral of the story is told in the narration by julia and bonnie and by the end of the movie you have so many different emotions as if you were the one in this situation it is a tale of love commitment betrayal confusion and how you could have it all, all the money in the world all the servants one might need the homes the food the clothes but if you do not have that one special person to share all this with it makes it worthless because the only thing that can by happiness is love and luis and julia proved this very well in this movie it was beautiful. "},{"Title":"ORIGINAL SIN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Can two bad actors make a good movie? It seems like Michael Christofer made them do it cos I can't stand Antonio and I was never keen on Angelina (the fact that she is the Tomb Raiderbabe says enough)but still this is more than a watchable movie, it's even a good one. Well of course it must have something to do with that original sin as the essence is that the Bible was right, women are evil and that's exactly what Banderas will feel once he orders his American bride. Banderas is a superrich South=American industrial who needs a mailorderbride just because he has to be married and doesn't believe in love, something he better should maintain as love will ruin him both financially and psychologically. Can't understand why this movie has been slashed off cos it really entertains and there are the plots you didn't expect and for all those who just want to rent the movie because of the naked scene from Madame Jolie, get a life please... "},{"Title":"some effective moments but total enjoyment depends on your point of view","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In the 1880s Banderas is a wealthy Cuban plantation owner who orders a wife in the form of beautiful, sultry mail-order bride Jolie. Struck by her immense beauty and overwhelmed by her simmering sexuality, he falls fatally in love with her. Unfortunately she's not all that she seems, and his life spirals downward into a world of greed and deception. Nothing special thriller is sure to hold your attention with its two attractive leads, breathtaking scenery, and brazenly steamy sex scenes, but it doesn't evoke much interest as far as story or character, and builds toward a ridiculous finale. Some will really love it, others will instantly forget it. ** "},{"Title":"A Real Sin","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Amazing! Antonio Banderas and Amgelina Jolie are among the biggest stars in the movies industry today. They are being paid millions for each role, and  should be getting many offers for good films. Why then, why did they accept becoming involved with such a bad movie? They, or their agents should have rejected this script, lacking both action as well as artistic logic.The story sets in the end of century (19th, of course) Havana. A rich plantation owner orders for unknown reasons a mail wife from the US. Hete comes Angelina Jolie - she is more beautiful than he expected, he is richer than he expected (really? so why did she do what we learn a little bit later that she did) and a marriage planned a few hour later triggers a series of illogical B-class movie events. Nothing works, none of the setting has any artistic emotion or esthetic value. Acting is bad, with the exception of Banderas who gives a fine performance despite everything around. Jolie is amazingly beautiful, but her act is no more average. 5/10 on my personal scale. A movie to miss without too many regrets.  "}{"Title":"A waste of talent","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie are bankable stars with bright futures.  How they agreed to sign on to this weak screenplay escapes me.  Jolie plays Julia, a mail order bride who turns out to be something quite different from the catalogue item.  Banderas plays Luis, who falls instantly and madly (and stupidly) in love with her upon picking her up from her journey. They have steamy sex with lots of gratuitous nudity and then the story begins.  Julia skips town with a bunch of Luis' cash and for the rest of the film, Luis follows her around like a love sick lap dog begging her to take him back and abuse him some more.   The plot twists and turns, but the `surprises' are so obvious that they may as well have put up road signs saying, `WATCH OUT, PLOT TWIST AHEAD.' The dialogue is banal and mindless and the characters are transparent and simplistic.  The viewer comes away without being able to identify with either character.  Luis is so pathetic that we can feel only disgust and lack of respect for all his groveling, and Julia is so callous and wicked that no amount of attractiveness can overcome the revulsion she elicits.This film is a dreadful waste of talent.  I rated it a 4/10.  One can only hope that this tripe does not deflect the careers of two promising actors.   "},{"Title":"Great love story is not always pleasant","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original sin was told us about a love tale that cross that sweet lines of love. For some people maybe feel to be deceived by the trailer, because it  shows the audience about a hot-basic instinct-kind-thriller. But, this movie is not that kind. It's more melodrama than thriller. It will bored some people, but for whom that would like to see a great unordinary tale about the dangerous and sometimes lethal power of love drama,  it's a must-see.The movie set in the exotic world of Cuba in the late 1800s. Luis Antonio Vargas (Antonio Banderas), a wealthy coffee merchant, arranges a marriage through the mail but discovers that the woman who arrives to share his house is an imposter with an eye on his fortune. When he arrives at the docks to meet Julia Russell (Angelina Jolie), he is amazed to find that she is not the simple woman he was expecting. Though happier than he ever imagined, the surprises continue until the story takes a fateful turn (and happy ending ofcourse).After all, I must give it 8/10 "},{"Title":"8/10 wonderful trashy fun","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin, without question the sexiest film of 2001, has finally made its way to DVD.  On DVD, this grubby little film seems even more perfect. People can now enjoy it for what it is, in the privacy of their own home.  What is Original Sin?  It's a nasty good time.  Class is obviously not in this film's vocabulary.  Instead, the film wants purposely to be nothing more than a guilty pleasure flick -- and that is exactly what it is.Jolie gives one of the most calm and steady performances to date -- as the woman who can not be trusted.  On the other hand, Banderas seems to have mastered the role of the obsessed lover -- I can't imagine anyone else playing the part.  Thomas Jane is unbelievably perverse -- which is perfect for this film.With some very hot sex scenes; it's cheap film noir roots; and an excellent soundtrack by Terence Blanchard -- this film is a perfect DVD waiting to be spanked.A gorgeous film and a naughty good time! "},{"Title":"And the Razzie goes to....","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin tells of a 19th century coffee plantation owner (Banderas) who marries a mail order bride (Jolie) only to learn the hard way she is not who she was supposed to be. Uninspired drivel with poor  chemistry between Banderas and Jolie, OS is artistically and technically good but so lacking in sincerity and believeability that it does not beg the question how will it end but, rather, when? Save this one for t.v. or, better yet, find something good to watch. "},{"Title":"Australian Jack Thompson now being typecasted as a real Southerner","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If anyone has seen 'Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil' will know what I'm talking about (Even then Jack Thompson was typecast as being a lawyer again as in 'Breaker Morrant').Now when 'Original Sin' was previewed to Australian critics they all groaned that Jack Thompson was again playing asouthern lawyer type.Jack Thompson is a very versital actor and seeing him in American films where his roles reduce him to only playing southern gentlemen is a farce.Could casting agents please not cast Jack Thompson as being a Southerner?  Give the man a bit more credit, try putting him in some more challenging roles for starters. "},{"Title":"Intriguingly obsessive love story, though inferior to 1969 version","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  By no means as bad as most critics seemed to make out, Original Sin is an adaptation of a story that had already been filmed by Francois Truffaut in 1969 as The Mississipi Mermaid. That version is a devastating study of obsessive love, of a woman who cannot help being duplicitous and almost evil, and of a man who risks everything, including breaking the law, because he loves her.This version is, unsurprisingly, not really as good. For a start, Antonio Banderas and especially Angelina Jolie she tries but is just not good enough of an actress to carry of the part that well are poor subtitutes for John Paul Belmondo and Catherine Deneuve. The framing device in this version just does not come off, and despite the stronger sexual content which is nothing to shout about,the original was oddly more erotic. Worse of all, this one tries to become a conventional audience pleaser with some action and violence towards the end, which is reasonably well done but no match for the subtle power of the French film's end scenes. Using salsa when more conventional scoring would have increased the tension does not work either.Still, Original Sin is an OK film. It has a good story which has not really been changed too much, and although leisurely paced it certainly holds the attention, if only to see how low Banderas' character will sink next. Ultimately, it's a love story, and despite it's dark elements, like all good love stories, it's quite moving.  "},{"Title":"A Complete Waste of Talent!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorAntonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie are two very talented actors who both should have done another project that would have taken advantage of their talent. Banderas perhaps took this role to do something different from his Spy Kids role but Angelina Jolie I don't understand. She keeps on accepting roles in mainstream adult films. The film I think had potential to be a very good erotic thriller. However, the plot and characters are underdeveloped while the sex scenes take center stage. In my opinion the only reason you may want to check out this film is to see Angelina Jolie naked. But for that you shouldn't waste your time in viewing this film.RATING 1 STAR  "},{"Title":"Dull dull dull","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Antonio Banderas plays a rich Cuban man in the late 1800s-early 1900s, who orders a mail order bride (Angelina Jolie).  Unfortunately, she turns out to be a load of trouble.Horrible adaptation of a great book (Waltz into Darkness by Cornell Woolrich).  There's some beautiful set design, exotic locations and good acting by Banderas and Jolie.  None of that can compensate for the leaden pace, horrible script, laughable performance by Thomas Jane (who appears drunk most of the time) and annoyingly jerky direction by Michael Cristofer.  Also, why does this take place in Cuba?  The original novel is set in America.The only reason to see this tripe is for a very steamy sex scene between Banderas and Jolie within the first half hour.  After that, tune out.  ALMOST worth sitting through for the real stupid ending (different from the book).A waste of talent. "},{"Title":"Waste of Life.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If 'Original Sin' kept the same seductive feel from the first 15 minutes and let it continue throughout the movie, continually provoking the flames instead of letting them die out, this would be a different review. With Ms. Jolie and Banderas headlining, with some sensual cinematography to match, Original Sin is a hit in its own right. Unfortunately, everything else, from the flaky script to the dry music, takes the stir out of the moment.A professional Cuban sends out for a mail-order bride from Delaware. Instead he gets one big headache with a beautiful body.There are long movies, and then there are LONG movies. This was easily the latter. The movie is so drawn out, with no sensuality, no deep and true heart except for the first and last fifteen minutes. Cristofer, who made well use of Angelina in 'Gia,' does the same justice here too. Truly there is no use for this movie except for the first half hour, when you can attempt to make life imitate the art on screen. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't too into the movie, but I have to admit I was intrigued. I really loved the plot. And how Antonio's character becomes so passionatly in love with Angelina's character. I'm not sure if I would watch it more then a few times. But it's worth another look.8/10 "}{"Title":"If the film were only as good as its sex scenes, 'Original Sin' would be a watchable yarn, but no","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Original Sin (2001) Antonio Banderas, Angelina Jolie, Thomas Jane, Jack Thompson, Gregory Itzin, Allison Mackie, Joan Pringle, Cordelia Richards, D Michael Cristofer. Superlative actors and a lush style are diluted from a languid and nonsensical story made into a downer of a movie, which adapts Cornell Woolrich's novel, Waltz into Darkness. Banderas as a Cuban 19th century coffee plantation owner meets and marries his gorgeous mail-order-bride from America for the very first time and falls in love, but she isn't whom she says she is when he goes on a wild goose chase looking for her. Viewers that are uninterested may revere more than anything the sight of Jolie's lips in close-ups and the overheated sex scenes. Running Time 112 minutes and rated R for strong sexual content and some violence. **   "},{"Title":"Big Budget soft core porn thriller","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The plot of Oringinal Sin is halfway decent and maybe with a better script the film could have been better but alas it itsn't the film is merely an excuse to get Ms. Jolie out of her clothes not that's a bad thing though. The film is boring expect for the steamy sex scenes between Jolie and Banderas otherwise skip this one. "},{"Title":"Not at all bad","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The original novella was called Waltz into Darkness. The earlier François Truffaut film version was called Mississippi Mermaid (La Sirène du Mississippi). What were they THINKING when they saddled this version with as dull a title as Original Sin?For the film isn't nearly as worthless as the all-purpose generic title would suggest. The main thing it has going for it, admittedly, is the story, which the director Michael Cristofer does little with but does nothing to screw up. (Except perhaps - and this is just a minor nit-pick - use those dopey jump cuts.) It's a good deal fresher than your average erotic thriller; the characters feel as though they have been conceived from scratch rather than copied from something else, and the same can be said for the overall mood. The nudity is NOT gratuitous in a bad sense. Bad gratuitous nudity is there to please the director during filming or perhaps the studio accountants; good gratuitous nudity is there to please the audience. (Angelina Jolie certainly pleased me.) Besides, I can't see it working as well WITHOUT the nudity; this is a tropical location, after all, and the directors use of human flesh suggests caressing heat and mild indolence and distance from the centres of the civilisations from which these people original came (America and Spain) rather well.Perhaps the pace is too CONSISTENTLY brisk. It undermines the tension. I never said it was a great movie, but it works. "},{"Title":"What about «Mississippi Mermaid» ?","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Very few people seem to know (perhaps apart from Roger Ebert) that this is a remake of a 1969 François Truffaut film called «Mississippi Mermaid» ! Both films are based on a Cornell Woolrich novel -- yes, the very same author whose short story was masterfully enriched and used as the basis of Alfred Hitchcock's «Rear Window». Also a reminder for those who'd want to brush up their knowledge of the French language. As you may (or may not) have noticed, the «C» in François should have a little «tail» under it  in French, it is a «cédille», a punctuation sigh that makes that letter sound like a «S» -- not a «K». And so, as I may say -- in a paraphrase  «Suis-je en train de jeter des perles à des p... ?». This saying seems very appropriate since the little «tail» under the «C» somewhat looks like... a pig's tail, doesn't it ? "},{"Title":"What the original sin might be?","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The only thing worst than Antonio Banderas acting is, Antonio Banderas + Angelina Jolie acting together in the same movie and plus, as a couple. In this movie we have to face it (again) and Banderas has to admit it he's in Hollywood because he's hot according to women (if you see the statistics of the votes for this movie, you'll understand), so they keep (don't know exactly until when) bringing any book. play, old movie, etc. with a Hispanic character to life as a movie just to get the money out of him, and Angelina Jolie performances have been so poor since Girl Interrupted, when she played probably the most similar role to her real life ever. Well, you can add to the mediocre acting staff that of her partner in crime, who is not clear to me if she loves, hates, cheats, wants or what. I think the screenplay was poor, as well as the direction. The story could've been better developed... with better acting I bet. Probably I was so frustrated with the movie that I didn't get to understand where, when and what was the original sin in the whole story. Probably cheating with silly signs while playing cards? Or maybe just the plain fact of doing this movie? who knows?. Steamy scenes? well, yes. I think the steamiest these couple of actors have done in their careers, but... bad movie? well, yes. A waste of money. "},{"Title":"self-indulgent- endless - plot less","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" That said - the locations are gorgeous and so is the music. Jolie and Banderas' acting is really good. The cinematographer seems to be saying look at them lips, what gorgeous movie stars these are, look at 'em! instead of creating a quality film. It's a shabby script with cheap shots (endless lingerie and bodices, lip-cam for Angelina and a lot of hint,hint shots, a bad guy that comes back to life, and other gimmicks). The suspense isn't there (but it's supposed to be) & the story is dull as plastic scissors. The other actors are weak!! There aren't any real character actors, just walk-ons. And a lot of cardboard performances outside of the two stars. The story drags on (it's much too long) and it's dull (though it's supposed to be film noir-ish). "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad - sad, sad state of movies today","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I've yet to see an entire movie with A. Jolie because like Tom Cruise she makes me turn off or switch the channel after only minutes...This time I decided to keep watching for some reason. Maybe because these 2 people (Banderas & Jolie) are regarded as sex symbols by the majority of their respective opposite sex.Well, you can't help but compare these leading actors to the ones that have done movies like this before Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, Sophia Loren, Gregory Peck ...Now whatever you think about those iconic actors, they had charisma and they could - in their own way - convey even the cheesiest of cliché feelings that some writers put words to and some directors put movements to.Well to cut things short Banderas is a piece of wood, Jolie cannot act at all.Look at any scene that Jolie is in She doesn't do anything with it! Just like S. Johansson and the whole slew of new and (sort of) young actors. One could argue that if you have gargantuan rubber boats lining your mouth your expression is severely hampered to the point of rendering you an expressionless freak of nature. But we are not talking about the Elephant Man here...James Lipton somehow finds it necessary to interview people like Jolie about the art of acting. Evidently it's not the mastery of the acting profession that influences his choices but some other ghastly satanic perversion. Or maybe just marketing and money. Hard to tell any difference...Oh there are so many horrific travesties in this movie When Jolie's character acts coy and seduces Bandera's character in the beginning - oh the humanity! There is nothing sublime, there is no honor, ... there is just hammy high school acting. Just the natural instincts and flirting of a professional ... whatever ... but no acting I could detect.Or when the man beats up the woman - that scene is horrible! She actually defends herself, there's nothing theatrically exaggerated about it. Like a white trash couple fighting in the street and you are sick watching it...The story is horrible and implausible and not worth mentioning. Maybe this movie was just an excuse for a couple of stale love scenes. They couldn't even get those right...! Oh why don't they cut to a fireplace anymore and spare us the misery...?But then the very supposed sexuality of both leading actors is just like how they behave in front of the camera (some actually call it acting) - S.T.E.R.I.L.E.What a world... "},{"Title":"When paths of fear and alibis are black...","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ...And the nightmare is hung on your tree When an after dinner party's in the back Will you waltz into darkness with me?(Paul R.Michaud,1980)First adapted for the screen by Truffaut in 1969 (la sirène du Mississipi) ,with pretty good results.Although Woolrish's (Irish's ) tragic side eludes the French director ,the latter makes up for it by adapting the novel to HIS style and by depicting an amour fou.There were good tricks ,particularly the Snow White comic strip and the final open ending.And now a remake.Can this be called remake by the way?After all,it was an American novel from the start .Jean-Paul Belmondo's,Catherine Deneuve's and Michel Bouquet's parts are taken on by Antonio Banderas -a more credible planter than his French counterpart- ,Angelina Jolie -here I would favor Deneuve's perverse presence over her- and Thomas Jane -whose part is much more important than in Truffaut's version.At first sight,I thought that original sin was more faithful to Cornell Woolrich (William Irish) than Truffaut .Waltz into darkness  indeed as the characters move from the luminous landscapes at the beginning of the movie to the dimming light of the brothels,the dives,the dark corner of the streets and the station full of smoke.And beginning the movie when the die is cast (the whole film being a flashback) is Irishesque to the core.His novel I married a dead man ,a close relative to Waltzing into darkness ,begins with a woman realizing that now the game's over and they (she and her love) have lost . I married a dead man was adapted by Robin Davis in 1982 and was marred by a stupid happy end.That's what happens in original sin.Its last sequences are ludicrous and laughable (notably ,the priest's help) and almost destroy the murky atmosphere the director managed to build .Most of William Irish's novels are desperate and most of the directors seem to be afraid to follow him into his darkest night. "},{"Title":"Take a good guess why this BAD film is recommended after all?","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Antonio Banderas (recently a promoter of potato chips in lame TV commercials) stars as a rich loser who mail orders himself an American bride. He's expecting an ugly broad but what he gets is the stunningly beautiful Angelina Jolie! He desperately falls in love with her (who wouldn't) and gives her access to all his bank-accounts (bad idea). The ravishing nymph quickly turns out to be a con artist and leaves him with a broken heart and financial hangover. With the help of a private detective, he goes after her. In all honesty due to the dull sounding plot, I never would have checked out this film if it weren't for Jolie. Face it, Angelina is the most gorgeous actress alive and the fact she has several nude-sequences here is a damn good reason to sit through it. Female viewers might enjoy the looks of Banderas' butt-cheeks too in order to forget the weak story! Don't feel guilty about watching Original Sin just for this, the makers OWE you this much for sitting through this failure. The film is boring, the plot is so predictable and the entire production wishes to be so much classier than it actually is! ...And yet you keep staring at it! Why? Well, that's where Angelina Hot Lips kicks in again. You wouldn't want to risk missing out on another long close-up of her naked body, that's why! All in one&#133;I liked the song by INXS much better.  "},{"Title":"Truly one of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have to say this was truly one of the worst movies I've ever seen..yet for some reason I couldn't stop watching. I supposed I wanted to know if it just might get any better, or if there was any possibility it could actually get worse. Surprise!!! It actually did get worse! The acting was weak (the stars were Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas so I guess that won't be a shock to anyone) but what made it truly awful was, well, everything else. The dialoge, the plot, everything was cheesy to the max. I will say, however, if you happen upon it on late night cable, it is worth watching for a good laugh. I think even Angelina and Antonia must have been embarrassed by it. "}]