[{"Title":"Sit, Stay, and Enjoy!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"42 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You would almost have to have seen the dog show world first hand to understand all the delicious inside jokes, but even if the extent of your dog show experience is an occasional glimpse of the Westminster Dog Show telecast, you'll howl with laughter.Conformation dog showing is a world of illusion in which everyone tries to make perfect dogs out of something less.  Best in Show strips the illusion away in a brutal satire that undoubtedly had every dog person on the planet cringing in horror and delight. Isn't that just like so-and-so? and I'm nothing like that!Christopher Guest may have topped his supreme masterpiece Spinal Tap with this signature mockumentary in which he skewers all of dogdom.  You will recognize Fred Willard's vapid and obnoxious television host as none other than Joe what's his name from Westminster, and the tension between him and Trevor Beckwith (Jim Piddock) is a thinly veiled roman a clef of David and Joe at the Big Show.There are a few gaffs, like the fact at all the dogs at the Show are supposed to be champions before entry, but that doesn't detract from the fun.  John Michael Higgins, who steals the show as the uninhibited handler, and Michael McKean are hilarious as the gay couple going out of their way to be outre. Co-writer Eugene Levy (American Pie) is perfect as the husband finding out that his wife Catherine O'Hara might be Miss Congeniality of all time. I also loved Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock as the overwrought yuppie couple who project all their angst on their poor dog.  Larry Miller turns in a great cameo as one of the countless men in O'Hara's past.A lot of people didn't get this gem.  To them I can only say Bad Dog, Bad Dog!  For the rest of us, it's Sit, Stay, and Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Best In Show indeed","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit that I've never seen Waiting for Guffman, 1997's critically acclaimed comedy mockumentary about a small town thats that stages a pageant. When the advertising for Best in Show had the tagline From the Team That Brought You Waiting for Guffman, a fair number of critics out there implied in their reviews that only people that are familiar with the film or its filmmakers and cast would have a good time seeing this film. For shame, critics, for shame times two!  Any critic that implies something like that with any film probably doesn't want to share the film's wealth with the rest of the world, but this is one film that I hope people will experience, now that its video/dvd. Best in Show is, without a doubt,  the best comedy of 2000.The film begins with a mockumentary style, introducing the main competitors (not to mention screwballs) of the annual Mayflower Best In Show competition, where dogs of all breeds come to compete to see who is the top dog. We have the loveable and gullable Harry Pepper (Guest) with his bloodhound, the simple Gerry & Cookie Fleck (Levy & O'Hara) with their terriors, nut-case yuppies Hamilton & Meg Swan (Hitchcock & Posey), the gay dog groomers Scott Dolan & Stefan Vanderhoof (Higgins & McKean), and the airheaded millionare Sheri Ann Ward Cabot (Coolidge) along with her trainer Christy Cummings (Lynch).  They all have their minds on one simple object The Blue Ribbon, which will be awarded to the best dog. And...do I have to tell you the rest?Director/writer/star Guest's idea of humor is one that assures me that there are comedies out there that are worth laughing at, and that the idiocy of films like American Pie or other pointless teenage flicks won't take over the world after all. His idea is simple make your comedy not just funny, but SMART funny. But instead of following in the brilliant footsteps of films like Zero Effect and High Fidelity, he used a rather unusual approach (and as I understand, he also used this approach for Guffman). Whether you notice or not, a very large part of the film is improvisation. In other words, what the actors say and do were probably not written in the script, maybe even not even dreamed of by Guest and co-writer/star Levy. But with a gentle hand from Guest, he and the actors pulled off a hilarious theatrical feat that probably would have flopped if handled by other, less adept actors.  Now that's smart!The cast is, of course, what makes improv work the most. All of them are a (comedic) marvel to behold, especially Guest as Pepper. But the real standout has to be Fred Williard as Buck Laughlin, the clueless announcer at the competition who can spin out the most outrageously funny stories and comments that no announcer would even dream of...that is, if the announcer was trying to be funny. Williard can go from talking about the dog to suddenly going on and on about how much he can bench press. There's even a part were he gives out an idea for a new marketing strategy have sexy women pose in tight shirts and shorts with the dogs and imply something like have a doggie-style of a time. Its priceless, as is his performance.I hope that people engage in this 90-minute dogumentary. The film deserves so much recognition. It did get nominated for Best Picture-Comedy at the Golden Globes, but didn't win. I can't see why. I mean, in the comedy department, it is best in show.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Dog people, amusing enough in real life, are much more so in Christoher Guest's master mockumentary.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show (2000) Directed by Christopher Guest. Written by Guest and Eugene Levy. Starring Parker Posey, Michael Hitchcock, Levy, Catherine O'Hara, John Michael Higgins, Michael McKean, Guest and Fred Willard. Running Time 90 minutes   Rated PG-13Dog people, and the dogs that own them, are often amusing in real life. But in the hands of master mock documentarist Christopher Guest, the amusement is marvelously magnified. (Guest practically invented the mockumentary with his 1984 rock band send-up, This is Spinal Tap.)In the days leading up to the Mayfair Kennel Club Dog Show, several sets of contestants make their way to Philadelphia to realize a dream of being Best in Show. There's a pair of New York yuppies (Posey and Hitchcock) who are even higher strung than their willful weimaraner. A gay couple (Higgins and McKean) shows up to show off their shih tzu. A Florida husband and wife (Levy and O'Hara) make the trip with their terrier, discovering along the way that every man they meet is one of her former lovers. And finally, springing fully-grown from a country music song, lonely guy Harlan Pepper (Guest) arrives from North Carolina in a pickup truck with his droop-faced bloodhound. Once at the show, the odd assortment of owners conduct their canines toward a best in show showdown, where brilliantly inept color commentary is provided by Buck Laughlin (Willard).Even though fairly well known actors play the primary roles, Guest achieves a documentary feel, mainly because much of the dialogue seems improvised. As writer-director, he deserves credit, either for writing sharp dialogue, or for directing in a way that inspires creativity in his actors.Some of the best lines come from Posey and Hitchcock, the yuppie couple who met when their eyes locked as they sipped coffee at separate but close-by Starbucks, and whose pooch becomes paranoid whenever they get intimate in its presence. The other cast members ably deliver lines that define their quirky characters. Especially good is O'Hara as a woman with a past who is nonetheless devoted to spouse Levy, who literally has two left feet. Even the background extras, probably real-life dog handlers, are fascinating to watch, and seem to inhabit their own documentaries, waiting for their own close-ups.The last third of the film brings the entire cast together for the Best in Show competition. This is where Willard, who seems to have wandered in from a slow day at the XFL, delivers his wildly comic commentary, which amazes and befuddles his more serious partner. (For a while, there was actually some Oscar buzz for Willard's performance here.) Though the film pokes fun at the dog show circuit, it also reveals a fondness for the people involved. It may not inspire you to become a dog show person, but it just may have you looking in the classifieds to see when the next real-life show is coming to your town.Rating  3.5 stars out of 4###  "},{"Title":"Intelligent, Hilarious, Restrained, Balanced Humor","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the era of the Farrelly Brothers and the Jackass series, to have a movie made and performed by Americans come out that is well paced and full of charm as well as hilarity is well-nigh miraculous. This ensemble has been behind some other efforts, most recently A Mighty Wind which was so subtle it seemed to be an actual documentary without the overlay of entertainment, but Best In Show hits on all cylinders. It is superbly cast with some of the best of current US actors, Parker Posey, who exudes energy even when she stands still, Eugene Levy as tolerant everyman who is nobody's doormat, even when he appears to be (or maybe, 'indomitable doormat'). The brilliant stylings of Fred Willard, the understated performances of so many others, which is a characteristic not normally associated with Americans or American actors. One of the few humorous movies I can watch again and again. "},{"Title":"It's a Riot","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Right before turning in, the girlfriend said that if I was still up working into the wee hours I should take a break and turn on the telly. Best in Show would be on and although she hadn't seen it, she'd heard it got great reviews.I kept working and forgot the time. The telly was on but I ignored it. All of a sudden I began hearing this very weird dialog. 'We like the same things - soup, snow peas, talking - and not talking.' I thought to myself 'what is this - some kind of weird porn movie?' And I continued ignoring it for a while longer until I heard the voices of Levy and Begley Jr. It was then I remembered what the girlfriend had said.I looked the movie up at the IMDb quickly and was surprised to see who was behind it Christopher Guest aka Nigel Tufnel, the man with the extra loud guitar amplifier. I knew then I was lucky to still be awake to witness this one.I made two more checks at the IMDb before getting back to the movie the number of awards and nominations and the box office. Not surprisingly this was a low budget venture, and not surprisingly either it's garnered tonnes of awards and nominations. The studio made a profit off this one, but it's pocket change in comparison to the big blockbusters. Still, it must be a kind of Woody Allen and Orion kind of thing movies like this make the studio look good.On to the movie it's a riot, a bloody riot. It might not be your cuppa, but then OK - turn it off or watch something else. But there is so much in this one - it plays a bit like an Altman. Lots of hand-held too. And when you finally get to the show itself on comes Fred Willard and takes it away. He uses Jim Piddock as a foil - actually he uses almost everything as a foil. And if you think his portrayal is too much over the top, reflect on the fact it's supposedly a copy of an actual commentator at shows of this kind.This type of movie is either extraordinarily difficult or admirably easy to make, and I suspect it's a bit of both. Some of the skits are just too much, and everywhere you turn the acting is inspired. One scene with I believe Posey in a pet shop is precious - and not only her work but the shop assistant's. Amazing stuff.Mostly my sympathies went to Begley Jr who was the receptionist at the hotel. Meeting all these weird types and trying to remain accommodating and representative - it must be difficult if not impossible. There are some very weird characters in this one.And you may be asking yourselves 'watch a mockumentary about a dog show and its participants?' And that's the whole point - it's hilarious; it's a riot.I give it an 11. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and original comedy.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before the lights went out and the movie Best in Show began, the representative from Warner Bros. asked the audience two questions Any Spinal Tap fans? and Any dog fans? The audience responded affirmatively in both instances, and such began the movie.  If you answer yes to both of these questions, this is a must-see movie.  If you answered no, you should still see this satirical romp following the actions of the Mayflower Dog Show in Philadelphia. The director, writer and star of Best in Show, Christopher Guest, is no newcomer to fake documentaries.  As the lead guitarist in the aforementioned This Is Spinal Tap (1984) and the director, writer and star of Waiting for Guffman (1997), he is perhaps the master of the field, exploring a common theme, as reflected in the Guffman tag line There's a good reason some talent remains undiscovered. Guest explores this theme further in Best in Show, looking at ordinary people not mockingly but almost tenderly.  You understand the characters' fears and insecurities, and you can only see too much of people you know or yourself in them.  More importantly, you like these characters.  When Eugene Levy's character Gerry Fleck reacts to his wife Cookie's (Catherine O'Hara) past wild sex life, you know that this is a man who loves his wife and whom his wife loves, despite his huge dorkiness and her having slept with almost every man they meet.  Pookie and I work as a team, he says, and they do, singing in harmony about their beloved terrier. The other characters are as banal and human as they can be; the braces-wearing yuppie couple, played with aplomb by Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock, take their dog to a therapist because the dog is depressed and angry about having seen the couple in the Congress of the Cow Kama Sutra position.  They wax poetic about having been raised amongst catalogues, extolling the virtues of J. Crew and L.L. Bean, and describe their similarities as loving soup, outdoors, snowpeas, talking and not talking. These two are perhaps the most caricaturistic and one-dimensional of the characters in the film, but you feel sad for them for their transference of parental instinct onto their woeful dog. Best in Show has its share of comedic highs, most notably, the interplay between Buck Laughlin (Fred Willard), the hopelessly clueless commentator, and Trevor Beckwith (Jim Piddock), the British dog expert.  As Buck barrages Trevor with inane and hilarious questions, Trevor brings up the most specific detail about the different breeds and the particular judges. Buck reminds me of my Uncle Bob, the man who doesn't know anything about anything but talks about it anyway, and it's perhaps the funniest part of the movie. This movie is kind to its characters while making fun of them, and the result is hilarity.  While I'm curious about the new Tim Meadows' vehicle The Ladies Man, this is the most original and, arguably, the funniest comedy out right now. "},{"Title":"ONe of the funniest movies ever","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the only Christopher Guest movie that rivals Spinal Tap and Princess Bride for sheer entertainment value, but somehow never gets near the recognition. The plot surrounds the contestants--dogs--and their owners as they venture into the world of competitive dog...OK, it's about a dog show. The owners truly are characters, as one would have to be to be so attached to their dogs. That's really all there is to it, but that makes it funny enough.You'd never be able to convince me that a mock-u-mentary about dog shows would be funny prior to catching the hilarious scene where Levy and O'hara visit Larry Miller's house on TV...but that's really all it takes to convert any doubters. Spinal Tap was non-stop hilarity, joke after joke whereas Best in Show was had a few more lulls (and by that I mean say 3 minute at MOST where something riotously funny doesn't happen), but the big laughs are even bigger.The casting in this one is great and even the typically out of place in, uh movies in general Parker Posey does a fine job. In fact, her tirade directed at Ed Begley Jr. and a pet store owner over a lost dog toy is probably the funniest running gag of the film.What's amazing about this movie to me is how the writers somehow managed to weave a plot, simple as it was, around these great jokes so that it actually felt like it had direction. I guess there's a freedom in having such a minimal plot. Everyone's role is pretty well crafted here and the characters are rarely over-the-top. The realism of how pathetic they seem to the outsider is what makes it funnier than Mighty Wind or the uneven Guffman. I actually encounter wierdos like this now and then. If you like Guest's stuff at all, you should definitely own this one. "},{"Title":"As good as Spinal Tap","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I have ever seen.  However, I have laughed harder at plenty of movies.  This is because Best In Show's brilliance lies not in slapstick or one-liners, but in sophisticated and layered verbal wit.  The improvised dialogue is is so quick that you end up laughing not at each individual joke, but only until after several jokes build on one another, each disarming your senses until the jokes climax and you can't help letting loose.It's a well-shot film, but what makes it extraordinary is the acting.  I was impressed on my first viewing, but when I watched it after having learned that virtually every scene is improvised, I was amazed.  It was thoroughly enjoyable to see the comedians work off each other, build jokes out of nothing, and completely immerse themselves in their characters.I imagine the golden days of Second City were like this. "},{"Title":"Total SCREAM!","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just love this movie / mock-u-mentary! Best in Show is a mockumentary made by the same team who brought you the also brilliant This Is Spinal Tap. It follows several contestants of the Mayflower Dog Show and their dogs. You have a sexually frustrated yuppie couple who met at Starbucks from across the street, a couple of Gay queens with their Shihtzus, a working class couple with a wife who has had hundreds of boyfriends, a redneck ventriloquist with his blood hound, and a Anna Nicole Smith trophy wife wannabe and her lesbian dog handler. This is just such a wacky bunch - it is a great ride. Some may find it a bit too slow - but I just loved all the subtle humour in it - you can definitely get repeat viewings out of this one! It is a total scream!!  "},{"Title":"A good fakeumentary","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's Best of Show follows his great tradition of fake-documentaries which includes This is Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman.  This time, he takes a poke at dog shows, which is something no one has done before (I think).  Here, he shows 5 different contenders (including himself which is one of the great parts of this film).  Other contenders include Michael McKean, Michael Hitchcock, Catherine O'Hara, Jennifer Coolidge, John Michael Higgins, Parker Posey and in a exceptional effort as a man with 2 left feet, Eugene Levy (he also co-wrote the script with Guest).  Often very funny, sometimes poignant, and like all of Guest's projects, never dissapointing, only liability might be that it isn't for all tastes (but hey, not everyone found 11 on a sound stsyem great either which seems odd).  A- "}{"Title":"Comic genius.  One of the funniest movies ever","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie should go down as one of the funniest movies in history. Its cousins A mighty wind, Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman are terrific in their own right but Best in Show takes the cake. A movie about the idiosyncrasies of dog owners that show their dogs competitively, it's the intricacies of the characters that make it so good. After watching the movie about 75 times I have come to the conclusion that there is no weak character or actor in this film. There is very little interaction between any of the groups of characters but that only seems to add to the beauty of the film. If you watch this movie and don't find it as funny as I am billing it as, watch it again. The first time I saw it I thought it was serviceable but not overly hilarious. It is a film that grows on you. Defininatly a movie that you will find yourself quoting frequently. Characters Hamilton and Meg Swan A+ if you get the DVD check out how these characters were born amazing that these two could hit it so on the head. And to find out that they really didn't go by a script and sort of made it up as they went. Gerry and Cookie Guggleman A Cookie is especially funny and she does a fantastic job of selling the Cookie character. Gerry (Eugene Levy) delivers his standard stellar performance of the hilarious discombobulated type weaker half. Stefan Vanderhoof and Scott Donalan- A+ Find me a funnier character than Scott Donalan, I DARE YOU! He will forever be typecast as this character to me as he was so natural and didn't seem forced at any point. Stefan (Micheal McKean) was very good as well and they interplay here (and a brief appearance with the Gugglemans) goes to show why he is always in these films. A great actor with razor like wit. Harlan Pepper- B+, I don't want it to seem like he isn't funny, he sure is but being the only Solo act he can't be quite as funny as the others above. He does use the dog more than others and has some other idiosyncrasies going for him.The rest are all great as well, there is no weak character. See this film at least twice. Buy it, you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"When I was not laughing, I was at the edge of laughter.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Best in Show is a delightful comedy, a pseudo-documentary about dog lovers and their dogs. The characters themselves are delightful, both human and canine. The comedy varies from very subtle to obvious but never becomes ridiculous. Many things will not be noticed on the first viewing. This is one of those films that can be trotted out frequently and still be as funny as ever. The film was written by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy who also star in it; Guest directed it. They and much of the cast were also in Waiting for Guffman. The cast consists predominantly of improv comedians from Second City, National Lampoon and Saturday Night Live. The scene concepts were planned but there were no rehearsals; the actors improvised the dialogue, resulting in very spontaneous interaction between the characters. The actors could plan things that they wanted their characters to say but they might not get the chance to use much of what they planned; it all depended on what the other characters would say. Different takes of the same scene could be completely different. Over sixty hours of film were taken and the editing took about eight months. The film culminates in the big Mayflower Dog Show in Philadelphia. There are two commentators one, Trevor Beckwith (British actor Jim Piddock, who was required to study everything that he could about dogs and dog shows), is an expert on dogs and the local, Buck Laughlin (Fred Willard, who was instructed to learn nothing about dogs), obviously knows nothing about dogs except, perhaps, that they have four legs and two genders; they interacted with great hilarity. Three of the five dog show judges were actually show dog judges; the other two were actors. Most of the dog handlers in the show were not actors. The film is one of the funniest that I have ever seen; when I was not laughing, I was at the edge of laughter. "},{"Title":"Just great!","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know, this movie reminded me so much of so many people I know, I think that's the reason why I loved this movie so much. I was just on the floor laughing because this had such a serious and document feel to it, but the dialog is so hilarious, that you can't help but have a good time. Basically the movie is about these crazed dog owners who are competing in a big dog show to see who is the best of the best. Whlie it seems like it should be the dogs who take this competition seriously, it turns out the owners are just as insane. Megan, one of the dog owners, goes almost serial psycho killer on the hotel manager because she cannot find the special bee squeaky toy for her dog.There is another couple that is just great, Gerry and Cookie, this complete nerd and attractive woman that are just so lovable. In the beginning of the movie, Gerry describes how many boyfriends Cookie had. Throughout the movie, her lovers see her and hit on her even in front of Gerry! It was just great and fun to watch Gerry's looks. This whole movie is just a hoot, and you can't stop with the recognizable faces that keep popping up. It's a great movie is just fun to watch, I'd highly recommend it! Now, I have to find a nice way of showing this to my friends who are like these couples to see the mirror image of themselves. D 8/10 "},{"Title":"This is hilarious!!","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love the mockumentary format that Chris Guest and crew have developed over the years. I actually like this and Waiting for Guffman better than Spinal Tap, which was the first of the group (and made by Rob Reiner but starred Guest and several other of his mockumentary regulars). This humor is not for everyone. IT's rather subtle and not too physical, so some people may not relate. However, as a dog lover (and a dog show fan), I loved this movie. There are so many funny lines in it! My daughter and I quote them to each other often. I find it amazing that these people can ad lib so much funny material for each movie! What a fun bunch they must be. I highly recommend this to people who prefer their humor on the cerebral side.  "},{"Title":"Quick reviews!!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie brought together some of the old Spinal crew for another mockumentary film, this time revolving around the world of the Dog Show, how their owners prepare and train for the show before moving on to the show itself.We meet several teams as they hope to win the top prize- The Fleck's, Cookie who seems to have slept with every man ever, and Gerry who tries to cope with his wife's old escapades and the fact that he literally has two left feet. Harlan, whose dog talks to him, and enjoys ventriloquism. The Swan's who have taken far too much coffee and scream at each other. Donalan and Vanderhoof the gay couple, and Cabot and Cummings who have won the last two years. Fred Willard commentates on the show, and is very funny as always. Funny scenes include the 'Look at me!' scene, and any with Levy. Unfortunately some of the best scenes were deleted or filmed later- Willard interviewing Leslie Cabot, and the alternative epilogue with Gerry is one of the funniest things i have ever seen. If these had been included, i would give the film an extra mark. But...7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"adorable pooches - and owners","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A really wonderful feel-good-movie set in dog show milieu. Everybody who has ever had anything to do with kennel world and / or dog shows will find many familiar things in this movie. Non-dog lovers can also enjoy the movie since it has wonderful actors and exellent story (done in a highly entertaining documentary style. By the way, the dogs in this movie really are show champions, all are the very best examples of the breed! "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's not often that I laugh out loud at a movie, but this one made me several times. I fell in love with Parker Posey in this movie. I don't really know why since she's completely mean and pretty much unlikeable, but she's just so good. The busy-bee exchange with the guy in the pet shop makes me crack-up every time. And what can you say about Fred Willard and Eugene Levy...It's a mockumentary about a dog show and a bunch of wacky dog owners. Don't expect to be moved in some epiphanatical (I might have just made up a word) way after watching this movie, but if you just let yourself get caught up in the absurdity, you'll probably have a few good laughs. "},{"Title":"It gets better and better with repeated viewings","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best of the films (so far) that Christopher Guest has created using his very talented ensemble cast. Previously, they'd made the excellent WAITING FOR GUFFMAN and following BEST IN SHOW, they made the very enjoyable A MIGHTY WIND. As for their latest, FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION, the less said the better.The film appears to be a documentary about dog shows and several contestants in particular. You follow these few chosen dogs from pre-show preparations all the way to the big night where one of them is chosen best in show at the fictitious Mayflower Kennel Club. However, none of these people are real dog show enthusiasts but talent improvisational actors that parody many of the common types of people you meet in the dog show world. Amazingly, even though the characters are rather outlandish, there is a lot of truth to the personalities they are parodying--as decades ago I had some experience with dog shows and this is a VERY cutthroat group of people! My favorites of the dog owners were the incredibly high-pressure and tense yuppie couple who just exuded anger and volatility. I also loved the openly gay couple, as they were terribly funny and clever. However, the best performance probably wasn't from any of the couples but from Fred Willard who played the world's stupidest and least talented announcer in human history. His comments were uniformly inane and often betrayed him as an incredibly stupid person--how he got to be the announcer for such a prestigious show is anyone's guess. The other contestants featured were also quite funny--the high-priced professional poodle handler and its rich owner, the country boy and his hound as well as Winkie's parents who could barely scrape together enough to make it to the show.Despite the improvised style of film making, the pieces all fit together wonderfully and told a very funny and compelling story--one that is NOT for dog owners only. Exceptional acting made this one of the best comedies of the last decade. Clever and consistently funny.By the way, try to find this on DVD as the extras were actually worth seeing. While a bit painful to watch, I loved seeing Harlan Pepper and his beach ball collection in particular! "},{"Title":"Why have I missed these films?","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So who was the Best in Show? Was it the incredibly neurotic Meg Swan (Parker Posey). I mean, can you believe how she went ape over that bee toy? Can you believe that she or that husband of hers (Michael Hitchcock) should ever be allowed to own a dog? How about Gerry (Eugene Levy) and Cookie (Catherine O'Hara)? I was just cracking up over how he had to deal with her promiscuous past.Then, there is Scott (John Michael Higgins) and Stafan (Michael McKean). Naturally, they would own the Shih Tzus. Scott's costumes were too much, but they were supposed to be. I cracked at the line What Shih Tzus need rescuing anyway? You don't see Shih Tzus straggling around the streets in an old coat help, alms for the poor.The repressed lesbian, Sherri Ann (Jennifer Coolidge) and her new partner Christy (Jane Lynch), who said, The heart and the soul which was what my mom did, that was her role, she was there for the unconditional love and it worked for my family, you know... until my mom committed suicide in '81. Or, was it Harlan (Christopher Guest), who looked just like his dog. Do people still do ventriloquism? Best in Show? It goes to Buck (Fred Willard). He was a hoot, and he didn't even have a dog! You can be sure that I will be watching the other mocumentaries to see these actors again. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Best in Show is a mocumentary on dog shows, brought to us by the same team that made the classic Spinal Tap We follow several groups of dog handlers as they prepare their dogs for the biggest dog show in the country. They are all pretty stereotypical dog owners (in that they are eccentric and self obsessed), but all very different.The second half of the movie is the dog show, where the movie kicks into overdrive, thanks largely to the commentary of Buck Laughlin, played by the brilliant Fred Willard. He seems to be a frustrated ex sports commentator who is now resigned to the lower rating sports. He knows nothing about dogs and bumbles through by asking dumb questions, making poor analysis and adding some sexual innuendo. Just awesome.Very well written, excellent cast and plenty of laughs. "}{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very funny movie about a dog show a la Westminster or Eukanuba, although the focus is less on the dogs than their owners and handlers. In a movie full of side-splitting moments, two of the best scenes are actually pretty poignant and emotionally touching. Both are near the end. The first is when dog owner Jennifer Stiffler's Mom Coolidge and dog handler Jane Lynch realize they've fallen in love, and embrace. The second is a reaction shot of dog owner Michael McKean, when the winner is announced and it's not McKean's pooch. For a fraction of a second, he shows disappointment, then gives a little shrug, smiles and heartily applauds the winner. McKean's character also happens to be gay, by the way, and there is a strong gay sensibility throughout this lark of a movie, so it will not be for everyone. But if you want funny, wait until you see Cathleen Home Alone O'Hara limping around moments before she's about to walk her dog down the runway. Hubby Eugene American Pie Levy takes over, with incredibly comical results. Also, every word out of show commentator Fred Willard's mouth is to die for. He plays a blue Joe Gargiola type, and apparently improvised most of his lines. There's also some hysterical business featuring a highly strung Parker Posey trying to track down her poochie's lost toy. Posey has never been better. Guest assigns himself the role of a good-hearted backwoodsman taking his hound dog to its first national meet. Wait until you see their scenes together! "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ten minutes after the movie ended I was still sitting in sort of a dumbfounded coma...then I started laughing and I couldn't stop. This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Christopher Guest deserved recognition for this film, and his role as a bait shop owner from North Carolina that has a fancy for bloodhounds and ventriloquism. And I love Catherine O'Hara and she's never been better with Eugene Levy as her husband-seems everyone knows this ex waitress in a special way but I'm not sure her husband has ever had the pleasure? Lots of familiar faces and hilarity all around-not a slow moment during the movie and it's chocked full of surprises too. Very creative! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Best in Show","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From director/writer Christopher Guest (one of the band members in This Is Spinal Tap, and acting in the film), and co-writer (and actor) Eugene Levy (American Pie), this is an interesting comedy with a hardly interesting contest, but it does actually become fun. Basically an array of characters from all walks of life, and all as unusual as each other, are preparing their dogs for the 25th Annual Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show. A film crew is filming all individual contestants, and the judges, including Harlan Pepper (Guest), Gerry Fleck (Levy) along with his admirer Cookie Fleck (Home Alone's Catherine O'Hara), Stefan Vanderhoof (Michael McKean), Scott Donlan (John Michael Higgins), Sherri Ann Ward Cabot (American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge) and Buck Laughlin (American Pie The Wedding's Fred Willard). There are some giggly moments of dialogue, and small gross or silly comedy, and the winner of the contest is almost obvious, but worth it. It won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. It was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments, and it was number 30 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Good! "},{"Title":"Basically an improvised home movie that uses a dog show as the reason to introduce the various strange characters.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching Best In Show my first question was, Why did so many rate this movie so highly? My wife walked out after 10 minutes. In a fit of generosity I gave it a 6 of 10, only after I viewed the DVD version with the director's commentary turned on.The director and co-writer is Christopher Guess, who also stars as Harlan Pepper, a country bumkin who is showing his bloodhound, and studies ventriloquism on the side.  The other co-writer is Eugene Levy who stars as Jerry Fleck, who meets up with another of his wife's ex-lovers almost everywhere they go. Jerry as two left feet, literally.To say the movie was written is a bit of a stretch because, as Guess and Levy explain, all scenes and dialog were improvised, with no rehearsals. Except for Parker Posey, who plays the out-of-control housewife, all the actors are veterans of improvisation, and most have worked together in other movies.  The whole film has the feel of improvisation, and the look of a hand-held home movie, but with better sound. Instead of using selective focus to isolate the subject, almost everything is in focus in most scenes.Fred Willard was the most entertaining. Many of us have seen him regularly in comic skits on the Jay Leno late night TV show. He was one of the two announcers at the dog show, and his questions and comments never fit, but were funny because of that. How do they get those Scnauzers to become minature? Do they shrink them? Do you know they eat dogs in some cultures? That judge, examining the dog's testicles, I would be uncofortable on a date with her!The dog show brings forth the gay couple, the quarreling couple, the March/December couple, and so forth. After best in show is picked, and everyone goes their separate ways, the short epilog shows how the show influenced them and what they did afterward. The funniest was the calendar the gay couple were making, showing two dogs posed as various famous movie characters.Why do I think this is a mediocre movie?  It is obviously a vanity project. Guess and Levy apparently said, let's make a comedy with lots of funny people and sight gags, let's use improvisation, and use a dog show in Philadelphia as a reason for following the lives of all these fringe personalities.  I found it entertaining for the most part, but also found Parker Posey's acting to be too much over the top, and found myself cringing instead of laughing. Too many of the gags came across as forced humor.  While I admire the project, having made many home movies myself when my children were growing up, overall the effort misses the entertainment mark of a major film.  "},{"Title":"Smiled--a lot; laughed--not as much","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As with the Waiting for Guffman DVD, there are a good many deleted scenes to sift through on Best in Show (clocking in at nearly 30 minutes), most of which are pretty damn funny. After watching the film itself, I was left wondering why some weren't spliced into the finished product, since Best isn't nearly as good as Guffman or Christopher Guest's previous foray into 'mockumentaries,' This is Spinal Tap. What we're left with is a fitfully funny, faux behind-the-scenes look at dog competitions with characters that lack the authenticity of the small-town performers in Guffman and the washed-up metalheads of Tap--these people (down to Eugene Levy's 2 left feet and Parker Posey's braces) smack of artificiality. While the film is funny and ultimately satisfying for fans of Guest's observational brand of humor, I found myself smiling more than laughing at Best in Show. "},{"Title":"Funny to the furriest level","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have read several of the bad reviews, and some of them say this movie has a really bad script. Those people are WRONG. The dialogue is hilarious, but the beauty of it is, there is no script. This movie is entirely improv.Any way, this movie follows five teams hoping to win the Mayflower Kennel Club Best in Show award. There's Harlan Pepper (Guest) a redneck from Florida and his bloodhound. There are Meg and Hamilton Swan (Posey and Hitchcock,) a yuppie couple who are obsessed with their dog. There are Cookie and Gerry Fleck (Levy and O'Hara,) who love their terrier. There are Sherry Cabot and Christy Cumming (Coolidge and Lynch), one of whom is a gold digger and the other is a trainer for the poodle. Lastly, there are Stephen Vanderhoof and Scott Donlan (McKean and Higgins) who play gay lovers who own shih tzus. They all want to win the top prize, but who will truly win? From there, the mayhem is out of control. The jokes in this movie are great. From a kid who wants to strap a toy parachuter to the terrier and throw it off the shed, to a man with two left feet, to Buck Laughlin (Lilard) that steals the show with his unknowledge about dogs. This movie is flat out hilarious. If you can, get the DVD because it has great deleted scenes. 10/10 Rating Couple talking about their dog watching them mate, gay scenes (not extreme) and some language. "},{"Title":"not a dog at all","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Functioning as a sort of midpoint between Waiting for Guffman and A Mighty Wind, Best in Show portrays a dog show and the various people who bring their canine friends to participate. Some are weird, some crazy, and otherwise, but they all make the movie good. Director Christopher Guest is particularly funny as gay Harlan Pepper, very much trying to promote his dog. Eugene Levy, Parker Posey, Michael McKean, Catherine O'Hara, and Bob Balaban also do great jobs (I can't imagine them not doing great jobs, at least not in a Christopher Guest movie). As someone who's never attended a dog show, this movie is my main exposure to them. They sure look neat. "},{"Title":"A Bit Sleazy, But Very Funny","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Considered by many who have watched all three of Christopher Guest's mockumentary films as his funniest, Best In Show is guaranteed to evoke a number of laughs and offend someone.This is a typical modern-day comedy meaning that sex jokes dominate and there is both a gay and lesbian couple. So, if you've heard this is about dog shows, don't rush out and rent this and watch it with the kiddies. It is anything but family fare.Yet, despite all the sleaze factor - and there is a lot of it - I still found this charming, for some reason. The laughs range from crude to subtle and the characters who enter their dogs in professional shows are really the subject of exaggerated ridicule here from Yuppies to gay men to redneck hunters to dog trainers to nerdy types to whatever. No one pictured in this movie is a healthy, normal person. Everyone is whacked to some degree, except the announcer. However, his sidekick, the color man (played by Fred Williard) is brutal! The message, obviously, is that some people just take their pets a little too seriously! "},{"Title":"Not Guest's Best in Show","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The third movie (though some people count This is Spinal Tap as the first of the mockumentaries) from Christopher Guest starring a plethora of comedic talent playing slightly over-the-top quirky characters. I never saw his first film, Waiting for Guffman, I liked his second, A Mighty Wind, but this one didn't really cut it for me. It's not a bad film, I just didn't feel the same depth in the characters to find them that humorous in their antics. Perhaps they were too real, not over-the-top enough. Definitely worth a view if you liked the prior films, but I wouldn't recommend it to someone looking for a comedy but who are unfamiliar with Guest's earlier films. "},{"Title":"Best in Show? Not Quite.","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Waiting for Guffman may just be my favorite comedy of all time; hardly a scene goes by without a dozen hilarious little lines and moments. It would, therefore, have given me nothing but pleasure to report that Best in Show, the first of Christopher Guest and ensemble's attempts to recapture the blissfully goofy chemistry of that earlier effort, was a rousing success. Unfortunately it's not. There are quite a few amusing moments, but the film never inspired in me much beyond a modest chuckle.Mostly to blame, I think, is the fact that Guest enlarges his ensemble too much, with the result that no one really has enough screen time to create full characters with personalities of their own. The film feels much more episodic, and the actors even more than in Guffman play caricatures rather than people.Still, these complaints will probably only pose a problem -- or at least problems to the same extent -- if you are as much a fan of Guffman as I am to begin with.Grade B "}{"Title":"Funny moments don't outweigh boring!","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Couldn't wait to see this as I am a big fan of dogs and not a fan of dog shows....  However after watching the whole thing I was very disappointed. Granted there were some funny even brilliant moments but alas it was momentarily while the dragging on was like the RV trip... Trying hard to be funny but falling very flat.  If you have nothing else to watch go ahead but if you want to see dogs rent anything from Lassie to Benji and have more fun. "},{"Title":"Psychotic 'comedy' that begs the question Do you really have to be smarter than the dog to train it?","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A rather two-dimensional representation of the neuroses of show dogs and their owners.  If seeing other people act like blithering idiots makes you feel superior, prepare to feel exceedingly good about yourself.  These characters have all the depth of a puddle, and the intellect of a rock. "},{"Title":"A dog of a film","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An all star cast can't save this howlingly bad comedy about dog shows and the neurotic dog lovers and dog owners who are all desperate to have their dog win the title of best in show. Everything about this embarrassing film lost already long before it even ended. "},{"Title":"An awesome display of directional improve","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show definetly deserves the blue ribbon.  Completely improved, the movie is an outstanding display of the actors true comedic talents. Best in Show was filmed without a script using only ideas to shape the direction of the film.  Many takes and hours of footage leave the viewer completely satisfied and laughing out loud.  Each character is finely crafted and unique especially the characters played by SCTV graduates Eugene Levy and Catherine O Hara.  This film allows both actors to display their talents.The film includes all the regular Christopher Guest regulars and is clearly a film that fans of Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman can enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently watched Best in Show on the advice of a few of my friends who thoroughly enjoyed the movie. The flow of the film is very interesting.  The beginning is very much like watching a documentary similar to those on cable channels like E! and the end flows more like a traditional motion picture (other than the final interviews, of course). Overall, I can't complain about my viewing experience, which though it seemed to drag at times (like most documentaries do), went by much more quickly and painlessly than I would have thought.  The plot and script are pretty predictable, but the storyline follows exactly how it should, however expectable it may be.  The dialogue is held together by countless (and hilarious) one-liners that can entice a chuckle out of the audience...even those members who have seen the movie many times. I loved the roles of Hamilton and Meg Swan as well.  I think that more than anyone else, they demonstrate how serious some take competitive dog showing. Good, funny flick. Not great, or groundbreaking in any way, but fun to watch and worth a rent. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The more movies there are about dogs, the better","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A hard movie not to like.  I liked it in large part because of the dogs.  And I've finally analysed my vague feeling of dissatisfaction there aren't enough dogs.The camera focuses only on the dogs whose owners we follow; even during the competition itself, we have to strain our eyes to catch a glimpse of any others.  And the central dogs (shih tsu, bloodhound, Weimeraner, Norwich terrier, and one of those enormous white poodles that have somehow been transformed into toys) scarcely have any personality at all.  Bad mistake the less personality the dogs have, the less their owners have.  It's lucky that at least some of the owners have so much anyway.  (The best of them is Eugene Levy's Fleck - a gauche yet humane man who isn't so much jealous of his wife's former lovers, as sick to death of running into them.)I suppose the jokes could have been zinged up a bit, too - making a film out of improvised humour is probably a mistake, even when the improvisations are this good.It's still funny.  Maybe my vague feeling of dissatisfaction only became worthy of notice when I'd seen it for the third time. "},{"Title":"Light Piece of Fluff with not enough laughs.....","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just some snickers. Some of the actors in this were brilliant, the gay pair (who seemed to have the most supportive and real relationship of all), the solitary fisherman and his bloodhound. The rest were cookie cutter, the irritating sidekick of the commentator - seemed we all heard those lines in countless other movies before.  The screaming tense couple, I just hate it when a comedy has these irritants, I just cringe everytime they are focussed on. Catherine and Eugene made the best of their roles, the ongoing bit about her being with just about every man she met was very funny. The handler and the owner were also a good giggle, though you could see the ending of that coming from a mile away. A flimsy piece to pass some time while you multi-task with some other stuff.  6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Really Bad!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've read glowing reviews of this film and thought it would be a good comedy to rent as I was visiting my brother and his wife. I've enjoyed many of the actors in the film in other comedies. However, we all agreed that we disliked this movie and it was wasted time. We kept waiting for the the pace and humor to pick-up, but no such luck.Generally, I like satires, which this obviously was, too much so. The movie tried to hard to make these people absurd and it was left stale with a mockumentary of cliche caricatures. The characters were boring and completely predictable once you learned their ridiculous personalities. Fred Willard was the best thing about this film and even his part could have been funnier. "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For a comedy I thought this movie was a downright snore.  There were few bust out loud moments but the rest of the flick was not well done.  I did not see Waiting for Guffman and perhaps if I had a more enjoyable experience may have been had.  I liked a few of the characters but disliked the majority.  It seemed as if they were all faking to be dog owners and what was the point anyway.  Not a comedy, not action, not suspense, not a romance, what was this movie? "},{"Title":"Slightly peevish commentary on the film","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A true fan of Waiting for Guffman and This is Spinal Tap, I was enthralled to hear of the US release of Best in Show.  I deliberately avoided reading advance press, fearing I'd read overmuch into comments and references from other media.  Now I almost wish I'd waited for it to come out on DVD. Best in Show was cleverly filmed, but it left me ambivalent about whether I'd lost or invested 1.5 hours.The banality of the yuppies-mit-braces was pretty surprising.  At the end of the film, I didn't believe for a *second* that they'd ever even heard of the Kama Sutra, much less practised it behind unlocked doors.  The sum of narcissism, projection and earth tones isn't humor - adding the bland (smug? freaked-out?) weimeraner isn't terribly funny, either.Where did Leslie go?  Wherefore?  The sexual politics involved in this relationship are only intermittently provocative or funny.  There's an old-ish SNL skit about a Loni Anderson liking soup - if it's come to the point of Christopher Guest offering homage to anything on NBC, I'm sad.Happily, Guest's caricatures were handled gracefully.  The Pine Nut native is treated with dignity, which is rare in a country rife with you're a redneck if... jokes.  A sight gag involving a weird appendage only receives fleeting attention; likewise, Cookie's hoydenish past doesn't seem gratuitous.  The gay couples aren't painted with too wide a brush - flamboyance is matched nicely with moments of genuine caring interaction and intelligent interplay.If you're priding yourself on being edgy, stay home and watch Spinal Tap again.  Branch out and rent Pi.  If, however, you want a not-too-threatening-periodically-smirking movie to take up a bit of your wallet, go ahead and see Best in Show.      "}{"Title":"Not Guffman","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVED Guffman, and was thus very disappointed in Best in Show.  It lacked the subtlety that made Guffman so great, which made its plotlessness all the more irritating.  Too bad, since we all know how funny these writers, directors and actors can be. I wish I had waited for it on video. "},{"Title":"Not Spinal Tap but Still Funny","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This mockumentary was funny. I wish I could say more than that. There isn't a David St. Hubens or other memorable character but I will say that I laughed during most of the film. In my opinion you shouldn't let the PG-13 rating talk you into taking the kids to this movie. Most of the humor will be way above their heads. My 16 year old sister, who loves dogs, did not like it at all. Throughout the 90 minute movie she looked at her watch wondering when it would be over. I did enjoy the movie but would have been unsatisfied had I paid full price (7.50) for it. "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE for EVERYONE!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was totally funny.  I loved it.  This is the best out of the three Guest films, the other two being 'Spinal Tap' and 'Waiting For Guffman.' My only complaint is that it should have been longer, for it is only 90 minutes.  Having said that I wanted to see more, all that I did see I loved so much that I didn't feel ripped off.   A- "},{"Title":"You have to see it.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No matter who you are, you just have to see this film.  You'll especially LOVE it if you have seen Waiting For Guffman, except this is even more funny.  The performances are excellent all around, and my only complaint is that it should have been longer.  It is only and hour and a half.  I saw a lot of comedies in 2000, but this one is the icing on the cake.GRADE A-Parental Note 11 and up.The sick humor will go over the heads of most children this age, and those mature enough to get it can handle it. "},{"Title":"Don't know much about dog shows?   Don't care??","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Doesn't matter. We are not talking mocumentary here. Christopher Guest remarked after making the first of his many wonderful satires, that if THIS IS SPINAL TAP were nothing but mockery, the film would have been over in fifteen minutes. And he was right. In BEST IN SHOW, Guest (and writing pal Eugene Levy) struck a kind of comic apotheosis; they don't mock AKC-type shows at all, but they have a wonderful time dishing up a fictional set-in-Philadelphia dog show to show the many off-center but All-American type dog owners and their interaction. Fred Willard plays the TV color man, whose every remark strives for wit but bespeaks a deep, deep ignorance of the topic (The sporting dogs; those are the 'jocks' of the dog world, aren't they?)Perhaps it's Guest's British origin that gives him the required comic distance to craft a view so wonderfully skewed as in BEST IN SHOW. Certainly his many years in the USA give him great comic insight into the type of people whose foibles play in a movie. Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock are the Swans, a couple of shrill perfectionist yuppies from suburban Chicago. Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hare are the Flecks, a very typical middle-class couple from Ohio except that he has two left feet and she has round heels (a running joke in the film, as she is forever running across past lovers, to hubby's consternation). The ever-funny Jane Lynch plays a lesbian kennel owner with an eye for a rich man's wife (Jennifer Coolidge). Michael McKeon and John Michael Higgins are gay beauty-salon operators; the McKeon character could pass for straight but when Higgins' flames, he is a holocaust. And best of all, C. Guest himself plays Harlan Pepper (love that name!), a molasses-mouthed, low-key North Carolina hunter.All I can do is sketch the players and open the way to the real treat of this movie the comic dialog, much of it improvised. I would rather not deal with that here, because the lines and their delivery are the real spoilers and the reason this film transcends mere sketch humor and becomes something of a study in tragi-comic American types. Highly recommended. If you think American movie comedies have gone to the dogs, try this one; it's full of canines but there isn't a dog to be found anywhere in BEST IN SHOW! "},{"Title":"Grrrr! Woof!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show is a mockumentary spoof of one of those things which people do but which most outsiders can only view with raised eyebrows and quizzical looks askance The championship dog show. This cute lampooning of the complete dog lover looks at a handful of stereotypes (gays, yuppies, a good old boy, etc.) and their pooches as they prep for, converge on, and participate in a dog show spectacle. A lively, clever exercise in over-the-top understatement. "},{"Title":"Hilarious; does for dog shows what Spinal Tap did for rock groups","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BEST IN SHOW (2000) ***1/2 Christopher Guest, Parker Posey, Michael Hitchcock, Eugene Levy, Catherine O' Hara, John Michael Higgins, Michael McKean, Patrick Crenshaw, Jennifer Coolidge, Jane Lynch, Bob Balaban, Don Lake, Jim Piddock, Fred Willard, Ed Begley, Jr., Larry Miller. Christopher Guest is fast becoming one of the best  mockumentary filmmakers with his latest triumph, a pointed take at dog show contestants and their addled owners.The setting is the annual Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show in Philadelphia which brings together some very memorable characters for competition. Included are in no particular order, all equally funny Meg and Hamilton Swan (Posey and Hitchcock), the most obnoxious WASPs ever satirized on the big screen, whose `baby' Beatrice, is a purebred Weimaraner they dote on including extensive psychotherapy thanks to their dog witnessing their sexual antics; Gerry and Cookie Fleck (co-writer Levy and O'Hara, `SCTV' alums) who have unique characteristics as well he literally has two left feet and she an apparent sexual history to rival Wilt Chamberlain, and their prized Norwich terrier Winky; gay couple Scott Donlan and Stefan Vanderhoof (Higgins - best known as David Letterman in HBO's telepic `The Late Show', and Guest's fellow `Spinal Tap'per partner in crime McKean), NYC hair salon stylists and their Shih Tzu they adore if not more than themselves; Leslie Ward Cabot and his decades younger trophy wife Sherri Ann (veteran character actor Crenshaw best remembered for his recurring appearances on tv's sitcom `Alice' and Coolidge, the sexy mom in `American Pie'), a buxom Anna Nicole Smith manque, whose standard poodle is represented byaward-winning handler Christy Cummings (Lynch eerily echoing Anne Heche), as a competitive not-so-secret lesbian lover of the bodacious and vacuous Sherri Ann;  and finally Guest himself as the drawling North Carolina bred good ol' boy and fly fishing shop proprietor Harlan Pepper, sporting the most unusual shade of burnt sienna hair not unlike a Crayola and his beloved bloodhound, Hubert, who also shares a predelection for ventriloquism. Along the way Guest allows his very talented cast of actors to improvise their way into uncharted hilarity skillfully skewering the vacant, pompous and ridiculous extents people will take to preen over their pets (like his previous films, Guest outlines a script rather than provide extensive dialogue and it clearly is his forte) oblivious to their grotesqueries.There are so many side-splitting scenes from cuckolded Levy constantly being bombarded by frank sexual talk about his betrothed (particularly in a stop over to O' Hara's numerous exes, memorably played by a horny Miller); the anal retentive hotel manager portrayed by Begley (who accomodates from one extreme to the other but ultimately on the hygenic ways his staff will go to at lengths whenever the dog show is in town); to the flamboyant double entendres tossed by Higgins and his flashy clothing (8 count 'em 8 silk komonos for a 48 hour stint!). But hats off to Willard who steals the show as the event's color commentator Buck Laughlin whose inept improvisatory will have you laughing out loud and reveling on the nice riff he does of all those doofus sports announcers who think they know everything and kudos to his straight-man Piddock as Trevor Beckwith, who manages to implode with dignity.Easily one of the funniest films of this year or in any year and it's always a pleasure to have a most welcome Guest as the host to showcasing limited talent so eloquently.  "},{"Title":"An absolutely hilarious mockumentary","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A keenly observed parody of the wonderful and wacky world of competitive dog showing, this is an absolutely hilarious mockumentary. It has a razor sharp script by Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy, though I understand that there was quite a bit of improvisation, and the former directs with great style and flair. The film is full to the brim with bizarre, outrageous and over the top characters but I sometimes got the impression that I would meet people like those on display here if I have ever entered my beloved Cocker Spaniel Freddie at a major dog show such as Crufts! It is a great exploration of a very small, insular world. The film benefits from a brilliant cast of comedic veterans such as Guest, Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Michael McKean, John Michael Higgins, Jennifer Coolidge, Jane Lynch, Parker Posey, Michael Hitchcock, Bob Balaban, Ed Begley, Jr. and Larry Miller. I have to give special mention, however, to Fred Willard who is just on another level of complete and total hilarity as the dog show's co-host Buck Laughlin, who has a serious case of verbal diarrhoea. He devotes much of his energy to insulting the judges and handlers, asking idiotic questions about dogs and their capabilities, telling lewd stories and making tortured baseball analogies. Jim Paddock is a fantastic straight man to Willard as the humourless, straight-laced canine expert Trevor Beckwith, who becomes increasingly exasperated as he is forced to endure more and more of Laughlin's inane prattle. "},{"Title":"Well-acted character-driven comedy","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Spinal Tap (1984) is in my humble opinion perhaps the greatest comedy film ever made. By making it so good, its creators simply set the bar so high, no one else &#x96; themselves included &#x96; have subsequently ever been capable of reaching its heights ever again. So it's not really much of a criticism in pointing out that Best in Show is not as good as Spinal Tap. It is a satire on the kind of people who participate in championship dog breeding. The events revolve around a gathering called the Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show. There isn't really too much of a plot-line here, it's very much a character-driven comedy. It works because the actors in the ensemble cast are all adept at improvised comedy, so it's a film full of little moments rather than a major story arc.Spinal Tap's Christopher Guest directs as well as acts in this one. He certainly has a feel for the mockumentary genre and has contributed to many of the best ones out there. I would probably describe Best in Show as amusing rather than hilarious though. There are a few laugh-out-loud funny moments though, such as the scene revealing the man with two left feet; while virtually every line uttered by the TV commentator played by the excellent Fred Willard is comedy gold. Truthfully, mixed in with the best material are some more strained jokes. However, as a whole, it works pretty well and the talented cast elevate the material when it falters on occasion. All-in-all, a solidly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A good show. But not the best.","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's another Christopher Guest mockumentary and with a cast full of certified comic geniuses it's hard to see how Guest could go wrong. Look at who Guest has at his disposal Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Michael McKean, Parker Posey, Fred Willard. Is that enough? No? OK, let's toss in Jennifer Coolidge, Jane Lynch and Ed Begley, Jr. And of course there's also Guest himself as a key part of the ensemble. These are hilariously funny people. Which makes the fact that this is not a hilariously funny movie a little puzzling. Best in Show is funny but not outrageously so. A funny idea, certainly a funny cast, but not a consistently funny movie. There are a few really funny moments. But the movie ends up producing more wry smiles than big laughs. It leaves you wanting more.The movie takes place in the rather bizarre dog show world. We focus on five dogs, and their inevitably strange owners, as they make the trek to and ultimately compete in the big dog show in Philadelphia. There's a guy who literally has two left feet and whose wife apparently has slept with every man on the planet. There's a campy gay couple and a neurotic yuppie couple. A trophy wife, married to an oblivious elderly man, and her lesbian dog handler. And an aspiring ventriloquist. All in all a weird bunch. At times perhaps a little too weird for the movie's good. A lot of strange things happen to these strange people. Some of these things are funny but there are a bunch of gags and jokes which fall flat. The movie perks up a bit when we finally get to the dog show itself. That is thanks largely to the presence of Willard who plays perhaps the world's worst television color commentator. He's clearly the funniest thing this movie has going for it. All the other performers do reasonably well but there are times where things just seem a bit off. Maybe the story doesn't quite work, maybe the characters aren't really developed properly. With all these great comic stars you expect hilarity and you don't really get that. The stars do the best they can with the material but you feel that the material let them down a bit. They all have their moments. Posey in particular does really well. And even in a film chock-full of performers with such notable reputations there's room for some lesser-known actors, such as Michael Hitchcock and John Michael Higgins, to turn in good work as well. There's just the sense that director Guest didn't quite pull it all together. This is a movie with such a great cast. That cast could have been put to a little bit better use. Best in Show had such great promise. But just as only one dog can win the trophy not every film is destined for greatness. This film falls a little bit short. "}{"Title":"Wacky characters in mockumentary","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christopher Guest and friends are now making a mockumentary on the dog show circuit. It's a whole bunch of wacky characters with their wacky problems and their wacky life. Everybody is doing a great job. Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins are the gay couple. Catherine O'Hara is married to Eugene Levy with his insane glasses. Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock are an uptight couple. Jennifer Coolidge is married to an old geezer and Jane Lynch plays her trainer. There is a big problem in this movie. The separate teams have a hard time getting together because they don't really function as a team. They are separate and they stay separate. It limits their interactions and limits the possibility of comedy. It becomes a series of the characters separate and talking into the camera with wacky stories or having a wacky time. It's not until halfway through the movie that the characters start getting together as they prepare for the dog show. "},{"Title":"I could have sworn that was Christopher Guest as Harlan Pepper auditioning for 'The Cleveland Show'.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The mockumentary form by Christopher Guest it's something I'm quite fond of - and I've seen a few. This is the second time I've seen 'Best in Show', and this easy going, but filled to the brim with funny little details semi-roadmovie is well worth a watch.Lots of dialogue, lots of tricky relationships and individuals that are put under the looking glass, and with the clever writing of Guest, they all come up a little or more off, but that's the whole point of it.Well played by Guest himself (I really thought he must have gone on doing 'The Cleveland Show' after that bit in the woods) and many of the mock-regulars, such as Levy, O'Hara (in 'For Your Consideration' she does a great 'botox', here she wags her leg like no other), Posey, Willard (an imprudent commentator once again) and Coolidge.Good fun was had by all. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An underdog that wins!","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dog shows -- one of the lamest and most pointless events that I can think of. Best in Show proves I'm not the only one to think so. With its zany, well-written characters, BiS makes watching snobbish dogs strutting around a hoot. All throughout watching this I felt the timing to the jokes was so perfect, the conversations were so dry and funny, that BiS reminded me of Spinal Tap. Low and behold this is not only written by Christopher Guest (the writer of Spinal Tap), but directed by him as well. And while there really is no story here, the jokes and timing are so spot on that this is too fun not to enjoy, thanks to Guest's writing and the ensemble casts' hilarious performances. Whether you are a dog fan our not, this is one dog show you can go nuts about. Very funny! "},{"Title":"Really, Truly, Basic Good Fun","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'll confess I've been a fan since 'Guffman'. BIS delivers exactly as you hope it will, and Catherine O'Hara is always a treasure. So let's cut to the downside. In each mockumentary, Guest always takes it a little too far, and kills his own humor. For instance, in 'Guffman', it was absurd that Corky would end up owning a theatrical gift shop in NYC, but even more wrong was the 'Remains of the Day' lunchbox. It's a great joke but it's TOTALLY out of character - Corky would have no idea that this film existed. Just as, here, it is too surreal that a hotel clerk would offer a utility closet to a poor couple. It's not funny because Guest ventures beyond basic reality; aside from the ridiculousness of the clerk going so far to do this, it's insane that hotel liabilities would be overlooked. Yes, I know, this sounds picky, but a funny documentary MUST stay on earth to stay funny. Similarly, Cookie's past sex life is taken way too far, especially in the visit to the old BF. All of this would work beautifully if Guest would just keep his fantasy a little real. But it's still a pip. See it. "},{"Title":"Decently funny and amusing","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This isn't really one of those comedies that makes you crack up, it's one of those comedies that's fun to watch. Fred Willard was the highlight of the film being one of the commentators for the show and made me laugh with every line that came out of his mouth. Every character was defined and fun to watch but I disliked the couple with the braces. They would freak out over everything and it's supposed to be funny, but it really isn't, it just makes you feel bad that the dog has to go through that. The movie had a satisfying ending, where it wrapped everything up with every character. Overall, if you're wanting to see a different kind of comedy or you just want to spend an hour and a half exactly watching something amusing, check it out. "},{"Title":"For some reason, I was rooting for the bloodhound.","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dog shows and the people involved with them would seem like a very inviting target for satire. And this effort by Christopher Guest and pals certainly hits the target, though it isn't quite a bullseye. Best in Show is a mockumentary about five show dogs and their often eccentric owners competing in what appears to be the Super Bowl of dogs shows in Philadelphia. More often than not it makes you laugh, and it certainly makes you feel sorry for the dogs in these kinds of shows.Director Christopher Guest plays a redneck owner of an enormous bloodhound from North Carolina. This is obviously a lonely guy with maybe a few too many hobbies. We also see him as a ventriloquist, a guy who can name every kind of nut there is, and he even runs a bait shop. After the competition, he even takes a jaunt to Israel to work on one of those collective farms they have. Other contestants are a pampered standard poodle owned by a trophy wife and trained by her lesbian lover, one of a pair of tiny shi-tzus owed by a flamingly gay couple of guys, a shaggy terrier owned by a borderline white trash couple from Florida, and some other odd kind of dog owned by an annoying yuppie couple. The camera just seems to follow these people and their dogs around while the characters spout mostly improvised dialog as if they were really being interviewed instead of acting. Its good for a lot of laughs.The redneck and the gay men get most of the laughs. Guest went to great depths to depict his Harlan Pepper character as a man with just too much going on in his own head and too much time on his hands. Michael McKeon and John Michael Higgins are good as the gay men. Maybe a little too good! Jennifer Coolidge (Stifler's mom for those of you American Pie fans) and Jane Lynch have characters that at least keep you guessing for a while about the true meaning of their relationship. I think I recognized the old codger who played Blue in Old School as Coolidge's husband! The film doesn't quite strike gold with the other two dog owning couples, though. Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock are WAY too over-the-top as the yuppies. They could have been fitfully annoying without the tantrums. Catherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy are believable lower income Floridians, but the script overdoes it in ramming the point home about her promiscuity. And their dog seemed the least likely to win. Was this also some kind of joke? 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Five bizarre trips to a dog show where shameless pet owners rule the screen!","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another esoteric mock-umentary by Christopher Guest for pet owners and the people who look at them cross eyed! The wildly inventive and talented crew (Eugene Levy, Maureen O'Hara, Michael McKeon, Parker Posey, Jennifer Coolidge, John Michael Higgins, etc.) of Guest directed films take control of their characters and bring them to places that are somewhat predictable but awkwardly funny none the less. We follow the humble and spoiled beginnings of various dog owners' trips to Philadelphia and throughout this farce of a pet show. This seasoned comedy troupe, who amazingly continue to create and deliver such diversely bizarre characters, have mastered the art of comedic improvisational acting! I'm going to wait here until I get another message.... from myself. "},{"Title":"Dryly outrageous satirical humor...presented and performed with a loving bite","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Philadelphia is home to the 125th Annual Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show, which brings out several colorful couples and their prize pooches for competition (the prize, a silver cup, is big enough to take a sponge-bath in). Mockumentary extraordinaire! Endless pithy witticisms from actor-co-writer-director Christopher Guest, whose troupe includes some really marvelous talent, all of whom get a chance to shine here. Occasionally, the targets are flabby or obvious (lots of 'bitch' jokes and a labored marital spat over a squeeze toy), but otherwise this is right on target. The outr humor which coated Guest's Waiting For Guffman in 1996 (and had, at times, a sour residue) is toyed with here in a much more loving way. I got the feeling Guest genuinely liked this group of characters better than the Guffman bunch; and though he does poke and prod at them with his camera--and encourage his actors to go all the way with the material--the nimble editing never wears them out, and the picture does not overstay its welcome. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Some good fun to watch.","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you like a more subtle comedy, this is a great movie for you to watch. It features a wide variety of a bunch of odd characters and a main story situated around a dog-show.Well, to be honest, there isn't really much story in this movie actually. It's a fake documentary, or mockumentary, focusing on the world of dog-shows and their owners. The first halve of the movie mostly consists out of fake interviews with the characters about them and their dogs, while the second halve concentrates more on the travel to- and the actual dog-show. The movie is not always made credible as a fake documentary because of its way of filming, editing and overall story-telling, so the movie is more stuck somewhere between a mockumentary and just a subtle comedy. Not that this makes the movie any less fun to watch though. It's obvious director Christopher Guest tried to make his own This Is Spinal Tap, a movie and early fake documentary he was involved with previously as an actor, song writer, composer and writer. He also does all of those things in this movie by the way and then some more as well.It's obvious director and writer Christopher Guest let his actors do a whole lot of improvisation and gave them lots of room to play. At times he just lets the camera role and let the actors do their thing. They come up with with things at times as they just go along. Some of the actors handle this better than the others. I think this is because every actor is itself is very individualistic and want to do things their way, which is not always possible when the actors opposite you is having a monologue concerning the other actor opposite and all you can do is respond to it and just go along with the other actor. Some actors on the other do know how to handle this and go along perfectly with it, such as for instance Eugene Levy. Who must have really enjoyed his improvisations was Fred Willard, as the commentator of the big dog-show. Man, some of the stuff he says is absolute great and hilarious.The characters and the sort of not everyday and sort of odd background story of a dog-show is what makes this movie work and fun to watch. It's a real subtle sort of comedy that doesn't try to be funny in a forced way but let the actors and characters be the center of the movie its comedy instead, without trying to make them look too funny and more real and humane like, despite all of their oddness's.It's a fun in-between movie to watch, just like this was a fun in-between movie to make for the actors involved I'll bet.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"It keeps getting funnier...","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" every time I see it! There are many movies that get better with age, as well as, each viewing, but this one takes the cake. I never get sick of this film. Being able to watch it on satellite this evening after a lackluster day only reinforced that fact. Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy have created a cast of eccentric characters that rival any of the Coen brothers' creations. The casting is genius as are the actors' performances. The only thing that 'ruins' this film for me is Fred Willard. His buffoon to Jim Piddock's pained straight man is as sublime a combination as you will see. Fred basically steals the film. I always get angry with myself that I had forgotten to visit the bathroom before getting ensconced to watch and thereby have to waste time later. I could go on and analyze each character and their performance, but I am sure that has been done to death...yadda, yadda, yadda. In short, if you like offbeat, quirky comedies (sorry for the clich!), watch this film AFTER you go to the bathroom. "}{"Title":"More Amusing Than Funny ...","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although I think I only laughed once, I did find the zany caricatures of people interesting enough to cause me to watch through to the end. If you have seen any other Christopher Guest movies - this is typical of his style.Basically, the story is about the behind the scenes activities and personalities of a group of dog show competitors. It done in the style of a interview-documentary.The cast is broad and each set of dog owners has a different storyline going on. The choice of characters represented makes this movie amusing - there's a 40ish blond gold-digger married to the 80+ year old rich guy, an overzealous yuppie couple, an over-the-top gay couple, and more. A rich set of characters and their often embarrassing dialog gives this movie it's edge.I recommend watching the first 5 minutes of this movie - it's completely representative of the remainder of the show. If you like the style and characters, then you'll enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Best in Show a Good Show","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Who knew? I mean, who knew that a movie about a dog show could be so good? Now, of course the dog show itself was relatively insignificant and was only a small part of the movie, but it is what the entire movie was centered around. The movie was made by the characters though. Boy those were some funny characters. Even though I'm not a dog lover or owner, I've seen enough to know that some of those characters were spot on with their antics.While I'm praising this movie, I would be remiss if I didn't give props to Eugene Levy for co-writing this movie. I didn't check to see if this was his first writing project, but this certainly was a good one for the old resume. Write on Eugene, this was a funny flick. "},{"Title":"Pretty good satire on 'dog people' and common issues","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I sat down to watch this, I really didn't know what to expect, but I had spotted a good bit of small names in comedy on the cast list, so I thought 'what the hey, it might be good'. Turns out I was right. It's a great film, with plenty of commentary on dog lovers and various general issues(there is some great dialog between Eugene Levy and his wife regarding how much she dated before she met him... great stuff). The plot revolves around a dog show, and we see the various characters(read dog lovers and friends) either going to it or talking about it. The acting is all very good, there really wasn't any performance I found anything less than satisfactory. The characters are well-written, credible and realistic, human. The dialog is real and funny. The dog lover stuff is funny, but possibly slightly clichd or stereotypical, but never overly so. I know I laughed every time a character talked to or about a dog as if it was a human being that could understand everything it was told, instead of simply an animal that is easily trained. The film is a treat for anyone who thinks animal lovers are somewhat ridiculous and/or any fan of any of the comedians and comic actors in the film. I recommend it to anyone who finds dog lovers particularly amusing and knows of(and enjoys) at least one of the actors in the film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Best of Breed--Comedy","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most comedies these days are about obvious jokes, ones that allow time for audiences to laugh, then catch the next one liner. It's fun to see a movie that is much quieter, with sly jokes that seem more genuine than standard written jokes. Best In Show, directed by This Is Spinal Tap star Christopher Guest, who also directed Waiting for Guffman, is an exercise in improve comedy, and that allows for drier wit and more genuine sounding humor. No one-liners for most of the film, just characters who, yes, they are odd, but are harmless. The movie revolves around a series of dog owners, taking their pride and joy to the national championship of dog shows in Philadelphia. The film is presented as a documentary chronically the movements of the participants, so we get back stories and character studies in these people, many of which have interesting aspects. Take the Eugene Levy character (Levy by the way is a co-writer with Guest, which means he either thought of the dog show premise, or the movie's title), Jerry Fleck. Fleck is a big-and-tall salesman who happens to have two left feet, literally. And he's just the tip of the iceberg. Most of the comic performers have backgrounds in sketch comedy, and it pays off in the free-form movie. The most memorable character, probably the only one with written lines, is Fred Willard's TV reporter character. Those memorable one-liners take on sports play-by-play announcers in a character who got the Mayflower ship and Christopher Columbus mixed up. Who wins the dog show? It doesn't really matter. All that matters is that we see a comedy that is smart, and quiet at the same time. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Best in Show', Christopher Guest's mockumentary about the dog show industry is, in my opinion, not quite as clever as `A Mighty Wind', but it is still hilarious nonetheless.  There are so many hilarious and subtle touches and jabs, (for whatever reason, the fact that the two insane yuppie dog owners both have braces is comic gold to me) yet there is a heart to the film, and enough of a back story on each character where you actually have something invested in which dog wins, to make the film a little more than just a comic jab.  I had seen `A Mighty Wind' shortly before this film, and marveled at the versatility of the actors that Guest uses in all of his films &#150; generally, the characters they play in each of the films are quite different although the quiet, nervous characters Bob Balaban portrays are usually similar and brilliantly executed.  Fred Willard also plays another blowhard in `Best in Show', this time as the show announcer and host who is inappropriate and ridiculous enough to make his co-host insane.  None of Guest's regular troupe of actors ever really made it in my radar before watching his films; I knew who they were but they were never really in anything I care to see.  I now see that they are immensely talented, and Guest is probably one of the most underrated comedic writers/directors in the business.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Highly commended","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's 'Best in Show' may not be an all-time champion, but it is funny, the most important attribute for a comedy.  A mock-documentary look at the world of dog shows, there's no plot and it hits at easy targets, but it's full of essentially daft gags delivered absolutely deadpan. The ghastly self-absorbed characters can't really command your sympathy, but their petty awfulness rings horribly true.  'Best in Show' is not as outrageous as Guest's earlier film, the classic 'This is Spinal Tap', but the conjunction of solemnity and silliness works very well, and like that film, it actually convinces as a picture of its world.   "},{"Title":"A great low budget comedy","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest brings a funny and sometime scary look into the hilarious world of professional dog shows and their contestants. A colorful group of characters make the movie even more enjoyable. A moc (doc)umentary about people, their dogs, and the strange, but very funny lives they live. Done with such a small budget and no giant stars attached, it makes you wonder what excuse Gili had when it tanked at the box office. A great movie no matter who you are. Almost as funny as This Is Spinal Tap, which also starred Christopher Guest. Both films play off the real feel as a documentary and capture real moments from fake people. "},{"Title":"A good many chuckles","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Best In Show' is a comical look at the world of dog show competition. Any one familiar with the world of dog owners and dog show partictants will recognize the accuracy of this film. The film takes a fairly accurate and humorous view of this venue. There are a good many chuckles to be had in this production.The direction and casting was excellent. The actors really captured the various personality types that one finds at dog shows.A truly entertaining film for fans or non-fans of dog shows. "},{"Title":"Classic Guest","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest is a terrific social commentator. The characters in Best in Show (as well as in Guffman) are terrific archetypes, and hysterically funny (The user who commented that the movie was Not funny appears to have a different sense of humor). The jokes are not subtle--they're not meant to be. The humor lies in how clueless each of the characters is, and their general lack of self-awareness. And while Guest (and his wonderful actors) certainly has fun at the characters' expense, there is also real affection for these people. It's funny but not mean-spirited.  "},{"Title":"Wasn't as funny as I'd hoped, but not bad...","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a dog exhibitor I REALLY wanted to like this movie, since it's the only movie I know of that is about dog shows.  But it wasn't as funny as I had hoped, for two reasons... one, the people were a little *too* stereotyped (I realize this was the big joke, but it rubbed me the wrong way after awhile, that they were ALL screwy) and two, they make a few too many factual errors about the ways in which dog shows work.  But I can overlook that, and laugh--at times, anyway.  On the bright side, I can show this movie to my friends to prove just how NORMAL I am... despite my hobby LOLAs far as the acting, I have to say a wonderful performance was turned in by Am/Can Ch. Sunterra Stylish Affair Ashley the pomeranian in the toy group and her handler Douglas Stratton.Seriously, tho, it wasn't too bad. My dog friends either liked it or hated it. For me it was less funny than I'd hoped since I had an inside look to the group being mocked, and personally I think there are much funnier people in REAL life ... ;) "}{"Title":"Best in Comedy","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To keep it brief, this movie was very funny, but like Waiting for Guffman (sp?), it tended to drag in parts.  Perhaps my bias is fuelled by the fact that I was forced to watch every single feature put on the DVD at my friend's place, which was a little much.Catherine O'Hara did an excellent job as the wicked wife of Eugene Levy, who himself was priceless.  The scene of him walking uncomfortably with his dog, trying to stay balanced on his two left feet is not to be missed.  This film, while funny, is best suited for a Canadian sense of humour, which is far more wry than that of Americans.  However, it can be appreciated by the occasional American as well.Overall, see it, but don't watch the DVD features before.  Save those for like, 2 weeks later.  "},{"Title":"Excellent docu-comedy","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is worth seeing on DVD, since I thought the funniest bit was Christopher Guest's monologue in the bonus out-takes. He's driving Hubert to the show and discussing how people from other counties talk differently. I laughed till I cried. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie kills me. Christopher Guest is a genius and so is Eugene Levy. From the gay couple(s) to the psychotic urban professionals to the hillbilly to all the ex-lovers (especially Larry Miller), everyone here is great, but Fred Willard is absolutely hysterical and has Joe Garagiola down pat!(If you don't watch the Westminster Dog Show every year you probably won't get that...). In the end, though, the dogs steal the show!  "},{"Title":"AND THE PRIZE GOES TO..","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very funny film. A very funny film. It needs saying twice because it's a rarity.Perhaps an easy subject to poke fun at, but there's a genuine affection for the subject. The bored commentator steals the show.The dogs were good too. "},{"Title":"A Hoot","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest again uses a mock-documentary style to skewer another of America's sub-cultures. This time around, it's the world of professional dog competitions. Guest focuses on about a half-dozen odd characters as they prepare their pampered pets for the big, national dog show. Sometimes Guest employs faux interviews, sprinkled throughout the movie, but mostly we eavesdrop on the owners as they wind their respective ways to Philadelphia and set up for the show. The judging itself is the climax of the movie.Many of the actors are Second City veterans, and the movie has the feel of a manic, elongated and integrated Second City show.  It's hysterical and enjoyable with Parker Posey, Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, and Fred Willard providing excellent comedic performances. Only one factor drags on the movie a little; the subject matter. Spinal Tap, Guest's earlier 'mockumentary', focused on rock and roll, a subject matter with near universal appeal. But not many people are into dog shows, it's a real small sub-culture, and as such may not connect with the public at large. And that's too bad, because Best in Show is a real hoot.   "},{"Title":"Odd, funny parody of dog shows and owners.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comic concoction from Guest (and many of the folks who brought Waiting for Guffman to life) is a mock-umentary on the sometimes surreal world of competitive dog shows. Here we have an array of participants, each matched with a dog who has a shot in the final round of competition--Best in Show. Guest does a dead-on backwoods impersonation as he drags his bloodhound to the competition. His usual flair for accents and unique characterizations is on full display. Levy and O'Hara are a mismatched, hilarious pair who hope their Norwich Terrier will take top honors. He is a nerd with two left feet (literally!) who gazes in amazement as total strangers seem to come out of the woodwork to reminisce with O'Hara about previous sexual encounters. O'Hara is so game with this and looks so right with her glossy make-up and trashy hair that it continues to be funny right up until the end of the film. Another couple (Posey and Hitchcock), a set of catalog-obsessed urban professionals, caters to their dog's every psychological whim, real or imagined. The favorite of the competition is a standard poodle, owned by buxom married-for-money Coolidge and trained by militant Lynch. Coolidge is mesmerizingly tacky with her lips out to there and nails constantly digging into some type of food. She is intriguingly offset by the plain, driven Lynch. The final contenders in the film are an outre and hysterical gay couple (McKean and Higgins.) Higgins portrayal is so right, so committed and so authentic despite the outrageousness, that he threatens to walk off with the picture. The film is virtually all ad-libbed and his are among the very best...including some that were sadly left out of the final cut, but which are gratefully found on the DVD. The melange of characters is just odd enough and varied enough to hold interest, yet real enough that they can create concern about the outcome. The whole shebang is given a ludicrously funny play-by-play from Willard as an unctuous commentator. His goal seems to be to crack up his painfully straightfaced cohort (Beckwith), who admirably holds it together. There are moments of extreme oddity along the way, but for a good-natured, amusing time with lots of adorable dogs, this movie is a great choice. "},{"Title":"Best In Year","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well in to 2002 I've got some catching up to do.  And looking back on a lacklustre year, Best In Show shone.  No great storyline.  Little action.  Just a cavalcade of magnificent characters.  Particular reference to Fred Willard and Jim Piddock as a rattling pair of TV commentators.  Well done.  Well worth the effort.Ron (Viewed 24Mar2001)  "},{"Title":"Stupid Stupid Movie","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How could anyone stand this movie?  I'm looking at all the good ratings it got and the 3 of 4 stars my TV Guide gave it, and it makes me want to be sick.  This movie was not good at all.  It's not worthy of being talked about.  It was a waste of money I earned.  It was a waste of my time.  Parker Possey seems to be the only half way funny character out of the whole bunch.  Everyone else should go think about this bad career choice. "},{"Title":"Fun low key styled comedy","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny THIS IS SPINAL TAP like look at dog shows and the owners who get involved in them.In the age of broad in your face comedy that literally forces you to laugh by beating you over the head, this low key approach is like a breath of fresh air.  It's not a laugh out loud comedy, but it will get you to consistently chuckle as all the quirks and flaws of these 'normal' people are slowly exposed like acne on a teenager.Modeled after an old SCTV comedy with a 'serious' facade giving away to complete absurdity.  Among the highlights are a couple who treat their dog like a spoiled child and project all their insecurity onto the pet.  Also has a Florida couple who max out their credit cards and are forced to stay in a hotel utility room.  Fred Willard as a off the wall dog show announcer and a six months later wrap up are also a standout.The only real quibble is that it becomes a true comedy movie and not the mock documentary it was intended to be.  The filmmakers should have tried harder to keep it more 'real'.  Like showing a actual documentary crew or having a actual interviewer following these people around.Overall a refreshing comedy for those who can appreciate the subtle, low key qualities. "},{"Title":"....Spinal Tap for the rest of America","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The people that dont laugh at these character vignettes either find it too close for comfort or are so divorced from middle class environment that they believe everyone acts like this.Plus have no appreciation of irony.And we all do, some!  Dont we?And the dogs are beautiful.. and other than the Weim made neurotic by its owners.. very appealing.8 of 10 "}{"Title":"Funny docucomedy","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show is a often hilarious mockumentary that takes us into the world of dog shows and some of the dog owners who prepare for the event. The only thing that separates this movie from real dog shows is that the dogs in Best in Show act more sane than their owners! Funny stuff from a top-notch cast that includes Eugene Levy (who co-wrote the film), Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Michael McKean, Jennifer Coolidge, Jane Lynch, and Christopher Guest (who co-wrote with Levy and directed). They're all funny, but Fred Willard steals the movie with his explosively funny performance as the dog show announcer who says the most outrageous things. Plus the dogs are cute too. Best in Show isn't exactly the laugh riot that I expected, but there are laughs and it's worth seeing.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"wacky film","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first two thirds of this movie are at times funny, dumb, weird, quirky, stupid, zany, but never normal.  Best In Show really takes off when we get to the actual dog show.  Fred Willard's performance as the show's TV announcer is some of the more hillarious movie moments I have seen in a long time.  Willard steals the show, and gives the film a strong finish. "},{"Title":"Quirky and funny","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't help but think that this is the movie that Drop Dead Gorgeous should have been.  With the (hilarious) exception of the announcer, you could believe that all of these characters really exist, especially if you watch enough real documentaries.  Not only are pet owners, competitions, and manners satirized, but also the format of the documentary itself.  Despite their oddball natures, you wind up sympathizing with them to some extent, with the exception of the yuppie couple and the announcer.Great work, but if you rent it for a family night (as I did), be prepared to get some flack for your choice.  Great satire tends to be caviar to the general. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable characters","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've read the previous 150 comments, you aren't trying to decide whether to watch this movie or not. You're trying to find someone who liked the same things about it. I hope you find it.I just enjoyed the characters and their development. I'm not a Spinal Tap junkie, had to turn American Pie off, it was too same-old. Those who don't like the characters are either too brain-dead to appreciate the subtle humor, or are too sophisticated to like anything. It's been a long time since I've found a video worth watching lately, everything is the same-old tired stuff. Its nice to find something that I might even watch twice. (I found another one during the same rental. If you like interesting characters, intelligent/skillful story-telling, check out Lone Star.) My favorite characters were the gay couple, but it was fun watching Christopher Guest play a good ole' boy, when I know him best as Count Rugen in The Princess Bride.However, the announcer character was just too asinine. While the kooky characters aren't realistic, it is possible to believe in them, but not the crude and lame announcer, who spoiled it. Chevy Chase would have been a better fit. I can't believe that some of those who liked the subtle humor of the rest of the show, thought the announcer was the best part.PARENTAL WARNING Most young children won't get this movie, but may sit through it for the kookiness. There are several scenes that I wouldn't feel comfortable having a preteen watch description of a sex act, gays kissing, blunt references to sex acts, a fairly explicit photo of gay exhibitionism. Most of the movie is relatively tame, but certain characters offer a steady stream of trash. And there is a running gag about the gal who used to have hundreds of boyfriends, several of which pop up. "},{"Title":"Worst On Shelf","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie I have seen in many years, my wife picked it up on a recomendation that it was a must see with non stop laughs  from start to finish.....To hear people compare this disaster to the likes of Spinal Tap in the mock catagory disgusts me. I will give this movie one thing...it was filmed in Vancouver(which is always the kiss of death for any flick trying to make money) but nothing could have saved this boring annoying script from making the people who are viewing it glance over at each other every few minutes wondering what the hell they are watching. "},{"Title":"Best in 2000","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funniest movie of the year, maybe the last five years.  Once again, Christopher Guest proves that he is the most underrated genius in the entertainment industry today.  Even if you've never seen a dog show, you can still relate to the personalities involved.  Strong comedies are funny because of characters, not just funny lines, and this movie has plenty of both! "},{"Title":"Furry and Funny","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very funny.  It was a good comedy with the practical setting of a dog show.  It is rated PG - 13 and is about 90 minutes long. It's good for both dog lovers and people who love comedies.  Five people and their dogs are in a big show.  Who will win is the qestion in your mind, while big laghes come out of your mouth.  If you're in the video store and you're not sure what to pick, treat yourself and get Best In Show! "},{"Title":"Best comedy movie of 2000","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit, I did not want to see this movie when it was in theatres or when it came out on video.  But, I ended up renting it anyway, and I'm glad I did.  It was definetly one of the best comedies I've ever seen.  It's not gut-wrench, laugh-out-loud funny, but it's clever.  Unfortunately, it's a movie that can be described as okay.  It's the kind of movie you either like or don't like, no in between.  I recommend this movie to any lover of comedies and any lover of dogs.My vote 9/10. "},{"Title":"Perhaps one of the funniest movies I have ever seen!!!!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eugene Levey and Christopher Guest could and should make a career out of this type of comedy.  If you liked Waiting for Guffman than you will love Best in Show.  The cast that they gather for these movies are incredible. It takes a lot of talent to perform improv, and they all do it extremely well.  The amazing thing is that you don't have to know a lot about the topics they choose to get the humour in the movie.  If you do know something it makes it ten times funnier.  My two biggest suggestions are to; watch the movie more than once, there is always something that you may miss the first time around because you are laughing too much.  Secondly, get it DVD. There is an extra 30 minutes that didn't make it into the movie, how i don't know. "},{"Title":"I was literally bent over crying with laughter!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best In Show, the hilarious comedy from Christopher Guest, lived up to and even exceeded my expectations. I had gone along to the film because I'm a huge fan of This Is Spinal Tap and dragged two of my friends along with me. From the opening to the finish I almost wet myself laughing and so did my friends. The comedy is not in your face, but subtly funny, without being too subtle. The actors do a brilliant job of half learnt, half improvised lines. The characters are all believable stereotypes the yuppies, the millionaire glamour queen, the gays, the hillbilly, Mr and Mrs ordinary with separate pasts, and the dogs are at times even funnier than the actors! Make sure you take a look at this movie if you already haven't, it's clever and uproariously funny! "}{"Title":"Truly the Grand Champion of Comedy","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be the best movie I am have seen all year. Excellent acting, plot, character development and theme, it is proof that a great movie can be made on a minimal budget. In an age of American movie studios all trying to outdo each other with these 9 figure mega budget remakes of movies like Planet of the Apes, Godzilla, Jurassic Park 3 etc this is truly refreshing. The style is fly on the wall and works on the lead up to an interstate dog show. All the characters are as diverse as the doggies and most are instantly lovable including Miss Yellow Pages, the gay couple, the fastidious perfectionists and the yokel from Carolina being stand out. With the exception of the bimbo and the fastidious ones, they are all believeable human beings. Aside from the humble plot we have the irreverent announcer and other little side jokes such as the man with two left feet. Even the gays who are portrayed as the usual flamboyant and fickle poofters prove to be winners at the end and they love each other. A refreshing change from Godzilla. "},{"Title":"Funny But Insignificant","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's mockumentary about a national dog show and its participants is very similar in spirit to the groundbreaking `This Is Spinal Tap', of which Guest was a co-creator. It's a very funny picture, albeit not as biting as `This Is Spinal Tap', probably due, in part, to Guest's co-scenarist, Eugene Levy, whose gentleness also comes through in his role as one of the entrants, a shy bumbler--he actually has two left feet.(Guest himself plays another, a mild-mannered good ol' boy.) The bile, such as there is, is reserved for a repressed couple (Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock) who channel their frustrations with each other into their pooch. Guest doesn't seem to want to aim for high targets, settling, instead, on providing a pleasant diversion and while his subject is an inspired choice for a comedy, the format probably can't sustain much more than this. One hopes that Guest will attempt to direct more plot-driven films that concentrate more on characterization rather than caricature. "},{"Title":"A Great Best In Show film!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Best in Show is indeed one of the funniest films I have ever seen. Parker Posey (Scream 3) , Eugene Levy (American Pie 1 & 2), Jennifer Coolidge (Legally Blonde), and Catherine O'Hara (Home Alone 1 & 2) star in this hilarious film about a world-wide Mayflower dog show. The dogs are especially cute and funny. Parker Posey, Eugene Levy, Jennifer Coolidge, and Catherine O'Hara are brillaint!!! This is a hilarious comedy that I recommend to everyone!!                       ******SPOILER ALERT******                    I also liked at the end how Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara's charachters won the dog show!!!                        ******END OF SPOILER******       All in all, I give this film an 8 out of 10!!!!!   ) "},{"Title":"Champ dogs in a champ comedy","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This hilarious spoof docu-drama, based on the specialised world of dog shows, follows five sets of dog owners as they bring their pets from various points of the USA to Philadelphia for a major show. The characters are exaggerated to  the point of grotesqueness,  but even the most quirky of them quickly engage our sympathy, and the humour remains affectionate. Amazingly, despite being a parody, the film manages to build up real tension as the show reaches its climax with the choice of champion dog.All the comedy acting is brilliant, but notable are director Christopher Guest as a ventriloquilising bloodhound-owner, co-writer Eugene Levy as a terrier owner with two left feet (literally!), and Catherine O'Hara as his wife who's been around some.  However, the funniest dialogue is in the exchanges between Fred Willard as Buck Laughlin, a wondrously crass TV commentator, and Jim Piddock as Trevor Beckwith, a straightfaced English expert on dog-showing. (This device also provides factual information to those of us unfamiliar with the world of dog shows.)All that said, the real stars of the movie are the dogs - and which one is Best in Show? See it and find out!       "},{"Title":"You'll love it or hate it","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plot in a sentence?  A mockumentary of a major dog show and it's participants.  I found this movie to be very funny.  The caricatures of personalities were great and in reading other reviews, I suspect that's what some people disliked.  Perhaps they're a little too close to the mark.  If you can't laugh at the faults and foibles of human nature, you won't find anything amusing here.  I recognized three of the characters as people I know in real life and they were satirized perfectly.  And I've most certainly had encounters with all of the others.  A film well worth the time if you enjoy satire. "},{"Title":"Priceless Comedy","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed all the way through this marvelous film.  When it came out I read the reviews and thought I would want to see it but it played only in an art house for a few weeks so I have had to wait for video. If you have ever watched the Westminster Kennel Club Show on TV you will go into gales of laughter at the antics of this cast.  And Fred Willard is priceless as the clueless commentator.  His partner at the mike by the end of the film is looking at him in utter horror and disbelief at his rediculous comments.Every single cast member is right on the money with their characters and the dogs are not bad either.  At least they behave with aloof dignity at the antics of their people.This one is a keeper. "},{"Title":"excellent!!!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When seeing the previews for this film I was somewhat hesitant to watch it, but am now glad I did.  This is one of the most original comedies ever made. It gives the viewer a slice of American life that hasn't been shown before. I was thuroughly entertained.  This is a must see for anyone who is looking for a movie that is a little out of the ordinary.   "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best comedy of the decade","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Utterly original, every moment funny.  Wonderful improvisation throughout. The DVD carries scenes edited out that, by themselves, constitute another very funny movie.  Saw it on vacation, and can't wait to watch it again after I return home-- "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the worst in show","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't get up and shut this movie off, despite the absolutely riveting plot, because my girlfriend fell asleep on me and I couldn't get up to press stop on the VCR.  I have no idea why this has such a high rating, but I have to say that it was annoying and very thin.  I have much better things to do with my time than watch the idiocy surrounding the lives of the completely irrational characters.  Not interesting, not funny, not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Mocumentary that follows in the footsteps of Spinal Tap in style","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest (Harlan Pepper) once again bangs out a movie that is both entertaining and unnerving at the same time. You'll find yourself watching some of the scenes in this movie (mostly documentary-style interviews) with a very strange feeling that you KNOW someone like that, or have had conversations similar to those going on. This is what makes the movie so funny, and I found myself holding my head in my hands with the I cant believe he said that! expression on my face. My favorite in this movie are the weimerainer - sp? owners and I won't spoil it for you but I know people like that...scary.  "}{"Title":"Best Doggoned Laughs!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Take out your pomeranian pom-poms and cheer for one of the best comedies of the year `Best In Show'. This boisterously entertaining film is about the world of dog shows and its zany participants (I am referring to the owners not the dogs.) The films stars Christopher Guest, Eugene Levy, Parker Posey, John Michael Higgins, Catherine O' Hara, Fred Willard, and Michael Mckean. Guest also directed the movie. Guest's films have always satirized and mocked a certain profession or event. And `guest' what? It is no different in `Best In Show'. He not only does a masterful job in directing the film, but also executes one of the most hilarious performances of the year. It will be no surprise if Guest is invited to attend the Oscars as a nominee in the near future. Willard, who plays the dog show commentator, was very comical and sarcastic, and it is the best-doggoned work he has ever done in his career. Higgins, who plays a gay dog owner, unleashes one of the best homosexual performances of all time. His acting was definitely doggie-style! Posey, who is one of the most underrated actresses around, proves again why she is the great acting dane of independent films. So get out of the doghouse and take a bite out of `Best In Show.' ***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"Spoofing lovers of Westminster entrees and their people ...","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We could not figure out where this story was going in the beginning; so glad we waited to find out.  If you are a 'thinned-skinned' dog owner, forget this movie.  If you are a true lover of dogs and their people, this is a 'really great show,' and the acting is terrific.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"one of my favorites for 2000","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  my husband and I rented this film about a month ago and fell in love with it. If you are an animal nut of any kind you will find this movie hilarious. there is alot of subtle humor in it that you may not catch till you watch it a second time as we did. truly one of the best rentals of the season , I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Eugene Levy is a super star!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eugene Levy is the man.  He makes this movie with his kooky, nerdy, madcap acting ability.  If you like animals you'll like this movie.  The movie is conducted in an interview style initially focusing in on several contenders in the Mayflower Dog show.  This style works quite well and fades into normal 3rd person style in the middle and then back to interview style at the end.  Christopher Guest is the director and co-wrote the movie with Eugene.Eugene, if you are listening, the next time you are in Fernandina Beach, FL let my wife and myself fix you a nice Vegetarian dinner. "},{"Title":"A 90 - minute gem","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  May contain some spoilers!!!!Holding true to the style of the wonderful This Is Spinal Tap, Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy prove that the mockumentary formula works on so many levels. The Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show is believable and simple - had it existed, it may have retained the mundanity of watching Crufts. It is such simple subjects that create blank slates for hilarious focal points.The main reason why this comedy works is the fact that Guest and Levy use different levels of humour - the old jokes (the Shih Tzu and why you shouldn't mess with its name, the blonde bimbo marrying the man wth one foot in the grave, the Priscilla - esque gay couple), and the downright banal (Harlan Pepper's affinity for ventriloquism, Gerry and Cookie's terrier songs). As well as this, the old theory that what can go wrong, will go wrong is used - and is executed hilariously. Gerry and Cookie are checked into a utility closet, while the pretentious Hamilton and Meg Swan's Weimaraner leaps at a judge. It can be said that this formula has been overused and that it doesn't take comic geniuses to invent such scenarios. However, it is the reactions of the people that make the movie, and some top - class comic timing from actors whom I never would have recognized as comedians.If the premise of outright hilarious jokes doesn't sway you, then watch this movie for the little things, such as the dogs' reactions to the whole show (as expected, they are much less concerned than their owners.) Proof that mockumentaries still work, Best In Show is one of the most innovative comedies I have seen in a while.  "},{"Title":"Best of the year","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely the funniest thing that I have seen in a long time. I was not expecting much, but my sister in law, who is a dog owner, said it was good, it was better. The characters are all over the top, but at the same time you have met each one somewhere and sometime. Joe Garagiola (sp? apologies Joe) was never as good at Westminster as the guy in this show, but then Joe has class and his spoof well he has his attitude!If you like dogs, or if you think dog owners are complete nut cases, you will be rewarded by this flick. It is one of the rare watch it twice movies I have seen in the past couple of years.Did I mention I liked it? "},{"Title":"It's only a pet show movie, it's only . . .","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comedy is so tongue-in-cheek that it singlehandedly skewers society with a kiss and all kinds of wacky adults who love dogs like an addiction.  I'm reminded of a different movie's tag-line It's only a movie, keep saying to yourself, it's only a movie!!!  In this case, the satire has very effectively made its pointed criticism about a particular annual winter USA-Network special presentation of the showy Westminster Dog Show.  At such multi-day judging events all the range of pure breeds of registered dogs are primped and psyched as can be motivated.  All the people who annually produce, direct and compete in that show are unveiled by this movie to be a motley crew of neurotics whose dogs have learned to ignore them for the most part and just go along for the ride.  Such extravaganza television coverage is generally far from reality. Say to yourself it's only a pet show movie, it's only a movie ! ! !  This film conveys the message that outward appearances can be so divergent, especially in such a P-C (politically correct) culture.  I did expect some sort of displaying scene like one in 101 DALMATIANS where the owners resemble the chosen breed of dog they pamper but other wildly diverse set-ups make BEST IN SHOW move into a quick flourish of satiric hilarity.  The best performance is the fish out of water commentator played by Fred Willard; anyone who's tired from Joe Garagialo's year-in year-out retreaded remarks for the two-part Westminster competition on cable TV will catch the film's message.  Do rent this film if you want to laugh at how needy the affluent and consumer-wannabes truly are.  It will evoke laughter but leave you wincing at other times at some American originals (or have they been cloned?). "},{"Title":"Clever! Hilarious! Imaginative! Original!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie! Before seeing it, my wife and I had never heard of it and knew nothing about it. As soon as we had watched it, we watched it again! The second time I caught subtleties I missed the first time and laughed as hard! The casting is superb! Everyone is good! Watch for the background characters! My absolute favorites were Catherine O'Hara as Cookie Fleck, Christopher Guest as Harlan Pepper, Eugene Levy as Gerry Fleck, Fred Willard as Buck Laughlin, and Jim Piddock as the hilariously understated Trevor Beckwith. But check out Patrick Cranshaw as Leslie Ward Cabot! The movie is about a group of people from various places in the eastern U.S. who convene for a dog show. The genius is the clever satire--always original, always illuminated with truth, and always revealing a sardonic affection and respect for the characters. I can't describe much more than that. But I highly recommend it. I'm still laughing. "},{"Title":"A well balanced review with both praise and criticism.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fans of the now legendary This is Spinal Tap and the tragically underrated Waiting for Guffman will not be disapointed by this production. Christopher Guest once again has proved to be a man for all seasons in this comedy, as he is the film's writer, director and star.  All films generally contain an element of ad lib, or improvisation, but rare is the movie that relies solely on the improv skills of it's actors as they work without a script.  As usual, Guest pulls it off.  Particularly impressive are Fred Willard, who steals the show, and Parker Posey, who performs wonderfully (considering she is the only cast member without an improv background). Rather than providing even a rudimentary synopsis of the film (which should be already posted above), I'll just say that this movie is laugh-out-loud funny with strong performances and great editing.  It is not, however, without it's share of problems... For starters, the documentary format of the film breaks down after a while and the second half of the movie watches more like a documentary/feature hybrid.  We saw the exact same thing occur in Guffman, and while it's more of an inconsistency than a problem, per se, I though it was worth mentioning.  My main beef with the film was that in no way does it stray from the same formula utilized in Guffman.  At the heart of each movie is an event of some sort.  In guffman, it's a town play, in Best in Show, a dog show.  In each, we see the characters in preparation for the event, the event itself and the aftermath.  Even the characters were exactly the same -- Eugene Levy's dim-witted Gerry Fleck and Fred Willard's obnoxious Buck Laughlin are just a little too reminiscent of Dr. Alan Pearl and Ron Albertson (respectively).  While I enjoyed the movie, it would have been nice to see Guest take a departure from what, by now, must be a very comfortable formula for him and co-writer Levy.  Risk taking is always appreciated.  Finally, I don't think that Best in Show was as successful as Guffman for one main reason  Guest spends much more time on-screen in Guffman, and consequently, his Corky St. Clair carries the film.  Less on-screen time and a less interesting character in his Harlan Pepper doesn't hurt the film, but makes it weaker by comparison.   "},{"Title":"hilarious!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a great movie! My favorite character was Harlan Pepper. The pine nuts thing was hilarious. My family rented it, and my mom  & sister almost died laughing listening to him name nuts and do his ventriloquism thing. We actually rented it twice and my sister drove me nuts because she kept fast-forwarding through the yuppie couple's scenes (i liked them, but she didnt). My other favorite characters were the gay couple. The dog calendar thing was really funny! Another great character was the dog  show announcer.    The good thing about this movie was that the characters seemed real. Harlan pepper's southern accent seemed very authentic, and I know that there are many white trash couples (e.g. Gerry & cookie)  and  neurotic yuppie couples and people who treat their dogs like  theyre kids in general.    I strongly recommend  seeing this movie!!! "}{"Title":"Love, love, loved it! (10 stars)","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the kind of movie most will love or hate.  And you can probably figure out which kind of person you are by the reviews here. If you liked 'Drop Dead Gorgeous' this is something you should see. It's the kind you don't rent a second time, you just go ahead and buy it. Catherine O'Hara stands out, but whole ensemble cast are great.  Of course the DVD is best, as it had some 17 deleted scenes and they are full scenes/vignettes. Planning to watch the commentary version tomorrow. "},{"Title":"I don't find comedies funny - with a few exceptions.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I avoid comedies because I usually don't find them funny; I expect to laugh when watching one.  I DID laugh during Best In Show, and I laughed many times, out loud.  One of the funniest I've seen in years!  (Of course, I laughed at Guffman, too.) "},{"Title":"Best of the mocumentary genre yet--great characters","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a truly enjoyable movie.  The characters are amazing, and even the smaller roles are executed with imagination.  If you like mocumentaries like Drop Dead Gorgeous, Waiting for Guffman, Fear of the Black Hat, Spinal Tap, etc., you will enjoy this film.   "},{"Title":"Full belly-laugh comedy","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At times I wonder if there could possibly be a comedic actor who is more underrated than Fred Willard. After seeing Best in Show, my doubts about this have become even more vivid.From playing Jerry Hubbard on Fernwood Tonight (and its spinoff shows) to Mayor Deebs in Roxanne and later Ron Albertson in Waiting for Guffman, Willard has perfected that clueless, often crass and yet apparently unaffected character type -- a simple jerk -- who elicits a deep-sprung, gut-massaging laughter.If you've enjoyed Guffman, or if you've enjoyed Willard in any of his roles with that vintage Fernwoodesque character, Best in Show is a must see. His performance as a dog show announcer offers some of the best in Willard you will laugh.Even if you aren't familiar with Willard, any viewer with an appetite for good comedy will relish this flick. For me, it's simply the best comedy I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"See the DVD","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not going to add to the plethora of reviews of the movie. I love anything from Christopher Guest, et. al.  But if you have a choice, see this movie on DVD...the extra 30 minutes of deleted scenes are hilarious, with a couple of moments challenging anything in the final film. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie in a L-O-N-G time!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, simply put, the funniest movie out on video today.  Go rent it.  Right now!  Trust me, I don't say that very often.  I do, however, believe that a movie that I'd never really heard of, rented only because my local (enter well-known video store chain here) was out of *everything* this morning thanks to nasty weather, and had me literally rolling on the floor hyperventilating deserves it.I'll stop here and not give anything away because, again, I had no idea what this movie was about.  I will say this.  Although the adorable telepathic Bloodhound rules, my favorite character had to be the neurotic Weimerauner and her two hysterical pet humans. "},{"Title":"A Great Dogumentary","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie.  If you like This is Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman then you will love this movie.  This is one of the greatest mockumentary other than This Is Spinal Tap.  This movie is for all you people who love dogs and those who don't. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The last couple years have produced so many lame comedies (American Pie, the Rob Schnieder films, a number of others)It's so great that a film can come out that makes you laugh out loud so many times, like this one. Best in Show is very funny. In fact, I can't really say which is better, Best in Show or Waiting For Guffman. If you haven't seen this film, get the DVD. The deleted scenes are as funny as anything in the movie, and for the life of me, I can't figure out why they didn't keep the beachballs in the cabin scene, which is just hilarious.  Best in Show is the funniest film since, well, Waiting for Guffman. "},{"Title":"Funny but not mean-spirited","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show is an excellent satire of both dog lovers and the world of dog shows.  Even though the characters are made fun of, I found myself rooting for most of them to be successful--with only one exception.  You'll enjoy the movie more if you've ever watched the Westminster Kennel Club show; Fred Willard's version of Joe Garagiola's commentary is dead on. "},{"Title":"We've got a winner here.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sharply funny and cunning take on the dog show circuit that follows the daily lives of a several dog owners and their dogs before they enter a dog show in Philadelphia.  Christopher Guest, who practically created the mockumentry genre with the script for This is Spinal Tap (1984), directs here and co-wrote the film's screenplay with Eugene Levy, who along with Guest is also in the cast.  The dogs appear to be normal, but the owners are an odd yet merry bunch.  Out of the characters, my favorite one is Buck Laughlin, the show's t.v. clueless announcer who is played by Fred Willard.  Willard supplies the film with some outrageous one-liners like for example - He went after her like she was made out of ham. and suggests the bloodhound could be dressed up like Sherlock Holmes.         "}{"Title":"Cookie? Cookie Fleck? Remember me?","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Best In Show' is a magnificent piece of work. Although it is done in the same improvisational style of Spinal Tap, it doesn't hide in the shadows of Christopher Guest's masterpiece, it charges out, paints itself day-glo orange and runs about waving its arms around.  Okay, despite the tortured metaphor, the point is that this film forces you to seriously consider which is the better movie. 'Best In Show' is an American comedy done by people who get British humour, which means that we get the best of both worlds.The humour is generally dry and understated and scores its points when the audience finds itself saying I know people like that. To make it work, it needs strong performances and writing and Best In Show has both throughout. I particularly loved the yuppie couple - they study law, they met at Starbucks, they go to therapy, they're obsessed with labels and are abusive to shop attendants and cleaning ladies. Part of the delight is in spotting the little details, like the fact they've brought their Palm Pilots to the dog show. The whole film is full of brilliant little details - I'd go over the word limits describing them all.Thus far I haven't mentioned the dogs, which are obviously a crucial part of proceedings, not so much for what they do but for how the humans interact with them. The way people project their own attitudes onto their dogs is priceless. The one time we see a dog act like a dog - jumping up on a person - everyone sees it as an absolute disaster. The dogs are matched to the people perfectly. Overall, this is another top-shelf mockumentary from Christopher Guest that, IMHO, is marginally better than Spinal Tap. As Homer Simpson would say... mmm... sacrilicious. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed every minute of this film.  I am still replaying some subtler moments in my head and I laugh out loud just thinking about them.  Check out Eugene Levy's mailbox the first time they show his house. If you get the DVD, check out the extra scenes where Harlan shows his beach ball collection and the two gay fellows embarrass a fellow dog show participant (Pair of Queens! I guess we win!) Everything in this movie was played so straight forward and funny, but I will admit it will take a patient and appreciative viewer to get the jokes.  My girlfriend hated it! Me, 10 out of 10.P.S. Yes, the nut thing was very funny. Now, Harlan, you jest stop naming nuts! Killed me. "},{"Title":"WORST In Show!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That was the worst movie I EVER saw!!!!  It's a comedy yet I did not find one thing to laugh at in the whole film.  Everything about it was bad; the plot, the script, etc.   I do NOT recommend renting it, buying it, or doing anything with it besides burning it!  I appreciate you reading this I hope this helps.Jon "},{"Title":"Give it a blue ribbon","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Give this film the blue ribbon.  Best In Show was witty and entertaining from beginning to end.  Although the mockumentary setup may seem recycled from Waiting For Guffman and This Is Spinal Tap, it actually lends itself better to this movie than the previous two.  Christopher Guest does a remarkable job directing this cast of misfit characters.  The plot seems rather simple and even childish, but the cream of this film lies in the characters, not the plot.  Each one perfectly contrasts the others and provides his or her own moments of hilarity, which come from clever humor rather than the expected slapstick comedy.  Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara play priceless roles, and Fred Willard leaves the audience in stitches.  Best In Show deserves a spot in the winners' circle of comedy. "},{"Title":"This is HILARIOUS stuff!!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once a year I pass the National dog show on USA Networks, and wonder what kind of whackos, would participate and/or watch such a show. Well after watching one of the funniest mockumentaries ever conceived, I will have to stop and check it out next year with a Best of Show view point.  I laughed for a solid 50 minutes, and just when the talking heads portion of the movie had about maxed out (and it was very funny stuff), here came the actual show portion with Fred Willard firing from every angle. I must admit that I get a goofy grin every time I see Fred Willard (who has been spectacularly underrated for almost 25 years), but nothing can prepare you for his color commentary of the show.  Kudos as well to his British sidekick who straight-faced it all the way to the end. This movie played for over 30 weeks in a local theater in Ft. Lauderdale, and now I know why, it must have more repeat viewing than Star Wars.  Just a great job by everyone in the cast (Guest & Levy couldn't have actually written all those lines), and if you have the DVD, don't skip the deleted scenes!! "},{"Title":"Worth Purchasing","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I picked this up on DVD based solely on the merits of Christopher Guest & company via Waiting For Guffman.  Amazing performances and slightly left of center characters make this worth the $20 price tag and well worth subsequent viewings. Parker Posey as a neurotic dog owner in search of her baby's favorite toy and John Michael Higgins entrances into the ring stand out as my favorite bits.  Of course Guest is really a master of his form and is the heart of this movie.  Buy it, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Dog-gone good. (Phew. Bad pun.)","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Dog shows are weird. People parade their dogs, pampered to look like artificial dummies, around a track and then a judge picks the `best' one. Under what criteria, we'll never know, but Christopher Guest's mockumentary offers some hilarious insight.The movie follows a bunch of characters. There's Meg & Hamilton Swan (Parker Posey & Michael Hitchcock), a couple who adore their dog but the dog goes through a puberty-type stage. There's the Flecks (Eugene Levy & Catherine O'Hara). Gerry was born with two left feet and Cookie has a reputation of sleeping around (with everyone) when she was younger. There's Scott and Stefan (John Micheal Higgins & Michael McKean), a gay couple who adore their twin Shih-Tzus. The Cabots (Jennifer Coolidge & Patrick Crenshaw), a thinly veiled parody of Anna Nicole Smith and her old man husband. She claims she didn't marry him for the money, but soon has a relationship with her dog's trainer, Christy Cummings (Jane Lynch). The last contestant we meet is lonely bait shop owner Harlan Pepper (Christopher Guest) and his blood hound. The show is commentated by the hilariously inept Buck Laughlin (Fred Willard).Best In Show is a funny movie. The jokes are mostly smart variations on low-brow. I enjoy a low-brow comedy once in a while, don't get me wrong. The jokes mostly hit home, but I've seen it happen too often that the movie relies on sexual humor (which isn't always that funny anyway) to try and make it funny. My favorite characters were Levy's Gerry and Posey's Meg (and of course Fred Willard).All the actors do a very nice job. This is a very strong cast that doesn't rely on familiar names, however. You've seen these actors before but you probably can't put a name to their face. The highlight is Fred Willard. He gives a great performance, delivering all his lines with perfect comic timing.Best in Show's script is either very good or very limited. Most of the dialogue seems improvised. However, this is an inordinate amount of dialogue to improvise! The script is very good anyway, with some great dialogue and lines. However, as I pointed out earlier, there is too much Farrelly-type sexual humor to make this movie a total hoot. I enjoyed Best In Show. It's got some great jokes, good performances and an excellent script, but the problem of the sex jokes never goes away. I was expecting more than this from the ecstatic reviews I got on the Internet, but this is still an above-average comedy. 7/10  "},{"Title":"very enjoyable comedy","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedies come in many different shapes and forms.  Some, like Eddie Murphy vehicles, feature a main character who is demonstrably more intelligent than any once else around him, so we, in the audience, get to feel superior right along with him.  We actually derive comic pleasure out of flaunting that superiority.  Another type of comedy is one in which the audience is made to feel superior to EVERYONE on screen.  This is the category into which Christopher Guest's clever and zany mockumentaries, `Waiting for Guffman' and now `Best of Show,' belong. So how does Guest manage to pull off this delicate high wire act of making us feel better than the characters on screen yet not having the movie slide over into cruelty and sadism?  Quite simply, he makes us see ourselves in the characters at the very same time we are laughing at them.  As a shrewd observer of human nature, Guest casts a scathing, yet at the same time utterly affectionate, eye on the bizarre rituals of small town Middle America.  In the case of `Best in Show,' Guest opens up to us the strange milieu of dog show competitions and the people involved in them.  As in `Waiting For Guffman,' he has assembled a cast of lovably eccentric characters to both act out the little dramas of their lives and address the audience directly in the form of mock interviews.  There is no point in reiterating the specifics of the many colorful characters whose lives we follow in the course of the film.  Those you can check out for yourself.  Suffice it to say that Guest makes us see many of our own obsessions, peculiarities and insecurities reflected in these people.  True, competitive dog shows may not be our own particular cup of tea, but we all fixate on SOMETHING that the rest of the world seems ignorantly unwilling to understand, something we may hide from our fellow men simply because they will not `get it.'  `Best in Show' lets us laugh at ourselves without our having to reveal our own personal sore spot.The large and superb cast is called upon to hit just the right comic note, ranging from subtle pathos to over-the-top absurdity &#150; and it is a challenge the actors meet with flying colors.  Perhaps to demonstrate his egalitarian spirit, Guest gives some of his funniest bits to Fred Willard as a show announcer who has not a clue as to the finer points of the competition.  As the one person not initiated into the mysteries of the proceedings, Willard's character seems more out of touch than the eccentrics who get it all.On the laugh meter, `Best of Show' doesn't rate quite as high as `Waiting For Guffman.'  But for its moments of homespun cleverness and charm, it is definitely a comedy well worth checking out for yourself.  `Best in Show' indeed!   "},{"Title":"Willard Scott vs. Fred Ward in steel cage death match","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was enjoying reading the comments here, but every so often I would come across someone flubbing up poor Fred Willard's name. Even if you aren't sure what the guys name is there is a cast list for crying out loud!! You're killing me over here. I am laughing so hard I am crying.I was dying laughing at this movie in the theater. The beauty of this film is it's a tribute to the many parts that make up the human spirit.  The heroic, passionate, and romantic sides of humanity are represented well in film. Guest has revealed the more awkward, vulnerable and sometimes pathetic side of humanity, and does it with great affection. I think maybe the people who hate this film are people who are afraid they are watching part of themselves up on the screen.  I recognized many facets of my own personality in this film and delighted in the recognition. What he has done is simply magnify them.  Seinfeld did the same thing with George Constanza. We need more films like this which dare to capture the many different kinds of people that actually live in our society.   "},{"Title":"Understated ironic humour I thought only Brits did - a gem!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a real treat both visually and verbally with very few false moves.The characters inhabiting the caricatures became more real and sympathetic to the audience. You actually wanted to know who won and the dogs were lovely.It was so pleasing to not have a frenetic,in your face, spoon fed sitcom with autocue but something understated and subtle. Sitting in a good cinema (Pictureville Bradford) and being part of the infectious laughter and sheer enjoyment was a delight.Without wishing to be stereotypical it was refreshing to see American humour encompassing irony and gentle mockery without blood on the set.Go see it.  "}{"Title":"****  Funniest movie of the year","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest outdoes his Waiting For Guffman with this absolutely hysterical film about dog competitions and the people who compete in them with their pets. A perfect cast, from Parker Posey to Catherine O'Hara could never be beat, and the writing (based on improvisations by the cast) is amazing. One of the very funniest comedies of the year.  "},{"Title":"Utterly Hilarious.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All manner of strange Americans head to Philadelphia for the Mayfair Dog Show.That's all you need to know plot wise. The only other thing you need to know is that it's very funny.The (admittedly, not hilarious) first ten minutes of this mocku-mentary introduce you to the characters. From then on in we switch between the different teams as they converge on philli and the show begins. All the humour comes from the brilliant characterisation. Be it the nerdy Gerry Fleck, played by Eugene Levy (he of American pie fame) and his wife, who appears to have enjoyed the company of every male in the USA, the yuppie Swans and their stressed out canine or (my personal favourite) trainee Ventriloquist Harlan Pepper.What is especially brilliant about this largely improvised film is the movement in your feelings towards the characters. To begin with they are their to laugh at, by the end I was actually starting to like most of them - but maybe that says more about me than about the film.In a time when on screen comedy is suffering a new low (how many semen-based jokes are possible?) along comes an intelligent hilarious film.Thank the maker.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of 2000-2001.","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of the directors work since Spinal Tap (he played lead guitar),  and this movie continues his tradition of making fun of ridiculous behavior we accept everyday.  The dog owners are insane and their lives petty.  They feel like they are on a higher level than other people because of their well  bread dogs.  In reality most people could careless and the obsession with their pets only makes them appear strange to the out side world.     "},{"Title":"Laughs from beginning to end.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's great to see a comedy that has real jokes and not just wise-cracks. Each character was brilliantly written and portrayed. Even days afterwards I find myself laughing at some of the lines. I reccommend seeing it twice. There's too much good stuff to take in in one viewing. Even the dogs seem to be given a deadpan almost Buster Keaton like performance. "},{"Title":"Hard to stop laughing","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WHat a fun movie to watch!! The dogs are very cute and look like they are having a swell time. The characters certianly cover as wide a variety as their number. And the announcer perhaps the best lines and unfortunately was like so many announcers--completely taken by himself and ignorant of the event he was there to announce. Everyone in the audience laughed and at different lines which made it even funnier. Well worth renting! "},{"Title":"Who are we really laughing at?","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show follows a group of people whose dogs are competing in a championship dog show.  The movie is a mock-umentary; that is, it's staged as if it is a documentary complete with interviews with people living their real lives.  In writing this review, I found myself grappling with the task of defining a mockumentary.  This is my best effort In standard movies, we know that the people on the screen are actors playing characters.  In a documentary, we know that the people are real people, not actors or characters.  A mockumentary combines the two the people on the screen are actually actors, but the characters they play are people living real lives.   So the difference is that in real movies, we know that the characters are not real people.  In mockumentaries, we are led to believe that the characters are real people, but we know that they're not.  Perfectly clear, right?So why is a mockumentary funny?  Surely we can laugh at the real people around us, but we may do so cautiously for fear of hurting their feelings.  A mockumentary is enjoyable because it lets us off the hook; we can freely laugh at these real people, because we know they're actually not real people, but merely portraying real people with all of their shortcomings.Although the premise may be complicated, the joke isn't.  Best in Show simply displays the foibles of several types of people when they are placed into an artificial situation.  Literally every scene delivers a healthy giggle at the least, all the way up to true belly laughs. The show is in reality a McGuffin that lets us observe human silliness.  There is the striving, hard-nosed young woman who has chosen winning dog shows as her life's work.  There is the decent, sweet-hearted country boy who thinks he may be smarter than he really is, but if he isn't, that'll be okay with him.  There is the thirty-something couple who place great and equal value on designer catalogues and dog toys.  There is the middle-aged couple who are at once dim bulbs but who also have a lot of love for each other, awkward though it may seem.  And there are the two outwardly gay men who know how to work together as a caring couple, and who aren't afraid to be their own goofy selves in public simply to enjoy their lives.We also meet the show's broadcast host, who is a perfect portrayal of every media type who exudes enthusiasm but does so only because it's his job; he actually has no clue as to what is going on, nor does he care.  And he has a trusty color commentator who is a dog show expert; we know he's an expert because he has a British accent.Much of the comedy has nothing to do with the show.   Catherine O'Hara's past love life surfaces consistently, much to her loving but perplexed husband's dismay.  Ed Begley, Jr., as the manager of the hotel where the contestants are staying, cares so much about his clients that he will do anything to keep them from not having a room.  Larry Davis has a small role as a man whose job it is to talk down people who have climbed tall buildings; we get to see him in action and understand why his success rate is on the smallish side.   The heart of this comedy is the fact that while all of these folks may fail to measure up in one way or another, we know that they're not bad people; they just act the way we all do.  Sometimes our hearts and emotions get in the way of actually doing something important.    Best in Show warms because that while we may fear looking silly, we innately know it's not a bad thing.  While we fail most of the time and can look foolish while we're at it, at least we tried and did so with good intentions.  Have you ever been at a party or convention and attempted making small talk with a group of people you didn't know and didn't care about, and make it sound meaningful?  You'll have plenty of opportunities to laugh at yourself in this movie.A final note the winner of the show was the only person who really looked like they were walking their dog.  "},{"Title":"Christopher Guest -- Genius!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While not quite as hilarious as Waiting for Guffman, Christopher Guest's follow-up is a heavily-improvised, gut-busting look at dog shows. While Guest often receives praise for his writing and directorial skills, his skills as an actor are phenomenal. The roles Guest played in Spinal Tap, The Princess Bride, Waiting for Guffman, and, now, Best in Show, are as varied as four roles can be. I sincerely hope he continues to create movies for years to come. "},{"Title":"Enough Laughs To Recommend This Original Comedy","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best In Show is original to be sure. I had several good belly laughs which prompts  me to recommend it. The characters in this film are memorable and I found myself laughing at different scenes after I left the theatre. It is a spoof on dog shows in general , especially the dog owners. The characters range from a Gay couple to a Lesbian couple to a hound dog lover and so on. The last 30 minutes you will enjoy the final awards given to the best dogs narrated by, a funnier than usual, Willard Scott. An hour and a half is perfect for this movie. You should know that there are many scenes that are simply not funny. If you can wade through those, you will be rewarded many times throughout the film.  If you love dogs, you will probably like the movie even more. I gave it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Definitely worthy of the blue ribbon","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film without ever having seen Waiting for Guffman.  After seeing this, I definitely am hooked on Guest's wonderfully bizarre and hilarious mockumentaries.  The actors were all hilarious portraying various dog owners bringing their prized pets to the fictitious Mayflower Dog Show.  But more than anything, Fred Ward made this movie.  His role as the show's commentator was one of the funniest performance of 2000(albeit, a lean year for comedies and movies as a whole).  This is not to take away from the rest of the cast, who all were phenomenal.  Definitely worth you're film dollar.  "},{"Title":"Laughed from beginning to end","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Characters are well crafted and hit the bulls-eye for satire. Couldn't stop laughing fr 30 minutes after it ended. The actors are first rate. Would recommend it to anyone. Expect to see it more than once more. The dog show itself was very well done and even seemed realistic which added to the humor. "}{"Title":"Genuinely clever, daring work.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another genuinely clever, daring work by Guest. If the Academy Awards would recognize a comedy category, this is the winner. This is the pinnacle in the Spinal Tap, Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show trilogy. Outstanding performances by the leads. Study them carefully. These are all people you know...and their dogs. I suggest Guest next tackle the subject of politics. His work has a cruel, yet functional honesty about it. "},{"Title":"Quirky comedy, fun for dog lovers.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Filmed in the mockumentary style of Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show is a very good film.  Its stylistic acting (like Guffman) and a cast including many of the same actors are a tribute to Christopher Guest and his direction.Guest himself provides the greatest acting contribution to the film in his portrayal of Harlan Pepper, a very human yet highly comedic character. Eugene Levy and Fred Willard deserve mention; the rest of the acting was on par, but not much more.  Eugene Levy, the perennial character actor, plays a role that we've seen a variation of on other occasions, but plays it well with quirks that I've not seen him play.Joseph T. Garrity and Monique Prudhomme (the production designer and costume designer respectively) were integral in the mood of the film as it looked like a documentary (thank you Garrity) and the costumes were comic, but realistic (thank you Prudhomme).One thing that has always bothered me about film was the notion of a continuity error and there is one that I could not overlook in this film. Aside from one major continuity error, the editing was good overall.Now I come to the thing that bothered me most about this film; admittedly, it is something that should not have bothered me my expectations.  I expected to walk into the movie house and not stop laughing until I came out much like I did when I saw Waiting for Guffman; however, I didn't find it nearly as funny.  Perhaps that is because I work in the theatre, perhaps because I've never owned a dog.  Consider this a warning, though.  Don't go into the theatre expecting to see a sequel of Waiting for Guffman, as I've read many times, expect to see a movie in a similar style on completely different subject matter with completely different characters.Also bothersome, was the depth (or lack thereof) of most of the characters. I found most of them to be caricatures rather than human beings.  However, I heard the woman behind me say that she liked all of the characters as people, so perhaps it's only because I haven't ever known anyone who has participated in a dog show.In order to not end this review on a down note, I'd like to point out that I do recommend this film to anyone.  Perhaps dog owners will appreciate it more, but it is a film that you should see. "},{"Title":"A truly original comedy that will have you doubled up with laughter.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is the funniest I've seen since The Full Monty.  Not only does it employ visual and obvious humor, but the subtle humor is almost too much to bear.  I literally laughed until I cried.  If you want a fun movie night out, this movie should be at the top of your list.  You'll be surprised  how many people are in it whose names you don't know but whose faces are very familiar. There are no prima-donnas in this film, it's not big budget, and there isn't much sex or violence.  If that's what you crave, skip this movie.  It's simply a cute story told in a highly professional manner by very good actors and actresses. The top notch writing and acting made this movie really deliver for me. "},{"Title":"very humorous satire","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny, satirical look at today's American society. I could do without a couple of exaggerations, but otherwise, there is a lot of subtlety and wit, and a great deal of talent put into this film. The viewer has to be always alert because in many scenes some strong caricatural elements are in the details, rather than in what appears to be the main focus.And, yes, it made me laugh almost all the time.  "},{"Title":"Leave the theatre with a smile.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny and yet warm movie.It is nothing serious, and it is one of those simple films that leave you feeling all warm inside and a big grin on your face.  The characters are done so well, especially the neurotic repressed Wamierauner(sp?) owners.The dialogue in this film is so superb and it seems like it was all adlibbed.  That is what makes it so amazing, here is a sample (somewhat accurate but conveys the mood and brilliance of the writing).We met at Starbucks No not AT Starbucks exactly you see Oh yes that's right.. See he was sitting AT a Starbucks across the street drinking Late Yeah and she was sitting at the OTHER Starbucks across the street, not the one I was in bUT THE other one over there drink umm, Capuccino.. No Mochachino,.. Oh yeah right...Classic. Or even betterWe have many things in common.  We both like soup.Great characters, funny, just pure enjoyable.  The movie does kind of make fun of the whole 'business of dogs and their owners', but it is harmless. I think it is even harder for actors to pull something off like this in a mocumentary as opposed to a standard film cause the characters have to come across as REAL people not actors.  What a great job they did.Rating 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Absolute Best Show","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A highest-quality comedy -- I couldn't recommend it more! At once hilarious and subtle. Has a documentary style -- you feel like you're peaking into the lives of real people, rather than watching characters on the screen.  What a delight!Looking forward to seeing it again sometime soon.  "},{"Title":"It's all about Relationships, not dogs!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I found the movie about dogs very funny on a superficial level, it was really quite a commentary on relationships!  From the interaction between the Flecks to the interplay of the two commentators at the Mayflower, it was obvious that source of the humor was really the interplay between people, not the quirkiness of dog owners.  It was only more obvious because the humans tried to use the dogs as surrogate partners if they didn't get the response that they were looking to get!I believe the movie was at least as funny as Spinal Tap, but more meaningful.  Partly because I could more easily relate to the characters, but also because we all have an interest or two, that when viewed by others, is quirky and odd.While I found the acting and writing to be quite fresh (how much can YOU bench press?), it did on a couple of occasions revert too easily to comedic stereotypes.  "},{"Title":"A funny, somewhat surreal comedy.","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I viewed this film one evening with about four other folks in the theater, which is kind of too bad. Its straight-faced silliness perhaps did not bring on belly laughs, but it did have me grinning throughout. Which might be the higher compliment.  "},{"Title":"If you like to laugh a lot....","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show had us laughing from start to finish. Immediately sent e-mails to all our friends to tell them to catch it before it leaves town.The best part is that every character isn't just believable, I feel like I know them personally. If you really like to laugh a lot, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"See it at a matinee","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you plan on going to see this movie, I recommend going to a matinee.  It will be cheaper and you will be less disappointed if you're as ambivalent about this film as I am.  Positives about this movie include spectacular casting and a heavy dose of humor.  Michael Hitchcock and Parker Posey are the most believable couple in the entire film, and the joke they make about how they met was hilarious to me (but likely only because I used to work at a Starbucks that _was_ directly across the street from another).  However, the believability of this movie as a whole was lacking.  Dancer in the Dark, with all its moments that required you to suspend your disbelief, was more believable than Best in Show.  Also, while I understand that this is a mockumentary, I feel that like a real documentary, films in this genre should make you care about the people in it.  This one didn't.  This was a funny movie, but the bottom line for me is this It's more intelligent than an Adam Sandler movie, but just as pointless. "}{"Title":"Clever and funny","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this movie - I also didn't think it was outright hilarious but it had some real genuinely funny moments and kept me giggling throughout it.I couldn't believe those owners!  YARG!  Several of those people would have sent me screaming!  They were simply awful but I could honestly believe that there are people like this in all walks of life.The dialogue was really wonderful - particularly in scenes with the announcer.  I really loved the characterization of the owners (each in their own unique, awful, batty way) and of course, the dogs.  The dogs were brilliant and the only sane ones in the movie.For both dog lovers and non-dog lovers! "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie that keeps it simple )","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so fun.  It wasn't manipulative or too aware of itself.  It was just funny.  And why did it take so long for a movie to be made about people and their dogs? I mean....shoot, there are an AWFUL LOT OF DOG LOVERS out there!  But even if you aren't, you will still crack up.Big Studios usually pour money into Action films with Star names and straight comedies with Star names.  That's too bad, because I think that movies like these would do consistently well, if they were given more of a chance. I wonder how many great scripts are out there that aren't being filmed because they don't fit Tom Cruise's profile and there are no stunts or buildings being blown up?This script actually required talent and well thought out characters.  I miss that.  I think our standards for movies today have gotten extremely low.  This movie, with it's straight forward wit, raises the comedy bar a bit.8 out 10.  (There were a few cliches and stereotypes I could have done without) "},{"Title":"Guest is the Best!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest proves himself again in this very funny movie about the premier dog show in the U.S. and the people who are excited by it.  The ensemble of comedians, many of whom Guest worked with  before in Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman play off each other brilliantly and keep the laughs coming. This is satire of our times at its finest.  Besides the serious belly laughs provided by Catherine O'Hara, Fred Willard and Eugene Levy, there are the more subtle characters like Ed Begley, as the tolerant hotel manager and Bob Balaban and Don Lake as the self-serious heads of the dogshow, who provide surrealistic views of the actual people who make an event like this happen.And then there are the dogs, each one a real champion in his own way. It truly is hard to pick just one to route for.  I especially liked Hubert, the bloodhound, the shitzu and, of course, little Winky, the terrier.  One charming part of this film is that the love of the owners for their dogs really came through.  Especially poignant was Guest's character, coming from a rural Southern area to the show in Philadelphia, because of pride and belief in his Hubert.  AND, who knew that Guest could do such a brilliant backwoods accent?! "},{"Title":"Will The Shih Tzus And The Weimaraner Come Forward, Please...","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	Writer/director Christopher Guest takes a look at the relationship between Man and that most loyal of beasts, the dog, in `Best In Show,' a humorous satire presented in the same `mock documentary' style as Rob Reiner's `This Is Spinal Tap.'  It's a keen observation of human nature, as it is much more about the owners and handlers than about the dogs themselves, and much as David Byrne did with `True Stories,' Guest presents a diverse community united by a single, common thread, that being their love for their dogs, and aspirations of winning the blue ribbon in the upcoming competition that will go to the top dog overall, the Best In Show.  Through a series of interviews and memorable scenes, we are introduced to the owners and their beloved canines who will soon square off in the arena at the world class Mayflower Dog Show in Philadelphia.  We get to know a bit about each of the participants, so we know just who they are and where they come from.  Guest has assembled a terrific ensemble cast, who bring it all to life by creating a rich tapestry of characters culled from a true cross section of Americana  Good ol' boy Harlan Pepper (Guest), with his Bloodhound, `Hubert', from Pine Nut, North Carolina; a somewhat neurotic young couple from Illinois, Meg and Hamilton Swan (Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock), members of the `Starbucks' set with their Weimaraner, `Beatrice;' Gerry and Cookie Fleck (Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara), a couple who could be anybody's next door neighbors, with their Norwich Terrier, `Winky', from Fern City, Florida;  Leslie and Sheri Ann Ward Cabot (Patrick Cranshaw and Jennifer Coolidge) a wealthy couple who have a Standard Poodle, `Rhapsody In White', entrusted to the care of professional handler Christy Cummings (Jane Lynch); and finally, another couple, Scott Donlan and Stefan Vanderhoof (John Michael Higgins and Michael McKean), with their precious Shih Tzus, `Miss Agnes.' 	This is a highly entertaining, funny movie, filled with wry, subtle humor that is delivered straight and never played for laughs, which makes it believable and real, and all the more hilarious.  This is quite a group of characters, eclectic to say the least, and they're all real people.  You're bound to run into someone you know among them.  The dialogue is sharp, and rife with dry wit.  And for anyone who's ever watched any kind of sporting event on television, you'll appreciate the parody of the so-called `color commentator,' in this case a guy named Buck Laughlin (Fred Willard), that is dead on the money.  His comments during an interview to a nonplused Dr. Millbank (Bob Balaban) about Columbus landing at Plymouth Rock will have you on the floor.  There is so much here you can relate to, and it's all done in such good fun.   	Rounding out the outstanding supporting cast are Don Lake (Graham Chissolm), Jim Piddock (Trevor Beckwith), Ed Begley, Jr. (Hotel manager), Linda Kash (Fay Berman), Larry Miller (Max Berman) and Don S. Davis (Best In Show Judge).  The performances here are good all around, with especially notable turns by O'Hara, Levy, Guest, Lynch and Willard.  Written by Guest and Levy, `Best In Show' works so well because it holds up a mirror and reflects the lives we all lead in one way or another.  As we watch, we realize that even as we are laughing at all of these characters and situations, at the same time we're laughing at ourselves as well; because there's more than a little bit of each one of us in there somewhere.  And it reminds us that when things seem to be getting too serious, it's time to pick up that mirror and take a good look; and thanks to the frame of reference that a movie like this provides, you just may find something to laugh about, and be able to discover the `Best In Show' in your own life.  I rate this one 9/10.              	   	        "},{"Title":"Christopher Guest and friends do it again.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like author/actor Christopher Guests' other &#145;mocumentary' `This Is Spinal Tap' much of `Best in Show' is unscripted -- and it shows.  While most of it works well, some of the rambling dialogue goes nowhere and a more lethal editor could have done much to move this movie along.The beginning sequences that introduce the characters to you seem to go on forever; but it does get better.There are some wickedly funny lines and situations every male that comes into contact with Cookie Fleck (the incomparable Catherine O'Hara) and the resulting discomfort by her old &#145;Second City TV' pal (and co-author of this movie) Eugene Levy (Gerry Fleck) is a running joke carried out all the way to the final scenes.There are lots of great cameos and you will spend a certain amount of time wondering who IS that?Real champion dogs were used in this film to great effect. The dogs are as beautiful as the people are strange.It did leave me wondering just how much of this very quirky movie was based on real-life experience in the world of professional dog shows.This is definitely a movie for dog lovers of all breeds -- but professionals in that field may be offended by its potential slice of life reality. "},{"Title":"Better than Guffman","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really liked Waiting for Guffman and Best In Show is funnier.  John Michael Higgins was hilarious in the role that I would expect Christopher Guest to play.  Fred Willard was also great doing a spoof of Joe Garagiola, who is a color commentator for the Westminster Dog Show.  Having seen the Westminster Show isn't necessary to get big laughs from this movie, but it sure helps.  "},{"Title":"One of best films of the year!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's BEST IN SHOW in an absolutely hilarious film, one of best films of the year. Like the classic THIS IS SPINAL TAP and the equally good WAITING FOR GUFFMAN, this movie has a way of mocking its characters, while still having a deep rooted affection for them. It's fun watching these couples primp and preen their stuck up dogs and it's even more fun to listen to clueless announcer Fred Willard make his stupid and hilarious comments throughout the show. This is a great film! "},{"Title":"Best Show In 2000","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you only see one movie this year,I recommend that you make it this one. I have not laughed so hard since Blazing Saddles.  A work of comic genius and a masterpiece of satire. If you like to laugh, make this one a priority. "},{"Title":"Guest and cast are close to perfect","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Guest and his repertory company are at the top of their game. A look at 5 groups of people and their dogs as they prepare for and compete in the big show. Catherine O'Hara may be the funniest person working in film now. Fred Willard is perfect as the loutish sportscaster. Both are over the top, but grounded in reality just enough.Essentially everyone will see something of themselves in one or more of these characters. With the exception of the male gay couple, all are EXTREMELY disfunctional (to use current psychobabble) as seen from the outside but somehow work perfectly for each other within the confines of the relationship.  "},{"Title":"Pure Genius!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a friend of a big dog breeder and shower, Best In Show was automatically on our must see list. I assumed, having been to LOTS of dog shows, that I'd be in a good position to get all the in jokes.What Best In Show was, was a brilliantly acted, brilliantly written and subtle series of character studies. The fact that the characters were participating in a dog show was almost insignificant.Christopher Plummer absolutely enters his character and stays there. In fact, there isn't a weak performance ANYWHERE! And the chemistry betweween the cast membbers is magic.This is a MUST SEE MOVIE if you appreciate great acting, and truth in writing. "}{"Title":"This movie is a hoot.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My husband and I really enjoyed this movie.  It's just quirky and weird and funny.  Don't expect it to be a story - it's done in documentary style with dog owners talking about getting ready for dog shows.  The characterizations are hilarious.  The glamour girl and the old man - like Anna Nicole Smith and her old guy - that was so funny.  And the husband/wife team - they kept running into her old lovers who all had to remark on her love-making skills right in front of her daffy husband!  This movie won't appeal to everyone. When it ended, an elderly couple in front of us stood up, and the lady turned to the man and said, That's the last time I'm letting you pick the show.  She looked like she wanted to slug him.  We thought it was very funny - or more amusing than ha ha funny.  But you do have to like quirky humor.  Really - it's a hoot!! "},{"Title":"A must see, a must own...","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, period.  I'm not involved in the dog show circuit, but have attended many of them over the years, as an observer.  Even though the characters are obviously caricatures, they are not that far off the mark.  But one needn't be an afficionado of dog shows (or even dogs) in order to appreciate the biting satire - Guest and crew are superlative.  I'm certain to see this again and will not hesitate to purchase it when it becomes available, if for no other reason than to catch the lines I missed the first time because I was laughing so hard. "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny, especially if you love your dog.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great character study of the extreme personalities in the dog show world keeps you laughing from start to finish. If you have seen a dog show, or own a dog, or just love a great comedy, this is a must see. Populated by familiar stand-up comics and absolutely gorgeous dogs of all descriptions. You may also have the same experience we had -- you could tell which members of the audience owned which breeds because they applauded when their dog came on. If you have seen a dog show, you will never view them the same way; if you have never seen one, you will want to after this movie. "},{"Title":"It's Spinal Tap with dogs instead of music.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was hilarious.  A lot of the same people as Spinal Tap.  It's basically Spinal Tap with dogs instead of rock music. In some ways I maybe liked it even better than Spinal Tap.Your mileage may vary.  I have a feeling it depends entirely on your sense of humor.  If you liked Spinal Tap, I guarantee you'll like Best in Show. If you hated Spinal Tap, you will almost certainly hate Best in Show.  "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely a must-see!  I was laughing non-stop for 90 minutes.  This movie is going to become a cult favorite for its sheer brilliance!  Too many superlatives to name to describe this movie and how much I enjoyed it.  If you are thinking about seeing it RUN do not walk to the nearest theater and see it.  I paid full price to see this movie and I NEVER pay full price. This was worth every penny of the $8.50 I spent.  And more! "},{"Title":"Laugh? I thought I'd die!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An absolute hoot for dog show folk as well as those who love a good laugh. Perfectly cast and well crafted. You'll love it! I saw it with other dog people, and we all agreed we've met most of the characters at one show or another. But the movie's appeal is broad enough to please anyone with or without a dog history. "},{"Title":"Has Its Moments, But Not Particularly Memorable","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a dog-lover and always look forward every year to the two days in February when the Westminster Kennel Club dog show is broadcast on TV.  It was with that anticipation that I went to see Best in Show, which is set around the fictional Mayflower Kennel Club dog show in Philadelphia.I thought that the first half of the movie, where the characters and the dogs are introduced was just downright boring.  I think that the storyline with Christopher Guest (as Harlan Pepper) and his bloodhound was particularly uninteresting.  I think that there were probably too many characters to really develop a story for each and you don't get too involved with them.  I think the story should have been about two of the dogs and their owners (I probably would have chosen the gay Shih-Tzu owners and the ultra-yuppie Weimaraner owners to focus on, they had the most potential).Fred Willard as Buck Laughlin steals the movie as the TV announcer who obviously gets assigned the dog show because he's annoyed somebody at the network.  He knows nothing about dogs and dog shows and doesn't hesitate to ask his sophisticated and knowledgeable British co-host the most stupid and embarrassing of questions.  Buck just roles off one hilarious one-liner after another.  It finally got to the point where the audience I watched the movie with laughed before he opened his mouth because they knew he was going to say something very funny.  This is Fred Willard's finest moment in a long career.Overall, Best in Show is OK, but not that great.  It isn't in the class of This is Spinal Tap, Guest's masterpiece about an aging heavy metal band. Probably worth waiting for the video to come on this one. "},{"Title":"Another gem from Christopher Guest","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show was one of those rare theater experiences that not only kept me laughing from beginning to end (not very hard to do), but almost all of the audience as well.  Christopher Guest's record of success is matched only by Ernst Lubitsch, Preston Sturges, and Mel Brooks.  Highlights for me were the Swans' visit to the dog psychiatrist, Gerry Fleck's two left feet, and Buck Laughlin's major-league, big-time asshole commentary.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My 21-year old son and I went to see this movie together.  Even though we both like dogs, neither of us cared for this movie.  I was expecting more--more humor, more story, more interaction among characters.  A disappointment! "},{"Title":"A wonderful mockumentary","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Those of us outside the fraternity of purebred dog ownership probably share a common view of such events as the annual Westminster Kennel Club's dog show. Like any hobby, purebred dog ownership develops a fanaticism and a subculture that is difficult to comprehend for the casual observer. That's where Best in Show starts. It is a hilarious look at what goes on behind the scenes and in preparation for a national dog show and contest. Yes, it is billed as a mockumentary, but I have to wonder how much of this tale is truly spun from the thread of exaggeration. Christopher Guest is brilliant, both as a writer and a performer in this film. "}{"Title":"This is the Best of Shows!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a cat person. My Dad always had dogs, but he never took care of them. And while I like all animals, when my Mom and I lived together after the divorce, I talked her into getting a cat. That led to more cats, and this is probably way more than you need to know about my history with pets. Oh, there's one more thing, I got a full bred Keeshond for my son last year, and the dog is a major irritant in my life right now. I went to Best In Show to laugh at dog people, and all I can say is MISSION ACCOMPLISHED. I happen to think Christopher Guest is a brilliant filmmaker. In Best In Show, he has captured the absurd and oddly compelling pageantry of dog shows. And this is more than just a `dog owners tend to look like their dog breed' chuckle, this is an outrageous lampoon of the people who treat their pets better than people. Best In Show is a mockumentary of a dog show, similar to the Westminster Kennel Club competition that's become must-see-TV in our house every February. In the grandly funny style of This Is Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman, we watch interviews with different dog owners and trainers and see glimpses into their odd little lives. Of course, it all leads up to the dog show, with the requisite gamesmanship, tension and hilarity, as we follow what goes on behind the scenes and also hear the broadcast commentary. My favorite character is Fred Willard's Buck Laughlin, a former pro-athlete (think Joe Garagiola) who provides clueless and irreverent commentary during the broadcast. He goes so far as to suggest the bloodhound should wear as Sherlock Holmes type hat and pipe! Christopher Guest writes, directs and stars (Harlan Pepper, bloodhound owner) in this masterful comedy. His Spinal Tap buddy, Michael McKean (Stefan Vanderhoof), teams up with John Michael Higgins (Scott Donlan) to provide a lot of laughs as a single sex couple in love with their Shih Tzu. They even have a disparaging remark about keeshonds. I was the only one in the theater laughing really hard about that one, but for the most part, a large and widely diverse audience at the cinema on a Sunday night laughed throughout the film. Best in Show is rated PG-13 for language and sex-related material. And, there's a bit more involved with that than a pug humping away on a man's leg, though there's just something funny about that. And, there's a lot that's funny about Best In Show. The laughs come from material that's sophomoric and from material that's sophisticated. The important part is, the laughs keep on coming! Best In Show earns five stars, on my scale 0-5. Tail wagging good fun!  "},{"Title":"Dog Food","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although it's not fair to compare this to '...Guffman' or '...Tap,' I found this film to be less than the sum of its parts. There were quite a few scenes where I laughed out loud for a long time. In fairness, it was the situation that was funnier than the resulting joke. Based on how great the first two Guest/McKean/Willard films were, I was hoping for more. So I suppose I do have to compare all three together since it is the first two that had me excited about seeing 'Best in Show.'Spoiler Alert. The characters are pretty one-note. I could mention each funny thing about each character and that would be it. Each actor was given his or her outline, I assume, and then told to ad-lib based on the one thing written for each persona. Then their joke was driven into the ground. Levy has two left feet. Funny? Yes, but that's it, repeated three or four times. When Levy has to walk the dog during competition, his left feet do not hinder him at all. O'Hara used to sleep around in her past. Funny? Yes, but that's it, repeated three or four times. A couple is totally neurotic about the well-being of their dog's psyche. Funny? Yes, but...you get the idea.Guest and Willard are the best in show here. Each has more than one thing to say about their character. McKean and Higgins are funny, too. But the over-the-top queens they portray can always be funny. I would only recommend this with reservations to absolute fans of mockumentaries, of which I am one.I will say this No one can name as many nuts as Christopher Guest.  "},{"Title":"Best Film of 2000","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just loved this film.  I understand that much of the film was improvised; something like over 60 hours of footage was taken, allowing the actors to riff, and the best stuff was kept for the film.  The result is just fantastic, when you're dealing with such talent as Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Michael McKean, Eugene Levy, and Christopher Guest.The film follows four couples (some not in the traditional sense), and another single guy (played by Guest) in their preparation for the annual dog show, a take off of the Westminster show.  Much of it is documentary style, much like Guest's previous film, Waiting for Guffman was.  Some of the film is over the top and some is much more subtle, but it all works and is sweet natured throughout, especially to the dogs, who are great to watch as well.  I just can't say enough good about this movie.  It's hilarious and full of great characters.  Let's hope Chris Guest doesn't continue to be underrated with this film as he has been throughout his career. "},{"Title":"It's a dog's world","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Do people treat their pets too seriously? Do people become like their pet? Who owns whom? These are the profound questions pondered in this deliciously wicked satire of middle- and upper-class values. At times it is a cross between a Tim Burton film (such as EDWARD SCISSORHANDS) and a John Waters film (such as...well, take your pick).We have AMERICAN BEAUTY, AMERICAN PSYCHO, and AMERICAN PIE. This could be included as AMERICAN BITCH (an expression used in the film), or perhaps it could be called the BLAIR DOG PROJECT. In any event, the fake-documentary mocks dog shows, America, documentaries, sports commentators, and anything else that happens to be unlucky enough to get in the way. The grainy film and hand-held camera work gives the sense that we are watching something real -- and at times, it is uncomfortably real. But then, that's the purpose of satire -- to break the bubbles of our human obsessions.We see mindless people doing mindless things to their pets for the sake of a blue ribbon. It is the American Dream in microcosm. And it is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of the year","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I've seen...well probably since Waiting for Guffman came out. There is not a minute that goes by without a laugh - and these are not cheap laughs, but clever, smart jokes! Every single actor in this cast does a great job. This is one of the very few movies that I didn't want to end - it was just SO good. Can't wait to see more of the footage when it hits DVD! "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS FILM!!!!!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a GREAT film!!!!  The writing is SO creative, I was hanging on every plot line...I can't remember when I laughed so much.  I am a dog owner, and while I may never be involved in dog shows, I love my pet as much as most of the characters loved theirs, so I could relate on that point.This film is like a RICH layered cake...I loved every plotline, and savored it till the end...while it is a spoof of the dog show biz, it does not stray far from what really happens, especially the commentary by the tv hosts towards the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Toronto 2000 Wrap-Up","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  9/9 1000 am BEST IN SHOW (****1/2)Christopher Guest has done it again.  He has  reassembled the entire Guffman cast and added a  couple of new faces to his troupe and they all have turned out another hilarious mockumentary.  The plot points are  somewhat predictable, but the film is enjoyable  nonetheless.  My only slight criticism is that after Guest has handled such subjects as rock music, theatre and the film industry, a dog show film may be slightly obscure for some people.  There are some great doggies in the movie,  though.  "},{"Title":"Very, very funny...","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People watching on the weirdest scale.  The screenplay is hysterical and the acting is very good.  My only negative comment; the schtick with Fred Willard went on too long and got old fast.  Other than that a great time! "},{"Title":"Best to date","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Probably the wittiest comedy around, Unfortunately, because of distribution, it will not be seen as widely as it should. We have a tendency to promote movies that are vapid and blatantly commonplace and hide the gems for few to see. Humor can be sly, not uselessly expensive to produce, and still highly successful,if the major studios distribute and advertise them. Hopefully, if more of us view movies like Best In Show the Hollywood enterprises will start to know. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was hilarious. Especially if you were ever involved in anything that has to do with dog shows, you know how the people are. Very good parody of what a dog show really is like. The characters are convincing and hilarious and overall I really enjoyed this film  "}{"Title":"The dog world will never be the same again.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The dog world will never be the same again after the success of  Best In Show. Nothing has captured the spirit and fun of the world of the dog  fanciers like this film. As a Former breeder and owner/handler, (those people dumb enough to show their own dogs in a violently, political dog-eat-dog world) I could not stop laughing throughout the film. As if the characters' lines  were not hysterical enough -  the facial expressions of the actors said it all. The only stereotypes that were missing were the slightly loaded judge and the obvious, obnoxious power plays that take place in the ring. They should definitely be included in Best Of Show Part II. If you loved this film you will also love a new book that is out entitled When Pets Come Between Partners by Joel  Gavriele-Gold. A shrink takes a look at all the ways we use our pets to avoid dealing with our own psychological issues. I'm sure Gavriele-Gold would have given anything to have Gerry and Cookie Fleck in his office. A great film and a great read.  "},{"Title":"SEE THIS MOVIE!!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I haven't laughed this hard in a movie since Showgirls. Brilliant, subtle performances (even Eugene Levy!) and a keen insight into the demented world of dog shows and obsessive dog owners.Why isn't this movie in wider release? The question hit me when I walked out of the Paramount in Toronto. Especially when refuse like Urban Legand The Final C**p dominates movie theatres.Support this brilliant and hysterical movie!  "},{"Title":"Undeniably funny, but no Guffman","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's a shame such a funny movie would leave me feeling a little let down. But then again it had big shoes to fill. Which unfortunately all it did was put the old ones back on. And this time the fit didn't fit so well.If Guffman did one thing exceptionally well it was it's use of subtlety. There were so few straight up jokes, and almost none of your typical sight gags or physical comedy. The story of these pathetic lives ran deep and by diggin into them you realized how much funnier and truer they were. The best example of this, and where Best at Show departs, is the tense hidden love of Steve, the Pharmacist, for Corky. Eluded to only in passing comments, some exceptional cheering and a quick glance of the eyes, it never really comes out and nails it on the head with a big HELLO AUDIENCE - STEVE IS GAY. But then there is Best at Show which sets it up with road signs that the rich lady and her trainer (their names escape me) are hiding a little something, and then lets it rip on national television. Sure I laughed, but still wanted something a little more.The rest of the movie pretty much repeats the same point. Other than that the shit-su should have won. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Without Being Cruel to Dog Shows or Freaks","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie of the year. The last time I laughed so much, it had to be Galaxy Quest, but the jokes then were often about Star Trek and other space shows, not just the situation itself. The laughter in the audience was so different, here, though. Much stronger, probably the way Airplane was in the theaters. Made it hard to follow the movie, so many people kept laughing, you missed the next lines. A good reason to see it again.I was a fan of SCTV about 20 years ago, even though the show was uneven, but I loved the way Catherine O'Hara acted, and she's quite good here. So is Eugene Levy.If you don't know the plot, it's about dog show contestants. We follow six couples as they prepare to leave home for the Mayflower dog show in Philadelphia, and then we watch them in the competition. We finally see the winner after the show has long gone, about a year later. The style is mock documentary, even though we never see who's doing the documentary. It's just the style.Wish it had been longer, guess it was about 90 minutes. It never slowed down, even though there are clearly sections where they don't go for sustained laughs, especially for the guy who lives in a town called Pinenut.The film is remarkably kind to strange people, though it uses them for laughs. It nevers flips over the edge into cruelty. For instance, there's a chesty woman who has a lot to do with Anna Nicole Smith, who has married a real, real old geezer for the money. The geezer is hilarious, even though he never says a word. If he'd said any lines, it would have been at the expense of good taste, I expect. Instead, we simply are invited to imagine what he is like.This is the best movie of its kind. Of course, I've never seen a movie about dog shows. I'll go see it again very soon, at least to start finding all the other stuff I didn't hear over the laughter. I don't recall anything anybody in the movie said, though, which means I doubt it will have the influence of Caddyshack or Airplane. Still, the flick is funny on its own terms.By the way, it gets the laughs without making fun of the idea of dog shows. People in the audience loved the dogs, so the jokes didn't alienate them by questioning the validity of the dog show itself.I saw this in a small Berkeley theater. Hope it gets picked up by the large megaplexes.Woof! Woof! Woof! (3 out of 4 woofs)  "},{"Title":"Funny from the inside out!","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As one of the cast of thousands for this film, I can assure you that Mr Guest had the best of the dog show world working with him to make this the funniest spoof of dog shows I've ever seen.Each couple and their  dog approach this show with high hopes!  They are hilarious!Fred Willard does a wonderful job of doing the colour commentating.  His continuous prattle had the viewing audience in stitches and his co-host rolling his eyes.  Truly magnificent.This is a must see movie for lovers of good comedies. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen this year","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's new mockumentary about several people taking their dogs to a national dog show is by far the funniest movie I've seen this year.The cast is hilarious - Guest as a shy fly fisherman who also dabbles in ventriloquism - Eugene Levy as a man with literally two left feet and Catherine O'Hara as his loveable wife with a checkered past - Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins as a gay couple with their prized shitzu -Jennifer Coolidge as a trophy wife to an octagenarian and Jane Lynch as their aggressive dog handler - and (my personal favorites) Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock as an extremely tightly-wound Yuppie couple with a dog who was traumatized after watching them have sex.  Fred Willard steals every scene he is, who we realize knows almost nothing about dog shows.  I hope people see this film because it really is hilarious! "},{"Title":"Just Brilliant","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest, one of the minds behind the classic This Is Spinal Tap, and the brilliant Waiting For Guffman has done it again. Best In Show views the already-quirky dog show circuit through that Tap lens, and the result is genius.Like Tap and Guffman, this latest film is unscripted, and watching Guest (who plays a Southern-fried fish and tackle store owner with a prizewinning bloodhound) improv with his co-stars Michael McKean (who bears a strong resemblance to Tap member David St. Hubbins), Catherine O'Hara, Show co-writer Eugene Levy and the other cast members is mindblowing -- like watching jazz greats effortlessly riffing back and forth.Guest and company -- also including Parker Posey and Fred Willard -- are outstanding. Best In Show is, simply, one of the funniest movies you'll see all year.  "},{"Title":"A Fine Character Study","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, but it's the finely observed character studies that make this gentle mockumentary by Christopher Guest so enjoyable. Guest, along with co-writer Eugene Levy, populates the world of dog shows with identifiable people and while they often draw caricatures (particularly a married couple, played by Michael Hitchcock and Parker Posey, who project their fears, hostilities and parenting efforts upon their Weimariner; and Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins as an over-the-top gay couple), the ensemble has such affection for the characters you're happy to accept them for who they are. This is because the improvisational aspect of the dialog makes everyone seem real; you feel as if you know and sympathize with them as they struggle to succeed, as in the case of Levy and the sublime Catherine O'Hara, playing a couple who find they can't afford a hotel room and are put up in a utility closet by the well-meaning hotel manager (wonderfully played by Ed Begley, Jr.). Even those meant to be identified as villians (dog handler Jane Lynch and owner Jennifer Coolidge) understand their characters so well it's impossible not to like them. The film is immensely entertaining and seems to fly by, so much so that it belies its reasonable ninety minute run time. "},{"Title":"Roundly Funny, But Unusually Shallow","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christopher Guest and his regular cast of improv legends tackle another unsuspecting target in this wild-eyed send up of the competitive dog show circuit. It's a bit more all-audiences than Spinal Tap, while completely skipping the emotional hooks of A Mighty Wind or Waiting For Guffman, but still delivers enough legit snickers to validate a simple retirement as late-night cable network filler. The straight-ahead plot never shows much interest in progressing beyond simple character-driven adventure, and while each member of the cast is good for a smart punchline or two, the roles themselves are universally shallow, narrow caricatures. Fine as a background flick, thrown on to fill the air when your focus will be frequently elsewhere, it will never quite reach the same level as its siblings. "},{"Title":"A comedy that is actually riveting","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are three movies that, when broadcast, I must watch regardless of what else is on; Jaws, Pulp Fiction, and this movie, Best In Show (much to the dismay of my fianc.) Although I have laughed harder at other movies, I don't remember a more complete comedy, with such understated yet exceptional performances from every member of the cast, bar none. Knowing it is mostly improvised just makes it a piece of absolute pure genius, some of the best improvisation ever put on film, and one of the funniest movies ever. By the way, this is from someone who hates dogs, but this is something special. I feel bad for those movie buffs that just don't get it. "}{"Title":"Guest's Absolute BEST to date!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Since seeing Waiting for Guffman and missing a major portion of the Second City Comedy Troupe, i.e., Catherine O'Hara, Eugene Levy, I have enjoyed Christorpher Guest and his troupe of actors attack certain American institutions via the mockumentary format.'Best In Show is hands down the very best of Mr. Guests's mockumentaries to date. When you consider that the majority of the film is improvisational, with the characters given a basic structure from which to work and then allowed to go where their creativity takes them you get a real appreciation of just what a good ensemble cast can capture/create.This particular outing takes on the world of dog shows and follows the exploits of various dog owners to the Best In Show finals. It is a stitch! There is something here for everybody. Of course the standout is Fred Willard as an obnoxious commentator who really deserved winning the Oscar for supporting actor for which he was nominated. The character study of each dog owner of course sheds infinite light into why they are so obsessed with their dog receiving the top award.The improvisation is top-notch but I would expect nothing less. Catherine O'Hara is generally flawless and here she does not disappoint. She is in RARE form! She and Eugene Levy play off each other quite well. Other cast members that I have seen in Waiting for Guffman as well as A Mighty Wind continue to be consistently creative and funny and I welcome their efforts. While Waiting for Guffman and A Mighty Wind pale in comparison, they too reveal flashes of the genius of Mr. Guest and company.A must for your DVD collection and it gets funnier each time you watch. Just don't watch with serious dog owners or they may be somewhat insulted because Best In Show while empathizing with its subject matter, does not take it as seriously as some obviously do! "},{"Title":"Fred Gwynne and Best in Show","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Thirty years ago, I used to read a wonderful children's book entitled Best in Show by the actor Fred Gwynne to my children. Better known for his television and movie roles, Gwynne authored several children's books.Needless to say, the book's story line is just like the movie of the same name. And the illustrations lay the groundwork for some of the film's sight gags. I saw the movie once and it immediately reminded me of the book which I had not opened in twenty five years. I have since bought the book on the Internet and the similarity is sure there.I never paid much attention to the movie's credits and have always wondered if the movie or its creators ever mentioned the book.I would appreciate anyone's setting me straight on this.Many thanks. "},{"Title":"Silliness framed in intelligence","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" - Is what Christopher Guest said in his biography page link. He was describing British humor, and that is precisely what makes it funny. Why don't people like this comedy? It's absolutely hysterical! I love Spinal Tap, I'm a guitarist, I get the 'band' humor, and I still laugh more at Best in Show. Yes, Tap was the original, so new that it's still got the ole tagger on it, but Best in Show seems more relevant today. Everyone is entitled to their opinions, but consider this This is introspective humor. You have to be secure with who you are, to laugh at other people's idiosyncrasies. I actually thought that some of the dogs almost looked embarrassed by what their asinine owners were saying! So, maybe this humor is below all humans, not just those who hate it!Woof!Favorite comedies (here come the bashers, woo-hoo!) Polyester Love and Death Strangers With Candy Life of Brian Clerks The Big Lebowski (I'll think of more that you'll probably hate later).10 out of 10.Is that J. Crew? "},{"Title":"Very funny to the average person, completely hilarious if you show dogs!","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, its unlike any other I have seen. I have shown dogs for several years and know people EXACTLY like every character in this movie!! The similarity is uncanny and makes it even more funny knowing what the show world is really like.The actors do a great job showing the dogs and are very convincing (this impressed me, it takes a lot of work to learn) the dogs are also true show quality which is nice. I believe the canine stars are all proved in the real-world show ring and most of them are Champions. In some scenes canine extras are shown by their real life owners/handlers.An oddly accurate glimpse of the dog showing world. Anyone could enjoy this movie, even if they have no have no interest in dogs! "},{"Title":"Not first place","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Best In Show is best described as a comedy and character film centering around owners of dogs who have entered a dog show. The characters are completely different from each other, and the events that lead around them and eventually bring them together are comical. Most of these people are stereotyped, leading to part of the jokes about them and their lifestyle. We have the homosexual men with a cute girlish dog, the sexy grave-robber woman who eventually leaves her old husband for a lesbian, a yuppie couple who visit a psychologist while convinced their dog has issues, a typical mid-western couple who enter their pet because it is something they always wanted to do, and a typical hunter who rambles on and on about his experiences. The stories of these people and why they entered the dog show are the movie's focus, complete with the end of the movie where their reactions to the dog show are observed. Best in Show is thoroughly entertaining and worth watching if you need to laugh. It's not best in show or in first place, but it's worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Perfect Parody of Reality","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like all of the Christopher Guest mockumentaries like this and Best in Show is quite possibly the best (although This is Spinal Tap is awfully close). One of the beauties of films like this is that, aside from having moments of obvious humour, Guest and all the others do such a great job at recreating a slightly off-balance version of reality while making it all really feel like a documentary instead of a comedy. It's this low-key, dry, rather deadpan humour at which this film excels.Everyone does a beautiful job at creating somewhat odd, off-the-wall characters and events while the whole time appearing totally serious, matter-of-fact, and normal. As usual, they take types of people who tend to be a little different anyway, make them subtly more strange and humorous, and present it as if it were normal reality. This subtle humour is present throughout and is simply brilliant and utterly hilarious. I guess some people who found this dull only latch onto the more obvious humour and fail to realize that the entire film is pretty much constant humour.It takes a lot of skill to do something like this and have it be really funny while carefully avoiding the pitfalls of going over the top and being lame and ruining the sense of reality, or being so dry that it doesn't seem like humour at all. This is a perfect example of how this group can expertly traverse this narrow path and succeed almost flawlessly. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment for bothdog people and non-dog people.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After many many years in the show dog world I could hardly wait for this movie to come out. It was worth the wait. It is one of my favorite movies. When I need a dog show fix and I've grown weary of watching my collection of many years of Westminster tapes, I plug this movie in for a little comic relief.I can see where it might be disappointing to some show dog people. A perfect dog show movie for us would probably not appeal to the general public. This movie does a pretty good job of being watchable and funny to the non-dog show people yet being accurate enough to be funny and watchable to those of us who love this world of dogs.I appreciate it that Christopher Guest did his homework and actually educated himself and his actors about dog shows. It was wonderful to see that he actually used good show dogs(champions) and handlers in the movie. I was delighted that I never heard the term grand champion. I Thank him,also, for not making any of the dogs/breeds seem so darling that we see the public demanding puppies leading to a proliferation of puppy mill puppies-For those of you who don't understand that statement,talk to any devoted dalmation breeder/exhibitor.Best in Show is supposed to be entertainment and as such, the characters have to be a little over the top. But, most of us that have shown dogs for any length of time can recognize bits of these characters in exhibitors we've met. Actually, I can thing of some that are even weirder. The dog show world is a zany world, at times, and I wouldn't have it any other way. These people are the best there are.Now if someone would just make a movie about some of our famous (and infamous) dog show judges and professional handlers. Nah, maybe not. Well then I can only hope that we get a dog show channel on satellite. In the meantime, I'll just have to rerun my Westminster tapes and re-watch Best in Show.  "},{"Title":"Better than mediocre","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must say I was disappointed with this film.  Although it is well acted and directed, the underlying story simply plods along too slowly.Granted, in another mood I would have liked it better. I did chuckle a lot, but rarely laughed out loud; and there was actually a sense of suspense to discover who won.  But in contrast to another movie that my wife picked up the same day (one neither of us had heard of before) this one paled in comparison.If you see lots of movies, then by all means see this -- it's distinctly better than your average fare.  But if you (like me) have limited time and want to watch only the best and most entertaining, save this for later.Rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Superbly Funny Film","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best In Show reveals a funny look at dog shows. I never saw Waiting For Goughman, but I loved this anyway. The cast is wonderful, and it's just plain funny how much these people take dog shows seriously. Just see this film for great laughs, I promise you won't be let down. 3.5/5 stars. Superbly Funny! "},{"Title":"Know what to expect ahead of time!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this flick on the advice of a friend.  I didn't even read the back of the case, so I had no idea what I was in for.  After having watched it all the way through, I liked it.  However, I almost turned it off after the 30 minute open mocumentary.  I decided that I hated all of these people and didn't care about the movie's plot.  I'm glad I finished it.  It was very funny overall and the beginning wasn't so bad once I got past it. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully quirky comedy &#150; best in show by far!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A mock semi-documentary that follows a group of different dog owners as they prepare for and take part in the annual Mayflower Dog Show, competing for `best in show'.Christopher Guest is very much a great film maker when he's allowed to do it.  Here he not only stars but he also directs and co-writes and shows his talents well.  The story is not really a straight forward affair and those looking for a good narrative have misunderstood this film.  The genius of Guest and Levy's script is that it focuses on the characters rather than events.  This allows us to watch the people instead of the action &#150; and this is much more satisfying.The characters are brilliantly observed &#150; from a gay couple, a mismatched couple with the wife of checkered past to a stressed out couple who mother their dog.  All the couples are hilarious &#150; not always laugh out loud funny, but a more quirky comedy.  The best odd couple is left to the commentators who are a mix of expert and talkative ignorant (the usual real life mix).  The observation is so well observed and very realistic and full of hilarious lines &#150; `how do they get the miniature dogs to be miniature &#150; is their a special miniaturizing process they go through?' etc.The cast are roundly excellent &#150; this is very much an ensemble piece. Writers Guest and Levy are excellent.  Cult queen Parker Posey is excellently stressed with Hitchcock and McKean and Higgins are funny a the OTT gay couple.  The characters are well written but the cast really deliver on the script's potential.Overall many people may be frustrated by the lack of plot but the characters provide a wealth of humour.  You won't be able to pinpoint many jokes but the humour is so deeply ingrained in the film that you'll love it all. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review   solid but not amazing","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Best in Show is a series of little skits where they take you backstage at a dog show. There's no real protagonist, so it feels a little like watching an extended episode of the Love Boat. Sometimes it's genuinely funny; sometimes there's a subtle humor underneath that's amusing but not laugh-out-loud funny (similar to The Royal Tenenbaums, but not as arty).The one negative comment I'll make is that the movie sets up several quirky characters, and normally we would expect these various characters to play off of one another in a series of mounting chaos, such as The Secret of My Success, or A Fish Called Wanda, or American Pie. No such thing happens -- in fact, the main characters barely meet at all, staying boxed neatly in their own subplots.There are better comedies out there, but if you see yourself perusing the 1980s comedies in the video store, about to take a wild chance on something you've never heard of, get this instead.Who should see this film-- dog lovers of all types-- comedy movie fans who aren't expecting Animal House humor-- anyone who wants to see more of Eugene Levy, who played Jim's Dad in the film American PieI'll give Best in Show a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Waiting For Guffaws","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Reading some of the other user comments here almost made me wish I had finished watching the movie.  As it stands, I didn't even make it to the dog show.  I loved both Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman, but what I saw of this was trite, mean-spirited, slow, and just plain unfunny.  (Okay, the dog on the shrink's couch was funny, but that happens in the first two minutes, and if you sat down to watch it in the first place, you damn well knew it was going to be a dog.) "},{"Title":"Not very funny","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Any laughs I had from this were strained.  I guess the mockumentary is not my preference.  They were comedians I've liked in other shows, and though, mildly entertaining, NOT funny.  Maybe I would have liked it more if I had ever been to a dog show and could actually envision a real person of whom they were making fun.  If you've been to a dog show, but don't take it too seriously, you may think this is hilarious, but neither my husband or I were very impressed. "},{"Title":"What's so funny???","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just like Waiting for Guffman here comes another lamebrained comedy that got big hype, but I'm still not laughing.  It's not that I don't get the jokes, I get the jokes!  There's no subtle humor!  It's just not funny.  I chuckled a few times, but this is one of those films that I have to watch with someone else (who liked the film) to actually see what was so hilarious!I have nothing against improvisation.  As I mentioned before, I'm a huge fan of Whose Line is it Anyway.  But maybe improv just doesn't have a good place in film.  I wasn't a fan of This is Spinal Tap either, another improvised piece featuring Michael McKean and Christopher Guest.  I've seen films that contained a lot of improvisation, and it worked, but the script still set a fair deal of boundaries.  And thinking back to some of the movies I found the funniest (films by Woody Allen and Albert Brooks) sharp writing can work wonders.Each of the characters had certain quirks.  Few worked, most didn't.  I liked Eugene Levy, and I thought the bit about the two left feet was pretty funny.  Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock as the dueling couple were over-the-top, though I thought their little spoof of the maximization of Starbucks all around the world was quite catchy and funny.  Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins as the gay couple were just plain annoying.  I guess Christopher Guest felt the mere idea that they were gay was funny enough, and there's a bit about lesbianism involving Jennifer Coolidge and her lover that was put in strictly for gimmicks.  But Fred Willard, like always, cracked me up a few times as the commentator at the dog show. Christopher Guest as a hick who can name every nut imaginable (OK, was that supposed to be funny?) was just plain stupid with a hammy performance in which you can tell he's trying to go for a laugh--or have people laugh AT him.  And I think that's a problem with most of the other actors in this movie.Best in Show is original and different.  I can't say any other film covered the dog show circuit.  But that's all it is.  I can't see a damn reason why people are voting this as one of the funniest films of the year and stuff!  I know we're not confronted with the best comedies recently, but come on!My score  4 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked the movie while I was watching it.  There are some very funny scenes.  Unfortunately, it is not particularly memorable.  When I leave a theatre, I like to take something with me.  Something that at least makes me feel like I saw a movie.  If I am on my way home, I don't like thinking 'oh, yeah, I saw a movie' - ideally, the movie is still on my mind and not just an after-thought.  This is too slight to make much of a lasting impression.Out of the large cast, the only person who bothered me was Fred Willard, who got tiresome after the first dozen wise-cracks. Its always great seeing Parker Posey and Catherine O'Hara, and as a big American Pie fan, it was nice to see Jennifer Coolidge (Stifler's mom) and Eugene Levy (Jim's dad) on the screen again.  "},{"Title":"not Guest's funniest movie, but good","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this one in the theater, and it was kind of strange because it was one of the first films I'd seen that I really thought would actually play better on television than in the theater. Well I saw it last weekend on TNT... very amusing as they were doing this home makeover type thing where they were putting all kinds of stuff in someone's backyard for their dogs, and the people on the program were basically just as fake and lame as anyone in the movie. Anyway, fake and lame describes almost every character in this movie with the exception of Guest's startling performance as Harlan Pepper. I feel like in a lot of ways the people being lampooned were played too heavily, especially the yuppie couple with Parker Posey. Their act was very funny at first but it wore thin much too fast for me. Likewise all the jokes about Catherine O'Hara's character being promiscuous. The first was hilarious but they kept pounding it into the ground.All in all I feel the love for this film is somewhat displaced. I didn't enjoy it as much as Waiting for Guffman or even the later Mighty Wind. But I've never owned a dog so maybe I'm missing some of the humor. "},{"Title":"Christopher Guest the genius","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie was like the time those little Asian ladies had me drinking grape juice with them in the name of Reverend Sun Moon on my porch, i just felt rejuvenated. My soul felt diseased but, still rejuvenated. Christopher Guest's story of a dog show is total genius. And the comments that were made by the announcers during the dog show had me laughing my tail off. And the part that Guest plays naming nuts made me laugh until i had a nose bleed. After you watch a Guest mockumentery you get all happy that others out the have a sense of humor that is still true and genuine. His lovable cast of committed actors that repeatedly do his movies were perfect. "},{"Title":"The great American nitwit movie","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is about Americans who fall in love with dogs but it could have been about cars or fly-fishing or star trek or any of a hundred subjects that millions of crazy Americans get obsessed with. Everyone is hilariously idiotic. The super dork and his wife with a past. The gay couple. The young handsome couple who simply worship their dog and go berserk when the mutt's squeaker toy is lost. My fave was the idiotic show announcer played by Fred Willard. He didn't know a thing about dogs but just kept rambling on and on while his sidekick who was a real dog expert was appalled. Yes - i remember you told that joke last year. The dogs incidentally were beautiful. And in case you didn't know - two of the stars, Christopher Guest and Michael McKean, were the lead singers in the great 1984 satire This is Spinal Tap. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Phantom Hill","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I saw `Guffman' immediately before this, and my reaction was negative. It was funny in spots, but simple funniness isn't enough by itself for me.This is a little different. As with `Tap' and Guffman' the central device is a show bracketed by a documentary. But here, there is a greater spectrum of realities. Each character (or character pair) creates their own reality which varies more widely than the prior film, plus there is anchor of `real' reality. The goofy thing is that the real reality is the dogs and the non-featured other dog owners. A strange anchor. As we move through the scenes, we get buffeted by the discontinuous, unrelated worlds like walking from one theater to another in a multiplex.What makes this interesting for me is Guest's character. He creates a reality that is between Burton's PeeWee and something Sean Penn would do, say his Jazz Banjoist. Very multilayered. Very intelligent. Just the right ingredients a telepathic dog; a dummy; A 200 year old log cabin filled with beach balls; two phantom hills that aren't (or rather, are); nuts; flies; counties.But to get to that, you have to wade through an hour of uninspired improv two ordinary gay guys; two anal lawyers and so on.It puzzles me why Guest works with Levy. Guest's humor draws you in -- he's personal, human, lightly dark. Levy is juvenile, strutting, cynical.Supposedly, this is the mix from 60 hours of material. I would have watched two hours of Guest alone. The rest is a waste. "}{"Title":"Dullest in Show","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seeing such a high rating for a comedy on the IMDB, i put this down as one of my movies to watch.I wish i hadn't.The whole style, every scene and line of dialogue is deadpan to the extreme. The story basically follows several different owners as they enter a dog show, through to it being won, and then briefly what happens to them after.The problem is, every character is supremely annoying or dull and that was pretty much the only joke in the film. To me that isn't enough, and in fact the movie regularly annoyed me. I think it got about one laugh, and a couple of smiles throughout, and the rest of the time i was in pain.If you think the idea of someone reciting a line, sometimes saying something ever so slightly odd, in a matter of fact and totally deadpan way is enough for a supposed comedy, well, you may like it, but i wouldn't class it as humorous in the slightest when done repeatedly for an entire movie. Some scenes don't even have this slight blessing, and consist of the characters just doing something intensly stupid and annoying, with that trait presumably something to find humour in.You have been warned. "},{"Title":"Best movie of 2000","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really love Best in Show.  Not just because it is a wickedly funny movie, well written, well acted, and well produced, but because it makes fun of one of the most idiotic aspect of our culture, dog shows.  It's not that the dog shows themselves are made fun of in Best in Show, it's the people who's entire lives revolve around preening and training their dogs to be show participants.  The two characters that stand out as exceptional performances are the oafish announcer, and the guy with, well ... two left feet. Literally! The dogs themselves are great, and probably are overlooked in most reviews.  They definitely have personalities of their own, and they seem very normal compared to their handlers - much like the kids who's parents make them endure high profile talent shows. "},{"Title":"Often mildly amusing, mostly cruel humour.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest has often collaborated with Rob Reiner, with occasionally-amusing results.  He's on his own here, and at a guess I'd say that what cruel and edgy humor there was in This is Spinal Tap can probably be attributed to him.  I found the characterizations in this film to be more often cruel than humorous.  Michael Hitchcock and Parker Posey are pitiful neurotics whose lives revolve around coffee and their show dog.  Eugene Levy is apparently not funny enough for Guest - he wears buck teeth and has two left feet.  In the process of getting his dog to the show, the character discovers that his wife (Catherine O'Hara) is the regional slut - not exactly a laugh a minute!  Guest himself plays a 'fussy gay' dog owner.  I'd recommend this one to people whose sense of humour involves feeling superior to others. "},{"Title":"Super!","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A man I know once described his fascination with nature shows.Animals are just like people -- only more so. Here we see that idea turned on its head It's dogs that exhibit restraint and dignity and the people who are just so....so....peoply! This quietly hilarious mockumentary takes an almost anthropological interest in the quirks of homo sapiens...their obsessiveness, vanity, lust, oddity, and plain old silliness.As is typical for a Christopher Guest production, the film is expertly cast. Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock are perfect as a highly strung yuppie couple; Catherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy delight as a nerd married to a (former?) floosie; Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins excel as an extremely stereotyped gay couple, and Ed Begley Jr. is hilarious as a poker-faced, unflappable hotel manager.Perhaps the one, unexpected false note here is director Guest's playing of Harlan Pepper, a bloodhound owner who is also an amateur ventriloquist. There's a creep factor there I found a little dissonant.A small quibble in an otherwise excellent production. "},{"Title":"Have Seen Better and Have Seen Worse","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I read Christophe Guest's bio and found a couple of statements to be offensive...intentional or not...they were both terse and quite stupid. Voicing his low opinion of Americans and their comedic viewing habits, slaps the faces of the majority of his drone-like fan-base willing to empty their wallets, just to be bored - once again. Apparently many of his fans either agree with his self-aggrandizing opinion or choose to ignore it, I don't really care. Whether you agree with him or not, usually a person goes to a movie to be solely entertained (granted some depend entirely on movies to feed their brains) - to each his or her own. There are a lot of people in Hollyweird I probably would not even like to share the same oxygen, but I will always appreciate talent. That being said, I am so glad I did not spend money on this twaddle, it was not entertaining and definitely not funny. I know, some people thought this was really funny&#x85;great&#x85;that is your opinion. I found it to be a marginal, at best. Not being a Thurston Howell the Third or Lovey, or like any of those 'intelligent' type viewers, I found this low-brow comedy to be - well - more of an un-comedy. Honestly, Best in Show, is not even close to 'Spinal Tap'. To think that this is an example of 'silliness framed in intelligence' and being so much better than that 'stupid American Comedy' &#x96; give me a break&#x85;this thing is way off base. Is this movie really a mess &#x96; sure it is. Is it weak in the humor (or would that be humor?) department? If there was any humor to speak of - yes. Is the plot lacking - no - it's just missing altogether. in closing, I feel that this movie may be intended for some elite crowd but misses entirely, and gravitates to a more narcissistic element. Not my choice "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Bright, and Biting Satire.","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The world of dog shows is ripe for the picking, when it comes to mocking your subject and the characters that inhabit it's rings. But that is not really what Christopher Guest has ever done.I watched this to remind myself what I love about this style of film. The characters develop naturally, by shedding layers of pretense when they don't know we are watching and suddenly pulling themselves together in a vain attempt to convince the viewer that we just caught them at a bad moment. It's a brilliant way to show us the lives of people on a mission. When you allow yourself to forget that you are watching a movie, and plunge into the documentation of these people's lives, you experience the sheer joy of being in on the joke, through the eyes of the camera crew. The behind the scenes workers who toil away on big budget films, and get to see the reality behind the surreal world of personas and personalities. Guest takes us deep into the lives of the ordinary person, who is trying to live an extraordinary life. This time, they do it through the dogs they own, or show.They have dreams, and delusions, but the one thing you feel with Guest, that I appreciate now more than ever, is that he genuinely enjoys the human condition. He likes people. He cares about his audience, and he is in on the joke with us. We are not the butt of the joke, and we are never insulted for loving Dog Shows, Community Theater, or even the Rock Stars in a giant arena. Everybody loves a show, or to be a part of the show. NOT everybody gets to be a big star. To be the winner. To be noticed for what they feel is their unique gift or talent. Rather than exploit that, and mock it in a cruel and unfunny fashion, Guest reminds us that within our little circle, and in our own ways, we can all feel like stars. And it nobody has to get hurt in the process. I watched this film, in part, to recover from what I felt was an abysmal failure to make a Mockumentary style film about writers. Authors Anonymous. It fails where Guest shines. There are people acting their hearts out in old citrus warehouses, and others are packing up their RV's to head out to another dog show. These life stories, and their sometimes absurd details, make for hopeful films that salute the human spirit. The spirit of competition is a theme Guest tackles with grace, and a divine objective everyone can be a star sensibility that pays homage to our desire to feel special, and rewards it at times, in the most delightful fashion. The underdog. That is what he brings us time and again, in new forms. This time, with actual dogs in the mix! Mock umentary should mean mocking the style of the documentary film Not mocking the people who are the subject of the film Even when the film is about insufferable boobs. We learn enough about them to begin to understand what makes them tick, what holds them together, and what causes them to come unglued. We end up caring. Dog Shows are silly, but the people are far more complex. Dog shows are filled with pretentious snobs, in real life Easy prey. Not so easy to make a movie that works, much less can make us root for these people on any level, but he did it again. And is it ever fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Doggie Delight","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Contestants bring their pets to compete in a national dog show in Philadelphia. This mock documentary gets off to a slow start, as the early scenes are not particularly funny and it feels like a real documentary rather than a spoof. However, the establishment of a documentary tone is actually a setup for laughs that come later in the film. Guest shows that he learned a few things about making mocumentaries from his starring role in This is Spinal Tap. While this is not as funny as that Rob Reiner film, it is a lot of fun. The cast is composed of a host of familiar faces and they all deliver deadpan performances. Willard is especially funny. "},{"Title":"Great movie with dogs, comedy, and hilarious characters","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Surprise! A Christopher Guest improv movie! I know, I know, but this one is probably his best, in my humble opinion. The comedy just flows so nicely, the production work put into the dog show itself, the cast of remarkable characters with their own hilarious quirks, and it's an animal movie! I love Eugene Levy's ridiculous character as a bucktoothed, double-left-foot-having, concerned husband through the whole film as he meets past lovers of his wife, Cookie (O'Hara). The dogs matched all of the owners really well, and I loved Parker Posey's meltdowns as her and her yuppie husband try and perform new age healing on their dogs' mental state in every scene that the dog loses it. And Scott & Stefan (John Michael Higgins and Michael McKean) were hilarious as a feng shui-obsessed gay couple.There's very little that I don't like about this film. I took off a point because it is, after all, another of Guest's improv comedies, so it's like redoing a past movie or something, replacing the past plot with this one. But this is actually a movie to buy instead of rent, even though its indie culture behind the actors and everything may not be the most obviously appealing. "},{"Title":"The best mockumentary about a dog show that I've ever seen.","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As much as I love mockumetaries, I've yet to fall in love with any of Christopher Guest's beloved movies. And I really don't know why. I'm a huge fan of clever, understated humor, but I can't get past being mildly entertained by those of Guest's films that I've seen.I will say that I enjoyed Best in Show more than This is Spinal Tap. Mainly because you don't have to know very much about dog shows and owners to enjoy the jokes. Spinal Tap relied heavily on being around during that time period and knowing a bit about the subject matter. That's great if you match those criteria, but not so swell for me.Best in Show benefits from being about something that inherently has a lot of potential for humor. I mean, it's about a DOG SHOW! If you can't manage a few guffaws out of that setup, i honestly don't know what to say. I laughed out loud several times, personally. I just was never quite amused as often as I was hoping to be.   "},{"Title":"Dog Show antics, almost real!","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have loved this movie for a long time! I laugh at Fred Willard until I get tears in my eyes! The dogs and their owners and handlers are such a match! Especially Parker Posey and her maniacal rants which teach her dog to bite the judge! It's clever dialog and characterizations are priceless. Fred Willard is so good - of course, the writer of his lines is a genius, too. I hope to see Waiting for Guffman again soon, too. I;m trying to recall where I have seen Catherine O'Hara before. I will have to Google her and refresh my memory. She is wonderful. It was funny tonight, as I eschewed watching the actual Dog Show in favor of watching Best in Show.(Feb. 16, 2010.) "}{"Title":"A mockumentary about the world of conformation dog shows during one weekend's specialty show.","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Even if you have no idea what a dog show is, you will find this movie entertaining as each actor portrays a specific character to perfection and there are enough of them to keep this movie going. And that's people who love dogs and are willing to do whatever it takes to get that coveted blue ribbon and ultimately, the gold cup. For those who are familiar with this sport, and especially those who have participated in showing dogs, this is one of the funniest movies around. Sure, there are a lot of continuity errors, and in fact a few factual errors when showing a dog, such as all small breeds are brought to a table, and when Winky is in the final round he is not brought up to the table, but the rest of the movie is so good one tends to overlook these small things. Then we break it down to specific people and breeds (though some think the 2 are interchangeable or indistinguishable). There are the terrier people, and Cookie (O'Hara) and Gerry (Levy) are perfect as the human low-end (and I mean no disrespect here) of the dog-show circuit but who manage to have themselves a great dog. Then we have the yuppie couple, played so well by Posey and Hitchcock, whose lives are so wrapped around what their precious dog is thinking they actually make it worse not only for themselves but for the dog. Good acting also by this particular dog to be able to just lie around or stand without looking at all the chaos going on around her (must be an obedience champion as well). Then we have Guest as the owner of a Bloodhound, and his character was right on the money, even down to the way he talks to the hound. You talk differently to different breeds. (Hard to explain, but if you have never been to a dog show, go to one. Just remember that before a dog is shown the handlers and owners are very busy and do not have time to talk, and whatever you do, do not talk to them in front of a ring, or worse, try to pet the dog.) Of course there are the rich owners who hire the very best handlers and hardly even notice their dogs, other than as a means to an end (breeding). And let it be known that Coolidge is probably one of our most under-rated actresses around. That in every scene she is eating is a running gag that works. And of course, no dog show would be complete without the gay couple and how the handler gets all testy when the co-owner/partner is bothering him. What I liked a lot about this movie was that not only was it about a sport I used to participate in, but we got a decent background story on all the characters, dogs included. And the color commentary done by Willard has to be some of the funniest stuff around. That Piddock could keep a straight face was amazing since I read that there was a lot of ad-libbing going on. I also liked the fact that real winners were used as well as real handlers and owners used not only in the movie, but were there to make sure that what we saw was what actually occurs, right down to the clothing a handler wears (again, back to the type of breed and the people who own/handle them). "},{"Title":"Successful comedy about a dog show, sometimes very funny.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Diverse people travel to Philadelphia to show their dogs and vie for championship, and we tap into all the relationships. Let's see. There's the argumentative, spoiled Yuppie couple. The taciturn guy from the Southern bait shop. The affable trailer-trash couple from Fern City, Florida. The lesbian couple who show their manicured poodle, White Rapsody. The gay couple who are way out of the closet.It's well directed by Christopher Guest, has sometimes extremely amusing dialog and situations written by Guest and Eugene Levy, and is acted to perfection. It's done quietly though and hardly seems scripted at all, a kind of comedy verite in which performers sometimes speak directly to the camera while evidently being interviewed. There's a quiet, semi-documentary feel to the film.I can't go through the whole thing without spoiling some of the gags but I want -- no, I NEED -- to mention specifically some of the exchanges between the two commentators we see, probably speaking on the radio. Fred Willard and Jim Piddock play roles we're all familiar with from talk shows. Willard takes the part of the talk-show host, asking naive questions and making what he thinks are amusing comments, taking the role of the audience. Piddock, with a serious mien and Brit accent, is the expert who supplies precise knowledge and answers the host's dumb questions.The dogs are trotted out one by one to be examined. One of the dogs is hoisted onto a table and examined manually by the judge. Willard The judge here is Eddie Franklin. Piddock I believe that's Edie Franklin, Buck. Willard Oh, yeah. It's a woman alright. What's she doing now, Trevor? Piddock I believe she's examining the animal's testicular area. Willard Oh, Wow! I'd hate to go out on a date with Edie! Can you imagine? You're on a date with Edie and -- Just one more. A judge picks up the dog's tail and examines it. Willard I'd hate to be handled like that, Trevor. I really hate it. You know, I once said to my proctologist, why don't you take me out to dinner sometime? Stop me, please. Piddock The judge was trained for the priesthood, I understand. Of course he didn't finish. Dropped out after one year. Willard No KIDDING? Boy, it would be interesting to find out what went wrong there. But I guess that's a whole nother show, eh? Some of it is more silly than funny. Eugene Levy has two left feet. But that's nothing compared to the many comic scenes that connect so squarely. It all ends happily in a couple of filmic postscripts. At the beginning we see the Yuppie couple complaining that their child is interfering with their sex lives, and the camera shows us their bored Weimerener. By the end, the couple tell their counselor that their sex lives are now terrific and the dog isn't a bother at all. She likes to watch. Meanwhile their second child, a bulldog, is humping the counselor's leg.You really ought to see this. "},{"Title":"Blue-Ribbon Improvisation","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We open with Meg Swan (Parker Posey) and her husband Hamilton (Michael Hitchcock) as they tell a psychologist about the time Beatrice caught them in the act of making love, the Congress of the Cow, Meg explains with obvious discomfort. The two fear Beatrice will never forgive them.The camera pulls back to reveal Beatrice is a Weimaraner, lying on her own miniature coach and clearly overwhelmed by something, whether the sight of her two owners having sex or just living with them in general. Thus begins Best In Show, a free-wheeling comedy about dogs and the people who exhibit them at a Westminster-style national competition.While a lot of Saturday Night Live and Second City-type comedy actors got their start in improvisational theater, former National Lampoon Lemming Christopher Guest has preserved this early 1970s do-it-yourself aesthetic on screen while others settle for the comfort of a finished script. What his films lack in plot they make up for in character. Best In Show can take patience; it's more sneaky-funny than funny-funny, which was the case with the previous improv-comedies Guest was involved in, This Is Spinal Tap and Waiting For Guffman. Best In Show isn't as great as Spinal Tap but it may have the most lived-in feeling of any of his films. There's a lot of lines that sound bare in isolation but are comedy gold in contextHe went after her like she was made of ham. What are you, a wizard, a genius? I woke up, I was so glad. Someone's still a little jealous...How many years ago did he poke me? She looks like a cocktail waitress on an oil rig. No, that's a bear in a bee costume. We both have so much in common...We both love soup. Getting the smell of cumin and charcoal out of the drapes was a chore onto itself. A little secret of the trade They all jump.There are punch lines and outrageous situations, but it's the characterizations that make this film special, even for people who think they know the Guest ideal from his earlier films. Leading the charge is John Michael Higgins and Michael McKean as a gay couple with a prize Shih Tzu they lavish excess love upon. The camp value of the two is high; yet they have so much depth and kookiness you wind up enjoying their company even when Higgins' Scott character isn't cutting up with some outrageous remark about sausage membranes. The other characters present us with various levels of subtlety and outrageousness, but Higgins and McKean give us both.Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara meanwhile give the film much of its heart as a financially-strapped couple who believe their Norwich Terrier can win the big prize, even if they have to live in a janitor's closet to make it happen. Fred Willard is the skunk at the picnic as an ex-baseball-player TV commentator who clearly took too many fastballs to the head. Guest himself ironically plays the least interesting character, a Carolina bloodhound man with a side interest in ventriloquism. But like all the other gifted actors on display, he brings something to the party.A cult film that deserves its cult, Best In Show is a joy for dog-lovers and film-lovers alike. "},{"Title":"Truly original.","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I happen to love this director, Christopher Guest, and will see anything he makes. He's full of wit and anarchy and even feeling, and his films are populated with dorks and freaks and silliness, I love it.This particular film is almost so absurd as to be related to Monty Python. The people are as odd as the dogs, and the performances, as usual, are naturalistic to the point of being documentarian. How he gets these actors to be SO natural is a small miracle in a world of overblown fake acting- by this I mean the state of modern film making.In any case, I had to see this movie TWICE, that's how funny it is, and that's how curious it is to be let into this world of Dog Shows.Absolutely worth renting! "},{"Title":"c.guest at his best","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is without a doubt the best of the mock-umentry trilogy. All the things that make Americans the way they are are also the things that make America so funny. This is about dog shows but it could also be about gun shows or any such American activity. Guest & Co. mock them all with so much quality that each one of the characters could be your neighbor. The other two films from Christopher Guest are MIGHTY WIND and WAITING FOR GUFFMAN. Try to see all three together. The quality of acting is superb and shines when you view all three films together. Whoever wins the dog show is not the point, getting there is all the fun. "},{"Title":"lots of original characters","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Im sure there are a lot of eccentrics in the sport of dog shows and the movie used that as a theme. the flaming pansy, the totally neurotic couple that drives their dog nuts too, the country hick, the dykes (why does there have to be TWO gay couples?) and the schmuck married to a floozie. the movie kept me laughing as things got more and more tense for the competitors. Catherine OHara was great as the floozie. she still looks good after 30 years in comedy. I highly recommend this movie for dog lovers if only for the comic relief. or if you just lost the competition at the latest dog show and need a laugh. the film definitely never takes itself seriously and if thats what youre looking for this is just what you ordered. the mock documentary style was interesting twist and the movie was just long enough to fit the bill.there was an item recently in the newspapers about a border collie in Germany that could figure out the meaning of new words by process of elimination and fetch the new toy that was being asked for. it has a vocabulary of about 250 words. if truth be told Im sure there are a lot of dogs that know the true score and are secretly laughing at all the stupid stuff humans do. this is a must see for dog lovers.6 barks out of 10  "},{"Title":"If you love the other Guest-Levy movies, you'll like this one as well.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My rating for this movie is an 8.5/10 ...on my movie page, I rounded it up to a 9...Having said that, this is actually my least favorite of the Guest (including Spinal Tap) movies  my personal ranking would be Waiting for Guffman, This Is Spinal Tap, A Mighty Wind, then Best In Show.Curiously, this was the only movie that I saw as a new release in the theater, and I did love it.  I have great respect for the regular players -(in no part. order)  Guest, Levy, O'Hara, Willard, Posey, Balaban and the fine support of all the rest- McKean, Michael-Higgins, Coolidge, Lynch< Begley -- all of 'em -- I just love watching all of them work, improv, collaborate, embody qualities we can all laugh at, etc...To me, this movie is just not as interesting as Guffman or Wind on repeated viewings, although there are some real standout moments.  For this movie to really connect, it needed all of Willard's over-the-top shtick as the clueless play-by-play guy -- he (of course) delivers and enough laughs keep coming...So, while it did not reach the heights of their other movies for me, it's still so much better than 98% of the other comedies you're likely to see. "},{"Title":"just plain god-awful","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where do i start? I have read countless reviews from users on this site that said that this movie was  hilarious. Was i watching the same movie? For 2 hours i sat there without a smile nor even a chuckle . Honestly i have seen Pauly Shore moves that have ran circles around this garbage. I mean this movie dragged so much i had to see it a second time because i fell asleep 30 minutes into it. This entire movie is filled with  dislikeable characters. I mean why would you even make a mockumentary movie about dog shows? I like spinal tap, but this is a waste of time. I did notice a few good aspects though. For one the acting is somewhat good, for a comedy, if you can call it that. And Fred Willard's performance did get a grin out of me. But all in all this is an amazingly boring look into dog shows. What did you expect? Not to mention the fact that the cinematography was the worst in any movie that i have ever seen. Do yourself a favor and invest 2 hours of you life into something else. My review is a 3/10 "},{"Title":"creative idea!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in show is a fake documentary about people who enter their dogs into the biggest dog show of the year! i think that the idea is a very original idea, and is full of laughs.  they had several couples and single people that had ideas for their dog to be best in show the two homosexuals, the wacky 2 that believe that the dog cannot function(**SPOILER**)without the busy bee, the country bumpkin from the fishing hole, the homey couple with the husband with two left feet(is that really physically possible, and the golddigger that uses a well known lesbian to train her dog.  she is the key competition, because she has been the winner for some odd number of years. So, after watching the couples chasing that one dream of being the best in show, we see what each do for the big day or days and while i was viewing this, i thought maybe the message is to make fun of dog shows, and how stupid some people are just to win the blue ribbon for having the best dog. the lady from home alone is in the movie, sporting blonde hair for the role, and she one funny lady, along with eugene levy, who always cracks me up from american pie and dumb and dumberer.  the movie leaves you with the feeling of dogs being a man's best friend.  (A- B+)   "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!!","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest's hilarious mockumentary about the Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show is his best comedy work yet. The acting is so perfect that you feel that this is really a documentary going on. The camera moves in such a way that it looks as if it really was handheld, therefore making it a documentary. The film shows all of the character's dysfunctionality and great care of their dogs. The most hilarious, off-the-wall, laugh-out-loud character in the entire movie is the dog show announcer Buck Laughlin, played by Fred Willard. I love to see the reaction of his partner announcer when Buck says his jokes along with his view of the ideal dog show. This is one of the best comedies I have ever seen in my entire life. Absolutely hilarious!! "}{"Title":"WELL worth the $3.00 rental fee....","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must be several levels below intelligent when it comes to both wine tasting and movie watching because with wine, if it tastes good...if I like drinking it, then there ya go....it's good wine.  If I laugh out loud in a movie, if I want to CONTINUE to watch it, BAM...good movie.  I think some people just overlook the 'smack' of movies like Best In Show.  You can criticize these characters as being 'stereotypical' all you want but the thing that makes them so damned funny is that they are so REAL.  This movie does a fantastic job of developing each character so that we feel as though we really know them.  I meet these people on a daily basis. What makes this so funny is that we are actually forced to see the humor in people that we might be overlooking in our daily lives.  This is one of those rare movies that we can watch over and over and enjoy more every time.  "},{"Title":"As close to flawless as a movie can be","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I have seen it three times, and it hasn't lost a thing. I can't understand the people who don't like it. I am offended by those who insult those of us with sufficient sense of humor to enjoy it. The writing, the casting, the acting; all superb. Everyone I know that's seen it loves it. Regarding the not the sharpest knives in the drawer comments of a couple of knuckleheads; I can only speak for myself, of course, but I graduated from the University of Chicago and U.C. Berkeley law school. In all honesty, I definitely consider myself one of the sharper knives in the drawer. I would really be interested in knowing what kinds of so-called humor some of the other writers find funny.  "},{"Title":"just like the title -","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If this doesn't make you laugh out loud, you are in deep kimshee.  Mr. Guest and the gang play people we've all met and give us a chance to laugh at them and, in that, at ourselves.  Many, many lines to hold on to  -- Still like Guffman better - and Spinal Tap rules, but this is a keeper "},{"Title":"Laugh till you ache","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film in a movie theatre (I was lucky enough to, it only played for a week here), and literally could not stop laughing.  This style of movie really appeals to me (this sort of satirical nonsense movie), and Best in Show doesn't disappoint.The characters are some of the greatest comedic characters I've seen. It's a shame some of them are a little two-dimensional, but that doesn't detract from the overall hilarity of the main players.  They range from quietly funny (sometimes silence and expressions can be funnier than blatant jokes - see the trophy wife in this case) to so strange that you can't help laughing out of sheer huh? factor.  The cast brings these to life in a perfect manner.  For most of them, I couldn't have picked a better cast (sure, it's the same cast as in all of Guest's movies, but that doesn't matter).The plot is a little disjointed, having been edited down from 60 hours of footage, but holds its own, especially in the latter half of the film at the actual dog show.  I am glad, however, that they kept in some little touches that add to the characters' development.But what makes this movie so legendary is that the characters contained within do exist in society.  I love it!  They may be stereotypes in some cases, but what the hey...see this film. NOW. "},{"Title":"A great effort!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to say that this movie recently aired on Comedy Central and it was addictive to watch couples with their dogs at this Westminster style dog show in Philadelphia. It is great cast with Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara paired again in another Christopher Guest film. Levy and O'Hara were wonderful and sweet as the small town odd couple with their dog. Parker Posey was wonderful as the yuppy wife. Jennifer Coolidge and Jane Lynch provided some laughs. Even Chris Guest played a part as well as directed and co-wrote with Levy the script. There are very few quality films especially something satirical and wonderful as this film. It's worth watching! I loved Ed Begley Jr. as the hotel manager. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a mockumentary about people who are preparing, traveling to, and participating in a dog show.  Its directed by Christopher Guest, a funny writer who has done other mockumentaries.  I thought it was funnier overall then another Guest film This is Spinal Tap, but it did not have as many funny sceens as This is Spinal Tap.  I thought the acting in the film was well done and entertaining.  Because of this movie, I learned to like Fred Willard as an actor.  He was an anouncer who was pretty funny and kept the movie going.  Overall this, was an entertaining movie with some funny parts. It was able to keep my attention and the plot was pretty good considering its a mockumentary. "},{"Title":"Comic genius","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As with Christopher Guest's previous film, Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show is blessed with the gift of comedic genius. Filled with mainly the same cast as Guffman, Best in Show tells of the quirky characters who participate in the dog show circuit and of their different dogs. The film basically follows, documentary-style, five different groups of people before one of American's oldest dog shows, during the show, and six months after the show. There is a mismatched couple, the elderly Leslie Ward Cabot (Patrick Cranshaw) and his 30-something trophy wife Sherri Ann (Jennifer Coolidge), who go to the show along with their trainer, Christy Cummings (Jane Lynch), a dominatrix-dressed lesbian. There are two married yuppies, (Michael Hitchcock and Parker Posey), who are obsessed with their dog Beatrice, and treat her as if she is their daughter. There are a middle-aged couple (Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara), who are happily married, but throughout the film, they constantly meet into guys she's been with before, and he has to tortorusly hear all of her sexual activities from the past. There is a gay couple (Michael McKean and John Michael Higgins), who are very proud of their two Shih Tzus, and my personal favorite, Harlan Pepper (Christopher Guest), a rambling Southerner who travels with only his Beagle and a ventriloquest doll named Lil' Buddy. One of the funneist characters, however, is Fred Willard's Buck Laughin, a portrait of comedic genius. Willard's whole role was filmed in about one day, but his improv is perfect as a confused announcer, who knows nothing about dog shows. Although I don't think Best in Show is as funny as Guest's Waiting for Guffman, it is still a comic gem with some great performances, some great one-liners, and a very realistic documentary feel. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Loved it from beginning to end","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe I was just in the right mood for a film like this, but I can't remember when I've ever enjoyed a comedy as much as I enjoyed Best of Show.  Although I don't think it's the type of humor everyone can appreciate, it's definitely worth watching.  I think what impressed me most is that it was a good spoof of everyday people without making them too unbelievable.  Christopher Guest, of course, was great as Harlan Pepper... as real and believable as they come, right down to the naming nuts story. That's talent, folks.  When you can find actors and actresses to make these zany people come alive, you've got... well, not just a winner, but, of course, the Best in Show. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Damn, is Fred Willard funny in this movie. He's like Joe Garagiola gone completely bananas.Also great is Christopher Guest's hound-dog accent as Harlan Pepper. How does he keep it up?Catherine O'Hara is hilarious. Eugene Levy is funny playing the same character he always does--hey, someone has to be the nerdy Jewish guy, right? In Guffman he was a dentist; here he's a men's clothing salesman. With dorky glasses, of course.Best of all is John Michael Higgins an the funniest guy character you've seen on the screen. Neither a victim nor a fool, he's funny, carefree, out of the closet, and a fearless button-pusher. Not at all a buffoon ala Nathan Lane in The Bird Cage. And Michael McKean is brilliant playing his straight-man bubba. Really funny comic pairing.This is the best of Guest's mockumentaries. "},{"Title":"Best of the trilogy!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw A Mighty Wind and it compelled me to post some comments for all the Christopher Guest mock-u-mentaries. I think Best in Show is the best of the bunch. Guffman is second, but it has a bit of a mean streak. A Mighty Wind blows. Why is B.I.S. so good? Incredible diversity of characters. Christopher Guest as a backwoods fisherman is a real stretch, but he makes it work. Fred Willard as a washed-up sports star reduced to MCing a dog show is priceless.  "}{"Title":"Now..now...how many years ago did he poke me?","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film made me laugh until I cried.  Like other Eugene Levy/Christopher Guest films, I had to watch it twice to understand it completely. However, once one understands them, these movies are hilariously funny.  These are truly the thinking man's movies.  You have to be all the way present mentally to enjoy them.  The anal retentive lawyers, Hamilton and Meg Swan, were probably my favorite characters.  They characterize all of the people I know in typical 9-to-5 jobs.  (No offense to anyone in a 9-to-5)  Watching this and Waiting for Guffman one after the other is not generally recommended, as one might split their sides from laughter.  Enjoy this movie; it's a diamond in the rough. "},{"Title":"Superb entertainment. Well worth watching.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film! It is very clever and very entertaining all the way through. I love these documentary style comedies and BIS will, no doubt, achieve cult status. Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy have managed to make a great film through improvisation and reliance on a fantastic cast. The commentating on the dog show is hilarious and a last minute suggestion by Guest to be included in the film, thankfully an excellent decision. If you have a pension for dry, tongue-in-cheek wit then this is for you. This film will have to be watched more than once to ensure that no comedy line or moment is missed as there is so much going on. Despite different characters and a lot going on, this film was easy to watch and ideal for a chill out on a sunday afternoon or having your mates round for drinks and pizza. Superb! "},{"Title":"wins the blue ribbon for comedy!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  oh my!  where so I start?I saw Waiting for Guffman & Best in Show over the same weekend . . . rented both films on recommendation by a friend.  BIS was the funnier of the two - just b/c there is sooooo much comedy to be found in the world of dog shows and the sometimes over-the-top handlers & owners.I had to rewind several scenes b/c I started laughing so hard I couldn't hear some of the dialogue.  This is truly a work of art by both the writers and the actors!  The interaction between all the couples (Catherine O'Hara & Eugene Levy, Parker Posey & Michael Hitchcock, John Michael Higgens & Michael McKean) is just so right on.  The subtle irritations that one experiences in a relationship are MAGNIFIED by these people.  This allows the viewer see how silly and funny life and love can be.It's really a hysterical view of life and in this case - dog shows.  "},{"Title":"Very funny satire","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The characters are very eccentric and hysterical.  The movie is quietly over-the-top.  I find the subtleties to be more interesting than the slap-stick, in-your-face humor.  Any movie that pokes fun at human nature and does it in an interesting forum is worth watching.  Over all, very entertaining. "},{"Title":"The Best Mockumentary Ever Made!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once again Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy bring us a hit comedy that surprisingly surpasses the marvelous independent feature 'Waiting For Guffman'. This film is not only the best mockumentary ever made, but most likely the best comedy ever made, from two very important aspects = 1) It makes you laugh repeatedly & 2) It has a wonderful idea that no film writer besides Guest and Levy has yet to explore as a comedy. They both do a wonderful job writing the screenplay, and Guest does an excellent job directing. The acting is pure excellence with the comedy talents of such actors as Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Eugene Levy, Christopher Guest, Fred Willard, Michael McKean, John Michael Higgins, Michael Hitchcock, Jennifer Coolidge and Jane Lynch. This is such an excellent film that cannot be praised enough. I highly recommend this to anyone looking for a hilarious and well made film about pretentious dog owners and their dogs.Grade A "},{"Title":"A Dogumentary","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Basically, Best in Show is one long improvisation, or so I've heard. So, the actors pulled it off without a script, and the result is a hilarious documentary about several families, and their dogs, who are participating in the Mayflower Dog Show.  The movie is about what they go through back stage, their thoughts, worries, hopes, dreams, and the characters are just so out there.  It's the perfect mockumentary. Almost the same cast was in Waiting For Guffman, which was not quite as good.  Then there is This Is Spinal Tap, which is also a Christopher Guest film, made in the eighties, about a rock group.  This is the best of the three, I believe.  A 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The cleverest comedy in existence","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm no dog lover but this film which follows several people's preparations for a major dog show is easily the cleverest comedy I have ever seen. It's a spoof documentary and it comes from the team of Spinal Tap but this is quite honestly far superior thanks mainly to supreme acting from all involved.  If you don't like dogs then it'll be hard to convince you to watch this even though the subject matter is practically irrelevant but if you consider yourself a fan of comedies then you MUST watch this film. Everything about the film is superb - each scene is priceless - but the commentators at the dog show just about steal it with the funniest banter you are ever likely to hear.  Please try this film - it's simply awesome. "},{"Title":"Did you watch the movie???","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its hard for me to believe MattyMatt has a sense of humor considering he doesnt think that he doesnt find this movie hilarious. The fact that he finds Woody Allen and Who's line is it Anyway funny are evidence to that. Christopher Guest once again does an amazing job creating this mockumentary. Fred Willard is funnier than ever and steals the show with his off the wall comments. I personally still like Waiting for Guffman better but that is not a knock against this film. "},{"Title":"Be it Dog or Be it Bitch","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sublime baby. This movie is so damn funny, I cannot stop watching it. Its the same Spinal Tap type documentary except Nigel and David are now Harlan and Stefan. Instead of loser rockstars, they are placed (separately) amongst a collection of dogowners competeting for the coveted Mayflower championship. I don't know if its me, but this type of humor is what its all about. Actors cartooning real life schmoes, in a false documentary. The casting and writing, perfect. I need more of this!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious Mockumentary","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Re-uniting pretty much the whole cast from Waiting For Guffman and even adding a whole slew of others, Christopher Guest presents us with one of the funniest mockumentaries ever made.  Have you ever wondered what goes on behind-the-scenes at a dog show?  Well I never did, but after viewing Best In Show, I'll never look at them the same way again.  In short, it's hilarious.  It's also very convincing, even though all of the characters are eccentric (to say the least).  There are many bright spots here and the laughs come almost nonstop.  My personal favorite had to be Fred Willard as the out-there commentater.  Nearly every one of his lines had me in stitches and his inappropriate baseball comparisons were a hoot.  His character alone, is worth a rental. Michael Hitchcock and Parker Posey were also pretty funny as the married lawyer couple with matching braces, although they did start to get annoying about half-way through. Parker Posey has a knack for playing offbeat characters (does she do anything else?) and she was right at home here.  Hitchcock cracked me up in Waiting For Guffman as the councilman who seemed to have a crush on Corky.  He and Posey make a great match.Guest himself has a very amusing part as Harlan Pepper, a backwoods hick who runs a fly shop back home and has had a lifelong ovsession with naming nuts.  His country-boy drawl is terrific and he's probably the most likeable character.  This is the guy I was rooting for to win.Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara are also great as the Flecks.  Man, talk about a mismatched couple...This guy was born with two left feet (literally) and doesn't even do anything when other guys hit on his wife, in front of him (!).  They also seem to be having a stroke of bad luck.I guess I could go on about the rest of the cast, but that would spoil a lot of the fun.  All I can say, is wait till you see Michael McKean's character.    "}{"Title":"Best in Show is hilarious","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I rented this movie (I rented it based on a good review in Entertainment Weekly), but I laughed almost the whole way through!  Some of the laughs were more of the What???? kind of laughs (like when Harlan says he used to name types of nuts--What???) but it was just a really funny movie.  The actors in this movie, particularly Jennifer Coolidge, did a great job!  A good comedy always has to have believable characters and the actors did a fantastic job of fleshing them out. There are now lines from this movie that my friends and I repeat, such as We can talk or not talk for hours, and still have nothing to talk about.I recommend this to anyone who has a (sometimes strange) sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A Hoot!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's a shame that broad based paradies like this jewel can't be adequately described in 30 second tv ads.  With more box office success we might get more good stuff like this one. The pretentious characters in this film are all around us in everyday life.Fred Willard plays his Fernwood 2night(ish) part perfectly as usual. The funniest scene to me was when the yuppy couple lost their dog's toy.  "},{"Title":"This is funnier than even Spinal Tap.  At the end you'll wish there was more.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show is genius.  You have to admit that the acting is incredible, and even more so if you know that it's all improvised.  Each character is so perfectly constructed.  The editing takes advantage of the hilarious lines in the film by cutting at the perfect moments, right after a character says something particularly odd.  Christopher Guest's off-the-wall comments like, I used to be able to name every kind of nut, are funny every time.  Fred Willard, as the ex-jock dog show sports announcer is the most terrific part of the film, especially when, while commentating at the dog show, he ends his misplaced sports comments by turning to the announcer next to him and saying, Let me ask you a question, this may be off the subject, but how much do you think I could bench press?  Larry Miller is great in his small part as a man whose profession it is to talk down building jumpers, but says to his houseguests, Let me let you in on a little secret.  They all jump. After you see this movie, you'll be so glad there are deleted scenes in the DVD extras.  It just means there's more to watch.  "},{"Title":"You'll Laugh Till You Puke A Hairball","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many have listed the countless funny moments in this film, but I don't think anyone's mentioned the scene at the beginning when the Flecks first visit a couple of friends they hadn't seen in many years. The husband is a police negotiator, the kind of guy who specializes in coolness under fire, such as talking people down when they threaten to jump from a bridge or building. His disgruntled son, perhaps mildly autistic, climbs onto the garage roof, clutching the Flecks' prize terrier. Suffice it to say that, in this situation, the negotiator does NOT employ the same masterful suicide-preventing techniques he uses at work. Of course, this same guy is the first of an endless series of ex-lovers that Cookie Fleck runs into, and she doesn't really remember any of them very clearly! A brilliantly funny idea perfectly carried out. Or how about the ancient, toothless, wrinkled-up (but really wealthy) human wreck who is married to the buxom Kristy? The old sod has absolutely no lines to speak at all, yet he is hysterical, just sitting next to his brainless wife, whose lips are so full of Botox she can hardly utter an intelligible word.The gay couple is spot-on accurate, so real they don't even seem to be acting. Ed Begley as the hotel manager checks them in at the front desk, telling them that one of the available rooms has a queen-sized bed; WHAT ARE YOU SUGGESTING? demands Scott in mock indignation.Catherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy, in every scene, remind you very clearly why SCTV is the funniest TV show that's ever been on. And of course, the magnificent Fred Willard Trevor, it's really amazing to think that, in some parts of the world, these dogs are actually eaten!Don't miss this one! They will have you eating it up! "},{"Title":"really good, really good.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i really liked this movie. the acting, the story, just about everything about it. i am a dog lover and this one was not just for dog lovers. its for people that like really good movies. the gay couple= great.. the hillbilly=aggrivating at times, the middle class goof with two left feet(literaly) and his been around the block wife= great, the yuppie couple with the case of the spoiled brat crazy's=great, the only gripe i have, the two women with the standard poodle. these two women have got to be the ugliest two people on the face of the earth. i mean they were so ugly, the spiked haired butch and the big fat faced clown made me take 2 points off of what would have been a 10.8/10 "},{"Title":"Made me chortle - a lot","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seriously, where do they come up with this stuff? Who knew a flick whose plot revolves around a dog show would make me laugh so friggin' hard? The larger-than-life characters make this a must-see. (Parker Posey's performance really surprised me.) Astoundingly original! "},{"Title":"A very good satire on Americans","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is probably the best satire on Americans that I have seen. It has wonderful characterisations of various 'types' that inhabit the North Amrican continent.The characters in this movie, from the rustic fishing equipment salesman to the yuppie couple, are stereotypically American characters. The lampooning in the movie depends very heavily on the fact that all of them take themselves very seriously this is the element that makes them uniquely American. They are all devoted to this one thing in their lives breeding dogs. Their entire existence revolves around it. They are the proverbial 'keen types', with a clerkish diligence that is both amazing and pathetic at the same time. It is the sort mentality that produces 'gourmet hot dogs'.This is American satire at its best. "},{"Title":"Occasionally Amusing, Mostly Dull.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I rented this movie on DVD based on rave reviews by many colleagues and friends. Personally, I found myself snoozing within about a half hour! Thankfully, I woke up (well, OK, my wife prodded me) and caught some of the amusing dialog. Even more thankfully, I gave the deleted scenes feature of the DVD version a shot. I wish most of these scenes were left in the movie - most of them are funnier than the scenes that were left in the movie. If you rent the DVD, don't forget to watch the commentated version of the movie & scenes - it's much better than the movie itself. In a way, it's like the director doing a Mystery Science Theater 2000 on his own movie ...All in all, not a bad movie. But I can't say I agree with those who are really gung-ho about recommending it. Maybe they're just starved for entertainment?  "},{"Title":"Blue Ribbon","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like another user said, it also left me dumbfounded for a moment or two after the credits.  If anyone is familiar with breed shows, dogs in particular, they can sure identify with the antics and characters this film displaces.  It's a little world all on its own, breed shows, and this could very well be a Coen approach to conveying the humor with serious connotation. However it isn't, its Chris Guests finest direction, and Eugene Levys best writing. I hope we see more collaboration between the two.	Filmed on location, this movie brings a matter-of-fact look into the competitive world of breed showings, dogs in this films case. The showcase of dogs is spectacular, and their handlers totally hilarious and over the top.  A movie for the family, it has enough juice for adults.  I watched this movie with a killer toothache, and it helped ease my pain into laughter. 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Woof.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be the funniest movie I have seen in forever. Chritopher Guest is truly talented. He has a gift for humor. I almost died laughing. Actually, when I saw this in theaters, I considered walking out because the movie was so dumb. But it is dumb in a good way. It is funny-dumb. And this is a really good combination. You will be laughing from start to end.This mockumentary style film follows an array of characters all competing at the Kennel Club Dog Show. The cast includes Parker Posey, Fred Willard, Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, John Michael Higgens, Michael McKean, Larry Miller, Bob Balaban, Jennifer Coolidge and tons more. This is a truly funny movie that will have everyone laughing. Someone born without a personality would laugh at this film. It is presented in widescreen to give the image that you are viewing an actual documentary and that is probably what adds to the hilarity. BEST IN SHOW 5/5. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't really hear much about this show and it being in theaters, and I'm really surprised by that. It's become one of my fave movies...I think that Christopher Guest is realllly talented..who directed this movie and played harlan pepper. i really like dogs so i enjoyed this movie, and it was really funny as well. )) "},{"Title":"The frightening truth behind dog shows!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film isn't a comedy, its an  expose. I've always hated dog  shows, considering the ridiculous  get-ups people put their dogs in and  the idiotic names they give them.  Hence, the reason for my uncontrolled  cackling while watching this film. I  get a kick out of something being  taken so seriously, even though the  gains are small and insignificant. It's  like miniature golf, or jump roping  championships or the need to set  some obscure world record. The  acting was much more refined in  this film than Waiting for Guffman,  and its mainly due to the more fluidity  of the characters, who seem more  comfortable with their specific acting  partners in this film than the previous.  Eugene Levy was great, as was Michael  McKean and Fred Willard. However,  it was the dogs who eventually stole  the show. But then again, who wants  to see a bunch of humans in a film  about dogs anyway. "},{"Title":"Guest continues to show that he knows what he is doing.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest has the knack of making an unconventional movie work like a conventional movie. His meticulous editing of hours of adlibbing is genius. I would equate it to an artist asking fellow artists to squirt paint into a cheap storebought Spin-Art toy and then arranging it to become a masterpiece. He knows the art of what's funny and the right dose of each character.Fred Willard really shines in this movie. I have been a fan of his since his days on America 2 Night and his character in this movie reminds me a lot of his character on the short-lived 70's show... a guy with a clueless smile that thinks he belongs no matter where he happens to be.I recommend this film to anyone who appreciates films that are not laugh out loud funny for the most part but are very clever. I am looking forward to the next Guest mockumentary installment. "},{"Title":"What a delightful movie","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie with an open mind, not knowing what to expect. I  was pleasantly surprised to see that this movie was written, directed and acted in such a manner that every minute of it is a delightful watch. The people don't seem like they're acting, more like they are real people who really train dogs and lead the lives portrayed in this movie. There are some wonderful moments where you laugh or chuckle, some jokes may be dry but are presented in a very viewable fashion. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Just how you'd imagine a dog show to be...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best In Show tracks the stories of a handful of human contestants as they prepare for one of the biggest dog shows in the calendar.  Any amateur psychologist would say that an unconditional love and obsession with a pet is a sign of something missing in someone's life, and each of the characters in some way fills this cliche.  There's the former High School Hottie who's now married to a geeky man, the childless, label-obsessed yuppie couple, the solitary outdoorsman, the young wife of a wealthy old codger (along with her short-haired dog trainer), and the gay couple.What makes this film so funny though is the way it portray's these stereotypes in a completely believable way - almost affectionate, in many cases.  Every ridiculous thing one of the characters does or says - with their dog as an innocent onlooker - seems like the kind of behaviour you'd totally expect to see at a dog show.The biggest laughs come from the commentary team of an all-american style sports announcer, comparing moments in a dog show to parts of a baseball game, and his English, canine academic, foil.The trials of the geeky husband as his blonde wife meets an astonishing number of men from her past is also always good for a chuckle, as is the demented behaviour of the yuppie couple as the pressure builds, while their hound stays completely unflustered.Well worth watching - even if cats are more your bag. "},{"Title":"One more thing....","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I heard Fred Willard being interviewed today (after posting my comment about the movie last night) and he said that he had received a tape of Joe Garagiola doing Westminster prior to making Best in Show, since that's what Christopher Guest wanted from the performance.  He did it to a T, and, once again, was absolutely great in the part! "},{"Title":"Long live improv!  5 stars","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had enjoyed Spinal Tap, many years ago, but this one was even funnier, to me.  I was lucky enough to get the DVD, where I watched the whole thing again with Guest's comments, and was totally bowled over by the fact that THERE IS NO SCRIPT!  Yes, there is a story -- a series of mini-plots that the various characters go thru -- and there must have been some character trait definition.  But the dialog is entirely off the cuff.  Having seen a great many actors on talk shows, I suspect that many of them would not have that special improv talent to appear in any Guest film.  My opinion of all of his ensemble actors has since skyrocketed.If you agree, and you haven't seen Waiting for Guffman, you are in for a treat; it's the same style, but with a totally different story -- just as excellent. "},{"Title":"Not particularly representative of dog showing, but a great movie!!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a dog show person, I wish the movie would have been a little more detailed in the actual show area, but realize it was more about the people and that the dog show issue was more of a background subject.  I love it anyway and never get tired of watching most of it, but as opposed to the majority of people who posted here, I thought John Michael Higgins and Jennifer Coolidge stole the show.  They were so perfect in their parts, and John's gay guy was not too over-the-top, so that even a homophobe would have loved him!  Also wonderful, of course, was Fred Willard doing the impersonation of Joe Garagiola's annual Westminster Kennel Club show commentating  -  how accurate and awesome that was!!  Congratulations to Guest and Co. for making a movie about a previously-unexplored area of life that's unusual and that most people don't get a chance to see. "},{"Title":"improve at its best","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently saw this movie for the first time.  I enjoyed it so much that I went right out and bought the DVD.  This movie is pure genius and only gets funnier with each viewing.  Anyone can write jokes or funny dialog and have actors memorize them, but the basis of this movie is improve!!  How do they do it?  Thank you, Christopher Guest!   "},{"Title":"Very funny film","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although I thought this film looked weird at first, I thought it was so funny. Guest portrays the film in a documentary-like setting, each person's story told one at a time. The funniest were Catherine O'Hara/Eugene Levy and Michael McKean/John Higgins. Fred Ward was hysterical as the Mayflower DJ. Enjoyable entertainment! "}{"Title":"I am Hooked!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I want to know if there is anyone else out there that is as hooked on this movie as much as I am! It seems with this movie people either adore it or don't get it. Each time I view it I catch another hysterical line. I must have seen it about 5 times. If you love people and animals this movie shows the craziness in all of us, and how nuts we get with our pets. It's hard to pick my favorite character, they were all wonderful. What a wonderful ensemble cast. Eugene Levy (loopy) was priceless! So was his wife who must have slept with all those men! The neurotic couple with the wierermaner(I'm not sure how to spell that dog)were so on the money! If you have an off beat sense of humor and love animals, rent this movie , you will either love it or think I'm nuts "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time you watch this movie you may hate it, but the 2nd time you see this movie I guarantee laughs all around.  The owners of the dogs are so ecclectic that you can't help but look at them and laugh.  From the littlest toy poodle to the announcer, everything will make you laugh.  And you may learn every single nut there is! "},{"Title":"Simply Wonderful","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This flick was even better then 'Waiting for Guffman'. The great strength in these two films lie in the brilliant character acting by Guest and Levy's little second-second city troupe. If one finds this movie boring or pointless, God help 'em, they just didn't get it. It is a mockumentary, something at which Guest and Levy have a genius for. At the end of the movie where Guest's southern down home dog lover tells us that to relax after the show, he went to Israel to work on a 'caboose', or when he tells us that ventriloquism is an ancient art and we see a hieroglyphicof an ancient Egyptian holding a tiny ancient Egyptian in it's hand, I realized it is moments like this that make life worth living. Thank you Mr.Guest and Mr.Levy, and God bless you. "},{"Title":"This movie has everything but fleas...","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was introduced to the bizarre world of Mr. Guest with Spinal Tap. But Best in Show has given him the opportunity to develop the characters so much further. After you get introduced to these wacky dog lovers, you find yourself, woof by woof, growing more attached to them. I have seen this movie at least 6 times and find something new to howl at each time. From Scott Donlan's desire to just hold the salami to the discovery of Rhapsody's two mommies, Guest may not win any awards from the gay and lesbian community. Coolidge's portrayal of Sheri Ann Ward Cabot has the look of Ivana Trump on mescaline. Not to be outdone by those that claim DINK's(dual incomes,no kids) have little or no substance, Guest unleashed Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock to put this argument to rest once and for all. I keep trying to put myself in Eugene Levy's two left shoes and imagine what it must be like to discover that your wife has boned most of the miscreants you bump into on your journey to the Mayflower... but I can't. Hilarious!And when you discover that this charming film is populated by actors shooting from their haunches, you're allowed to bark at the moon in laughter and not feel embarrassed. Watch this one with someone who loves dogs and human frailty because it's a celebration for anyone who ever wanted to lift their leg on the stilted community of the professional dog show community. "},{"Title":"I'm still laughing.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've seen in ages.  I watched for about 20 minutes, slightly puzzled by what was going on.  Then I started to laugh and didn't stop 'til long after the movie ended.  Such deadpan satire is rare indeed. Christopher Guest has a true eye for the humor inherent in those who have no sense of humor about themselves (about 90% of white heterosexual males, to start with). As in Waiting for Guffman Guest nails middle America's idiotic self-importance to the wall.  I can hardly wait for his next film.  "},{"Title":"Can't figure it out...","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In an earlier comment I mentioned how much I enjoyed this film - better second time around. I don't resile from that opinion. Strangely, I can't find anyone else who did like it. My mother was going to see it but several friends told her No way.  My sister and her family saw it and half the theatre walked out part-way through. My wife's suggestion is that Australians see the characters as just normal, everyday Americans and therefore it's not funny. But, hey, most Americans think all Australians are like Crocodile Dundee, so it's nice to have the boot on the other foot for a change.  "},{"Title":"A dog show to end all dog shows!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In this offering, one only has to view the current Westminster Kennel Club's annual offering to see the parallels. Outrageously funny and captures the true essence of the competition. One can only imagine the wit of the producers and the amazing ability of the performers. I too would have nominated this movie for a Globe Award and feel it is one of the funniest I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Guest's Best","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show is certainly Christopher Guest's funniest and deepest movie yet.  The characters are excellently portrayed and the connection of pet to owner adds a new level of comedy to the movie.  I've been a fan of Guest since Spinal Tap but in this movie he has truly achieved what he set out to do in the mock-umentary, a genre he invented and has now perfected. "},{"Title":"Absolutely the best!!!!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far the funniest movie I have ever seen, even after having seen it  for over 6 times now. This movie is worth buying on DVD. It has about 30 minutes of deleted scenes on it that, I think should all have been in the movie in the first place, because they actually add to the story.A must see! "},{"Title":"Best in genre.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best mock documentary of a dog show that I have seen in a long time. A very long time. Well lets face it,ever.  Isn't that part of the charm ? The idea of actually going to the trouble to make a movie mocking a documentary about an event that most people would find odd in the first place. Even if there were no big laughs, one would still be smirking at the thought. Any movie that attempts something new scores highly in my proverbial book. I loved the dogs too !        "}{"Title":"Chris Guest is comedic genius","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Watch out! This is not a gross out comedy like American Pie or you know the comedies of the new millenium. This is a sweet satire of dog shows focused on a bunch of completely different characters. Oh and the commentator is hilarious!10/10 "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rented the video for a slow Saturday night. First viewing I thought it was funny. Took a while to get used to the American caricatures (here we're more attuned to British grotesques) but very enjoyable. Watched it again next night and really warmed to it. The characters seemed more human - lovable, even. A film one could watch several times and get more out of it each time. However, my wife *hated* it. No accounting for tastes in humour I suppose.  "},{"Title":"The Most Hilarious Comedy Out There!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is my favorite comedy of all time and I have seen a lot of comedies.First of all,I should not this film had no script.Just a storyboard.The dialogue is almost completely written by the actors.Which makes this film absolutely hsyterical.The cast is one of the best comedic ensemble's you will ever see.The story is about the Mayflower Dog Show in Philadelphia and some of the contestants in them.Parker Posey shines and is absolutely great!This is one of those films that most of the laughing comes from the absolute pathetic-ness of the characters.*****/***** "},{"Title":"Great Film...","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Man, I really enjoyed this, if only for Fred Willard's commentary at the dog show.  There are some dead spots and some gags that don't work, but overall the film works very well.  When I was younger, my parents bred dogs and the people that I met at those shows were not significantly less bizarre that the freaks at this show, I can assure you.I enjoyed this film for its artistry and for its commentary about how we tend to take frivolous things far too seriously... I enjoyed the acting for its accuracy (most of the accents were flawless) and its subtlety (I loved the way each person walked their dogs)...Rent this film if you have any appreciation for the strangeness of human existence. "},{"Title":"OK... so I'm a little late...","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...but I treated myself to a DVD player for Christmas and this was the first movie I rented.Being a huge fan of Spinal Tap meant that this had a better than fighting chance of leaving me helplessly doubled-over within the first five minutes.And it did.Twice.In the first 60 seconds.I watched the movie, then watched it again with Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy's commentary. God, aren't DVD's great???An interesting note from the Blockbuster guy who rented it to me - apparently it's about a 50/50 split from customers - they either think it's the funniest thing they've seen, or they just didn't get it at all. That surprised me until I remembered I was once married to a woman who sat through the entire Life Of Brian without cracking a smile.So they're out there. But where DO these people come from? "},{"Title":"Hate dogs, love the movie","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate dogs, well hate is strong, but I don't like dogs. And to think I bought this movie without ever seeing somewhat makes me ill, but I was so pleasantly surprised by this mockumentary. There are parts where I was laughing so hard, but more parts where I couldn't believe that the characters were saying what they were really saying. Big time kudos go out to Fred Willard, I think more dog show broadcasters should be like that, and Parker Posey. Posey and her husband provide several moments of hilarity, most especially the scene where she couldn't find her dog's toy. HIlarious. Christopher GUest captures a lot of the magic from Waiting for Guffman, and I think it's funnier than Guffman. The deleted scenes are absolutely hilarious, particularly the nearly 10 that Guest cut out of himself. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Laugh-Out-Loud Hilarity","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The brilliant Christopher Guest (sharing writing credits with Eugene Levy) bestows upon us another comic gift with his 'Best in Show', a hilarious send-up depicting the behind-the-scenes world of professional dog shows, and the goober parade of pet owners who lovingly, if exploitatively, enter their prized pooches in such august spectacles. In an ironically telling touch, the dogs themselves are offered up for what they are--champion animals, first-rate and beautiful. Guest and Levy wisely chose to poke fun not at the canines, majestic animals all, but at their fallible human masters, who are sometimes sweet in their goofiness (like Harlan Pepper, the genial proprietor of a bait-and- tackle-shop and part-time ventriloquist, played with likable sincerity by Guest himself) to downright detestable (Hamilton and Meg Swan, performed with neurotic nastiness by Michael Hitchcock and Parker Posey, who project their own hang-ups and frustrations upon the poor creature that is their dog). Other noteworthy performances are given by Michael McKean--and John Michael Higgins in particular--as an uproarious gay couple, proud owners of Shih Tzus named Agnes and Tyrone and all the frou-frou inherent therein; Jennifer Coolidge as Sherri Ann Cabot and her dog handler Christy (a very straight-forward, hilarious performance by Jane Lynch), and their pride-and-joy poodle named 'Butch'; and most especially by Fred Willard as Buck Laughlin, whose side-splitting running commentary of the dog show is matched only by Jim Piddock as Trevor Beckwith, who proffers one of the most brilliant jobs of straightmanship captured on film in recent memory. This film is not for everyone, especially those weaned on such 'comedy' films as 'American Pie' and 'The Water Boy.' Its pacing is slow and smart, and--apparently one of Christopher Guest's chief loves as a filmmaker--background stories and relationships are provided to help flesh out the characters, and to help us better understand their motivations. 'Best in Show' is just that--a winner. "},{"Title":"BEST IN SHOW is non-stop laughs... the funniest movie in years!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVED IT! It has to be one of the funniest movies I've ever seen! Parker Posey (We met at Starbucks. Not at the same Starbucks, but two different Starbucks across the street from each other.), and Fred Willard (I'd hate to go on a date with the Judge, and have her judge me. That would be no fun!) stole the show! Eugene Levy (Don't water the plants, they're plastic!) was hysterical! Christopher Guest (I used to be able to name every nut that there was.) was great as Harland Pepper. He cracked me up! John Michael Higgins (I knew a guy who had two members on the same body.) was absolutely hilarious! Jennifer Coolidge (We could talk, or not talk for hours, and still find things to not talk about), and Jane Lynch (It all worked for my family, until my mother committed suicide in 81'.) were so funny!I like to separate this film in into three parts. The first being the introduction of the characters, the parties, and the hotel scenes. This part was HILARIOUS! The opening scene of the movie featuring Parker Posey, and Michael Hitchcock confessing, and apologizing to their dog after seeing them having sex, is unbelievably funny! I couldn't stop laughing! How about the scene in which we meet Sherri Ann Cabot, and Leslie Ward Cabot (We both like soup, and the outdoors, and snow-peas, and talking, and not talking.). Or the scene where we get to meet gay couple, Stefan Vanderhoof and Scott Donlon (Get me one of the pepperoni sticks, I just want to hold it.). The scene where we find out about how Cookie, and Gerald meet was funny (I've got two left feet! I thought he was kidding. Actually, I was born with two left feet!)! The whole first part is hilarious. But nothing like the second.The second part, is the actual dog show. This is the funniest part because of Fred Willard's much appreciated, clueless commentating (Too many quotes to pick just one!). Parker Posey, and Michael Hitchcock were still hilarious in this part as well,(Of course I've looked under the bed! That's were you look when you loose things!) screaming at each other. and their dog (Look at me! Don't look at the fatass losers!). What about John Michael Higgin's character's reaction to Sherri Ann, and Christy Cummings making out! Two many highlights to list out!The third part is also hilarious! Although it is the least funny of the 3 parts, it is funny! I especially loved Christy, and Sherri Ann's scene, which was just hilarious! This movie was non-stop laughs! Hilarious! The funniest movie in years. As a matter of fact, this movie marks the first time I have watched the same day 4 days in a row (I'm not a big repeat viewer). I laughed harder each time! Go rent it now.BEST IN SHOW 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Funniest in Show!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I am still wiping away tears from laughter. I can't say how good everyone was in 1,000 words or less so I won't even try. I will say Christopher Guest was amazing, but so were they all. I wish I knew how to write a letter to them and tell them all. Every funny person I know was in it except Martin Mull and Michael McShane so they must have been out of town when this thing was cast. Kudos to Stuart Aikins and his remarkable casting talents. The best part about it was that there was no evil nemesis trying to sabotage anyone and slow down the story. It was fast and funny and I LOVED IT!!! "},{"Title":"Christopher Guest is back with another hilarious mockumentary!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show *** out of ****Christopher Guest of Spinal Tap fame is back with a hilarious ribbing of the potentially ridiculous world of dog shows and their annoying, obsessive participants.  The cast in this thing is hilarious, which includes Guest, Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Michael McKean, and Catherine O'Hara.  The mockumentary style gives the movie a funny deadpan quality.  The only thing I didn't like was the dog show, which goes on way too long.  Except for Fred Willard's hilarious commentary that I would have missed, I would have liked to have seen more quirky character moments. MG "}{"Title":"Guest hilarity Guest smart","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Christopher Guest. What a comical genius. After wowing us in This Is Spinal Tap, and charming us in Waiting For Guffman, he delivers an absolute satiric gem. Best In Show is hardly about dogs at all, but more about the wackey, true-to-life owners. The yuppies are gonna make you scream! Fred Willard is the crazy show commentator who comments with a civilized Brit and he is insanely funny. The writing is smart, the acting expertly coordinated, and the situations these people get in are funny, and at the same time, real and pathetic.           10/10 "},{"Title":"Cool mock documentary!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     From the makers of This is Spinal Tap, bring us a another mock documentary Best in Show.  It's about an array of characters who are totally fanatical about their pet dogs and on their way to a dog show. When I saw Best in Show, it really lived up to my expectations.  The plot was good, the jokes were a little bit on a vulgar side but still funny, the characters were realistic, and Christopher Guest was loads of fun as the redneck.  Also SCTV veteran Eugene Levy's performance was cool, too, as the guy with two left feet.   If you loved This is Spinal Tap, you'll love Best in Show.  It's a movie for dog lovers and it very much deserves some good recognition. Very enjoyable, it may as well be a cult classic.  It's just one of those movies you will either grow to love or hate.  I ended up loving it.  I give Best in Show four stars!  )    "},{"Title":"Offers some big laughs, but the style holds the movie back from reaching full potential. ** (out of four)","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BEST IN SHOW / (2000) ** (out of four)Best in Show is a fairly funny comedy offering originality, imagination and enjoyable characters, but allows style get in the way of reaching its maximum potential. The film is shot in a mock-documentary style similar to Waiting for Guffman, that was also created by the comic geniuses Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy.  In that film, much of the same cast, including Parker Posey, Catherine O'Hara, and Michael McKean, was involved in a small town sesquicentennial history pageant. In Best in Show a variety of well-cast characters are involved with a national dog competition. Guest obviously does not realize that a documentary style can limit the effective material in comedies, which has proved well in this production.Best in Show details the adventures of an assortment of looney characters preparing themselves and their canines for a national dog show. There is Harlan Pepper (Christopher Guest), a fly fishing shop owner from North Carolina who has come north to show his beloved bloodhound, Meg and Hamilton Swan (Parker Posey and Michael Hitchcock), who wish to win the show with their Weimaraner, but are worried because their  pet witnessed them engaging in unusual sex. We also meet a clumsy salesperson named Gerry Fleck (Eugene Levy) who, along with his spouse (Catherine O'Hara) prepares to show his terrier, Winky. There are also two homosexual lovers (Michael McKean and John Michael Higgens), who own a charming Shih Tzu, and an anxious woman named Sherri Ann (Jennifer Coolidge) who works frivolously with her trainer (Jane Lynch), in preparing her champion poodle.The dog show actually just provides a backdrop, or excuse, for the filmmakers to examine a colorful array of eccentric characters. The actual plot, if you can call it that, lacks conflict and needs more focus on the dog show instead of getting into the character's sex lives, psychological problems, family history, and other useless and meaningless points of information. Obviously, much of this material offers some very big laughs, as well as an almost continuous charm throughout the audience, but in-between the hilarious moments, the movie somewhat sags because it has nowhere to fall back on except its bland story-line.Best In Show failed to hold my attention thoroughly and much of its material feels strained and out of place. With a little more zest and verve, we would have had a wickedly funny film here, with some of the most zany characters to hit the big screen in a long time. Instead, however, we receive a bunch of forgettable material laced with occasional amusement and fumes of entertainment. Mockumentary has worked before, and if used with the right material, and be very successful, like in The Blair Witch Project. However in Best in Show, the style only gets in the way of what could have been one of the funniest comedies of the year.  "},{"Title":"comedy as only Christopher Guest can do it","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show is not as subtle as Waiting for Guffman or Spinal Tap, but it is absolutely hilarious and deserving of being placed amongst those other two movies in the comedy pantheon.  The humor is built-in because of the concept of satirizing dog shows, and makes you wonder why no one's ever thought of doing it before.  Best in Show brings back just about everyone who was in Waiting for Guffman, and it's fun to spot each actor as they make their appearance to see how they're paired up this time around.  My personal favorite characters are Parker Posey as a perfect yuppie who spends every moment seething through her braces, and Guest, who again renders himself unrecognizable as a sweet, simple man with a rambling southern drawl.  Also notable is Jane Lynch as a supercompetitive lesbian dog handler.  A funny tidbit you might remember Lynch in a similar role in a Frosted Flakes commercial that was also done up in pseudo documentary style.  My only complaint about Best in Show was that it seemed to end abruptly, but maybe that was just because I didn't want it to end. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest & Eugene Levy are simply brilliant. The characters they have portrayed in this and previous films are so incredibly funny and real... actually all the performers in this film (including the dogs) are amazing. I get the feeling that much of the dialogue was improvised, just as in Waiting for Guffman and Spinal Tap.  Can't wait till Best in Show comes out on home video so that I can add it to my collection.  "},{"Title":"Best in comedies","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best comedy of the year, no questions.  In a time of comedy movies competing in out grossing-out one another Best in Show comes along and leaves us rolling in the aisles without prepubescent depictions of embarrassing body functions.  This movie presents characters that are easily recognizable and points out the humor in every day eccentricity without being mean or degrading toward them.  These are just people who get carried away with their passions.  The humor is often subtle, but hilarious.This is certainly the best comedy and definitely one of the best films of this year. "},{"Title":"A Bark A Minute!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  www.bluntreview.com-Are you familiar with Christopher Guest? His now infamous This Is Spinal Tap (which he wrote-Rob Reiner directed) exposed his style of off-the-cuff improvisational barely scripted, sarcastic pokes at the stuffy documentary- the mocumentary. Then he came up with Waiting For Guffman (hunt it down like a rabid wallaby -if you have not seen it). Now Guest turns his visceral eyeballs towards the seemingly innocent lives behind a dog show. Actually, the pomp and stance, behemoth egos, whacko human natures and pathetic clueless lower echelon of intelligence behind the dog show.Chris follows his tried and true MO ; getting comedy/acting talent together on a set, giving them the theme and concept, then rolling the film. Guest is creating not movie kucka, as you may fear, but unique and down right funny stufaamahgawll.Story goes...Philadelphia is hosting a big time doggie show- The Mayflower Kennel Club Show. We lucky viewers get to go behind the scenes and meet the contestants-Guest style.There's dog owner/contestant Harlan Pepper (Baron-legit, not just to get better seating at Emeril's-Christopher Guest ) who's not a bright watted bulb. He dimly recites various nuts of the world and other hit-your-head-against-a-wall dullities till your pleading for another Gore/Bush debate for the excitement of their oratorical deliveries! Harlan's duuulll. Physically, Guest makes him a walking L.L. Bean catalog (though Harlan wouldn't even know what L.L. Bean was- a tropical nut in the vanilla family perhaps?). Pepper is proud as a cock at an all gal chicken farm over his award winning Bloodhound-who has telepathic powers...mmkay?We also meet the Flecks. Gerry Fleck (Eugene  Caterpillar Brow Levy ) and Cookie Fleck (Catherine Still a Looker O'Hara) are middle-class tack- infested- city hillbilles- with- better home-bumpkins from Florida. Their small odd world revels around their spoiled Terrier, Winky. The Fleck's counterparts ( O'Hara and Levy) happen to be a couple of my all time favorite comedians- enjoy the magic.I should mention this again...Best In Show's script was strictly a storyboard outline- no concrete dialog. The actors ad libbed their lines- bouncing off each other with rapid precision (like Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe 200 miles north of Sydney-about now). I'd like to see Adam Sandler attempt that- well, and actually BE FUNNY.We also get to meet the Swans. Meg (Parker Posey ) and Hamilton (Michael Hitchcock) who are just plane old neurosis filled vials of human phlegm. They are frighteningly identifiable. Two completetly self-absorbed- Latte lite sipping- Crew wearing-designer condom flushing-whack jobs unaware of their own idiosyncrasies and obsessive compulsions-then, be fair, isn't everyone? Tearjerkingly funny characters!Loving couple Scott (John Michael Higgins) and his lover Stefan (Michael McKean) are true scene stealers. Call them caricatures with soul. What is it about gay males that is just so cool? Sure they redecorate their hotel room for a two night stay, sure they pack fifteen Kimonos for the weekend-who doesn't ...but what is it...Oh, yeah, they too love men. Tall men, short men, manly men with bulging ...Sorry. They have a shitzonyou, er Shitzu in the competition.Guest takes two more American stereo types and sauts them up for your fancy. The quintessential gold digger-ala Anna Nicole Smith, a Sheri Ann Ward Cabot (Jennifer Puffy Lips Coolidge) married to a one- foot- in -the- grave fossil , with her androgynous is-she-or- isn't- she-a clam-digger dog handler, Christy (Jane Lynch). The trio have a standard POODLE- natch-in the show.Smaller parts are also played to perfection by some familiar faces...Larry Miller as a rude and crass one-of-a-gizzilion ex-lovers of Cookie Fleck. Fred Willard as a straight faced all around jackass who narrates the proceedings at the show. Many more peek in... Any good looking men you ask? Guest is a studly man kabob- but he's been married forever to perky Jamie Lee Curtis- she'd kick our buttocks real good if we so much as softly tickled the man on the side of his strong jawed facial area with our over zealous tongues. You can ogle at Levy (above with O'Hara)...Now Eugene's what I call a full- fat- heavy- cream- man souffl gals...be good no hootin' and hollarin' and the theater now.Sorry Charlies-not a babe in the whole darn thing-your plum outta luck thisin' time around.If your into Guest's past endeavors-Run.Go.See. If not, be his guest at a fresh- funny- fantastic kind of movie making.Snack Recommendation Fried Fish and walnuts. "},{"Title":"Two Paws Up!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must preface my review by stating I'm probably somewhat biased. I am unequivocally the biggest dog lover (fanatic might be a better word) I know. Not only do I work for the Animal Rescue League/Humane Society, but I'm also a pet therapist, have owned dogs my entire life, (currently have 2) and have recently come to the definite conclusion that I like dogs more than I like most people. With that said, as a dog and overall animal lover I have seen many dog/animal films throughout my life and Best in Show is (in my humble opinion) second only to Babe.First of all, the cast is superb. There are some serious comic actors and actresses in this film and they all do an amazing job of portraying a wide array of personalities. In a weird way each character is like a spoof of itself. What they all have in common is their participation in the Mayflower Dog Show in Philadelphia. This is apparently THE show to win and when the film opens we are introduced to each dog and their human. The movie takes us through the pre-show preparations right up to the Best in Show announcement. Along the way are short sketch-like segments with each owner and their dogs. Talk about cat fighting!!!(Pardon the pun!) Some of the owners are so neurotic, rude and demanding it's a wonder their dogs are functional. But that's the whole tongue-in-cheek-point.Unlike most animal films the humans steal the show because, as I said earlier, the actors are incredible. I especially loved Fred Willard's portrayal of one of the show's commentators. I laughed out loud at almost every line he delivered. The dogs were all impressive actors but the best actress Oscar should go to the Standard Poodle who must have had to endure hours and hours of grooming for her close-ups.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone, even cat people. It offers a behind-the-scenes look at dog shows and what goes into winning the top prize. "},{"Title":"funny but not mean","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny well written movie that is not mean spirited. excellent performances by all the players, it's satire at it' best. technically it's obviously a low budget film. camera work is at a film student level. but it's so well written and performed that it survives. go see this film, you won't be sorry. diego77 "},{"Title":"Best in Show was best in movies","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest has succeeded in creating an extremely original movie. Most movies dealing with pets tend to make them the center of the movie. Not so with Best in Show - the true center of attention are the dogs' owners. We are exposed to the full range of human behavior - from the neurotic couple to the Southern down-home good ole' boy with his bloodhound. This movie has some truly inspired moments of comedy - the play-by-play coverage at the Show was truly comedic genius. This movie should get the award for Best in Movie.    "}{"Title":"Only thing Missing was a Golden Retriever","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As far as a movie, I loved it. Like _Guffman_, Guest's improvisational style makes the dialogue real. Now, with my Dog Person hat, I loved it. I have heard criticism from other dog people that the comedy was over the top and I have to disagree. There are people showing dogs, who make the Scott Donlon character look drab! The only thing I didn't understand, was why other people in the audience laughed when Harlan Pepper was making goo goo talk to his Bloodhound?All true dog people talk baby talk to their dogs. "},{"Title":"hilarious, charming mockumentary","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie is a fake documentary about the yearly Mayflower Dog Show in Philadelphia, and follows the fortunes of a collection of oddball dog fanciers (and related people) before, during, and after the show. It has a feel that is very like Waiting for Guffman, and uses a lot of the same cast, but Guest has become much more polished, and he manages to make fun of his subjects while still treating them affectionately. Also, the pacing is much more even than Guffman -- this movie has no dead spots in it. There are no big gags in the movie, but there is a constant stream of very funny situations and character driven jokes (including one nicely handled running gag). The cast is perfect, and they do uniformly excellent job with the material. (For example, Fred Willard is hilarious as the co-commentator of the dog show; I usually get very tired of his performances, but this time the material and his performance are right on the money. Eugene Levy gives a similarly, for him, restrained performance.)I strongly recommend this movie... "},{"Title":"funny. well...real funny","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  my comments are simple. frank willard is a genius. christopher Guest needs to be given an oscar for this (or at least a golden globe...for his nut naming monologue) eugene levy is at his best. lary miller...he's just funny.. i need to go see this movie a couple more times before i can give a smart sounding review....i just loved it. "},{"Title":"--Everybody see the most original comedy in a long time--","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best In Show is so hilarious, and very very original.  I think that the whole concept of this movie is great and will attract a lot of dog and animal lovers into the theater and thats great.  This is the type of movie that could have either been really good or bad, but in this case it definitely turned out to be really good. (Same with Shanghi Noon)The characters are so funny, and the plot is very simple.-Who let the dogs out?-  "},{"Title":"Brilliant deadpan farce","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was just a joy to watch. Chris Guest has few (if any) equals at the devilishly simple art of creating space for humor. He appears to have taken a basic script outline and given the pieces of it to the players bit by bit, trusting them to work out the details as they go. The comparisons with _This is Spinal Tap_ are inevitable, but thankfully they do it no harm _Best In Show_ can stand up against _Tap_ which no shame whatsoever.Posey and Hitchcock nearly steal the film as a pair of infantile, materialistic yuppies sublimating their feelings toward one another through their dog. The rest of the cast swings valiantly and with verve (Ed Begley and the legendary Fred Willard deserve special mention). But what really makes this ad-lib showcase work is the editing, and the space that Guest creates for the laughs by letting the characters be ridiculous (and yet somehow likeable) all on their own. He resists the temptation to telegraph the punchlines (as if there were any!), and in so doing allows them to sneak up on you.If you don't get a chance to see this in its theatrical run, by all means rent it and share it with friends -- this is not a movie to watch alone -- it begs to be shared. "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious without being slapstick or silly!!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The casting was superb, Fred Willard was great and the entire cast were very,very funny.  I just learned from this site that there was no script---these people are funny.  I had to talk my friends into seeing it with me--they laughed the loudest.  Great entertainment - and I look at dog owners in a new light -  "},{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wouldn't call it hilarious, but I can't remember when I had so many belly laughs.  The characterizations of the  humans were fascinating... dead on.  I was glad to see there were no jokes at the expense of the dogs, who weretruly beautiful.  It will take a certain level of intelligence to appreciate this movie, however.  No cheap explosions,  gratuitous blood and gore, or gross-out jokes are to be  had.   "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is SO MUCH FUN. Christopher Guest continues to beone of the most original and eccentric film makers in this country,he deserves an honor of some sort. This movie will make youlaugh riotously, especially if you love or have dogs- or any kind ofpet, for that matter. The supporting cast is wonderful as well. FredWillard just about steals the whole film, as does Eugene Levy.This is also a film suitable for the whole family. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Cruel humor","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most of my friends raved about this one but it left me feeling miserable.  The humor is uniformly cruel and juvenile -- like one long Seinfeld episode.  Some well-travelled comedians (Michael McKean, Eugene Levy, Parker Posey, Catherine O'Hara, etc.) who have made careers of playing stupid people and have no love for the characters they essay at all. What the viewer is left with are obnoxious and aggressive vulgarians acting like the cheapest stereotype of pet people you'd ever want to see.  Offbeat for offbeat's sake is not greatness.  And snide derision is not humor. Admittedly, there were three or four clever bits, but the whole thing was so mean-spirited, it was not enjoyable to me. "},{"Title":"For fans of subtler humour. No banana peels here.","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not as good as Waiting For Guffman, but after the somewhat uninteresting first 15 or so minutes BIS manages to establish its own world, feel and rhythm, and while very few gags are laugh-out-loud funny, there is much here that is fun and amusing. Plus, I'm quite sure there is more to be gained from additional viewing, as turned out to be the case with Guest's other mockumentaries, This Is Spinal Tap and Waiting For Guffman, which are full of details; besides the details, the variety of interesting characters means that one will understand better the nuances i.e. additional/missed humour in repeat viewings.I am glad Guest decided to ridicule dog shows, because dog owners generally tend to be (even) bigger nitwits than the rest of the population, so one can imagine what kind of dolts prepare/groom their bark-happy, clueless darlings for months and months just so they can parade themselves in front of an equally moronic, apathetic crowd. In fact, if anything Guest was being mild in spoofing these people.Of all the couples and individuals competing with their mutts, the best comedy came out of Parker Posey i.e. the yuppie couple, and Levy/O'Hara. The highlight for me was the latter pair visiting Larry Miller and his wife; it was a pity Miller appeared only in that segment. Another highlight were the various histrionics between and by the yuppie couple, especially the lost toy drama. "}{"Title":"kind of annoying, actually","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christopher Guest cleverly makes fun of dog lovers, and the result is that I think less of him, not them.This is one of those comedies that contains no nice characters, no human moments, not one shred of actual warmth or intelligence.  It just puts people down, relentlessly, and it's not even very good at that.  At its best, Best in Show is maybe half as clever as a really good Groucho Marx or Blackadder insult.  At its worst, it's slapstick junk.  And even the Marx Brothers and Blackadder had humanizing elements.  This movie is solely concerned with taking cheap pokes at hobbyists, which is fun for about two minutes, then incredibly tedious. "},{"Title":"Not the best...","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On its own, Best in Show would be a marginally amusing comedy about dog show people, but I was very disappointed in it, especially in comparison to Guest's previous Waiting For Guffman, and his involvement (though he didn't direct) in This Is Spinal Tap. The main difference between Show and Guffman was the characters, or not really in the characters, as some were similar, but more in how they were used. In Show the characters had little real depth to them, and the tragedy was that they just weren't used in very funny ways. Interesting types of characters, yes, but it's almost like Guest created some interesting people but they didn't do much with what they had. Guffman had interestingly flawed characters, as does Show (although the Show characters are just more obnoxious than anything else), and the moments they created and the world they exhibited seemed more poignant and colored more broadly than in Show. The Catherine O'Hara character was just a lame one-joke thing repeating through the movie, and the other main characters had little more to offer. Fred Ward as the dog show announcer was amusing at times, and obviously the funniest part of the film, but unfortunately that's not saying much, and it wasn't as if it was a real side-splitting kind of thing. Actually, my favorite part of the film was watching Ward's British counterpart react to him, and the two announcers together were a good part of the film. But as a whole, it was pretty weak, crude, and quite a disappointment. I'd still be interested to see the outtakes on the DVD. Maybe there's some funny bits in there, but then again, if that stuff didn't even make the movie, then probably not. "},{"Title":"mock documentary","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What is supposed to be a mock documentary simply falls short of interest.  I usually enjoy the satire involved.  However, this movie did not spark interest nor any laughs that I was expecting. It felt like I was stuck in a room of people talking on and on with unnecessary details about nothing I care about.  I refuse to suffer through those situations in real life if I can avoid it let alone sitting through it in my own home.  Good luck to those that don't mind. "},{"Title":"Guest steals the show","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If it had not been for Christopher Guest's hilarious role, I would have stopped watching this movie after 20 minutes.  The jokes were flat, the movie choppy and slow paced, certain characters were obnoxious and painful to watch, but Guest's character kept me laughing so I stuck with it.I do feel there are much better choices out there! "},{"Title":"Hmmmm, I must have missed something....","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only have one complaint about this movie... I watched the whole thing without laughing/chuckling/smirking once. Where are the funny parts exactly?What has happened to comedies these days??My advice If you're thinking about watching this movie... pick the movie just to the right of it on the shelf at your favorite rental store. It doesn't matter what it is, it's bound to have at least one scene you can laugh at, which is more than I can say about this movie.Rating 80% of a star (for camera work and color)... "},{"Title":"Christopher Guest finds some more trailer trash to kick around","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At least with Spinal Tap there was some worthy object of satire. Now Mr. Guest has gone the way of American Movie and Fargo by taking a rather unsettling delight in savaging people for no apparent reason other than their sheer simplicity. You'd think Mr. Guest would have at least one friend with enough decency to drag him off these sorry folks before he pummels them to death. I've heard the term dark comedy tossed around a lot in connection with this emerging sock-it-to-the-little-people genre, something I understand to mean people are uncomfortable laughing at this stuff. Curb Your Enthusiasm gets dubbed a dark comedy, though not necessarily because taboos are being broken, or because Larry David has pushed us into un-charted waters, or left us without a laugh-track to explain to us when laughter would be appropriate. As Lee Siegel writes in his dressing down of Mr. David and his comic insignificance (The New Republic, 1.7.03), satire makes more comic sense when the underlings are taking the piss out of their superiors. When the Davids and Guests of this world are pissing on the little people, it's not really satire so much as sadism. Mr. Guest's signature icy stare is beginning to remind me of the Larry David f*** you look Siegel finds so ridiculous--because the contempt it registers is usually directed, as he says, at some minimum-wage-earning shop-clerk. Mr. Guest, aka Lord Christopher Haden-Guest, 5th Baron of Saling, is now cutting himself from the same insecure spoiled-brat cloth, asserting his supremacy over rural Americans and torturing them as the Coen brothers tortured those hapless northern Minnesotans, simply for having made a blip on the cultural radar. School plays? Dog shows? Next he'll be attacking cheer-leading contests and bake-offs. Apart from the occasional delusion of grandeur Guest attributes to these country rubes, they seem to know for the most part that they don't have any reason to take much pride in their lives except by the criteria they invent in order to be able to take pride in something. It would be a lot easier to laugh if the C. Guests and L. Davids and Joel and Ethan Coens of this world were a little more clear about identifying themselves with the people, the class and caste of people, they attack with such relish.  "},{"Title":"I don't get it.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best in Show was boring and did not make me laugh.  All the characters except the fisherman/bloodhound-owner and Fred Willard as the commentator were were more annoying and pathetic than funny.  I did not care about the characters.  I did not believe people would act the way that characters in this movie did.     Maybe I just took too many grumpy pill before watching Best in Show. "},{"Title":"Not awful but disappointing in every respect","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was predisposed to like this as I thought Spinal Tap was a pantheon movie. I should have seen through the Spnal Tap sequel though and realized that this would be weak also.Best in Show has many funny - even hilarious - bits. But it's mostly just a sledgehammer, pounding you on the head with each joke until there can be no doubt that you'll get it.The O'Hara-Levy couple are the worst. There is a recurring joke about her previous promiscuity that the movie beats to death. Really, would you meet an ex-girlfriend and mention her sexual antics in front of her husband? And the terrier songs - do we need to hear the whole song to get the point?McKean and his partner are equally painful to watch. As is Fred Willard. The Swans (Posey & Hitchcock) and Guest himself do the best work but even those portrayals become too much.Subtlety is what counts in art art that allows you to think and use your imagination. Something that works to make sure you get it usually seems insulting. This kind of thing is best kept on TV.The beauty of Spinal Tap is the subtle and graceful presentation. Best in Show lacks most of that. As Guest can be smooth and careful, I wonder if Levy is driving the heavy-handedness - his work on SCTV was always too much in this vein a skit would be funny for a minute or two and then say the same thing over and over and over. Much like Steve Martin - the humor is in Steve's head and the viewer doesn't matter much.Net, shame that Guest has veered away from the subtle approach as he once had something to say. I'll watch Mighty Wind and if it's the same, there won't be any need to see more from this crew. "},{"Title":"Funny?  Not really...","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW!**What was so funny about this movie? If anything I felt sorry for the characters and how pathetic they were. The best part of this film was seeing the dogs during the dog show LOL. And the supposed 'big twist' of the film (those 2 ladies, the defending champs, turning out to be lesbians), I said they were lesbians the first time they were on screen together LOL (about 15-20 mins into the film). What was so funny about this movie? I might have chuckled MAYBE twice the whole movie. All it did was show me how sad people could be about some stupid DOGS! TOTALLY overrated, a pretty bland experience.* out of **** stars.  "},{"Title":"On the other hand,","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What movie did everyone else see?  Given the glowing praise and promise of laughter I've heard for this show, it must not have been the same movie I saw by the same name and cast.  If I had to choose between (a) watching this marginal Moviola migraine again and (b) being struck in the face repeatedly with a large loading shovel, the latter would win out over this tepid time waster in a heartbeat. "}{"Title":"Dumb movie with some very funny lines","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We were all prepared to see a great movie tonight at the clubhouse but were very disappointed. The movie had some very funny lines and a few very funny people but it really was a dumb movie and a complete waste of time. Not recommended unless you are a big fan of some of the characters. "},{"Title":"worst in show","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To those who liked this movie, the appeal probably lied in the quirkiness of the dog lovers in this movie.  There was an extremely nerdy who was married to a former slut, a gay couple, a wacky fly fisherman, and some others.For me, these characters came off very ingenuine, and clichd.  It seemed like a mediocre sketch comedy group trying to get laughs by acting like weird quirky dog lovers.  Although there were a couple of laughs here and there, it was mostly over acted stereotypical weird people.For those looking for some serious amusement in quirky people, try American Movie.  It is a documentary, instead of a mocumentary, about some truly quirky horror film makers who along with being absolutely hilarious, have all the subtleties that make you know that they are real people. "},{"Title":"an almost brilliant movie-a shining f******-ing actor's workshop-","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie only asks you to wake up and enjoy ACTING. For those of us who expect actors to just read their lines and then shut up-and push off-this movie explains the acting art in fine detail. I hope you read that last line, and understood. There is very fine acting in this movie, and it just spills over everything. Movies tend to spoil audiences. If I may be graphic Actors are the vaginas of acting. I mean no disrespect to you the reader. I do not wish to be vulgar, nor trivial. I do not wish to be crass. That said, Acting involves the act of creation. We humans create a lot of blood,and pain-and joy- simply to create another person-another person-a baby. The actors in this movie simply CREATED a movie. There's the new context. Christopher Guest and Jim Piddock and Jane Lynch and Janet Coolidge and John Michael Higgins and Parkey Posey, et al, created this baby for you and me. It is a great work of acting. It just knocks me straight over. It is not perfect. "},{"Title":"I have yet to understand what's so good about this.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Boring, boring, boring, boring, BORING!  Oh, and did I mention boring?  Maybe it's just me, but I'd even rather be watching one of the Farrelly brothers' less successful comedies; possibly even one of those cookie-cutter SNL toss-ups they wheedle into theaters every other week.  Endless jokes about gay people (actually, they're hardly even jokes--unless gay people acting..well..gay, is funny to you) and some of the most boring, unfunny, ineffective improv comedy scenes ever shown on film.  Utterly worthless and terribly overrated (with the possible exception of the first 20 minutes or so).  The success of this clunker still baffles me.3/10 "},{"Title":"not good movie!","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A horrible flick about a dog show. When i rented this and saw the IMDb rating, i thought it should be good, people always compliment Christopher Guest's style. This film had a few funny moments, but for the most part, all the performances were mediocre (except for Eugene Levy) and it was long, boring and definitely not funny. It was just not interesting. I didn't like the direction, too old school yet so mediocre and boring. This film just didn't appeal to me, other than a few funny scenes.This movie might have been funny had it not been so long, boring and pointless. don't watch this i didn't like it, you probably wont either seriously6/10 "},{"Title":"Total Garbage","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I tried reviewing this before, but for some reason what I said was not accepted. That's probably a good thing as I think I probably wasted far too many words on this utter tripe last time. I can't believe Best In Show is so highly regarded because the whole thing is just one long toilet joke. The characters are totally unlikeable and the gags are so bad (not to mention predictable) that I cringed throughout. I still cannot believe that those who support the film claim it is subtle humour, because it is without a doubt the LEAST subtle film I have ever seen. I laughed at maybe two lines in the entire movie and one of THOSE was spoken by someone who wasn't even a main character! A truly appalling film. 3/10 and I'm in a generous mood. "},{"Title":"Stupid characters and a total lack of good one liners.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Did anyone really find this movie funny? I didn't see anything funny in these characters. They were just plain stupid. How does a dumb movie like this actually get a high rating? It was a total waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Worse than Battlefield Earth","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen a lot of movies in my time, but this is only the second one I have ever walked out of (the other one being Batman & Robin). This so called comedy didn't even illicit a single laugh from me. If you are looking for something that is original and entertaining go see Billy Elliot. I never thought I would say this but Battlefield Earth was more worth my time than this uninspired film. "},{"Title":"Not very funny and and not very good.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of my women cousins won the Lab event in New York a few years ago. I admired the dogs. The announcer was more stupid than funny. Came off as a jerk. The actors did their parts very well. Five dogs and their owners. The ventriloquist was pretty good, but came off as rather pathetic. I know that the ratios were not supposed to reflect the population, but gays are only 2.5% at the most-not 20%. And lesbians are only 1.5% at the most-not 20%. And the show poked fun at an old man in a wheel chair. One of the two heterosexual couples came off as rather pathetic also. One nice touch the most pathetic couple won. But two left feet? My wife fell asleep during part of our viewing of the DVD. But that is not that remarkable. She is a good sleeper. I'm glad we didn't pay $15 to view this show. We got the DVD at our library for free. That was about the right amount to pay for it. I did enjoy the dog show and the dogs though, although we are not particularly fond of dogs. We don't one and haven't for many years since the children grew up. "},{"Title":"Eccentric Pet Owners Shallow","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie does not have any kind of a plot.  The mockumentary is not funny at all.  I think there is a lot of mock and mock my intelligence they certainly do.  I find the pet owner's eccentricity borderline shallow and idiotic.  Here is an example of husband We're going to Philadephia and visit where they make cream cheese.wife I really want to see where they make the lite cream cheese.Huh? Was that suppose to be funny?  A few of those lines I might tolerate, but the whole movie is filled with those lines from all the characters. Do all pet owner's act that way?  Anyways this movie will constantly insult your intelligence, so if you are looking for intelligent, witty, and smart humor don't look here.  All you will find is a mish-mash of shallow liners improvised.  Unless you like improv comedy than this movie is not worth watching. "}{"Title":"Was that supposed to be funny?","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would like to comment on the whole film but unfortunately can't as we didn't last much longer than 20 minutes before we just had to leave.  One of the worst films I have ever seen.  It wasn't at all funny, just really try-hard.  If you enjoy movies with people like Jim Carrey and the Farrelly Brothers then you may enjoy this.  If you prefer your comedy to be slightly intelligent and out of the gutter then don't bother. "},{"Title":"I lost 2 hours of my life","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I had no idea when the movie had started because it was all so confusing to me.  I decided to keep watching the movie hoping it would get better.  The ending credits ran and I didn't laugh once and the only thought that was in my head was, Boy, I just lost 2 hours of my life watching that.  I wouldn't even give this movie a star it was so bad. "},{"Title":"Not Funny by any stretch","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love movies, and have a great sense of humor, have even liked some of the actors in previous work, but this is SAD.  Cannot believe it has the rating it does.  Would have given it a ZERO if I could.  Simple, too simple, minded humor ... can't imagine what the rave is about.  It's non-existent on wit, or humorous situations, it relys on situational comedy.  Problem is the situations are extremely predictable and further detracts from any type of comedic value.  Poor, poor, rent it and you will be kicking yourself in the end. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was pure pain to view.  The characters are pointless and irritating.  There is a cheme with some films to create characters that are deliberately that way, to have no good guy to root for, instead populating the film with maniacs and eccentrics.  Sometimes it works, and works well. Other times something like Best in Show is the result.  Save your money. Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Good?  are you kidding me?","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This ranks right up there in my Worst of movie list.  Second only to Get Carter and the Blair Witch series.  I feel sorry for anyone that spends $3 renting this.  If you absolutely MUST see it, make sure you rent it on your video stores $.99 night.  Then you only waste a dollar.And for those who have already seen it, my sympathy. "},{"Title":"Don't be tempted, this movie stinks!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm so confused.  Not just by this terrible movie, but that there are 'actual' people commenting that this movie is worth watching....and, dare I say....Funny..???Please save yourself the time and money...save this movie for the late late late show on television.  My wife and I both agree (oh boy!), there is just no significant plot to this piece of junk.  Hell, if they just put the dogs on the screen a little bit more, I'd be satisfied.  But your filled with gay/lesbian/angry/adulterated/stupid comic material that doesn't support this movie.The 'interview' cam works for a while, but then it gets terribly boring and idiotic.  Now, if they had a 'dog cam', that might something!Unless you are a member of these weird dog shows, I can't see how anyone can sit through this movie and enjoy it.  It is NOT for kids by any means. It's just stupid.....no real plot, no good script.  Blegh!If you need to see a dog flick, pick up Lassie, Old Yeller, or Cujo. At least you'll see more dog vs. bad acting. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Conan Only I may dance That one Simpsons quote is funnier than the entire movie. No joke.This movie was so boring and it seemed to get worse every minute. There was a lot of poor acting and cheesy jokes (I assume they were jokes as there was usually a pause to account for your non-existent laughter) This movie was so terrible I switched it to French Audio with Chinese Subtitles just for a laugh.If this site let you rate 0 then this movie would get it for sure.This movie was so painful to watch i'd rather watch a 4 hour episode of Hamtaro (And that show is painful enough as it is!) "},{"Title":"This Movie made me MAD","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You people are sick. No, I am not joking. You are all sick in your heads. The idea that this move has a rating over 2 makes me even more angry and after seeing this movie I thought that was impossible. I am a proud voter here at IMDB with 300 titles voted on. You people who voted kindly on this are a disgrace. For all of you that haven't seen this here is a quick little run down. You know those terrible people who annoy you every time they talk? Imagine spending a full hour and a half listening to them. 9 of them to be exact. Even the cute value of the dogs didn't come close to saving this horrid movie. Even the $2.75 I paid for it was a rip off. One of the worst films I have ever seen. Only movies worse then this are Supernova and of course, the most terrible of them all, Omega Code. "}]