[{"Title":"About as unrealistic and irrelevant as All the President's Men.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"106 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, make no mistake, this movie was made to convey a message. If criticised in terms of, say, similarity to the Firm, or yet another cyber thriller, then you really missed the point. The message is pretty blunt, and guaranteed to anger a certain large corporation. (This is not an anti-corporate movie, it is anti- a ~particular~ corporation, and if you can't guess which one, maybe you should go back to exploring the Kalahari or whatever you've been doing for the last ten years.) This corporation has been known to spend extraordinary resources on PR (including, for example, bribing journalists and college professors), so almost certainly some of the comments on this message board will be produced by that corporation and should be read in that light.Second, while murder is a bit over the top, pretty well all the other crimes committed by the large corporation in this movie are things of which the real corporation has been seriously accused, been found to be planning, or in some cases, convicted; yet in every case managing to escape with fines or compensation payments much smaller than the profits they made from the crime. That is why we hate them so much, and why this movie was made. It's also obvious why the motif of murder was added some of the technical details of why their actions are pure evil are difficult for a non-techie to understand, so to make the movie accessible to a wider audience, they added a more blatant crime (plus pyrotechnic special effects, a tense chase scene, love interest, etc).Thirdly, it is not a futuristic movie, it is present day; nothing in this movie is more than about 1 or 2 years in the future, at most, and most of it is happening now or happened several years ago.Fourthly, technical realism while some of the tech stuff is rubbish (hey, it's a movie!), the effort put into realism is dramatically good compared to information technology in any other movie I have ever seen. When we see IP's, they are actual IPs, but martian (I guess they don't want geeks going home and whois-ing them!), the code is all real code some HTML, some C++, real scripting, but mostly VB (a language the certain large corporation is known to use a lot). The algorithms they discuss improving are even algorithms the product would really require! Not only that, the product is frighteningly similar to the large corporation's actual current development path!So, if you walked away from this movie thinking just for geeks or totally unrealistic, you need to give yourself a good hard slap, wake up and see what is really going on in the world around you. This movie was about as unrealistic and irrelevant as All the President's Men.Oh, by the way, I better say that all the above comments are only my personal opinions, in case they try to sue me, because they do do stuff like that. "},{"Title":"Not The Net 2","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for Anti-Trust, I thought 2 things.  1) It was a not-so-disguised movie about Microsoft. 2) It was probably The Net 2. It looked like another computer-based movie that would be as realistic as Hackers, but with a more obvious plot.  From the first 30 seconds of the preview you can pretty much tell that the open-source sidekick is marked for death and Bill Gates...I mean Gary Winston was a criminal mastermind who will do anything to get ahead in business.  I'd happy to say that while the first half of the movie went without any surprises, there are enough plot twists in the 2nd half to keep you guessing who's on who's side.  Tim Robbins and Ryan Philippe both give good performances, and nobody seems out of place talking about technology.  It's not the best movie I've seen this year, but it definately blew away my expectations. "},{"Title":"It took the time to be accurate - but at what cost?","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the few movies about computers, programming and those that make it happen that actually demonstrates that at least a little research was done by the writer/s. Not only is the script filled with real technical lingo (IP addresses, LZ compression, etc), but it actually uses it all in the correct context. (For examples of correct lingo in incorrect usage, see films like 'Jurassic Park'). So in that sense at least, the writer did their job.Alas, in other areas they let the team down.I like the basic premise. Tim Robbins (Gary Winston) as an evil Bill Gates (Gary Winston = William Gates, GW=WG) is certainly an idea that appeals to me (as a an anti-Microsofter from way back). There are even a number of little in-jokes through the plot that pick out the Gates-Microsoft connection (the artwork screens in Winston's house, a character called Redmond, the Dept of Justice accusations, etc). And it was so nice to see so many computers on screen, and not one Windows window anywhere.Into all of this comes Ryan Phillipe as a hotshot programmer - who, as far as I can see, never actually programs anything. He stares at a lot of code on screens, and types in some pseudo-unix commands, but I can't recall him actually coding anything. As a geek he looks the part, and certainly has the introvert/social inept bit down pat. But even geeks have other emotions.And how the hell does a guy like him get a girl like Claire Forlani?? Surely that must have sent alarm bells ringing for him early on? Yes, even allowing for the plot twist half way through, guys like him just don't get girls like her - because they're rarely out of the garage.Rachel Leigh Cook - stunning, and wasted. There was so much more scope for her in this. And the final twist with her character at the end just was not believable. I'm glad to finally see a movie in which computers and computer programming are an essential device actually treat them with some accuracy. It's fantastic to have a fantasy in which an evil Bill Gates actually gets whats coming to him. All it needed was a little more character injected into the three main young characters and it would have worked perfectly. "},{"Title":"A really entertaining flick","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film--it was exciting as well as thought-provoking. If you enjoyed The Net and The Firm you'll probably enjoy a hybrid of the two, although I found Antitrust to be more satisfying than either of those.  Tim Robbins as always was terrific as the Bill Gates character and Ryan Phillippe was excellent as his genius protege.  Antitrust was a great, entertaining way to spend an afternoon at the movies.  "},{"Title":"Techno thriller panders to a digital generation","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I praise Hollywood for creating a movie that does not have mass appeal. Too often movies of this type are designed to be for too wide an audience and all credibility is lost.  This film avoids this, for the most part, by primarily appealing to a core target audience in the 15 to 35 age range.The credits sequence began and I immediately cringed and thought, Hacker 2...ugh. but it didn't turn out that way, much to my pleasure.  Horrible computer idiocy was kept to a minimum, and generally only used for dramatic effect rather than the computerz r kewl aspect.The dramatic performances were very good in my opinion and the film was superb in creating suspense.  The soundtrack is rather excellent as well.By my guess, huge changes were made to this film (based on the trailer) and I look forward to seeing an alternate version or cut-scenes on the DVD.I definitely recommend this movie for anyone who likes technology and computers.  For everyone else, I don't know if you would like it, honestly, but I can tell you it's not a whole movie about computers. "},{"Title":"Microsoft were warned about the EU-CC","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What kind of computer expert can I be that I had forgotten that I submitted a comment the first tiem that I watched Antitrust - yet I enjoyed it just as much the second time around. A great deal of trouble was taken to ensure that the Computer Programming was authentic and the planned Synapse system would ultimately be feasible - wonder if Ronald Reagan ever watched it ? i take back what I said about the Male Lead, he wasn't as wet as I first thought even though it only occurred to him almost too late that both the Females seemingly attracted to him were too hot to be true. And he hardly looked to be out of short pants. The script made it quite clear that the Villain was not Bill Gates but a potential competitor for him and Microsoft but the plot fell down over the idea of being able to spy on LCD monitors from a relevant angle and extract useful information off the screen (before having the owner murdered in appropriate style). I'll let new viewers work out the relevance of the Sesame seeds for themselves and the light pictures which seemed to reflect the wrong moods for the characters nearest to them - but a great idea for a potential LCD guard dog. But then have the Israelis been working on this ? All in all a far more enjoyable film than the previous reviewer suggested. "},{"Title":"For once, it looks real","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For once, a movie about computers where computers look real. The display on the monitors isn't just some 3D animation that seems to serve no purpose. You can recognize interfaces, or at least can imagine that on a real computer monitor. The code on screen looks real (it's either C++ or Java or some kind of C derivative), even though it probably doesn't do what they pretend it does; they don't show it long enough to figure out what it's suppose to do anyway.Just some things I noticed All IPs are 10.x.x.x, which is a range reserved for local networks, it should not be accessible remotely, thus would not be usable for a global system such as Synapse. But that is probably done on purpose, just like they do for phone numbers in the movies, all starting in 555-XXXX.The networks seem to be freaking fast. In particular, for the data transmitted through the satellites with just about zero latency.The CD burner is quite fast, it can burn a CD in just 20 seconds.The server which Synapse is being distributed from seems to be very effective, taking millions of hits within hours. In particular, considering that they have never seen that many hits.Beside the technical details presented, good movie, good action, good plot twists. "},{"Title":"Tim Robbins- He is an actor who is a head and shoulder above the rest.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Antitrust today the 115 matinee. I loved it. I became acquainted with Tim Robbins through 5 copies of Top Gun. I will not give away the plot or read the last page of the book, but for those of you who like Arlington Road ,Antitrust may be a good sequel. So this movie does not win rave reviews. Movies are entertaining , some of them are informative. This one says that without computer geeks not many of us could not enjoy this modern day tool. Back in the 70's I thought the electric typewriter with a ball going across the page was exciting. "},{"Title":"Great flick!!!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was genuinely surprised by how much I enjoyed this film.  Tim Robbins is excellent, as always.  His uncanny Bill Gates like character will leave true computer geeks rolling in the aisles.  Geeks will get the inside jokes of the film....but the script doesn't leave the computer illiterate hanging. I thought they did a good job of thoroughly explaining things to avoid confusion.  Ryan Phillipe did a pretty good job...as did Claire Forlani. I gave this movie a vote of 9...I can't wait for it to come out on DVD. "},{"Title":"A brainless movie that requires brain.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I didn't expect much from AntiTrust, but I was surprised. The story was fast-paced and exciting, it never really slowed-down. When the movie was over I felt satisfied, it had a lot of what I look for in a movie. It requires you to think about what is happening, even if sometimes it gets un-realistic with plot twists.  Good things aside, AntiTrust had its share of problems. There was some techy-talk that went on too long, whenever something bad was discovered by Milo(Ryan however you spell his last name) the camera would zoom in and then shake around, and it got a little un-realistic in the finale.  All-in-all AntiTrust was good, but I just found-out it opened it 12th place. It deserves better. "}{"Title":"Young computer programmer discovers inter workings of corporate software giant","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is interesting on a surface level. It has lots of action and suspense to engage even passive viewers. Antitrust contains lots of ideas that are specific to the software industry however. The most significant theme of this movie is not one that seeks to implicate major corporations in illegal activities; it is instead one that blatantly discusses the idea of open source code sharing. For those of you who do not know what this is, it is the free sharing of computer programing code. This movie is designed to entertain though. It makes corporate software companies look like organized crime rings. This is simply Hollywood's appeal to its audiences.This is a good movie for all audiences; however a Linux user would particularly enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Microsoft bashing in thin disguise.","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but not really a good one either. Ryan Phillippe (Mr Reese Witherspoon) plays Milo Hoffman, a graduating computer genius who is being recruited by the biggest computer corporation run by Tim Robbins to write code for their grand data-sharing plan, which includes a system of satellites. Rachael Leigh Cook plays Lisa Calighan, one of the programmers already working there. Not everything is like it seems to be, and Robbins is not necessarily the benevolent boss that he appears to be in public. Entertaining, if you have 90 minutes to waste on a rainy day, if you can't find anything better.SPOILERS FOLLOW, quit reading, OK?!! Robbins also has a system for monitoring non-company programmers remotely, and stealing their code. Murder is sometimes in the plan also, if it is needed. Robbins plays a big boss who is totally devoid of moral fiber, will do anything to advance the goals of his company. It is the detective work by Milo and Lisa that break the case and bring Robbins and his bad guys to justice.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and intriguing.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The aspect of speeding up network traffic was definitely intriguing, but of course nothing much was done with it in the story since this is, after all, a mainstream movie.  As a software developer (a.k.a. Geek) I was hoping to see this concept developed more.  Very entertaining and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"This is about as unrealistic as it gets","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The ending of this movie almost made me laugh out loud. It is by far about the most unrealistic ending I have ever seen in a movie. In the real world, it wouldn't be the character of Tim Robbins who got arrested, but the character portrayed by Ryan Phillippe.The illegal broadcast, combined with the illegal distributing of the software that made that broadcast possible, would ensure a lifetime in a jail cell for Milo and his friends, instead of being treated like heroes as happens in this movie Basically, If you hate companies that make money, and wish to make heroes out of people who can't abide by the law, then this movie is something for you.However, if you actually have a working brain in your head, you won't need to bother with this film, which in the end is nothing more then a very unrealistic propaganda film for open source software "},{"Title":"It's true it loses my trust (DVD)","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a failed techno-thriller because the techno part is dumb while the thriller is better.Now that computers have become ordinary things, the simplistic wargames can't be repeated and the hacking has become more daunting. But the movie can't explain what it's about what's Nurv? Why is-it so powerful? What does it achieve? At the end, I still don't know so I can't relate to the movie I see people working, thinking but I don't understand anything.On the other hand, the thriller is well done with the character becoming more and more paranoiac.Thus, I help this movie with a little 4 vote instead of an awful 1 just because of the turn of events and the good cast (even thought a decade later, no one has made a big name!). "},{"Title":"Geeks beware","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was obviously written by a graphic designer (much like myself) or someone in a similar position who has a vast understanding of programming jargon and corporate culture, but doesn't actually understand  what is being said or the politics behind it all. This will appeal to people who don't work in this environment, but to people who do... well. They're just going to laugh at the sheer absurdity of the title credits. "},{"Title":"so bad it's hilarious","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be the worst film of 2001, and I can say that confidently even though there's still eleven months left. Who knows how Tim Robbins or the director of sliding doors got talked into this train wreck of a film. With technical advice by Linus Torvalds (creator of Linux) and a guest appearance by Scott McNealy (Sun Microsystems) you have to wonder what the (*#& is going on.  "},{"Title":"sometimes realism is not always better.","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i think a lot of people who rated this movie negatively due to the fact that it's not realistic or true to life probably do not have a lot of experience with writing novels or screenplays.first off, let us all accept the fact that most screenwriters, as much as they may love their craft, probably want to make money off their work. and, as they are human, and have human desires, chances are, they probably want to make a lot of money off their work. that means that sometimes, they have to alter their work (or otherwise dumb down, but let's not phrase it that way) to make it more accessible to a mainstream audience. now, some people may view this as selling out, but this isn't necessarily the case generally, most writers want their work and their message to be appreciated and recognised by the public. this isn't easy to do if the public doesn't understand what the hell they're talking about.it's not always best for a movie (or a novel, for that matter) to be 100% accurate, because even if everything about the topic completely fascinates you (and generally the author as well, else they wouldn't be writing a story about it), chances are, it's going to bore nearly everyone else--even some of the people who are interested in and are as knowledgeable about the exact same topic. if you want to see a film that is completely and in every way accurate, watch a documentary. do not watch a movie. a movie, like a novel, is supposed to imitate the interesting aspects of reality (conflict, struggle, victory, love, et cetera), it is not supposed to actually be reality. it is supposed to filter out the mundane and uninteresting parts of life.for example, the fact that we rarely see milo typing code for synapse--we know he can do it (as in the daycare scene), what would it possibly at to the story to actually watch him code synapse? that would be boring. it's much like saying, we never saw any of the character sleep. well, we know they do--but we don't need to watch 8 to 12 hours of them actually doing it.the only thing that really disappointed me about the movie was the fact that it didn't really explain the motivation for some of the characters' actions. why does lisa turn against milo, and in that same vein, why does allison suddenly decide to lie for him? "},{"Title":"Too stupid to comprehend","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an incredibly bad film.  It fails in just about every possible area, from script to technology to acting to directing.  I have a theory about films like this.  There is an old saying that you can never underestimate the intelligence of the public.  Movies like this are obviously created by people who live and breath that mantra.  As they are making it, I'm sure many people are sitting around screaming that this makes not sense, but they just say it doesn't have to.  And yet another bad film gets made.I object most vehemently to three major elements of this film1.  The geek stereotype!  This film is the most insulting presentation of Computer Scientists that I have ever seen.  It is obvious that no geek could every have a girlfriend that looks that good and girlfriends in general are rare at a software company.  None of them have a life.  They all dress badly.  One is referred to as stinker.  Not one programmer in this film is presented as a professional.  Any concept of a software project management structure is ignored.2.  The technology.  You can't look at a screen of code and tell what an entire program will do.  Huge systems are not written by one person.  The system does not know when you have finished a module and inform you that you are done.  You can't access a satellite by its IP address.  You can't take over all of the worlds communications with any company's satellite network.  I could go on and on.  They are bound to have had consultants on that film or at least the local systems staff who would tell them this was all dumb.3.  Information wants to be free.  This is practically a mantra in the film and was clearly planted to try to get the open-source people to watch the film.  So, are they releasing this film without a copyright?  They sure preached at me enough.  And, this mantra is portrayed as the fundamental belief of the open-source community.  In reality, most open-source advocates believe that they have an obligation to release what they have done, but don't believe they have some right to other peoples work.  This matra gets preached in the movie without a shred of debate or discussion.  It's stupid.This film also avoided dealing with real issues such as antitrust violations, cloning source you have add access to, buying out competition, and other issues that would have make this an interesting film in the same vein as Wall Street.  Instead, it turns into the standard giant conspiracy story with lots and lots of gun-toting bad guys.  You can tell they took the cast, tossed them into a bin, and pulled out the names of who would get to be the few good guys.  It's a tried and not so true plot line and it's just plain dull.  They buy this script in a store and just fill in the blanks. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Programmer in giant company finds it using murder to steal new code inventions","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ryan Phillippe deserts his computer pals who had their eyes set on their own company after being overwhelmed (seduced?) into working for a giant company patterned after Microsoft. The evil Tim Robbins is the company head who will stop at nothing to make his company dominant in multi-device communications. His nefarious people network, a conspiracy that surrounds Phillippe, is almost as extensive as his soon-to-be communications network SYNAPSE.He needs the skills of Phillippe to complete the work, but Phillippe quickly puts two and two together when Robbins starts helping him out with gifts of code and when his best friend is murdered. The question becomes Whom can you trust? The plot is very predictable and at the same time exaggerated and not credible. The characterizations are both thin and clichéd. The thrills are minimal. The story tends to drag. The movie manages to hold together but it misses the mark of being a tight, taut and engaging thriller. It falls short in almost all departments from music to direction to acting to editing to script, which is why it ends up being a blah below-par thriller.Rachel Leigh Cook delivers very well, but her part is abridged. Claire Forlani probably can act; she probably needed better direction here. Richard Roundtree appears in two brief scenes, but makes no impression worthy of his skills. Phillippe's part and/or his performance make it hard to identify with him as a hero. Robbins is basically one note throughout and fails in depth to convey the shadings in his character. If all of these actors can do better, which they probably can, then the main problem with this movie seems to be director Peter Howitt. He's a British director of mostly TV movies. "}{"Title":"The Firm with computers","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" To be honest when I stuck this on one evening, it was to just put something on in the background. I actually found myself keeping track of what was going on, but not through paying much attention to the storyline. It was by guessing what was happening as it tends to follow pretty much the same storyline as The Firm (The John Grisham one, not the cockney git one). Basically, computer dude gets his dream job and is getting along great guns with Bill Gates until he finds out he's evil so he goes about trying to expose his crimes and bring him down.It's horribly predictable all throughout. I was cooking during the first twenty minutes, but my mate had been watching it from the start. I did not miss out on anything in the storyline. I kind of assumed who everyone was and what had already happened. Very obvious that Ryan Phillipe's mate is going to get killed when he tells him it's good to hear from him again, even though he is working for their enemy.The best part of the film was noticing that the three main henchmen who carry out the murders and stuff on behalf of the Bill Gates type character (Tim Robbins) are called Schmeichel, Sheringham and Solskjaer. Seriously, that was the most entertaining part.I would say, as usual, that watch it with a pinch of salt and a few beers and it'll be a good laugh, but it's not. This is a film trying to be good and for that reason I did not enjoy it. If it at least starting taking the mick out of itself, I would've had a good laugh.The two birds are pretty hot, but I cant help but feel disappointed that he doesn't get off with either of them. The quality of this film could have been vastly improved if there were some breasts on display. A major disappointment.I was astonished to see that the average rating for this piece of work was 6/10. I am currently in the middle of watching the Tourist whilst watching this and it only got 5.9/10, and it has Timothy Dalton in it! (Something that immediately warrants a 10/10 rating in my book - he certainly is tenacious) "},{"Title":"Great movie, especially if you're into computers!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently got to see this one, not expecting to much, but man was I surprised! Antitrust is about young programer Milo (Ryan Phillipe) who gets an offer from the computer leading firm NURV, whose CEO Gary Winston (Tim Robbins) needs him for finishing a big project until deadline. So he and his girlfriend Alice (Claire Forlani) move there and he is treated with lots of respect, makes big money, gets a nice car...and finds out that NURV doesn't alway play by the rules. From there on, you can call it Thriller! A very well written story with a lot of references to the real world and a big Redmond based software company, with good leading roles, nice and surprising twists, and some action. I can only recommend you watch this movie if you get a chance, its well worth it! "},{"Title":"Gary Winston Meet Sister Aimee","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Herbert C. Hoover became Secretary of Commerce in the Twenties radio was just getting established and he was instrumental in founding the Federal Communications Commission which is under the Department of Commerce auspices to regulate the new form of communication. Evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson also saw the new medium as a way to reach folks for Jesus. Although eventually she complied with the new FCC regulations when they tried to limit her to an assigned frequency at first she told Hoover to keep those 'minions of Satan' away from her as she was doing the Lord's work.Now how the FCC or anyone else was going to control Tim Robbins as Gary Winston or anyone else when SYNAPSE got going was going to be a real chore. SYNAPSE is a program that will allow one to break into all television broadcasts all over the world. Trouble is that Robbins didn't invent it, in fact he had the guy murdered who did. That's not sitting well with Ryan Phillippe a brilliant computer programmer in his own right who works for Robbins, but is a good friend of the murdered man.As in the political film Bob Roberts, Robbins creates a really frightening character who will do anything to stay on top. I'm sure Bill Gates's attorneys checked the libel and slander laws very carefully after seeing Antitrust.But as frightening as Robbins is, more frightening is SYNAPSE itself especially if the technology is in the hands of one man. Think what it might mean if something like that was possessed by Al-Jazeera or Pat Robertson?Antitrust is a thought provoking film and if it teaches you nothing else, be kind to the computer geeks you meet. For better or worse they are destined to rule the world. "},{"Title":"Show some creativity!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I, a longtime computer user (geek if you prefer), watched this on TV last night and immediately regretted it afterward. Possibly the film could have been better after several script rewrites, but I doubt it. I wonder if the writers were aware of how bad the script was; looking back, Gary Winston's line, Show some creativity! (spoken to the company's lawyers), strikes me as ironically appropriate if applied to the movie as a whole. The plot seems a crude and obvious attempt to dramatize the battle between closed-source and open-source software, plainly ripping off the Microsoft antitrust case and adding a conspiratorial element that is highly derivative of Grisham's The Firm. Creativity is not the only thing the movie is missing -- it also lacks plot coherence, convincing acting, realism of the computer and security systems, non-distracting camera effects... I could go on, but won't because it's not worth the time and energy. "},{"Title":"It really did surprise me","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story of a young computer geek named Milo (Ryan Phillipe) who is torn between working with his best friend or making it big, way big. He is offered a hot shot job to finish an invanetion called Synapse for Nurv by billionare Gary Winston (Tim Robbins). He diecides to take the job and moves to Portland with his girlfriend Alice. At Nurv he meets alot of people who are just like him, geeks, and one of them are good looking Lisa (Rachael Leigh Cook). Milo who is a genius, gets Gary as his councelour and they are very simliar to each other. He starts to suspect that everything isn't quite alright when Gary starts giving him reslutions without telling the source. And when his bestfriend is killed, Milo knows he has to do something. A very wellwritten story about doing the right thing, but also about that things are worth a second look.Tim Robbins' acting is, as always, very good. He uses the frase surpise me! in so many ways, that you can imagine he had alot of fun filming this movie. Ryan Phillipe stays pretty low with his acting, but on the other hand that is what this movie needs. An overacting leading man can often ruin the whole story. And honors to Rachael Leigh Cook, the future really belongs to her. She might not be as much of an actress as she is a star. "},{"Title":"What was SUN Microsystem's involvement?","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A terrible movie as everyone has said.  What made me laugh was the cameo appearance by Scott McNealy, giving an award to one of the murdered programmers in front of a wall of SUN logos.  McNealy is the CEO of SUN Microsystem, a company that practically defines itself by its hatred of Microsoft.  They have been instrumental in filing antitrust complaints against Microsoft.  So, were they silly enough to think this bad movie would add fuel to that fire?There's no public record I see of SUN's involvement, but clearly the makers of this movie know Scott McNealy.  An interesting mystery. "},{"Title":"Flawed technothriller","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the target audience for this film is too small. Hardcore programmers will dislike this film because the code they used was pretty much bullc*** code and because the way this company doesn't really resemble the atmosphere in a real IT company (I know from experience). Also, the entire plot was way too far-fetched to really come off as realistic at any time.People not into IT are not likely to enjoy this film either, since there's too much techno-babble for anyone not familiar with IT to get some insight in what's going on half of the time. When they speak of an IP address, an interface, an OS or decompressing the audience is expected to understand all of these terms to have an idea of what's happening.So what's left as a possible target audience is a group of geeky kids and teenagers who're into computers enough to understand all the techno-babble but who are too naive and inexperienced to have any idea what working in an IT company feels like.... Not a good move, I'd say.Overall the movie does make a decent effort to keep some tension alive, but the far-fetched plot, the silly situation, the more than average amount of techno-babble and the bullc*** code seriously limit the possible target audience for this film. "},{"Title":"What's *really* technically wrong with this movie","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of people are bagging on the movie as having been technically inaccurate in some way. Truth is, they got more things right than they got wrong.It's not a bad movie, really. It's also not really a blockbuster - not enough special effects, and the drama aspects ... well, they don't really *pop*. Still, it's a solid middle-of-the-pack effort.Yes there are good looking geeks, and yes there are geeks with hot girlfriends (and sometimes, the geek *is* the hot girlfriend!). Enough with the stereotypes already, guys. The plot holes are really the girlfriend's sudden change of heart, and the other girl's equally sudden role reversal. Also, the Tim Robbins 'surprise me' approach wouldn't work too well in real life; his goons would get caught too often. But here's the big spoiler the idea that a couple of guys in a back room, peering over the shoulders of garage hackers everywhere, would be able to differentiate brilliant source code from typical spaghetti code is ... well, it's the biggest error in the movie, and after reading five pages of comments I am surprised no one else spotted this. Source code is mind-numbingly dull to read, even when the reader is another coder. The primary way to tell what works is to compile and run it, and without an army of code-savvy typists reading inputting that code as they read it from video feeds, there just wouldn't be any way to tell the good stuff from the bad.Secondly, and I just realized this one, fiber-optic video feeds from every hacker garage on the planet would require a pretty large team of operatives to set up and maintain. So their payroll alone generates a paper trail a mile wide; not to mention the trail generated by all the broadband subscriptions that would be required.Still, if you are willing to suspend disbelief for an hour and a half, this isn't a bad movie. The Microsoft hatred is slathered on a bit thick, but that's true in most geek hangouts already, so there's nothing new there. The girls are hot, the dialog isn't bad, the general plot is alright. Milo's trick at the end is a good one. The geekery isn't overwhelming to a non-geek, and isn't wrong enough to set off (many) alarm bells for real geeks.I'd watch it again. "},{"Title":"Best thriller of all time","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Antitrust is the best thriller of all time.Bter than was The Net.The story begins were Milo Hoffman a computer programmer get's a job in NURV company,brilliant and smart,but his best friend Teddy Chin from college,don't wont to work there,so he's doing research and later somebody kill's him and it's look like it was racist gang who do this,but is not true.Later Milo find's out that Gray Winston director and president of NURV company,is stiling code's of synapse and when you founded,or try to get it,they kill you and they leave that is look like somebody else do it.Milo want's to stopped Gary and get back the synapse and give back to the world,so he get's help from his girlfriend Alice and Lisa,but on the end of the movie he finds out they all fork for Gary and that was all set up,but Gary did not know that he's not alone,on the end he beat's Gary in his own game and he tells the world what he did,later the FBI arrest Gary and all his members.Great movie,great story,great cast, and the best soundtracks.What can i say the best movie ever made.Too bad that the not doing more movie's like was that. "},{"Title":"You have to be inside to enjoy this","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Films sometimes come out in pairs, one for the connoisseurs, anotherfor the unwashed masses. It happened with the Matrix for instance,released about the same time as The Thirteenth Floor, a film based ona related theme, but infinitely more intelligent.    I saw Hackers for the laughs, that was a ridiculous caricature madeby someone who believes software engineering is about setting thetime in a VCR. Now, AntiTrust is one of those extremely rare filmsthat are done just right from the technical point of view. Theycaptured the spirit of Open Source vs. the micro$oft evil empire. Somevery knowledgeable consulting was employed. Of course, every geek whosaw this film realized at once that Gary Winston has nothing to do withBill Gates, since every computer at N.U.R.V. was running some form ofUnix. Insider joke, of course, I have to watch the tape a few moretimes to catch some of the other references. AntiTrust was done on avery tight budget, therefore the need for blatant Pepsi merchandising,but at least the 461645 programmers working in one of the 44709projects at sourceforge.net should enjoy this movie. Let the ignoranthordes watch Matrix and Hackers, AntiTrust is the movie for us,geeks.  "}{"Title":"Okay, this movie is really pathetic","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My friends and I rented that movie last night and we had one of the greatest laughs in awhile. The movie is not supposed to be funny at all, but it is just so ridiculous and it lacks any realism whatsoever. First, Phillippe (I forget what his character is called and I don't really care) uses his regular employee ID to go through all the top-security terminals. Not only is that pathetic but it gets topped when his enormous efforts culminate in his finding the so-scary Lego-room, which hosts the super computers. This is plain funny. The tense mood that we are supposed to experience is completely spoilt by the childish looking room. The ending, like all else, is very very very cheesy, especially when the bad guy's lawyer shows up 'right on time'. Anyway, this movie is a good laugh. If you need something to make fun of, definitely see it.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ive seen in a good while","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How can all you people say this is the worst movie you have ever seen? I couldnt believe how much I liked this movie, it is now one of my top 5 movies of all time. If anybody is in to computers or are into business, this is a great movie.  "},{"Title":"SAVE YOUR MONEY!!!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust was lucky to receive a rating of 1 from me only because I couldn't give it a 0. The plot was predictable from the moment Milo(Phillipe) left to work for the all to similar to Microsoft firm, NURV.I think I read the original screenplay for this book when I was in the third grade See Milo go work for Gary. See Gary Kill Teddy. See Milo get back at Gary. Hack, Milo, Hack.The Acting was poor the writing was poor, even the big name of Tim Robbins could save this film. I'd rather have spent the hour and a half trimming my toenails.If it weren't for the fact I actually shelled out money to see this film I would have left the theater. I think that I'm actually more stupid having seen this movie.  "},{"Title":"Please don't waste your time!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To be totatly honest with you, this movie was the worst movie I have ever seen in a theatre.  Honest.  There was nothing there.  Let's see.. what shall I start with first.  The acting was horrible.  I could not believe that Tim Robbins was in this movie, and that his acting was so painful to watch.  Most of the young actors seemed to have no acting talent at all.Rachel Leigh Cook was nice to look at but still couldn't save the movie. The story was boring and didn't go anywhere.  The idea of commenting on the Microsoft situation is interesting but they didn't actually do any commenting.  The Insider is a movie that executed this idea in a much more enjoyable way.This movie is not worth it... the people in charge did not spend nearly enough time on this project and because of that, it left me feeling disappointed and ripped off. "},{"Title":"decent but not great","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Antitrust is a halfway decent movie, but not that great.  There are a lot of very predictible elements.  but there is one interesting plot twist, near the end of the movie.  Ryan Phillipe is good at playing the uber-nerd,  Clair Forlani is good for another pretty face, and compliments Ryan pretty well as his girlfriend but that is about all this movie has going for it. "},{"Title":"Of Heroes, Villains, And Target Audiences","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ryan Phillippe plays Milo Hoffman, a computer whiz kid, who, along with his nerdy buddies, has big ideas about being high-tech entrepreneurs. Then, Milo has a chance to work for Gary Winston (Tim Robbins), an egoistic corporate tycoon. Complications ensue, including betrayal and murder. It's a timely premise. But the story is trite, unrealistic, and you can see the end coming a mile away.The characters are youthful and photogenic, consistent with the sponsor's target audience age group of 13.3 to 23.3 The techno-lingo is hip. The gadgets are futuristic looking. The sets are coldly contemporary. I cringe at how dated this film will look in twenty years.Antitrust reminds me of Wall Street (1987). In both films, the not so subtle messages are that (1) business is war, and (2) lack of ethics is sexy ... if you don't get caught.The film's cinematography, production design, editing, and acting are all fine. The problem lies in an unimaginative, simple-minded, sophomoric screenplay, wherein you have cookie-cutter heroes with whom the target audience can identify with, and obvious villains, and not much else. Ergo, thinking is not required. We youthful viewers need only sit back, take in the images of the cool guys and good looking babes, marvel at the wizardry of the high-tech gadgets, and boo on cue, as we would boo any cartoon villain. "},{"Title":"Made for 'geeks' - the irony being that it's not intelligent enough for them!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jargon, Jargon, blah... lifestyle change... blah... 'alienation/disillusionment'... blah... 'Gen X'... blah... I could easily go on; this is 'identikit to its very core - so much so I'm convinced that there must be a program lurking somewhere specifically concerned with how to make movies as formulaic as this!Philippe is the 'hero', which on reflection is ideal because he's the perfect 'blank canvas' for an endeavour so nondescript. His idea of 'urgent' acting seems from this to be TALK-VERY-FAST! Robbins takes a bow as the villain to give the project nothing more than it deserves - a hammy performance. Even the director seems to run out of ideas halfway through, overusing close-ups to inject a false sense of drama.It's very sad that the closest it comes to achieving its ambitions is playing like a teenybopper version of The Firm, when it's perhaps easier to stake a claim for it being a mild ripoff of Hackers. How desperate do you have to be to find yourself plagiarising a film that wasn't all that 'seminal' in the first place?! "},{"Title":"Even Tim Robbins Couldn't Save This One","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another case of should have gone with my instincts and cleaned my closets or something instead of watch this movie.  I have seen this movie on the Showtime schedule for the last several months and I finally broke down and watched it - unfortunately.Antitrust is the derivative story of a young computer genius (Phillippe) taken under the wing of a multi-billionaire software company owner (Robbins), who discovers his company is not as scrupulous as he initially thinks.  He has to question anyone involved in his life, and figure out who he can and cannot trust.I actually made the film sound more interesting than it was in my summary.  This movie was nothing but a computer geek's wet dream  Bring down the mighty Bill Gate - er, I mean, anonymous software multi-billionaire.  As with every film Phillippe is in, he can't seem to get the marbles out of his mouth and speak an intelligible sentence.  Robbins is just there, reading his lines in this film.  I would like to think he took this role for noble reasons, like he had to pay the bills or something.  You could see the plot progression from a mile away, and the plot twists were as cliched as the expression I just used.  Don't bother - I'm a geek, and even I was bored.  --Shelly "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, bad movie","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best thing about this movie was, uh, well, I can't think of anything.  This was bad.  The script was especially bad.  The technical concepts were bad.  The suspenseful plot was bad.  The dialog was bad.  Avoid at all costs.  Do not rent.  Do not watch.  You'll be sorry. "},{"Title":"There was Potential","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie not expecting much. While I'm not disappointed in the movie, I felt that more could have been explored in the themes of the movie. Where is the line between self-interest and greed? What creates innovation? What stifles it? What are the consequences of uncontrolled self-interest?I also found problems with some of the little details (having known lots of computer people, I get picky). For example, all of the code shown is simple html; wouldn't they have used other computer languages? Also, I know the Vancouver area quite well (where Antitrust was filmed) and sometimes, it got too obvious. (See below)Additionally, some of the other characters' backgrounds could have been developed further.Yet, the sets were impressive! The interiors did convey the appropriate atmosphere. The use of the Chan Centre at the University of British Columbia- good choice! However, the NURV campus was much too obviously the Burnaby campus of Simon Fraser University. (The aerial shots gave it away).Still, it was a decent movie, all things considered. "}{"Title":"This film got on my last NURV!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dramatic tension, when done correctly, adds to a movie immeasurably. The long, lonely shot of Cary Grant waiting at the crossroads in North by Northwest set up a dramatic isolation. The deep shot of Bruce Willis in the doctor's office in the beginning of Unbreakable accomplishes the same thing. If you have an IQ in the double digit range, you will have a sense of dramatic isolation in a screening of AntitrustThe characters do not function as human beings in super-human situations, something that Hitchcock and Shaymalan films understand and use to superb result. Instead these characters serve as simple plot delivery devices...the equivalent of a cinematic Federal Express driver. DING-DONG, Plot twist's here!The characters are bad sketches of good characters from other movies... other movies you'd be better off seeing!Ryan Phillipe, the protagonist, plods along through this film showing nary an emotion, even though the plot gives him every reason to be busting heads like a 6th grader smashing pumpkins on Halloween. And his hidden weakness (hint, it's like Kryptonite on a muffin) is deplorably laughable. Had the character been better developed, we might care that he, for instance, can't eat at McDonalds.And the rest of the cast is almost interchangable. Whenever there is message to be conveyed or a plot point to be twisted, the screenwriter simply throws another mindless character (that's spelled c-h-a-r-c-t-e-r, but pronounced automotan) at it. DING-DONG, Ma'am, I'm here to deliver comic relief...sign here.And maybe this is just me, but why doesn't a computer company have better computer security? Phillipe's character (Milo for those scoring at home) can waltz into a computer lab and download the entire company's personnel files, but I can't get my e-mail without entering seven different access codes?Do yourself a favor, save the money you would have spent on this movie and use it to invest in Microsoft. When the people who saw the movie find out what Microsoft can do with a cool frame and some crappy Sears pictures, they'll be busting down the doors of the local Radio Shack to get the latest Microsoft Magic Eye Masterpiece. You can thank me later. "},{"Title":"Milo is cool...the movie lacked","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Its hard to write about this film. Lets do good, bad, & ugly... The Good is Ryan is the star. As Milo, he's a well educated student going to work for this extremly secure company. The dream job for all the knock-off Computer Programmers that never did anything with their certificate! Nice car, nice home, beautiful girl... The Bad, the story of this film gets very interesting when something tramatic happens in Milo's life. But, the closer you get into the movie, the more you stop trusting each person that is around Milo, when your just right there in a place that very few motion pictures take you, you get to the ending sequence...& that ladies & gentlemen is where The Ugly is. (6) Z. "},{"Title":"Anti-Good!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Antitrust (2001) Dir Peter Howitt / Cast Ryan Phillippe, Tim Robbins, Claire Forlani, Rachael Leigh Cook, Yee Jee Tso Phony contraption where Ryan Plillippe and a friend receive opportunity to work at a high profile firm. The head of the firm is a Bill Gates type who delivers long speeches about future and technology. Phillippe investigates when his friend back home is beaten to death. He notices aggressive behaviour from his boss, and he suspects that his girlfriend may not be who she claimed to be. Only the woman at the firm he seems able to trust. While Phillippe solves the plot with wit and brains, it doesn't take away from the fact that he makes too many narrow escapes. Robbins is embarrassing as the villain who seems to be constantly sneaking up on Phillippe. Claire Forlani and Rachael Leigh Cook play two women who are more mysterious than interesting. Forlani is his suspicious girlfriend, and Cook is his suspicious co-worker. Either way neither one is suspicious regarding how pathetic this film is. Yee Jee Tso plays the murdered friend although that could have been his way out of the film. Directed by Peter Howitt who previously made Sliding Doors with Gwyneth Paltrow in duo roles. The production is okay with a highlighted Lego sequence. One could say that this film is about people in high places but the delivery and suspense is so juvenile that it fails to be nothing more than something out of the recycle bin. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"not so compelling thriller","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gary Winston (Tim Robbins) is the mercurial CEO of tech giant NURV. He is introducing new program called Synapse promising to revolutionize the communication world. Milo Hoffman (Ryan Phillippe) is working on his own program with friend Teddy Chin. Winston invites them to see him. Teddy refuses to go and argues for open source against Winston. Lyle Barton (Richard Roundtree) from Department of Justice tries to hire Milo and asks him to keep a lookout at NURV. Winston hires Milo to fix a big problem with the pending launch. Milo brings his girlfriend Alice Poulson (Claire Forlani) along to Portland. Redmond Schmeichel (Tyler Labine) and Lisa Calighan (Rachael Leigh Cook) are some of his new fellow programmers. New advancements magically appear from Winston without explanations. Somebody kills Teddy Chin and trashes his work.The obvious comparison to Winston is Bill Gates. It's hitting so close that it's rather distracting. Ryan Phillippe is a weak lead actor. The plot lacks believability. The movie lacks tension. I would put that down to director Peter Howitt. I can't really pinpoint the exact problem or maybe problems. There are a few too many twists and turns. The turn on Alice is wrong but what's worst is that the twists keep coming. It's always more difficult to be cinematic with computer programming and this doesn't succeed. There are a few little problems that add up to a not-so-stellar thriller. "},{"Title":"A tech Rocky yet another story of little guy wins in the end","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mostly entertaining film about tech crime, made all that more convincing by Tim Robbin's talent to quietly but in sinister fashion convince us that he was the filmmaker's incarnation of the evil doer of the tech empire that we all know and love to hate. It was not cloaked much, like, Portland was used as the NW silicon valley not Se$$le, and you knew right away exactly who they wanted you to reference as the Big Bad Guy. Here are some clues for the slow....first name....ducks have them; second name....in your yard you open them and walk through. No, not web-foot doors. Think! Be creative!I liked this film for its entertainment value, but I could easily see its errors and giant departures from the truth even as I appreciated the ideas and possibilities shown(the best part of it all). That said, it performed the broad(no pun)strokes well of a story of a garage start-up tech company and the very organized and dedicated attempt to steal precious and valuable tech from the Very Little Guys by The Very Big Guy Who Must Rule All, No Matter How Small. It also showed us the very obvious reality that theft and violent crime can and does enter any work place where there is a chance for someone to be globally powerful and, oh yes, lest I forget, make obscene money, not to mention squash the competition into molecular bits smaller than the talcum powder in latex gloves.It went like this Never trust anyone...done. Only the bigs are bad....done. Only the little guys are good....done. Crime does not pay(in the end)....done. Tech is a wildly exciting field....done. Everything great in tech happens right now, no waiting.....done. All the neatest equipment to be able to do anything is at your fingertips....done. Have all the clichés been covered yet? Show me some creativity and come up with some more of your own. They were endless. And, it ended exactly the way you knew it would. "},{"Title":"Mega-paranoid computer thriller...","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 11/7/2007, 5 out of 10(Dir-Peter Howitt) Mega-paranoid computer thriller pits small-time garage upstart against a big time computer company over software rights. Of course, this paralleled the early 2000's .com rush competing against big timers like Microsoft and was a hot topic when the movie released. When the movie begins, we're introduced to the young hotshot software developers just graduating from college and looking to start their own business. A big company mogul, played by Tim Rollins, wants them to work for his company instead. Ryan Phillippe's character takes on the challenge, but his friend wants nothing to do with the company that has open lawsuits against it and wants nothing to do with their lack of open source computing(freedom for everyone to see the code used for their applications). The topic was very interesting, especially for someone in the field like myself, but as the movie went on it became more of a typical me against the world movie that's been done many times before. The action was OK, but not enough for me to recommend this movie. Without giving away too much, I'm sure you can guess that the large company becomes more evil as it goes on to the point of killing and stealing for their cause and Ryan Phillippe's character plays the lone wolf good guy who's everything is taken away from him including his friends and his live-in girlfriend(who ends up working for the other side as well). As was said in the intro, the mega-paranoid soon becomes the norm for the movie and this is when I lost interest and it came across as just another OK thriller in my eyes despite the unique topic. "},{"Title":"There is an explosion in a closet in Building 12","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Antitrust is a movie that should have been Made-for-TV, which somehow got Tim Robbins and a Theatrical Release.Antitrust was clearly inspired by the Department of Justice series of suits against Microsoft for repeatedly abusing its monopoly power. The Corporate thriller, done well, can be riveting; Wall Street and The Firm. But despite the title of this movie, it's not really about Anti-trust at all. It's actually a low grade crime drama.Tim Robbins makes a great Bill Gates. But rather than scheming and bribing his way into power, Gary Winston (Robbins) simply gets his goons to spy on independent programmers then kills them to steal their code. This doesn't really make sense. Since he's spying on them, why doesn't he just copy it on the quiet? Or buy them out? Or patent their idea and threaten them with a lawsuit? Or make a 'friendly' call to their financiers? Or otherwise threaten, cajole or seduce them?That could have made a great corporate thriller. Instead we get a series of stupidly conceived murders with Robbins as a poor man's Bond Villain. With the exception of Milo's girlfriend (Claire Forlani), the characters in this movie are remarkably one-dimensional. We never learn anything about the person of Hero Milo (Matt Damon-lookalike Ryan Phillippe) other than the fact he works on a computer. He's remarkably unimpassioned about what unfolds around him. He yells occasionally, but for the most part takes all the twists and turns and betrayals around him with an unrealistic cool-headedness.The plot does manage to sneak in a few surprises, but most of the time Milo never has to try. He lumbers from scene to scene with the mystery conveniently unraveling before him. For example, in one scene he 'hacks' into a computer and learns of a mystery operative named ND47. (At a company of geeks and hackers, best not to keep all your incriminating evidence on computer.) He then walks into the office of a Department of Justice Officer. On the wall is a college basketball photo of him wearing the jersey 'ND47'. Unflinching, Milo makes some silly excuse which ND47 stupidly buys, then walks out the door. It all falls together like that. You get the feeling if Milo just sat in a room the rest of the cast would queue outside the door, knock in turn to explain to him what is going on.Most of the actors seem decent, but simply walk through their parts. We never get the feeling of any plausible motivations behind any of their characters. Robbins is a good actor, but we never learn why he has to win so badly. There's plenty of unused material in inspiration Bill Gates' biography that could have given depth to Robbin's performance. Ryan Phillippe as Milo delivers too stilted a performance; He looks worried, but he doesn't *act* worried. Rachael Leigh Cook as Lisa doesn't even flinch when Milo confronts her with her Stepfather's abuse. She responds as if he was ordering an orange juice. But rather than condemn the actors, I'll fault the direction which should have picked this up.Yee Jee Tso plays Milo's Startup Partner, Teddy Chin. When Milo walks out on him to accept a job offer from Robbins, Yee Jee Tso gives a good performance as the jilted partner. But the script has him getting over it far too quickly. Surely we could have had a lovely heated feud over this?This is meant to be a movie for geeks. They did make some attempt to bring in contentious issues like 'free love' open source versus 'robber baron' proprietary software and digital slander. But these are flip monologues which are said, never argued and quickly forgotten.It makes technical references, but these won't fool anyone who has ever programmed. The technobabble is pure hogwash; It's not in the box. It's in the band. In one scene an excited Robbins shows Milo his source code. Milo grins the compression on this is awesome. Robbins taps the screen and beams with pride. But the code he's tapping is comparing a string with the word GET. This guy doesn't even seem to know about string libraries. Compression? Hardly. They could have at least shown us GZIP.This is a movie with decent actors and a good premise let down by poor direction, a half-baked story and bad screenplay.Some years ago I had a friend with a Security Startup, who threatened to blow the whistle on the poor security at banks. The banks made a friendly call to some police officers who, quite legally, visited his partner and threatened him with extortion if they went public. His partner crapped himself, the banks stole the technology, and offered business to every law firm he tried to hire. When Real Life is more interesting than movies, the movie makers are doing something wrong.Rating 1 out of 4 stars (barely watchable).PS. There is an explosion in a closet in Building 12 has to be the worst delivery of a line in the film. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An excellent movie about the free market and the consequences of the monopoly. Gary Winston is a smart programmer with a look and a history very similar to Bill Gates. He wants dominate the world with Synapse, his own communication system to send and receive instant messages of audio video or text. But he can't finish it before the release date, so he needs help from Mylo Hoffmann. But Mylo's best friend Teddy Chin is murdered and he suspects that the death of his friend is ordered by Winston to get the source code developed by Teddy.I think that the similarities with Microsoft are not more than coincidence, because Microsoft doesn't have a monopoly. You can buy Windows or Mac, search in MSN or in Google, chat with WLive Messenger or with Yahoo! I'm... Users can choice. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly nifty teen cyber-thriller.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An entertaining high-tech cyber-thriller, Antitrust stars Ryan Philippe as Milo Hoffman, a computer prodigy headhunted by evil Bill Gates-alike Gary Winston Tim Robbins); with his revolutionary communication system, Synapse, behind schedule, Winston needs all the help he can get, but when Milo discovers that his new boss is even resorting to murder in order to get his project up and running, he sets out to upset the apple-cart.Whilst this movie might seem preposterous to some, I do believe that there is a lot of truth hidden amongst the hokum of Antitrust's script. This day and age, industrial espionage is rife, particularly in the computer industry, and whilst the head honchos at top corporations might not actually sanction murder, I expect that they turn a blind eye to quite a bit of underhand goings-on. If you bear this in mind when watching Antistrust, it makes the whole affair more chilling.Ryan Philippe is pretty good as the genius who goes up against the mighty corporation and he is ably supported by hotties Claire Forlani (as his girlfriend) and Rachael Leigh Cook (as a fellow nerd). Director Peter Howitt manages to create quite a bit of tension as Milo slowly realises that no-one can be trusted, and everything ties up nicely in a well paced and exciting ending. "},{"Title":"Scarily Realistic Tekkie Thriller","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Antitrust is scarily realistic. Tim Robbins is absolutely frightening in every way as a Bill Gates twin. I went to a lecture by the John D. Rockefeller biographer and he said the only difference between JDR and Gates was that JDR had thugs working for him who beat people up and this movie just goes that extra step.I actually have a friend of a friend who was recruited to Microsoft like the Ryan Phillippe character -- and he was a college drop-out in Israel. They absolutely troll the world looking for programming geniuses to solve problems for them so the disclaimer about Stanford University at the end wasn't necessary.This was better than The Net or Hackers and worked both as a tekkie warning and as a thriller, with a neat femme fatale twist that yeah has been done before but I thought was done well. (originally written 1/31/2001) "}{"Title":"A movie that just fails on so many levels...","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read a good deal of the reviews of the film on this site. Most either claim that the film is an attack on Microsoft and Bill Gates or that it's a mindless popcorn flick. There is some that claim that the attack is justified, while some say it's exaggerated and too obvious. Personally, I'll have to go with a mix of these; it's an attack on said corporation, and an obvious one at that, but it's also a popcorn flick... and that might be the core of the problem with it. It tries to combine mindless entertainment with an actual message and fails terribly in this attempt. The plot is mindless techno-babble(quite derivative, too... The Net, anyone?) that lost my attention less than half-way through. The pacing is incredibly poor... the first half hour tells us far more than the remaining hour and a half, leaving the majority of the film being awfully slow and event-less. The acting is nearly unforgivably bad(what happened, Robbins?), and the casting is dubious at best. Ryan Phillippe as a geek? Please. He doesn't look the part in the least. The rest of the geeks at least look like they spent some time in front of a screen, but he looks more like he just left Dawson's Creek. The film is packed with twists, each more ridiculous than the last. The writing is pitiful. The dialog is just bad. The editing is frantic and confused. There are several sequences of MTV-like editing, only good for giving the viewer a headache. The cinematography is sophomoric and daft. The whole film just doesn't really have anything to offer the viewer at all... apart from some fairly accurate computer-stuff(as far as I can tell), which shows decent research... but what does that matter, when the film itself is so poor? I recommend this only to pseudo-geeks and fans of popcorn flicks. Everyone else should avoid it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A must see for any thriller fan","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie in stores I thought Ehh...could be good. After all I did see its trailer on one of my DVDs. But when me and my friends chipped in to buy it then watched it, I quickly got hooked. The movie's star is a boy named Milo Hoffman who gets a job at a company called NURV with the C.E.O Gary Winston. One thing turns into another and Milo finds out that his computer partner Tebby Chin has been killed. But then he starts to realize that it was NURV who did it. I liked all the cast of character and felt they each brought something different to the table. The story was really cool and I liked the music as well. Plus what really got me into the movie was the suspense like in this one part where Milo sneaks into this area in NURV to find out that NURV has been spying on programmers to steal their code and then some guy from NURV comes and he hides somewhere. Stuff like that gets me very interested. Plus I like the ending. I recommend this to anyone who is into suspense type movies. "},{"Title":"Had potential but quickly becomes an unconvincing conspiracy thriller","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Milo and Teddy are computer geek-boy geniuses and it is only a matter of time before the all-conquering company NURV come in for them. Teddy refuses on the grounds that NURV oppress smaller companies but Milo accepts on the grounds that it is the way forward and the fact that he gets rich very quickly. Milo is taken under the wing of owner Gary Winston and is given a key role within the team pushing for the launch of the global communication system Synapse. When Teddy is murdered in a supposedly racist attack, Milo is handed software that he recognises as Teddy's and immediately becomes suspicious. Small steps uncover a greater danger than market domination within NURV but can he reveal it or even survive his employers' suspicions? From the very start it was obvious that this had the potential to be an interesting dig at Microsoft and in the early stages it did seem quite interesting. However the plot quickly moved away from this aspect of it and became a more full-on conspiratorial techno-thriller which increasingly steps away from reality and becomes more and more unconvincing as it goes on. As the conspiracy built up I lost interest because it did require the almost total suspension of belief and I didn't think that it had done anywhere near enough to make me go along with it. It just about had enough pace and energy to distract me and keep me watching but I'm certain not going to suggest that it will do any more than that.The cast aren't really up to the job of raising the material either. To me Phillippe is at the peak of the MTV-generation of insipid actors that have nothing going on behind their groomed looks and pretty boy personae &#150; and he demonstrates this yet again here. Robbins starts out interesting with the material just ends up being an unimaginative villain with nothing interesting to say. Cook is pretty but, as normal, she isn't that good an actress and I didn't like any of her scenes &#150; but she is pretty representative of the younger members of the cast.Overall this is an average thriller and it is far from being the interesting Microsoft swipe that it suggested it would be. After only a short period of time the film becomes a standard thriller that builds conspiracy on conspiracy until it just becomes rather silly and stops being engaging. Sure it had potential but it didn't deliver on it and by the end of the film I understood why it had been released in the UK to universal apathy before dropping off the radar. "},{"Title":"Fair, but only fair","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the story of a whiz kid programmer who is offered a dream job to work at a software giant. The film takes pains early on to make certain that no one assumes this firm to be Microsoft. The cast, headed by Tim Robbins, all do a pretty decent job in the acting department, which is amazing considering that the remainder of the cast are all relative unknowns. The story itself is a bit shaky but carried by the cast. There is a decent bit of suspense towards the end and the viewer is at least kept interested and entertained. I thought the screenplay was pretty well written and the directorship is also fairly good. All in all, nothing to write home about, but not too bad. I gave this film a 6 along with most other reviewers. "},{"Title":"Okay but missing something *Contians Spoilers*","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, I recently discovered Rachael Leigh Cook in a movie and so decided to have a look at some of her other movies, interested in what else she had done.Since I am technically a geek (I am currently finishing a degree in electronics), I was glad to see at least some sort of realistic programming and hacking type stuff (too many movie glorify hacking etc by having pretty screens when realistically it is all in DOS like command interfaces).This movie left me wanting something else, not enough depth of the characters, I was really upset by the fact Rachael Leigh Cook was not used to her full potential and her character was lacking depth. She was wasted in this movie, a huge shame.*Spoiler* As for the girlfriend (alice I think) *SHOCK* being a geek myself and watching people recoil slightly when you tell them you are doing electronics I know this is unlikely!The comments about Bill Gates Home were funny, I am not one of those I hate windows etc but it did raise a smile. *End Spoiler*****OVERALL**** I felt this movie had such potential and it did make me think about my good old programming days when I was younger......it just wasn't well executed, talented actors/actresses were picked but the director (maybe) did not use them to their full potential!It is worth a look, I have literally just watched it and I am a little upset in a way, just because it started pushing the right buttons but left me feeling empty since for me it never reached a climax as all movies should.p.s. HTML code in the movie is interesting, I guess you can praise them for actually using a proper programming language! Although for the geeks out there some C/C++ or Java might have made the whole thing realistic for me!Thanks for reading, Julian "},{"Title":"OK thriller with built-in teen appeal","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ANTITRUST Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats DTS / SDDSBrit director (and former sitcom actor) Peter Howitt pits adolescent cybergeeks against corporate bulldogs in this OK thriller, in which computer programmer Ryan Phillippe (the best-looking 'nerd' on the planet) is recruited by industry giant Tim Robbins (stealing the show in a thinly disguised impersonation of Bill Gates) to help with the design of a revolutionary software process that will transform the global communications network. It soon becomes apparent, however, that Robbins' business practices are less than ethical, allowing him to get the jump on anyone whose research threatens to scupper the development of his much-prized software, with lethal consequences for anyone who gets in his way. Phillippe's suspicions are aroused when Robbins steals data from one of our hero's former geek buddies (Yee Jee Tso) who's just been murdered by person or persons unknown, and Phillippe is betrayed by all and sundry whilst attempting to expose this hideous injustice to the world.Howitt and his production team manage to keep the pot boiling throughout, rendering cinematic what might otherwise have fallen flat, and while some of the film's major plot twists are more predictable than others, Howard Franklin's script manages to pull more than a few surprises out of the hat before events reach their inevitable conclusion. Robbins towers over proceedings as the charismatic villain corrupted by power and ambition, while Phillippe plays the role of defiant whizkid with just the right amount of naivety and gravitas, particularly as the scale of Robbins' deceit becomes apparent near the end of the movie. Co-stars include Rachael Leigh Cook, Claire Forlani and Richard Roundtree, while David Clennon makes an unbilled cameo appearance. Thankfully, despite its subject matter, the film remains accessible throughout, even for those whose world doesn't revolve around the contents of their computer terminals. Minor stuff, but highly watchable, and done to a turn. "},{"Title":"Interesting thriller about software technology","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched it already twice on DVD and I found it even more interesting than the first time because there were many elements I didn't pay enough attention. The story begins a little bit slow but starts from the second part into a classic fast paced high-tech thriller. The director and producer made here a great job and the young actors delivered a solid performance. Tim Robbins included. The movie shows us in a very realistic way how every citizen or employee could be observed today by the computer eye. This let me nearly without any words and I was very thoughtful after I have seen the film. Worth seeing. My vote 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good movie. Worth watching at least once","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so there was one BIG hole in the storyline. so what! It was a good movie over all. If you look at the history of the cinema, in there was a movie released in 1941 called Citizen Kane, regarded by the AFI as the Numero Uno movie of all times. It was an amazing movie. I liked the makeup especially of Orson Welles, where he is transformed into an old man while he was still only in his mid-twenties. He was an amazing actor and director. But I guess he was a bit brash in his early years. I also like the acting of Joseph Cotton. If you are interested in knowing about the background of the story, a good place to start would be the Battle over Citizen Kane. Anyways, now to the story. The movie of Citizen Kane is about an extremely successful businessman (mirroring the life of William Randolph Hearst - the media moghul in the early part of the last century). It is about the murder of a lady he loved and the coverup(see The Cat's meow for more details of one of the versions of the real murder). Because of that movie, Hearst, seems to have targeted Welles, who never again was able to get financing for a movie that could showcase his talent as well as he did in Citizen Kane. Welles's career seems to have both started and ended with C.k.. What a shame! Antitrust seems to have taken the same route in a sense. At times, it seems like the villain in the movie resembles either Bill Gates or Larry Ellison, but more like Gates. The concept of the movie is quite scary though. It shows how too much reliance on technology could lead to transfer of power to the person who holds most of the technology. But at the same time the premise of the movie lies in the fact that there are individuals out there who might work on the shady side of the corporate world but are a necessary evil to the technology world in the fact that they at times act as the regulatory board for the industry. Fine! The screen shots of the PC monitors and the portrayal of the hi tech industry is so real. But the fact cannot be ignored that this movie didn't do much business as it should have. Can this be due to a phenomenon similar to Hearst controlling the media after C.K.;s release? Or is it just that the audience just didn't digest the concept? Or was it too into the evil side of things that people just wanted to look at the rosy side and ignore the fact that in this age of info tech, power lies in the hands of those who control the info? Decide for yourself after seeing the movie once or even twice. The only hole in the movie is why did Lisa write a workable code of the software when all along she was working for the villain? Rating 3.75/4  "},{"Title":"Terrible remake of The Firm","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An obvious and terrible remake of The Firm set this time &#150; not within the legal industry &#150; but within the computer software industry. Now it is my opinion that if you are planning on remaking a film, it is best to start with an &#145;okay' film and then try to improve on it. Unfortunately, by attempting to remaking The Firm &#150; which is an excellent film - AntiTrust was always doomed to failure; and strangely enough that is the only successful thing it manages to do &#150; i.e. fail. If you haven't seen The Firm, you may like this film; but if you have, don't watch AntiTrust, that is unless you actively enjoy annoying yourself. "},{"Title":"Some one needs to shut down ANTITRUST","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ANTITRUST CMovies about computers are pretty much the same (HACKERS, etc.). They all lack something and they all would be good if they just got that certain something. ANTITRUST lacks creativity and suspense. Milo Hoffman (Ryan Phillippe) and Teddy Chin (Yee Jee Tso) have been offered jobs at NURV, a Microsoft type company run by Gary Winston (Tim Robbins). Milo agrees, but Teddy decides not to take the job. Milo works hard and Winston takes an interest to him. But, bad news strikes. Teddy has been murdered. Suspicious things are being said by Winston, so Milo wants to check it out. But who can he trust? His girlfriend, Alice (Claire Forlani)? His new NURV friend Lisa (Rachel Leigh Cook)? Gary Winston?Who indeed is the question in this movie. The plot really isn't too bad, it's the way it's executed that's the problem. There are a few scenes that play well. But, some scenes don't work well at all. They are scenes from better movies that worked there, but now they are being reused and we know just what's going to happen. Tim Robbins is good as the tycoon millionare because he looks and fits the part. But Ryan Phillippe was not a good choice for this. He can do romantic comedy (hopefully he won't, though) and he can do a sinister preppy rich boy (CRUEL INTENTIONS), but he doesn't have the skills to take on this. True, it's just a stupid teen suspense movie, but you need the right leading man.ANTITRUST suffers from overplotting, if that's such a thing. It has way too many twists in order to shock the audience, but just has us scratching our heads. I liked the first one, but three more is too much. Character aren't you they seem. But, that's not enough. It's not enough to say they just work for Winston. They need a purpose. Howard Franklin's screenplay is busy and boring at the same time. ANTITRUST could have been a much better movie. But, for now, it needs to be shut down. "}{"Title":"Suspense packed thriller!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was at the edge of my recliner throughout 80% of the movie.  Ryan Phillippe character is realistic and poignant.  Unlike other computer-based movies, this one is believable with only a limited number of mistakes.  I was rather hoping Reese Witherspoon would play Ryan's girlfriend.   The casting and acting was very well done, soundtrack is pretty good as well. Out of 5 stars, I give AntiTrust 4 stars.   "},{"Title":"I like this movie back in 1993...","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was better 8 years ago.  When it was called The Firm.  Replace the mafia with a Microsoft-like company (which makes sense wince they are probably looked at as being worse than the mafia these days) and you get Anti-Trust.  Between this and the laughable Arlington Road, it is clear Tim Robbins needs to stick to drama roles like Shawshank, rather than trying to play the villain in a thriller.  Ironically, in 1995 my friends and I were discussing Robbins' career and we remarked how he always seems to pick winners.  Unfortunately, he hasn't picked one since Shawshank.  He is too good a talent to waste with movies like this one. "},{"Title":"spencer loves computers so much and he didn't even like it","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spencer loves computers like Foley loves an All-American burger, but Spencer found AntiTrust both lame and non-computer savvy.  Spencer often complained that they were only coding in HTML, and that Philippee was a mere neophyte, and not the bad to the bone hacker that is I or Turano.  Spencer also questioned whether Tim Robbins is actually a computer genius in real-life, why not just get Steve Jobs to play that role with Spencer filling in for Philippee?  Obviously, Al and I don't like computers nearly as much as Spencer, so we found the movie even worse.  At least Spencer got to look at some computers, me and Al got to look at Claire Forlani and Rachel Leigh Cook.  One funny part was when Al said, Claire Forlani is so hot, and then Spencer said wow, check on the specs on that bad boy.  You are one fine computer baby.  The movie ended in a three way argument between Al, Spencer and I.  I thought Cook looked the best, Al thought Forlani while Spencer liked the giant mouse cleverly representing a computer mouse.  Spencer just thought, the humor of the mouse actually being a mouse works on so many levels.  Plus a mouse that big means the computer must be huge, just imagine it's capabilities. "},{"Title":"Turn off your Brain...and Enjoy!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So many movies have no meaning, no moral, nothing.  Most of the time, these type of movies make me uncomfortable, even angry.  Nearly all of the time, these mindless movies have an equally mindless plot.  (I got up and left LONG before the Mummy Returns was over). AntiTrust is a different story...kind of.  True, the ethics in this movie are sketchy and at some points cease to exist...then magically appear again. (WHAT were they fighting for again?)  This annoys me quite a bit.  However, AntiTrust's compelling plot make up for its obvious gaffes. This powerful plot line surprised even a jaded critic like myself...I was caught off guard several times, AND on the edge of my seat.In the end of the movie, the odd ethics and compelling plot collide...and it's an anticlimax....where the suspense and revelation SHOULD HAVE been in the plot, there's merely a quick exchange of dialogue.  The plot, although good, climaxes at all the wrong times. Don't get me wrong; I LIKED AntiTrust very much, Ryan Phillipe and Claire Forlani are both decent actors, but this film is far from a classic. So forget the sketchy ethics,  sit back and enjoy this entertaining movie.  AntiTrust actually HAS a storyline...unlike so many movies today.  "},{"Title":"Fairly lame technobabble thriller","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another tale of conspiracy and treachery, set in the world of computers but otherwise conforming to the conventions of the genre - the naïve youngster inside the citadel of the evil force, the selection of women of varying degrees of reliability thrown into his life, the dead-friend motivation and so on. The story ticks along at a reasonable pace, the script for once managing to keep its vague techno-mutterings to a minimum, the characters are bland and uninspiring but fairly well acted, the sets and semi-sci-fi interior designs work OK, the gaping logic gaps in the plot are almost glossed over with enough excitement not to ruin the ride, but it lacks power and punch in the final twenty minutes. Lamish. "},{"Title":"Average computer thriller","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins plays Gary Winston, the head of a huge computer company set on a date for a new product release.  New hiree Ryan Phillipe is working on meeting that goal but discovers some interesting things in the workings of the company.  Somewhat interesting, but highly geared for people into computers and such, so it has a limited appeal to viewers looking for action or drama.  Although there is some of both in this one, the overall impact is not one or the other, making the film somewhat disappointing. Those in the computer know will probably enjoy this one, others may find passable but disappointing entertainment. "},{"Title":"Knocked On My Butt","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins bewilders our minds, playing a power hungry monopolizing computer 'geek', he throws himself into the role and takes the scene. Claire Forlani, looks, power, and talent.  Hoky Dina.  She's quite the actress.Just enough suspense to keep you into the movie, and just relaxing enough so that it doesn't get monotonous.  Especially the part.... whoops, can't do that. "},{"Title":"It didn't impress me much","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like I said - it didn't impress me much. There were some good effects and moments, but in general it seemed like a bunch of losers in action, who (while trying to save somebody) were pretty quickly dying themselves. They were suppose to be good alpinists, but it didn't look like it, because their mistakes was ridiculous - they didn't even know that their bombs will explode if warm. Silly. That's it. "},{"Title":" Good!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I give Ant-Trust a B+, or a 8 out of 10, in my system means enyone who likes sci-fi, this is a must-see! I enjoyed the cool cast Ryan Phillipe,Claire Forlani, and Rachel Leigh Cook. The movie delivers good action. I enjoyed the movie and am looking forward to seeing it again! Rachel Leigh Cook does a straight role, Ryan Phillipe doing a funny, but serious role, and Claire Forlani doing a funny and serious role. The movie isn't all that great, but I enjoyed it! Rent it! It delivers good action and science ficion! I reccomend it to science fiction and thriller fans. "},{"Title":"Damn Surprised","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie 2 days ago and was thinking this is gonna suck another damn hollywood teen thriller deal. Then I watched it. I was so sucked into the story I had no idea what was going on in the real world. I loved the story,the acting, the directing, everything, there were a few flaws but hell no one's perfect.  I went and bought the dvd yesterday I liked this movie so much, i give it a 8/10 "}{"Title":" Reply to one of the comments","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off I've been in several large server farms for banks and government.  80% of them use nothing but the smart cards and security guards.  I've only seen one that uses smart card plus palm print recognition.  The fact that you use the term 'super computers' suggests that you don't really know too much.  The whole point of putting them in the 'lego room' was it was the least obvious place to put them.The first thing I noted after seeing this movie is that they obviously used a technical advisor.  They used real shell commands and C++ code.  I picked out 20 different things tha were technically incorrect but IT'S A MOVIE!!!  If I were looking for realism I would lean over the cubicle of the guy next to me at work and watch him code.  I go to the movies for excitement.  Most movies do make things up I hate to tell you, but Captain Kirk isn't actually floating around the final frontier and cars usually don't blow up on impact. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining.  It was pretty easy to follow the whole way through, but it had a lot of plot turns that made you think Woah, so that's why!  and things like that.  It was almost as if the movie was making the viewer believe things that weren't true, and twisted everything around 180 degrees.  It really lived up to the title.  Ryan Phillipe did a good job and Claire Forlani and Rachael Leigh Cook were both great, and gorgeous as usual.  Go rent it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!! If you are a computer geek (like me) SEE IT!","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite what many people have said in their reviews of this movie, I think that the movie was great.  I give it a 8/10.  It did have its wtf? moments, but most movies do.  I have never seen a movie that was completely believable.  Also, people think that this movie is about Bill Gates.  The answer is no.  Despite the similiarities, Tim Robbins character represents the CEO of all major computer companys.  Many CEOs would kill to save their company, sad thing, but its true.  Acting was touchy here and their, but I think the cast was great. SEE THIS MOVIE if you are a computer geek, nerd, or whatever... "},{"Title":"The best movie since The Cutting Edge...","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just saw this movie on the airplane, and I think that speaks for itself.  I mean, how often do they show a good movie on a domestic U.S. flight?  Sure, maybe a friend's brother's nephew lucked out and saw The Matrix, but it's much more likely you wound up seeing The Cutting Edge, or perhaps Talk Radio, starring Dolly Parton.  I believe it might be possible to classify showing such movies as Antitrust on an airplane as 'cruel and unusual punishment' simply because you can't walk out.Don't get me wrong, Tim Robbins can do no wrong.  But neither did he need to be awake to walk through this movie.  They could have done so much more, but instead wound up with a Saturday afternoon movie on CBS. "},{"Title":"Should have been much better","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching the adverts and seeing it starred Tim Robbins and Rachel Leigh Cook, I was overjoyed to see this film being showed on the Aeroplane on my way back from Florida. However, I was hugely disappointed by its execution. The idea of a Bill Gates type figure taking over the world should have been a sure fire winner. However, all we got was a boring plot where the director seemed to be making up the story as he was filming it. My suggestion is to wait until it is shown on tv. "},{"Title":"Trust No One","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the trailer I thought this film would be awful but having taken the plunge with the wounderful offer from UGC Cinemas of unlimited movies for £9.99 a month you can't really complain about wasting money.Anyway I was actually quite taken in by the movie. I'm not going to go into great detail about direction, lighting, camera angels.... yawn yawn yawn as this is no classic but it is a film that moves along at a good pace and has some quite interesting moments.I gave it a rating of 8/10. This might be a little high and people will think i'm crazy but as it exceeded my expectations and made for a good 2 hours viewing. Its one of those I think this will be a bad movie but turns out goodSnoogans "},{"Title":"Run of the mill","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film may think that it is being clever and on the pulse because of the theme and plot of the movie but to be perfectly honest, the story line is hardly cutting edge. Fair enough we live in this day and age where computers are the biggest thing to have hit, and the internet is the most easily accessible source of info. in the world, and the premise is one which almost happened. Microsoft after all were taken to court and sued over their attempt to erradicate any other software companies production. In that sense the film is correct and Robbins character is obviously Bill Gates, but the plot holes are so frequent that aside from the moviegoer who enjoys cruise control in the cinema, this film will hardly be applauded.For all its plotting ineptities, and an under sophistication of what a difficult line of work computer programming is, it is a fairly enjoyable romp. It gives Ryan Phillipe a chance to do his best James Bond impression, and the when there is a chance for a thrilling set piece the director (Howitt) certainly knows which buttons to press. However, the cliff hanging moments do tend to be the same one played over and over again.It is very apparent that a lot has been lost in the editing room, even though the movie still runs at almost 2 hours. There are at least 2 sub-plots which are lost from the trailer and any number of scenes.The movies major problem is that it thinks it is being so clever by playing with such a topical idea that it is unconcerned with the fact that an idea will not stand up by itself. I am mixed on this film because, as I have said before, although it is plotted badly, overlong, and a little slow it is still very watchable. Perhaps that is due to the male lead who is very watchable, or perhaps there is something in here that after repeated viewings may make more sense and give it broader appeal. "},{"Title":"Great movie, (also see Enemy of the State). Makes you think.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good movie, makes you think (of course most of it is fiction) but some is also probably true. Also see the movie Enemy of the state and Take Down cheerio. "},{"Title":"Not about Bill Gates","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film isn't about Bill Gates.  Honest.  By mentioning him in the first 10 minutes that makes it so.  Nonsense it does.Despite the fact that the starting credits were written in bad HTML that wouldn't validate on HTMLHelp.Com, I suppose the point is that you should suspend belief and enjoy the tale of the Open Source fans taking on the giant corporation and its power hungry chief.Of course the predictable stuff all happens, but this is one for a certain market -- the geek who'll spend hours buying DVDs of it, downloading it on the Internet etc; and being the only film of this type it will succeed accordingly. "},{"Title":"Geek heaven","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins plays a brilliant caricature of Bill Gates in this geek-heaven film about a software company on the verge of a breakthrough. In some ways it's about releasing the creative spirit within you but unless you get excited about computer software technology it may seem a trivial teen flick. I thought the tension and pace was great, they left the computer cliches until the audience was well hooked and the early Gatesian harangues were genuinely inspiring and well-acted. "}{"Title":"Nice try, but a lot of inconsistencies","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paranoia and state interference has been an intriguing topic for books and films long before George Orwell wrote 1984, so with a new millennium upon us, this year's conspiracy theory movie is Antitrust.Ryan Phillippe stars as Milo, a talented computer programmer who is recruited by computer billionaire Gary Winston to work on his company's latest media software. Milo soon begins to get suspicious after work seemingly done by other programmers is handed to him on a plate, and when Teddy, his former friend and programmer, is murdered he sets out to find the truth.There are a few inconsistencies through the plot however. Ryan Phillippe just doesn't seem the computer nerd type &#150; where are the Star Trek videos, the comic books and the well-thumbed stack of porn mags? The heavily underused Rachel Leigh Cook suffers from the same fate she's just too easy on the eye to be a geek. It certainly seems a peculiar case of typecasting, but after She's All That and this, perhaps the weedy role is hers forever.It also seems strange that Milo manages to find a clue at Teddy's murder site that the police completely managed to miss, even though it was bright yellow and not hidden underneath anything.Too many characters go missing as well just as you think &#145;Stinky' could turn into a decent comedy side, he suddenly disappears.Speaking of characters, billionaire Gary Winston is an intriguing one; although you get the feeling that the writer had a certain Microsoft owner in mind when he wrote the part. Of course any reference to that in the movie would mean a certain lawsuit, so lets dispel any rumours right now that Winston is a rip off of Bill Gates. It's obviously just a coincidence that both owns a multi-million dollar computer software company, has &#145;Satan' websites devoted to them and gets into trouble with the US government for breaking Antitrust laws.Despite it's flaws, the fast pace of Antitrust is enough for interest to be sustained. It's clichéd at times, but you can't fault the acting, especially Tim Robbins as Winston. It's not going to win many prizes and Phillippe is worthy of much more than this but ultimately there are worse ways to spend a couple of hours.6/10  "},{"Title":"Purpose built for geeks","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw AntiTrust, and I'm pleased to say that a movie about computers has got it right.  This film is a geek's dream - guest appearances from famous computer figures (not Bill), accurate descriptions of programming and networking, and plenty of humour at the expense of the evil Micro$oft.  Oh - there is a little plot centred on monopolistic business practices in there as well.  In many ways this is The Skulls, where the secret society is the computing world.  The storyline may not be the strongest, and the direction a little disjointed, but this is a movie that captures the essence of why so many of us are crouched in front of a glowing screen night after night. One final note for those who have seen the film - if someone was paying Claire Forlani to sleep with me, I wouldn't be complaining! I give this about 6/10 for the general population, but 9/10 and a MUST SEE rating for proud geeks. "},{"Title":"See it for yourself","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't post reviews usually, or ever for that matter, but I having just come back from this film and wanting to see what some other people thought of it, I had to put in my two cents. I will firstly say I am your standard modern geek. Web programmer, etc.For all of you who hated this movie with a passion, etc, why do you go to see a movie? Obviously you are looking for the next great epic because you compare it to every other movie you've ever seen and look for every little hole in the plotline and every flaw in the acting. Give it a break, already! If you stop comparing this to every movie you've ever seen, you suddenly find that it was actually quite an enjoyable movie with a bit of suspense, some nice twists and a nice two-hour escape.Granted, a fair bit of the content would probably appeal more to those working in the computer industry than to the average person, but it was still a good movie on its own.If you are a computer geek, I find it highly unlikely that you won't thoroughly enjoy it. And for once, a computer-centric movie without people flying through 3D mazes to hack into mainframes, and viruses which eat the screen and leave a big graphical flashing object on the screen! It also uses real software and operating systems, (GNOME/Linux/C++) and addresses real-world software issues, such as open-source vs commercial software.Anyways, to wrap up, I give it a 7 out of 10. If computer geeks annoy you or make you smirk, you probably won't enjoy it. Everyone else, check it out and make your own opinion of it. "},{"Title":"Worst computer movie of them all.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And I've seen just about every single computer movie out there.I normally don't mind little plot holes as long as it makes some modicum of sense.  But huge gaping holes in this movie made it hard to watch.For example...  ---------SPOILERS AHEAD---------A security guard who is so hell bent on protecting the company that he just suddenly sides with the good guys at the end.Gary Winston (Tim Robbins) would have people killed to save his company but when the $#!+ hit the fan, he just stood there to be arrested.---------END SPOILERS--------I loved Sneakers, The Net and Hackers because even if there are plot holes in those movies, it was at least entertaining.I love how people talk about the reality of computer movies when they don't work in the computer industry.  I do.  It's duller than watching paint dry.  If they showed the real day to day events of a computer programmer, not even the nerdiest geek would pay to see it.  So its ok for Hollywood to spice it up a litle.Overall I rate this movie a 6 because it had some suspenseful parts but the script was definitely borrowed from The Firm. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie thinking that it was going to be another hack job by the young actors of Hollywood.  To my surprise I actually got into this movie and enjoyed the series of events that occurred.  Ryan Phillipe does a convincing job at playing the lead role.  Overall a good movie to watch and I don't think I would have been upset at spending 7 bucks to see the thing in the theatres.  The movie kind of reminded me of Hackers and it is quite obvious that the anti trust theme comes from Microsoft's problems as a company.  If you have a couple of hours to kill this is a good flick to check out.  I don't think you will be disappointed as the actors try to act somewhat their age, so to speak.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first it may seem that the movie is boring, but after 35 minutes the movie goes in a different way. It becomes a good thriller. and there is a good amount of suspense. hacking satellites, interrupting TV programs and broadcasting your own show seems very exciting. MUST SEE MOVIE "},{"Title":"Finally a good computer movie","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, if you are into computers like me, you'll love this movie. There are only a few movies about this subject, but even those that exist are bad. I'm talking about Hackers and The Net, where none of the things that are displayed can happen, like fighting battles in 3D space with viruses, working in some virtual operating systems and programming languages, cracking into any computer in 5 seconds and deleting some person's file, or making him dead and so on.The first good thing about this movie is that it's realistic. They use Unix/Linux, program in C++, mostly realistic stuff. At first it may seem that the movie is about Microsoft, because there are many similarities, but the movie goes in a different way. It becomes a good thriller. Ryan Phillippe and Tim Robbins fit perfectly in their roles, and there is a good amount of suspense.One of the few good movies I've seen lately, you should definitely check it out. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"best movie I've seen in a while","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  According to the Antitrust web site, the movie opened on Jan. 12, so I don't know why it's in the cheap theaters after only a month.  Antitrust is the best movie I've seen for over a month.  The plot really thickens, and a different ending always seems around the bend.The movie starts out with a bunch of programmers trying to be famous.  One of them leaves, and the rest go their seperate ways.  The company Milo (Ryan Philippe) is now working for keeps coming up with new ideas and programs, and after his friend's death he becomes suspicious.  Seems simple enough, doesn't it?  But just wait for the plot to become a tangled web of lies.Everything in the movie was great.  The influence of the company, and the identity of its spies is fantastic.  The ending of the movie is wonderful. I never expected the ending to turn out the way it did.  I think that at one point I could actually feel my heart pounding from the excitement, I don't think that ever happened with Alien.I can understand that some might view Antitrust and not like it.  Ok, so the acting was not the best, and the chips were annoying.  But, the plot of the movie, I feel, overruled these things for this movie (it doesn't in some).  "},{"Title":"A slick, watchable thriller out of the Hitchcock handbook.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust (2001) 2.5/4 Directed by Peter Howitt.  Written by Howard Franklin.  Reviewed by Terry Meehan Why is it that every time an evil genius has a secret  plan to rule the world, he inevitably attracts to his  enterprise the one person most likely to smoke out the secret and spoil the plan? Because if he didn't, there wouldn't be a movie.  AntiTrust is a slick, watchable thriller that pits a  young, idealistic computer geek (Ryan Phillippe)  against a Bill Gates-like billionaire (Tim Robbins)  who wants to rule the information world by devising  a system that will link all sources of communications  through his satellites.  Robbins recruits the top graduates from the best  computer science schools and offers these premium  programmers the good life in exchange for good code.  Phillippe, tops in his class at Stanford, takes a job  with Robbins, even though his pals consider it a deal  with the devil. The young genius is led to believe he  is doing a great service for society, but what Robbins really wants is Phillippe's programming prowess in  order to complete his mission on schedule, a mission  whose methods become increasingly suspicious to  Phillippe.This is director Peter Howitt's second feature, the  first being the well-received Gwineth Paltrow vehicle  Sliding Doors, which he also scripted. Unfortunately, he has not achieved with this film the bright inventiveness of the earlier work. Likewise, the script, written by Howard Franklin (Quick Change, The Man Who Knew Too Little), has not taken the material very much beyond the bromides of the genre.Though billed as a high-tech thriller, it is high tech in subject matter only. The form of the film is straight out of the Hitchcock handbook. We have seen it all before in such masterpieces as North by Northwest and Notorious.  Not that this is bad. We treasure these conventions now just as then sultry women who are not to be trusted; smooth talking villains with stone-dumb henchmen; set-ups where the hero must complete a task before the villain arrives. These are the mainstays of the suspense genre, and when done well they can still be effective. If you are going to be derivative, derive from a master.As for the performances, the two male leads charismatically carry the film. Phillippe (Playing by Heart, Cruel Intentions) has a screen presence that should guarantee him choice roles in the future, and likely stardom. He is convincing as the boy genius who can punch in code and punch out bad guys with equal panache. Robbins masterfully completes a trilogy of sinister smooth talkers preceded by his homicidal producer in The Player and his unnerving neighbor in Arlington Road.Though the supporting roles were fine, if somewhat one-dimensional, the biggest disappointment was the women. Neither of the two love interests (Rachael Leigh Cook and Claire Forlani) seemed able to bring believability or vitality to their roles (with one exception, a striking seduction scene by Forlani). Most of the blame should go to the filmmakers, who seemed to have left these parts underdeveloped in favor of the male leads.As for production values, the entire film has a pleasing look, greatly aided by striking exteriors of Vancouver (standing in for Portland). At key times in the story, when emotions and tensions are running high, dazzling editing montages and lively camera work enhance these suspenseful scenes, another homage to Hitchcock, one that pays off for both the filmmakers and the viewers.Rating 2 1/2 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Oh, but AntiTrust tries so hard to be realistic but fails","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One can see the filmmaker's influences the movie Hackers, computer games, and tech news for the last few years.The movie's probably got the most realistic depiction of computers onscreen yet - though it still suffers the same errors that make some people's skin crawl...like the keyboard noise (those keyboards don't make that much noise - especially THOSE keyboards), the fact that the characters navigate by typing on the keyboard (I mean when using windows interface), and so on.What is nice is the use of the GNOME desktop throughout the movie and the obvious inferrence to Linux.The Evil Villain, Gary Winston, appears to be a clone of both Bill Gates and Steve Jobs he has an exaggerated cutthroatness of Gates with the style of Jobs (check out his office!  I want those seasons windows!).  Tim Robbins, as expected, did a great job as the ego-maniacal CEO.In all the content of the movie is poor.  Ryan Phillippe has a hard time showing any real human emotion.  Not even halfway into the film is it obvious who's behind all the odd deaths.  In fact, the movie seems to rely on visuals and suspense to make it a good movie.  In comparison, the movie Hackers was WAY off in accurate depiction, but the storyline is enjoyable and the characters interesting and unique.In conclusion to a rambling comment, the movie is so-so.  It was compelling enough to watch it the whole way through, but it lacked the integrity and plotline of a great movie. "}{"Title":"A waste of time!","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie because it featured in some most-watchable movies list, and having seen it, I don't trust the list so much. It is one of your run-of-the-mill thriller belonging to the days when computer geeks were still a revered, and rare, species. Ryan Phillippe plays Milo Hoffman, a stereotypical computer geek, who originally wants to make a software, open-source and all, with his best buddy Teddy Chin (Yee Jee Tso), both of them being among the top 20 programmers in the world (how convenient!). But then comes Bill Gates' doppelganger Ryan Winston, offering them the benefits and perks of coming to work in N.U.R.V., the monopolistic giant of the computers industry (wink wink Microsoft!). Milo takes it, Teddy doesn't. Teddy dies. Between the name of the movie and the sequencing of the scenes, you can see the 'twist' coming from a mile away. But what really does this movie in is its portrayal of computer geeks, playing on every stereotype you can think of; they live and work in their garages (why they were doing it while the house was clearly theirs, beats me), they have no social life (you have a girlfriend? Thats rare around here), coding and generating algorithms being basically two guys prancing around the computer, hitting the keys with hand movements that would put the Jedi to shame, and yes, one of them HAS to be Asian. This apart from the obvious hate that the writers had for Microsoft; there is no way you can look at Ryan Winston and not be reminded of Bill Gates, and of course the computer that finally beats the system HAD to be a Macintosh. My advice, stay the hell away from this one and random internet lists. "},{"Title":"Its great. I wouldn't call it impossible or totally sci-fi. Its about computers and what can go wrong in big businesses.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I ain't gonna write like a whole essay on it but I watched it recently and I've got to say it is wicked. If you ain't watched it i'm not going to ruin it for you. I'm not like that. You must watch it, that's why i've given it a 10. I mean, yeah i gotta say maybe people might think its a bit not realistic but hey its a movie. Thats the whole damn point! I must admit i thought Lisa was a spy but i thought different after we found out about Alice, or so-called Alice. I really really like it. I would recommend it to EVERYONE. And if someone out there DOESN'T like it well then you've got some serious issues, but i tell ya watch it again, for the sake of it! Maybe i'm being a little bit biased because i totally fancy Milo (Ryan Philippe), but hey it's a great movie anyways! "},{"Title":"Bad.Bad.Bad!!!!!","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's too bad even for television(I watched on tv), the characters couldn't be any worse..I didn't buy any of them not even Tim Robbins who I ocnsider a great actor. Anyway, the movie it's so predictable and slow that after a while it's funny to watch. Conclusion DON'T WATCH IT!!!Also that Rachel lee something should get into acting classes as soon as possible, she can't act even if her life depended on it. "},{"Title":"Rather well made from the geek perspektive but missed the point of open source...","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's no secret that I'm against the kind of monopoly that a certain well knoen company from Redmond has, hence this film of course attracted my attention. It's rather well made when it comes to the computer scenes. Those parts feel pretty real. But when they argue for Open Source they tend to miss the real point fatally. But let's not go in to that any deeper here...The story is somewhat flawed. It's about an actual problem but unfortunately they blow it out of proportions. Of course, without the murders it whould not make much of a thrill. So I guess the story get ok after all.Yeah, I know this is a comment made from a geeks point of view but even though I sometimes see things as a cinematic, it's really not that time of the day here at the moment. (445 in the morning (or should I say evening?)) "},{"Title":"Targeted towords a specific audience","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great filmIt has a lot of computer related jokes one liners and details that the average non-geek wouldn't understand, therefore it is much more appealing to us geeks. The story is real good, and the ending is incredible. Very good cinimatography and some genius shots. Acting wasn't bad at all.BUTThe plot was revealed a little too fast. It was obvious was was going to happen.  "},{"Title":"A thoughtful and intelligent geek movie","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though this film may bear some coincidental similarities to 'The Firm', its critics generally simply misunderstand it both in its execution and intent.'Antitrust' deals with issues that are as nearly unknown to the general public as they are important in modern society.  In a way, it is a parody and extension of the Microsoft antitrust situation, and this is surely where at least some inspiration must have come from.  Tim Robbins is excellently cast as billionaire Gary Winston, and though Ryan Phillippe is a little better-looking than the average computer geek, his casting as genius hacker Milo Hoffman is entirely believable.There are obvious morals and lessons behind the storyline which are very important (and still increasingly so) in the technological age, but even more impressively, this is the only film I have seen in which it is clear the director has *listened* to his technical advisors.  The tech, setting and characterisation are all realistically portrayed, with the exception that no one ever seems to use monospace fonts when editing code.'Antitrust' incorporates many small injokes for geek audiences, and will most definitely be appreciated by people familiar with the topics it covers. Nonetheless, it is a very good movie in its own right, and any audience should be able to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"ayeeiiii","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know I've already reviewed this movie, but I just got to thinking about it again, and, you know, I just have to voice my opinion once more.More than any other movie I have ever seen, Antitrust made me feel bad.  I mean, I only saw it once, and that was a long time ago, but I still regret my life because of it.The culture portrayed in this movie is the very antithesis of what human achievement has been built on.  And I've been a part of it.If only Antitrust had never been made.... "},{"Title":"a very dull movie","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this movie was going to be watchableBoy was i ever wrong.This has been the only movie i have *ever* walked out of. This movie is so boring and dull, i'd rather watch a barney episode. * out of 10 ( i'm generous ) "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  LoL i kinda got into this film a bit maybe im a cyber geek and it knocked at my door ) ...The film was good its a interesting story to say the least, However it did drag along a little here and there, but just not enough to make it a bad thing .The concept of big brother is something that can tape into most peoples mind quite easily !!!LoL feel like becoming a pc programmer )   6.5-10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found Antitrust to be a very enjoyable film.  The acting was good for the most part, in my opinion.  I was actually surprised by some of the plot twists, and found some scenes suspenseful.  Most computer geeks should find it to be an excellent film.  8/10 "}{"Title":"AGHHHHHHHH","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've reviewed a lot of movies today (they let us drink at work on Fridays), but I just simply can't stop without hitting AntiTrust.Oh boy.I'm from Oregon, I'm a computer programmer, I almost went to work for Microsoft.  I should relate to this movie.Oh boy.The opening credits were done in HTML, in that 90's Geek is Chic vein. However, this came out in 2001, which is post-90s.  Programming is no longer mystical.  The dot-bomb is about to go off.  The Microsoft anti-trust case is old hat.  And, well, Steve Jobs sold out.  The kids-in-the-garage thing was just painful.  Painful to watch, painful to think about.  This movie made me regret my life.Now granted, there were a lot of personal things going on at the time.  I was about to quit my job (although I didn't know that yet), I was living in a basement (they call it garden-level here), and I was mired in some sordid affair that I was falling out with.  So when I see Ryan Phillippe's character with both Rachael Leigh Cook AND Claire Forlani, I just can't take it.THAT'S NOT HOW IT REALLY WORKS!!!By the time our little geniuses broadcast their source code in a music video, I had already puked. "},{"Title":"Y2K meets J. Grisham's The Firm!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First I rented this movie and watched it with some friends of mine.And oh boy I was in for a surprise. Awesome and exciting movie, somewhat related to one of my favorite flicks The Firm.  Only one problem I had with the story... Lisa Calighan (Rachael Leigh Cook) turns out to be one of the bad guys, weak! (The script would have deserved one last rewrite!) However, I liked it so much, that I bought the DVD, and have watched it twice since! "},{"Title":"Was this script the winning submission of some kind of nerd storywriting contest?","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It takes 5 minutes to dig up a website with a list of geek stereotypes and another 5 to spice it up with some hopelessly plain conspiracy sideplots and wannabe-twists - and this probably how Howard Franklin created the script.What´s it all about? The noble Jedi Knights (err, I mean the geeky kids from next door with cool baggy pants, computer wizards, Pepsi addicts, all members of the cult of the God of Open Source and his human incarnation Linus Torvalds) fight against the next incarnation of Darth Vader (Steve Ballmer, err, I mean Phil Grimes) and the evil Emperor (Bill Gates, err, oops, Gary Winston).Gary Winston tries to pull the good Milo Hoffman over to the Dark Side. He wants him to work on Synapse, a global satellite system which connects to basically every device on this planet, be it your TV, cell phone or your toilet sink. Coincidentally Milo and his geek friends are working on basically the same thing; they however want to release the whole thing as an Open Source Software (just wonder, where you get Open Source satellites and Open Source carrier rockets and all the other the stuff the common satellite owner needs to run such a thing). The gang splits up, the good guys keep working in daddy's garage while Milo joins with Gary. It all seems as if the young padawan falls to the evil forces (his brand new house, car and the latest tech stuff help a lot here) but then he discovers to what his master is really up to ...Too much sarcasm and cynicism? Not at all, because this movie wants to be taken seriously. Did the producers think it´s a cool insider joke to make such clear references to Bill Gates (his behaviour (at least in the first part of the movie), his house, the company campus, his co-founder Steve Ballmer)? Don´t get me wrong, I´m not exactly a fan of Bill´s (I do even write Open Source software myself), but I don´t think it is necessary to portray him as a devil or a murderer.Well, if you don´t know too much about computers and think Bill Gates is just some computer guy you´ve heard of once, you will get a standard teenager movie like Urban Legends or The Skulls and probably have some fun if you liked those.My vote 4/10 "},{"Title":"Phillippe, Robbins Save This One","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	Like an earth with two moons, the world in which we live has evolved toward a schizophrenic level of dual realities, one sensory based, tangible; the other a reality of the mind that can be found in the dimension we know as cyberspace.  And maintaining the latter has become big business in the former  Providing software that changes the parameters of that reality on a daily-- even hourly-- basis.  It's a big, and moreover, a binary industry, a business in which (according to this film) you are either a `one' or a `zero,' and it's therefore imperative to stay ahead of the competition at any cost.  Which is exactly the position explored by director Peter Howitt in `AntiTrust,' a thriller that puts something of a paranoid perspective on the world born of the microchip.	Based in the Pacific Northwest, N.U.R.V. (Never Underestimate Radical Vision), the empire of software magnate Gary Winston (Tim Robbins), is on the verge of achieving a quantum leap forward in the realm of global communications.  Their `Synapse' satellite system, once operational, will make global communications through any medium a reality.  All they need is one more all important piece of the puzzle to implement it, and toward that end Winston has recruited Milo Hoffman (Ryan Phillippe), a young computer genius, one of maybe twenty programmers in the world who can accomplish the task before the targeted date set by Winston to launch Synapse.	The carrot on the stick that Winston dangles in front of Milo is too tempting to refuse, so Milo abandons his plan of starting up his own company, in which he would have been partners with his best friend, Teddy (Yee Jee Tso), to accept the position-- and the challenge-- at N.U.R.V.  Very quickly, however, this apparently perfect world into which Milo has entered begins to implode on him, beginning with the tragic death of Teddy, apparently the victim of what looks to be a racially motivated hate crime.  But then something happens which causes Milo to question the truth about Teddy's murder, as well as the methods Gary Winston employs to keep N.U.R.V. at the top of the charts.  And he is determined to find the answers at any cost; whatever it takes, he will know the truth before it's over. 	With this film, Howitt succeeds in putting a fresh face on the concept of the `computer nerd,' and though overall it may be a bit to slick for it's own good, he does provide some thrills with it and manages to maintain enough tension and suspense throughout to keep it interesting.  As pure entertainment it works, but it's not one into which you want to delve too deeply; just sit back and enjoy the ride.  If you do insist on looking closely, you'll discover a plot that is something of a cut-and-paste job, into which an element is injected purely to move the story in a certain direction, and it does, but at the cost of compromising the film's credibility somewhat.  There is an `All is not what it seems' aspect to it that is fairly obvious from the outset, but Howitt fails to mine it's potential to the fullest, and it leaves you wondering how much better this would've been in the hands of a Hitchcock or Mamet (and, granted, that's pretty exclusive territory).  Howitt does well enough, but he's still playing at `Triple A' level, not quite ready for the `Show.'  What he does have going for him are the performances of his personable and very watchable stars, Robbins and Phillippe.	The character of Gary Winston is Bill Gates, roman a clef, and is well served by Robbins' portrayal of what could be called Gates' fictional evil twin.  Robbins sells the character with his natural, charismatic personality and makes the image of Winston as a leader and motivator believable.  And he adds some nice, personal touches-- his penchant for potato chips, for example-- that fleshes out the character and gives you the whole package rather than just a surface-will-suffice representation.  Though with a completely different character, Robbins has been down this road before, in `Arlington Road,' and now, in creating Winston, proves beyond any doubt his adeptness at playing to the dark side and making it real.	Phillippe, too, gives an engaging performance as Milo, lending an air of introspection to his character that really brings him to life.  It's an earnest portrayal and very well presented.  Phillippe has a genuine quality that makes him stand out, even as he did as part of the ensemble cast of `Playing By Heart,' in 1998, in which he shared the screen with the likes of Sean Connery, Angelina Jolie, Dennis Quaid and Ellen Burstyn.  His performance here, in fact-- along with Robbins-- is a big part of what makes this film so agreeable.  He's a fine young actor who has already demonstrated he has what it takes to carry a film on his own, and he's definitely one to keep an eye on as his career develops.	As Alice, the woman in Milo's life, Claire Forlani looks elegant and has an ingratiating quality that draws the eye to her, and her character, though less than detailed, is believable.  Rachael Leigh Cook, on the other hand, is attractive, but her character, Lisa, lacks definition, and what you get is something of a `Cliff's Notes' version of who she is.  With both characters, Howitt seems to have had trouble getting a handle on how best to present them, especially Cook, who ultimately serves as little more than window dressing.	The supporting cast includes Douglas McFerran (Bob), Richard Roundtree (Barton), Tygh Runyan (Banks) and Tyler Labine (doing a Jack Black take on his character, Redmond).  `AntiTrust' may not equal the paranoia induced by `Enemy of the State,' but it does raise some questions about where technology is taking us, and more importantly, who is in the driver's seat.  It's a cautionary tale, good for some thrills; but again, just don't look too deep.  6/10. "},{"Title":"No reality TV here","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As someone in the technology industry I found this movie to be fake at best. First, I hate it when people make tech movies and think that if they throw in a couple real terms people will buy into their reality.  I think this movie was mildly entertaining, in a completely unrealistic sort of way.  I also have to say that if the producers of this movie really think that open sourcing code is the way it was meant to be, they lets see them put their movie online for free downloads huh?  I think they'd want their royalties, although if you are a tech company and try to develop proprietary code you're an evil capitalist. "},{"Title":"Naive nerdy writing","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was interesting to see how accurate the writing was on the geek buzz words, yet very naive on the corporate world.  The Justice Department would catch more of the big corp giants if they did such naive things to win.  The real corporate world is much more subtle and interesting, yet every bit as sinister.  I seriously doubt ANY corp would actually kill someone directly; even the mod is more indirect these days.  In the real world, they do kill people with nicotine, pollution, additives, poisons, etc.  This movie must have been developed by some garage geeks, I think, and the studios didn't know the difference.  They just wanted something to capitalize on the Microsoft antitrust case in the news. "},{"Title":"Anyone thirsty for Pepsi?","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fairly average movie, takes plots from a couple of others. Interesting how they made Tim look like Bill Gates but the most annoying thing was the pepsi plugs. How much money did pepsi shell out in this movie for advertising. I mean every single shot that calls for someone to drink something, it always happens to be pepsi. "},{"Title":"Great flick if you need to practice rolling your eyes","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I lost count of the number of times I said Yeah, right through this movie. Sometimes it's OK to stretch believability, but Antitrust takes it to the point where you loose focus of the story.Even on the most basic levels this movie is bad; there is no character development. Suspense is created by 'the-guard-almost-caught-him' moments. The acting, the dialog, the music - bad, bad, bad.And don't get me started on the technology. Hmmm, you can take over a satellite by connecting via it's IP address?? Cool!! I can get full motion, full color video on my Handspring??! Cool!! There's not even any redeeming gratuitous nudity. So, just remember kids, the point of this movie is that information was meant to be free. Remember that while your downloading this turkey from your favorite file sharing network. "},{"Title":"The true criminals is the director.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust could have been a great vehicle for Rachael Leigh Cook, but the director cut out her best scenes. In the scenes that she are in, she is just a zombie. She is involved in a sub-plot that is simular to a sub-plot in Get Carter, but she handles the sub-plot better in Get Carter.(I blame the director) The director's homage to Hitchcock was corny. (It's the scene were Ryan Philippe's charactor realizes he may not be able to trust Tim Robbin's charactor, at least I think it's a homage to Hitchcock. The DVD shows the scenes that were cut out. I think the director should have trust his instincts and not listen to the test audiences. "},{"Title":"Hackers 2","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great. I would recommend it to everyone who has ever programmed. This is what hackers 2 should have been.Anyway this movie is great, actually the first really big underground computer movie. "}{"Title":"Better Then I Expected!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's just say AntiTrust is definitely not just a 'computer/sci-fi' film. It's a great thriller with loads of good twists, throughout the film. Good performances from everyone especially Ryan Phillippe, Rachael Leigh Cook, Claire Forlani and Tim Robbins. I give AntiTrust a 6-7/10 "},{"Title":"Yes yes yes yes!","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Facts 1. Yes, I am a geek. 2. Yes, this film will appeal to other geeks - but only authentic ones that actually get excited about geeky things. Not ones that waste time in chat rooms. 3. Yes I did laugh out loud at the whole satellite IP address thing (and no subnet masking!!). 4. Yes I did groan out loud at the repetitive adverts for Pepsi. 5. Yes I did spot the blatant suggestion about Sun being 'the good guys'.If you have the faintest idea of what I am talking about, go see the film. You will enjoy it. If not, then wait for the Matrix 2. "},{"Title":"Mediocre thriller","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A mediocre thriller with Ryan Phillipe completely unconvincing as a computer genius who is recruited by Tim Robbins (doing his best Bill Gates imitation) to help with the launch of a new computer operating system. Claire Forlani and Rachel Leigh Cook also appear as the women whose allegiances change more due to plot necessities than logical character development. A misfire. GRADE D  "},{"Title":"Wonder how accurate...?","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just got back from seeing AntiTrust, and I must say that I really enjoyed this film.  Considering that a certain computer giant was started by stealing information from another, it makes me wonder how much of this film is an accurate portrayal of real events.It's too bad that critics unfairly tore this movie apart, because it's a well directed and well acted suspense film with a satisfying payoff and a few twists I didn't see coming (and granted, a few that I did).  While not original in plot (think The Firm), AntiTrust doesn't disappoint.MGM and the film makers have crafted a very good paranoia flick that deserves a bigger audience than it's getting.  The only upside to the small box office and quick theatrical run...I'll be able to buy the DVD soonerMy score for AntiTrust- A "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I work in the Industry and thus can't even begin to list all the whacked out plot holes in this attempt at a movie.But then it hit me are all films like this?  And are those audiences not closely connected with whatever subject is being depicted just to ignorant of that subject to see where the film falls short?  In other words, would this film fool a non-techie?First of all, I watched the movie in Redmond, WA, home of the obvious inspiration for the Evil Corporation in the film.  So the laughing was pretty loud at my showing.But were NASA types in Houston guffawing at Apollo 13?  Did violinists snort and roll their eyes while watching Music of the Heart?  Did Brown & Williamson employees get pissed off watching The Insider?  Oh wait, don't answer that one....This film makes The Net look like Shakespeare.  And at least that film had an appealing leading lady in Bullock!Oh yeah, and you can't pump your own gas in Oregon. "},{"Title":"Bill Gates wannabe, but still a good flick.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I saw this the night it was released but wasn't too excited about it. I wanted to see Traffic, but no one else did, so I settled.  I got my medium popcorn and Cherry Coke, sat down in my front row center seat and got ready.Well, to my surprise, it was actually quite good.  There was no retarded made up computer graphics, and everything looked like it should.  The opening credits were in some form of HTML, but it looked okay nonetheless. It was well written, and minimal plotholes.  The characters were great, and you didn't really know who was good or bad until the end.  It was almost perfect.  But, like I said, it would've been ruined if they had used fake graphics and stuff, that look like cartoons.  Like the ones used in Sixteen Candles..? "},{"Title":"AntiCreative","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's see.No one in the theatre laughed. No one really empathised with Ryan Phillipe. And Tim Robbins is no Bill Gates.There are a lot of reasons Antitrust was mediocre Yet, I do go in with an open mind, so here's the recap.To begin, the premise did seem intriguing. It reminded me of the ripped from the headlines stories they parlay on Law and Order. Tim Robbins is this software mogul who steals code from others and turns it into an innovation. In the process, he's been under watch by the Justice Department, a la Bill Gates and their anti-democratic practices. He's trying to create a global communication network called Synapse, which will string together all sorts of information devices. He needs the aid of Ryan Phillipe, a recent com-sci grad from Stanford.Needless to say Robbins is nothing short of Satan himself and Phillipe crusades to end his tyranny. Now see, I don't really have a problem with this. There are no truly innovative plot lines. Even something as fantastic as Being John Malkovich is simply an old philosopher's fancy about consciousness. However, there is always room for perspective and unique presentation that livens a film. Antitrust has none of that. Everything is banal and boring, leaving us neither amused nor enlightened. While the plot may zag a bit, its attempts at cleverness are little more than cheap trickery. In fact, even when we are thrown for a loop it's not done in a logical fashion.And forget about an aesthetically pleasing look. The film has about one shot that seemed to have art or intellect behind it, while the rest relies on a cheapened computer motif.The one redeemable quality for those who weren't there because they thought it was Cruel Intentions 2 might have seen the computer jargon. I, an aspiring cyber-dweeb, revealed in buzzwords like protocol, firewall, shells, and giggled with nerdy delight at the sight of a Linux gooie.I hate to be so caustic, but when a movie like this is manufactured there is little apology on the producers part. And thus little regret on mine.Yours in ambivalence, SkS  "},{"Title":"The best thriller ever made!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust is a great action packed thrill ride from start to finish. From the explosions to the murders to the James Bond-es feeling it is a all around great movie so if you are looking for some fun this is the movie for you! **Favourite quote from the movie-In the real-world your F**ked up. "},{"Title":"Very Weak","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The basic premise of this story isn't bad. High tech company squeezing the little guys for information and then eliminating them to avoid the competition. Smacks of real life if you ask me. Unfortunately, aside from veteran Tim Robbins, the acting is some of the weakest I have seen in a long time. Even Mr. Robbins seems to struggle sometimes coping with the fact that he's a vicious, no holds barred, killer of a boss. The lead actor, (Ryan Phillippe) who has only been in thriller/B movies up to this point, would be better on something like the 80's movie Hardbodies. I hate when reviews give too much info about the movie and spoil the plot. All I can say is that you'd be much better off waiting for this one to hit the movie channels on cable or Dish. Don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"review of antitrust","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One more of extremely unprofessional movies about computer programmers.Looks authors of that movie don't know real specific of programmers world.20 top programmers in the world, program which have own satellites (for what?), program which using satellite freq., somebody kill somebody to steal the codes (why?) and much more of stupid moments at this movie.Peoples who not programmers not will see something awful at that movie, because not professionals on this. But peoples will see not real things.Programmers will find that movie odd and awful - because lots of moments inside movie is not RELATED real life (why movie not scifi in this case?). "}{"Title":"An Enjoyable and well made thriller based on software industry","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have this movie on DVD. In a loose way it reminds me of The Firm. When I first began to watch it a few months ago I got bored, Then my son highly recommended it. I found that it is a thriller that needs a great deal of concentration to appreciate. As an avid viewer of movies on DVD I frequently pause such films and may take several days to watch even one. However, Anti-Trust requires a full uninterrupted sitting to enjoy. I think this film merits an Oscar. The cinematography is superb, the acting is very good and well casted while the musical background is well chosen.The plot is as good as any Sherlock Holmes tale. The paranoia is there throughout and there are lots of twists (probably some if not all are predictable). The clues are given here and there in the early part of the film. I would highly recommend this film but not to any rare birds that are unfamiliar with even basic computing, or don't know much about Bill Gates and Microsoft. "},{"Title":"Look mom! I made a movie all by myself!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I sort of accidentally ended up watching this movie. I'm still not sure if I regret it or not. I felt like I was watching the film made by that group of film school students that didn't quite make the cut. It plays up every Hollywood cliché imaginable, all the while flogging us with the 'corporations are the ultimate evil' message. Subtlety this movie does not know. As far as that goes, it even manages to provide it's own spoilers.The story appears to be a computer nerd's fantasy world come true. The lead character is an attractive teenage boy with a girlfriend, yet is a programming genius and apparent hacker (I think), among many other nerd-fantasy-come-true elements that you'll have to see for yourself.As well, I should've known it would be a z-movie when I saw Ned Bellamy... he tends to be a good tip-off.Can't recommend this one, I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"A rework of The Net but Ryan Phillipe is no Sandra Bullock","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The evil boss of a vast computer empire (who happens to look justlike Bill Gates) enlists the services of a teenage super-techie MiloHoffman (Ryan Phillippe) to help him in his final step towardsworld domination. But Milo is not so much of a nerd that he wouldfail to notice the underhand things going on. Aside from the opening premise, this is a techno conspiracythriller pretty much along the lines of The Net, including the letthe whole world know ending. But Phillipe's character doesn'thave the charisma that Sandra Bullock did in her film.It's enjoyable enough but fails to live up to its potential. We aregiven tantalising glimpses of back-stories that might explain whysome of the minor characters go along with the conspiracy.Unfortunately, these come mainly from computer screen read-outs(not the most inspiring way of providing exposition) and then getvirtually ignored anyway. Most of the twists are signalled well inadvance and some of the dialogue is extremely clumsy. I'm still trying to work out what purpose Rachel Leigh Cook'scharacter served. Despite second billing, she does little more thanmake an occasional rabbit-in-the headlights face. Maybe herdecent scenes ended up on the cutting-room floor.The film really hits its stride towards the end when it switches to astraightforward race against time.  Not a great movie butreasonable enough light entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, retread garbage. Rename it Anti-Original","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Antitrust falls right into that category of films that aspire to make some great point while being uplifting yet falls completely flat. I don't hate the film, but it is missing key elements, such as suspense. There have been other attempts to make an engaging film about computers, such as Hackers and The Net. They all fall short. The improbable ending of both The Net and Antirust seem to be nearly identical. These movie endings suffer from one huge error in perception People in the PC business having this over-indulgent self ego that assumes the general population lives it's life waiting to hear the latest news about PC's and software. I have worked for many companies and industries, and they all seem to suffer from an expanded view of their own self-importance, as does this film.The way they introduced plot lines was pathetic. Showing Milo, who is deathly allergic to Sesame Seeds, almost ingest one from a restaurant breadbasket crossed the line of stupidity. Only his 'girlfriend' prevented him from sure death. This makes one wonder how Milo could have survived as long as he did, braving the perils of Big Mac buns and Sesame Seed breadsticks, as they cloak themselves as, well.... Sesame Seed breadsticks and Big Mac buns.Antitrust also doesn't provide much suspense. The patterned and predictable plot twists are easily figured out long before they are revealed (come on, was anyone REALLY stunned when Yee Jee Tso was killed?), thereby destroying any real shock value. And here again we have yet another film/story where at the end, the bad guys are chasing the good guys to 'get the disk'. We need to have a moratorium on this Simple Simon plot line for about 20 years. Still, I pressed on. Maybe the ending would be the payoff, but no. The completely ridiculous ending where we have the head of company security, another supposed evil guy, turn around and be the good guy that enables Milo to bring down N.U.R.V CEO Gary Winston was laughable. And of course, the news coverage of the arrest of Gary Winston is more fevered than when Hinckley or Oswald was brought into custody. Gary Winston, played by Tim Robbins, is a cardboard cutout of the same character Robbins played in Arlington Road. But that fits perfectly here in Antitrust, which should be called 'Anticlimactic' or 'Anti-Original'.In the years to come, this film will likely be banished, to be shown only on your local third rate UHF channel. "},{"Title":"Trust me, it's bad","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing the trailer of this film in the cinema, i thought that it was an original concept for a thriller, setting it in the competitive world of computer companies. The all star cast was another message that this film would probably be good. But when i didn't go to watch it in it's first week of release then it disappeared by week 2 i feared something was a miss. Patiently i waited for it's DVD release, then bought it rushing home for an enjoyable evening's viewing. The anticipation on the way home was far better than the film. For a start the direction is appalling. There's no thought gone into it at all and the director just makes up a part for himself, so he can appear in the film. I wouldn't be rushing out to employ him in the future. Secondly the lead role is completely miscast as Ryan Phillipe. Phillipe normally the cool character as in Cruel Intentions and Way of the Gun but in this he's supposed to be a bumbling hero which he attempts to portray by slipping when he's running and having geeky friends, but he just doesn't look right. The female stars, Rachel Leigh Cook and Clare Forlani don't feature enough but when they do neither of the performances are close to their bests. The only highlight of the film is Tim Robbins in a role that could have been made for him and it's his fiery temper and mysterious ways that drag the film along. The final point is that this film is another one which fills the trailer with scenes you don't see in the film and instead feature only in the deleted scenes section of the DVD. Causing even more disappointment as although some of these scenes are crude they do fill in important gaps in the story. "},{"Title":"Read the older comments","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read some of the comments before seeing the movie and after seeing the movie I just had to comment. So I reviewed the comments again and I was surprised by all the good comments. Then I got down to some less recent comments that are consistent with my opinions. I think this movie got so many negative comments that word got out that it needed to be defended. I disagree with the defense.I think the movie is being defended by Open Source enthusiasts who seem to get emotional about Open Source and are therefore not realistic. I think that understanding that Open Source enthusiasts are often overly enthusiastic is important for understanding the movie. The Open Source enthusiasts often make inaccurate comments in defense of Open Source. I am a programmer also, and I even have a web site in which I share a little bit of source code with the public. So I understand the value of sharing with the world, yet I think the Open Source enthusiasts are too extreme.Many of the comments compare the bad guy in this movie to Bill Gates. That is not an accurate comparison; it is instead an expression of their feelings about Bill Gates.This movie, as is typical of thousands of movies, stretches reality beyond what would ever happen in real life.  "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 - that is - for the people that actually understood the movie","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to volunteer that I am so fed up with all these critics here giving low ratings and/or putting down brilliant movies like this.People who actually do program, might have noticed that Gary and Milo look at new stolen code. (in C) Gary comments great compression, isn't it ?. Huh, after looking at a C program performing advanced compression ? Don't think so !Q  Did it ruin the movie for me ? A  No, not at all.Q  Did that bother all these critics here ? A  No, because they are ignorant.These people should think about about a movie like The Matrix. Quote  Ignorance is bliss Email me the day you FULLY understand this quote.One more comment for the negative critics  The movie's theme centers around compression techniques.Many fundamentals of compression are based on HUFFMAN coding. Milo's surname  HOFMANNCoincidence ? I don't think so. I think that people that don't understand a movie do not automatically acquire the right to rate it badly.............KrisSo the movie has Pepsi splash in it, so what ? Does the movie therefore deserve bad ratings ? I disagree. "},{"Title":"Free software is a matter of liberty, not price. To understand the concept, you should think of free as in free speech, not as in free beer.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Free software is a matter of liberty, not price. To understand the concept, you should think of free as in free speech, not as in free beer.R.S. "},{"Title":"Horrible waste of time - spoilers here","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Five minutes into this movie you realize that you have seen it all before. It is BOILER ROOM. It is THE FIRM. And it is THE DEVILS ADVOCATE. And there are NO new elements here. Except for the all-to-clear Bill Gates-allegory. Conpsiracies are always good stuff for movie-making, but why does it have to be so extreme ? Boiler room is a good movie, because it - for a while at least - seems realistic. In Antitrust everything is wrong. How realistic is it for example that your boss pay an impostor to be your girlfriend in order to make you work harder and control you ? I'd give it 1, but the soundtrack is OK, so 2/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller, which has been greatly underrated.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The makers of 'Antitrust' have been very unlucky. With the right handling, this could easily have been a huge hit. But the title (while clever if you know the film) makes it sound like some tricky art movie. No wonder therefore its US box office was modest. In fact it is a very well-acted and well-written conspiracy thriller, which imagines a wicked version of Microsoft (and no I have no idea if Microsoft is actually like this--I hope not). It is in some ways a far better film than 'The Firm', which in certain respects it resembles. It is full of twists and its ending works very hard to cheat the obvious expectations. Corporations would have hated the message of this film and that may well be one reason (other than the title) it was  buried. But it will undoubtedly mark an era and establish a cult reputation. One for history. "}{"Title":"Outstanding film. One of a kind.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I reluctantly watched Antitrust after my brother bugged me to. Then i realised that it was everything he had told me it was. Brilliant storyline. Good acting and the only movie of its type. Well done. The actors and creators should be congratulated.  "},{"Title":"Skip it unless you're from SV","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a total waste of time.  It's a thinly veiled Silicon Valleyesque interpretation of Bill Gates and Microsoft that could only appeal to Gates haters and Linux lovers circa 1998.  Stupid, stupid plot, horrible acting, laughable dialog, predictable situations, stereotype characters. Need I go on?  This movie was made for Sun company meetings and Oracle campus recruitment.  Not enjoyable on any level.  The main character is deathly allergic to sesame seeds - if that gives you any idea of how far credulity is stretched in this non-thriller. "},{"Title":"Not a really bad movie, but disappointing","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected a lot more from this movie, especially with a highly respected actor (Tim Robbins) starring as one of the main characters (Gary Winston).The geeky stuff, like the hacking of the satellites, (typing in an IP address wont give you access to a computer) the code in the intro (HTML code, come on, thats not going to impress the geeks) and a lot of other small things simply dont work, and i hate to say, but i saw the conspiracy coming from a mile away...Its not all that bad though, i enjoyed the funny references to microsoft and.NET, but i doubt it will still be enjoyable in, say 2 years. "},{"Title":"A good Hollywood, Holiday Weekend thriller!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a shame this thriller did so poorly at the box office this weekend! Apparently, most of its target audience went to see Save the Last Dance and all the Oscar Contenders out there, not counting the other competition from the other new releases over this Holiday weekend in the USA......This is decidedly a smarter, hipper, slicker movie than the one ANTITRUST star Ryan Philippe opened this same weekend last year - VARSITY BLUES, which broke Box Office Records. Don't let the whim of teenage girls, reporetedly 83% of the audience of this weekend's No. 1 Save the Last Dance dictate your choice in movies during the week or next weekend. This is a very entertaining and timely film, one for those searching the escapism, Hollywood movies usually provide..... Give it a chance if you like a good thriller dealing with timely issues, in an expensive, slick production, full of Hollywood stars, good actors and an interesting plot. "},{"Title":"Tripe.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust was, to put it kindly, a difficult film to watch.  I couldn't decide if it was a two hour long advertisement for Thinkgeek & Pepsi or an attempt at explaining the conflict between The Eccentric Yet Friendly Opensource Advocates (tm) and the Evil Code-stealing Corporate Giants (tm). People unfamiliar with the computer industry will be turned off by the use of esoteric terms, while those who *are* familiar with it will twitch at the glaring errors and lack of consistency.  (Apparently the letter o has been introduced to hex without anyone else's knowledge and you will be automatically informed that your code is complete and error-free the moment your fingers stop typing, without that pesky step of compiling.)The stereotypes were probably what most did this film in - we have the Obsessive, Unscrupulous CEO -- the words 'Bill Gates' might as well have been whispered backwards on the audio track every time he spoke -- and then we have the Young Ambitious Geeks Who Just Want To Get Along.  There was very little character development and not enough action to liven up the plot when it began to drag.  AntiTrust will probably appeal to you if you don't mind silly (and offensive) stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Okay, for a nerd-esq movie, it's pretty good.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this world of deceit and deception it's hard to find people playing for the good guys.  Finally a movie that plays for the good guys, the human race.  Just when you think one thing this movie has you seeing it in a different way.  Such twists and turns are needed in movies to keep us interested and this movie definitely has them.  I suggest you see it...  it's not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie my friends and I will be laughing about for months. Unfortunately, it's not a comedy.  From the start the dialog only serves as feeder for jeers from the crowd (and the one I saw it with was ready to service). I was shocked that Tim Robbins, someone I always considered smart and edgy in his script selection, would appear in this drivel.  Ryan Phillippe and Racheal Lee Cook do not look like computer geeks, even though the fact that they are is shoved down our throats at least three dozen times.  And Clare Forlani should be playing Phillipe's older sister or teacher or Tim Robbins' trophy wife, not her role as Phillipe's girlfriend. There's a good sequence about halfway through with little speaking and lots of creeping around and spying.  However that only lasts about twenty minutes and then its back to windy melodramatic speeches and poor acting. And then... The dumbest climax ever!  Without giving too much away lets just say Tim Robbins develops the most convenient (and briefest) case of clairvoyance in film history.  Not to mention the entire theatre was laughing. Rent Sneakers and save some money.  "},{"Title":"Truly Terrible","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why was this stinker ever released in theatres? At best its a TV movie or a direct to DVD release. The plot is insulting and the acting is brutal. The main character only needs to hear a few key words, see an old football picture, stare at a giant mouse, and wonder why his boss was so mean to him one day to figure out exactly what is going on. Pathetic. You never see this kid do any kind of work or understand his credentials other than people (including himself) constantly calling him a genius. The plot twists were predictable, the technology/concepts were overused, and above all the storyline was ridiculous. Avoid this piece of crap at all costs. "},{"Title":"Quick! Hit DELETE!!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Antitrust is sophomoric hokum about a very Microsoft-like company run by a very Bill Gates-like guy who is going to take over the world...the world of communications, that is....and hires a young genius/geek/programmer who is morbidly allergic to sesame seeds and...blaa, blaa. Same old stuff in a new wrapper which is not worth the time. (D-) "},{"Title":"Open-source propaganda (with total bias to open-source)","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Apparently, this movie is written by some wannabe computer-crime writer and/or director. This movie got the most simple and predictable plot of thriller movies. Made for people with no computer knowledge (thus cannot judge what's right from wrong) and people who has extreme prejudice against corporate software giants (such as Microsoft). When you rule out the amateur technical details contained in this movie, what you get is...it's not even worth explaining here. It is totally crap.If you want some real technical thriller, watch something like Enemy of the State, Thirteenth Floor, Jake 2.0 or The Matrix. This movie is as bad as Sword Fish.1/10 (avoid at all costs or watch it only so you can review it) "}{"Title":"Bane of the 90's","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Teen flicks they call them. I turned 13 in the 90's, and I inevitably phased out of my teens in the 00's.  So these films are aimed at me, right? Wrong.  I think every 'slasher-flick', 'road movie' and all other patronising stereotype film-brands are awful, and an insult to the intelligence of me and a good deal of my friends.  This is a classic example.  Antitrust really doesn't know who it's aiming itself at, which is why it comes across as half-baked and anodyne.  Attempting to marry a conspiracy thriller with an easy to swallow film, makes for a format that ultimately pleases no-one. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a snob. Hollywood is in the industry of entertainment, and if turning out safe films with good-looking actors makes them money, fair enough. If Hollywood went bust, arthouse films wouldn't even bother. But pick a lane, Goddamnit! Putting pretty boy Ryan Phillippe in the lead is an obvious money grabber, but then trying to make witty observations of the software market will go right over the head of the average viewer. Saying that, the technical details of this film are moderately accurate, unlike (cough,cough) Swordfish. My girlfriend lent me the DVD, and she bought it, and I quote, Because it's got Ryan Phillippe in, so I don't care. Eye-candy at best, I only bothered watching it because of Tim Robbins. A rent paying film, as some actors might say. "},{"Title":"Satisfying info tech thriller","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ryan Phillipe and Claire Forlani walk away with this geeky thriller, which has quite a bit to say about computer moguls and the information technology industry.Most of the promotion for this film was based around our antagonist Tim Robbins, and the resemblance of his character, Gary Winston, including look and mannerisms, to Micro Soft founder Bill Gates. But this is not really the crux of the film.Far more interesting, apart from leaps to the absurd made for plot purposes, is the film's depiction of the information industry, the attempt to monopolize the sector, and captures some of the particularly heinous accusations against both Microsoft and Apple. It even foreshadows Steve Jobs Apple domination being based around uniform compatibility of hardware and software.The film tells the story of computer nerd Milo, who works out of his garage with some geeky friends before doing the unthinkable, selling his soul to Winston to work at his high tech computer lab. Milo has a hot girlfriend, Alice (Forlani), and has She's All That's Rachel Leigh Cook eyeing him off at work. But Winston seems to be constantly handing Milo pre written codes. Where are these coming from? Why does Winston need him if he's working this stuff out at home? Then one day Winston hands Milo a code he recognizes as belonging to his friend, who was murdered earlier in the week, and Milo realizes he is in a life or death struggle with a very dangerous man. A cat and mouse game ensues, with an immensely satisfying conclusion.The cast are all excellent, with Cook the closest to a weak link ( why do people think that when Cook wears glasses she looks nerdy?). Phillipe and Robbins are both excellent, and their scenes together are well worth the price of viewing. The dialogue at times dissolves into technobabble, but it usually (with two notable exceptions) manages to be plausible technobabble.AntiTrust- a satisfying geeky thriller with good performances and a tight enough script to keep you invested. Also, if you see the deleted scenes, you'll realize just how much better this film is due to smart production decisions. "},{"Title":"Happening movie till it ends","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The computer software giant firm spies illegally and murders even on the top programmers of the world who works with the open source policy Human Knowledge is for the world. Two friends Milo and Teddy gets offers in the top software company. When Milo accepts the offer considering the benefits Teddy has his open source policy front of the offer and rejects it. Milo enters the organization and in the while when Teddy gets murdered back in his place. Teddy gets suspicious of the firm and what he learns after that and how he breaks the hurdles with diplomacy and opens up the truth to the world is the remaining movie. This movie contains details that comes from the in depth ground work behind. The dialogues are really good and sharp in many places. The movie has many twists and turns but one deficiency in that is it's much predictable after some point of time. For example the character Alice true face was really interesting but when it comes to Lisa it becomes predictable. If there was some more attention given for these in the script it would have been a excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Kids -- Don't Sell Out.","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Milo Hoffman belongs to a handful of computer wizards, recently graduated from Stanford. Boy, is he smart. And the group of youngsters in their garage are happy, proud, and independent. But Milo is called up to the offices and home of Gary Winston, played by Tim Robbins. Winston is obviously a Bill Gates figure. He even looks a little like him. And he's a genius at innovation, marketing, and quashing the competition.Well, Hoffman is gathered up in the sure-enwinding arms of cool-enfolding Death, as represented by the fake idealism, quietly expansive personality, and enormous wealth of Winston. Hoffman parts with his friends in the garage and takes his girl friend to live with him in a finely appointed home.His poor friends, in their ripped jeans and trainers, gradually lose touch except for Teddy Chin, a nice Chinese kid. But their infrequent conversations are limited because they are now adversaries in the world of business. These two, who had worked together happily, are now reduced to shading their accomplishments from one another.Not that it matters much because, when Chin announces he's found some kind of arcane technological breakthrough, he's promptly and brutally murdered. Hoffman, in his grief, is consoled by two women -- his pur-sang girl friend (Cook) and the sexy mole sent to keep an eye on him by Winston. The sexy mole is Claire Forlani. I've given her a lot of thought and decided that her exquisitely Saurian features and flawless figure are such that she can come and spy on me anytime she wants.In one of his last conversations, old friend Teddy Chin told someone that his breakthrough, of great commercial value, was in discovering that the problem was not in the staff but in the band -- or the other way around, I forget. It's all part of a worldwide communications scheme being developed by Winston, called Synapse or Sinovia or Synchronomia or something. I forget that too. It doesn't matter. Hoffman hears from a friend about Teddy's discovery. Later, Winston calls him aside and informs him that the problem with the Dodecahedral Myoneural Plate lies not in the staff but in the band -- Chin's exact words! Uh-oh.If you enjoyed The Firm with Tom Cruise as the dupe and Daryl Hannah as the company mole, you should enjoy this movie because the plot is very similar indeed, although of course computers are sexier than the law. I mean, after all, you can find Paris Hilton performing tricks on the internet. Can you find that in a stuffy book like Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England? No. No, you cannot.Bill Gates isn't really an evil guy, of course, but he's a fascinating one. He's the richest man in America, his income amounting to something more than $150 per second. That's a lot of money. It means that if, for instance, he was walking into his office and saw a one hundred dollar bill lying on the floor it wouldn't be worth his time to stoop down and pick it up.I think I may have nodded out towards the climax of this moral tale because I can't remember that, either. My intermediate term memory may be going. Maybe I spend too much time on the computer. I've had adumbrations of carpal tunnel syndrome lately too. There goes my left pinky now. "},{"Title":"Original thriller with a touch of realism","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watched the movie yesterday on TV (third time I saw it. First two times I didn't see the whole movie).I didn't give a 10/10 because there were still some issues.The lead actor, for example, just doesn't looks and acts like a geek. They didn't have to cast a guy with glasses and suspenders, but a guy who looks less like he fell off the catwalk. Sometimes the dialog isn't written very well and doesn't sound natural. This makes the actors sound really bad. Tim Robbins was great in the Shawshank Redemption, but in this movie some his lines make him sound like he's a villain in a superhero movie.But it wasn't all bad (else I wouldn't have given it 8/10).The technical stuff was done a little more realistic than most movies. Although some things were still done like in the movies, because it's more exciting to hear someone say You have to create the code for user interface to generate the movie! than Could you save the movie as an AVI file?. And copying a CD can be done in 20 seconds, because watching someone copying a CD for 10 minutes makes boring movie experience.I also liked the subject of the movie open-source software. I am not against companies like Microsoft or Apple that make money with software. But I do like the idea of making people aware of open-source software, so that they can decide what they want to use.It's not the best thriller around, but more original than the cop-chasing-serial-killer-plot. If you just look at it as a movie and not as an attack on Microsoft or propaganda for open-source, it's a very good thriller that made me get behind the computer to code whole night long P "},{"Title":"Trust Antitrust only so far!","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What a shame. What starts out as an exciting, suspenseful nerd-fest with basic but clever twists and turns at every opportunity crashes and burns in the last fifteen minutes.The acting is consummate, the direction relatively masterful, the script competent even though the dialogue is not always top notch. So what happened.It was almost like everyone originally involved in the making of this film suddenly up and left and an incompetent propaganda oriented crew took over in order to MAKE THEIR MESSAGE MORE CLEAR.What a shame to see so much good work go down the toilet so quickly. But it's still worth watching for the bulk of the film and then I suggest you just have a laugh at the stupid stupid ending. Thus the five stars out of ten.I know, maybe they thought the film's main shoot was over, the wrap party was already in full swing, someone had brought a bong and everyone was high as a kite when suddenly someone remembered *Oh my God! We've still got the ending to shoot!*And there we have it... This movie! "},{"Title":"A Question Nobody Asks","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Good story, good acting, implausible ending.....overall, it has some moments. BUT.....I have a question that probably no one has addressed. It's this. These young people are supposed to be of genius mentality, right ?? Then why is it that all of the music surrounding them and the film is rock and roll, the most elementary form of music known to man. Albert Einstein listened to Bach and Mozart. Does this mean that in todays world genius is only limited to one area and when it comes to the arts we're back in pre school. It would seem if they were all that brilliant they'd be listening to other geniuses....Stravinsky, Bartok, Gershwin, Charlie Parker. Does anyone have the answer to this.?? "},{"Title":"Anti-Microsoft","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, I have Windows XP on my computer. So what? For the uninformed, there's a common held belief in geekdom that Microsoft == bad, that Bill Gates and his evil, evil products are ruining the world and that the only way he got rich was by stepping on the little guys (which I guess it partly true...but besides). So, Anti-Trust is essentially a geeks wet dream single handedly take down the largest software company in the world while getting the girl (in so many words).Problem is, the film is just that fantasy. I mean sure, it's a movie, but if the fictional N.U.R.V. was anything like the real Microsoft then they would deny everything, cover the tracks and scream, HOAX! from the rooftops. And they'd be cleared. Easy. I mean, the film sets you up to believe that N.U.R.V. and Gary Bill Gates Winston (Robbins) are virtually untouchable. They cover their tracks, they have moles everywhere, even in the Department of Justice. Yet one nerd brings them down. They made no contingency plans? I would give the film 6 stars for the first half. But I only give it a 4 for the second half. Because, let's face it, the end is PERFECT.Milo (Phillipe) even says, This is the real world, not a game! at the end. He should have added, Because in the real world, the little guys always triumph over the evil corporations! He he, sure kid. Keep dreaming. The ending was terribly contrived, and Robbins repeated, GARGH! WHO TOLD YOU? WHO TOLD YOU?!?! GARGH! MY PLANS ARE RUINED! RUINED!!!! spaz attacks really started to pain me at the end. This could have been a good film, but the ending lets it down. What a shame......one last thing. 'PEPSI' must have had a Hell of a marketing deal with this movie P. "},{"Title":"Human Knowledge Belongs to the World","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tim Robbins must've been attracted to this project by the aroma of anti-corporate-hegemony / subvert-the-dominant-paradigm. Ah, but underneath the power-corrupts message (how many hyphenated terms can I use ?), the message, as well as the last line of the movie, is, Human knowledge belongs to the world ! (cue triumphant music, freeze-frame on fresh-faced grinning rebel heroes basking in paparazzi approbation). And fake news reporters wrap up the story lines. That's convenient. Seriously. It really is a great convenience - I'm not griping.I mean, the plot twists and tense thriller moments are actually paced well - not that they're any surprise, but nice tight editing. The script is weak (example line When you kill people, they DIE.)It's always a challenge to have tense thriller moments comprised of people typing on laptops, staring at a screen with pained expressions and saying*Click, click* There...  *click, click, wait for 'Loading' bar* C'mon, C'MON !  Get me those IP addresses ! But... JUST DO IT !So the villain, a handsome Bill Gates with hired goons, is foiled when every worldwide broadcast is interrupted with incriminating video of him declaring, The people of this town are morons ! I will get no comeuppance !, and then Victoria Jackson embraces Weird Al and Michael Richards celebrates and... oh, wait, that's UHF. Or was it Dabney Coleman ? I seem to recall some movie where Dabney Coleman was the bad guy and he got broadcast saying nasty things. No, wait, it was that Eddie Murphy movie, and it was that senator, and somehow Joe Don Baker was involved... Well, anyway, this movie goes all-out with this well-worn device, using all the prerequisite reaction shots passers-by on a sidewalk stopping to watch a shop window TV - cut to mom and pop in their rocking chairs, sitting by the old B&W with the 6 inch screen - cut to the crowded barroom staring gape-mouthed at a screen... Same shot sequence as the opening of Anchorman, in fact. Except add in stock helicopter flyovers of Times Square, the Ginza, etc., the big screens making the big payback even big big bigger.What a nice idea. The basic assumption is that wider dispersal means more believable - the broadcast is SO big, so worldwide, that no amount of spin could fix it. Why, if it were just a local TV interruption, Mr. Big Bad could spin it away, no problem - but it interrupted Leno. In Japan ! I like the idea of media as a weapon. Aha, you have a gun in my face, but the tables have turned cause I got BAD PUBLICITY on you !And it has to be something that will get the bad guy arrested - in real life, any corporate monster is going to be much more afraid of shareholders dumping stock than any actual jail time.Anyway, so, the moral of the story, besides when you kill people, they die, is Human Knowledge Belongs to the World !So those programmers were murdered for their code, then the hero declares that he's given back the code to the dead programmers by releasing it to the public - so, somehow, making the source code they wrote available for download appeases their revenge-minded spirits ? Are the restless earth-bound ghosts that tech-savvy ? This movie actually tries to make a moral stance out of what amounts to industrial espionage and property theft, aka the very real problem of software piracy, by referencing the Open-Source movement. Hey, I'm all for open-source software - but it's not the SAME as pirated software. Not the same at all.What are we saying, that intellectual property isn't real ? That it doesn't deserve to be protected, but just to be released to the wild ? Well, then, why should programmers work at all ? It's just a simple-minded movie ending, I know - a Robin Hood story, or read in other political terms, a socialist fable. But this robbing from the rich to give to the poor happens instantly and effortlessly. It's not swiping a sack of gold and then stopping door-to-door and handing it out. Buy the domain name, set up a server, and revenge is SWEET ! So, in fact, this denies that there's any value to the property at all. Human knowledge belongs to the world - thanks, programmers, thanks content-creators, now don't be selfish, don't be greedy, just fork it over. Your work belongs to everyone. The world's benefit is your reward. Our heartiest thanks !Anyway, if I were a programmer, my job would be cut and outsourced to India, and I'd quit the business and go to culinary school to learn to bake. Yeah - Let them steal CAKE - let 'em just TRY ! Mwah-ha-ha. "},{"Title":"Interesting with this cast","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this was an interesting film with this cast. I think Ryan does a good job and I admire the fact that Tim Robbins doesn't just phone it in. He gives a good performance. Plus, any films shot around Seattle are amazing. I liked the scenes with Ryan's girlfriend. She plays her part well and it's a good twist toward the end. This is a good film. I think Ryan P. was better in Cruel Intentions but this is definitely a watchable film. I wonder what kind of box office take this film had? Probably not too well since it was his only starring role on his own. I like the scenes in Robbins' house - those were well done. Also, I like Ryan running around in the movie - good suspense - decent acting. "}{"Title":"Technical thriller mostly free of fingernails on blackboards.","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing You Got Served I needed a transitional title before continuing the quest for cinematic art.  This move jumped out since it occupied the beginning of the Thriller section at Video Central and I had seen two out of the three titles in the numeric subsection that came before 'A.'This movie was actually somewhat enjoyable and not completely transparent with its twists and turns.  Most people will at least be pleasantly surprised with the storyline and the actors aren't completely horrible.  Tim Robbins kinda stands out as the big name applied to a big character, but there are other supporting roles with familiar and (cute?) faces.The part that makes this film really good is that much like Wargames you can actually watch this as a technologically-minded person along side normal people without incident.  The IP addresses actually apply unlike the crack-smoking insanity we saw in The Net.  There is actual code on the screen and various aspects of the information security model Milo has to contend with are truly legitimate.Antitrust keeps this technical detail in the background for the most part allowing the sane to enjoy the movie as a thriller while the geeks get to see the details mostly painted in.  It is unusual for someone to go to the trouble and apply such finesse much less pull it off.  There is some rhetoric about open source that can be somewhat annoying to anyone involved in the movement, but at least they keep the comments on track and carry the main message of open source.  Freedom.I wonder if Tim Robbins has a Linux server tucked away in his house? "},{"Title":"really good movie","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Antitrust (or conspiracy.com as it was called in Europe apparently) was a really good movie, a bit better than my first expectations. Think The Firm combined with WarGames, and throw in some of the latest events in computer business, such as the antitrust case and open source.********** MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD **********A young talented hacker is recruited by Gary Winston, to work for his company to finish a new communications network. Even though one or two lines in the dialogue felt a little bit awkward it was still a wellwritten film, with a some nice twists and turns, and plenty of suspension and close-calls. The bad guy, even though clearly inspired by Bill Gates, was bad; almost like a lukewarm Bond bad-guy. "},{"Title":"Purely awesome film","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, this is at LEAST the second-best computer nerd film of all time (trailing The Net), and could possibly have surpassed it.Some of the technical things hold true -- no IP address points being above 255, the way some usernames are created in code nd47, and so on.It was one of the few films I saw on TV that literally made me go get a hard copy. "},{"Title":"Very unexpectingly good!!!  Twists, turns, betrayal... what more could you ask for in a movie?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow...this is a pretty good movie.  Disregard all the comments saying that you have to be a dork to see this film.  I'm not a dork...at least i don't consider myself one, and i don't know much about computers, but I still enjoyed this movie.  Its definately full of u-turns and other twists and keeps your attention all the way through it.  I definately reccomend this movie to fans of thrilling plot exposure and the essencse of betrayal hot on it's trail.  I rate this movie a 7 out of 10.  Oh, and one more thing if you end up enjoying this movie I reccomend seeing Gossip. -n8gray315 "},{"Title":"Exciting","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is unexpectedly exciting! I thought it would be similar to 'Hackers' or 'Swordfish' but it wasn't. This is even better. The story is exciting, not too technologically complicated for laymen. The best thing is, that there are so many twists. Sometimes the person you thought you can trust betrays you, and other times the person who betrayed you is the person you can trust. This is great! "},{"Title":"A good game of chess in the computer world !","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What brought me to AntiTrust was the fact that one of my favorite actresses, Rachael Leigh Cook, played in this one. I've discovered more here than I expected...This movie didn't do any good, but if you watch carefully, you'll notice that here, we are at a middle of a chess game, between the Master and the Pupil, with the first one using every trick in the book (even illegal ones) and having a hidden force which might give him the win... So's the Pupil, with one final ace under the sleeve...These are Tim Robbins as Gary Winston, the head of NURV, the computer giant and the pupil, who idolizes him, Ryan Philippe as Milo. In the middle, Milo's girlfriend played by Claire Forlani, a college buddy, Chang, a shady and impartial security guard and a mysterious but lovely programmer, Lisa (played by Rachael Leigh Cook), who have some interest in Milo...If you follow the story, it is good. Rather a denounciation of a monopoly the accidental taking of some programs to design a new form of satellite communications called SYNAPSE. Milo starts to oversee the foul play here, but many obstacles on his way might put hurdles on his quest to detrone his ambitious new boss. Even if he has to risk his life...Good interpretation of all the actors (especially Tim Robbins here). We would have liked to see Rachael Cook's role as Lisa being more developped here, as they wanted to put a love triangle between her, Milo and his girlfriend (dropped because some people found it corny, but it would have brought substance). Especially that Ms.Cook is quite talented and beautiful as well...Take a chance to rent it, it has suspense until the end... "},{"Title":"Shoulda went to work for Dell, dude","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this was a been there/done that film I still found it to be exciting and interesting. Robbins was good as the evil genius who stood to gain billions with his new software and would stop at nothing to put it on the market. Predictable all the way, but still contained a few minor surprises and, hey, all the geektalk was cool.  "},{"Title":"Better than I Expected","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was much better than I expected when I picked it up without much hope and saw a pretty low score of 6.0 on IMDB. Ryan Philippe does a good job as a computer whiz who lands a big time job with NURV, a Microsoft-type company headed by Gary (Tim Robbins), totally meant to be a Bill Gates clone. But I like the twists the film takes. Robbins lets his character be bad without being over the top evil in that typical movie-villan way.  And there's a good twist I won't reveal involving the two female characters played by Claire Forlani and Rachel Leigh Cook.It's really not bad for a home rental if you're in the mood. Yes, there's lots of computer talk and maybe it's a bit nerdy, but it's a surprisingly tense thriller. B+ "},{"Title":"Great geek movie","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a computer science graduate and loved this movie! Although I enjoyed it, I don't know that it has a lot of appeal outside of the computer science world. As a thriller, it is lacking. As a drama, it is lacking. There are some cool special effects and there is some interesting cinematography, but I think it was over done.For geeks looking for a good movie, this is for you. For everyone else, well, watch it with a geek so he/she can explain what open-source means. I give this movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Should have done better at the box office","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even with the typically unlikeable Ryan Phillippe,  AntiTrust was actually a decent film to watch.  From the obvious Microsoft tie-ins to the geek-thrillerstory line, I'm absolutely puzzled no one went to  see this film. Sure, it isn't top notch in the genre  sense, but at least it was a welcome diversion  from the typical serial killer-rapist-cop drama that  typically winds up the thriller label. Strangely  enough, Rachel Leigh Cook is in the credits, but  she wasn't in the film enough. Talk about a let-down!So, take a look at this film. Much like me, you might  be surprised by the outcome. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly decent.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seeing as how none of the actors are seasoned actors - with Tim Robbins the exception, and how the ads made it look like a really cheesy 'thriller,' I wasn't expecting much. So, I was happily surprised. It wasn't GREAT by any stretch of the imagination, don't get me wrong - a lot of suspense/thriller cliches were used - but there were a couple of ACTUALLY SUSPENSEFUL MOMENTS. And, to be honest, I adore Rachel Leigh Cooke, no matter her acting faults. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Contemporary Angst","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As an IT expert I think this movie is terrific. In the light of current PC and OS (business-) supremacy of Microsoft, Antitrust really captures the heart of the problem (of Microsofts' supremacy). I would recommend this movie for all personnel working in an IT environment.  "},{"Title":"Antitrust - Gripping thriller for the Electronic era","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gripping thriller for the electronic era. Ryan Phillipe (Cruel Intentions) stars as a computer wizard Milo who catches the eye of  Gary Winston  (Tim Robbins), a kind of seedier version of Bill Gates, whose company have a total monopoly on electronic communications by basically blowing all competition out of the water. His company are involved with developing the ultimate communication system, and Gary hires Milo to become an integral part of the team, the problem is Milo discovers that he doesn't like some of the company's methods and sets out to investigate &#150; a dangerous decision. The wonderful Claire Forlani (Mallrats) and Rachael Leigh Cook (Shes All that) provide the female supporting players and both look very lovely indeed. The film runs at a great pace throughout and creates a lot of tension and throws in some good twists. While Hackers tried to be serious, but ended up being comedic, Antitrust hits the mark.  "},{"Title":"My one big complaint...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  was the blatant pepsi commercials throughout the movie. I mean, they had this empty room with a pepsi machine just against the wall by itself. At least, they could have added some food machines to make it look like a break room or something.Once I got past all the pepsi commercials, I thought this was a pretty good mystery/thriller.  Sure, there are plot holes, but it's not like this film is out to win any awards. I like the twist endings in films like this; the endings where you find out someone you thought was good or bad and it turns out they are the opposite.  And I liked Ryan Phillippe a lot more than I thought I would. He was actually OK. I was expecting one of those awful Freddie Prinze Jr. performances from him, but he did much better.FINAL VERDICT A good thriller for those that prefer less action and explosions. "},{"Title":"Nice little enjoyable film","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust is a film that all cyber geeks can relate to. The film stars the up and coming Ryan Phillpee as Milo a computer hacker who goes to work for a company that isn't what it seems. The film is fast paced and one of my favorite actors Tim Robbins makes a great villian. "},{"Title":"Predictable but entertaining","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Considering some of the talent involved you'd be forgiven for expecting more from this inoffensive but forgettable thriller. I'd rate it a couple of notches above 'The Net' or 'The Skulls' which like this, pass the time, no more, no less.  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not high standard acting, Tim Robbins was over the top (but clearly enjoying himself). Still a fun movie to watch, it's fast doesn't bore you and it's got a nice ending. If you're interested in some gigantic computer/software conglomorate kick ass you'll enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Actually i was postponing to rent this movie because of the comments here on IMDB and relatively average rating (~6.9 january 2002). It is quite interesting and entertaining. And people who contribute 'goofs' section -please - - get a life! Obviously the director is not a Bill Gates fan (understandable), and has a point of making this movie. Disregard the comments where they compare Antitrust and Firm. these are two different movies made from different reasons. Enjoy (9/10) "},{"Title":"Somewhat less hokey bit flinging than the hype said...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust had the honor of being the first movie I've ever rented on DVD - mostly because I never had the chance of seeing it in the theater. The fact that it wasn't in theaters here seems to tell something.I had heard some very, very naughty words about the movie, so I decided I had to see it. I like turkeyish movies, especially computer-related ones.Now, after seeing the movie, I have to say I was amazed. It was actually better than I expected! At least the makers had *tried* to get the technical details even some bit close to the real. Which isn't of course to say that everything was perfect, but it was better than usual in this sort of movies.Well, the plot and the rest of the details - The movie kept me thrilled all the time, which was probably a sign that I didn't exactly waste my money on this rental. But as for the content or message - well, that could have been improved a bit. *All* usual conspiracies and things in the same movie - please, my good writers, when you next time want to make a techno thriller, come up with something original...  "},{"Title":"Builds to an interesting climax, but certain things are missing","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Minor spoiler. It's a little disappointing when a film pulls out all of the stops to surprise you, only to compound its folly with each ludicrous new twist.Certain things about Antitrust are apparent right from the off. One of either Clare Forlani or Rachel Leigh Cook has to be a baddy, since a fast paced thriller will only ever have room for one genuine love interest out of two established actresses. Meanwhile, it's too easy to keep one step ahead of the various turns the plot takes. Make a few assumptions about the story and the characters each step along the way, and you'll probably turn out to be right.Nevertheless, the film builds to an interesting climax, and I certainly wanted to know how things were going to end up.There are also some genuinely good ideas buried in there. What was really needed was a top-notch screenwriter to tighten things up and disguise the twists by beefing up the characters and getting us distracted by the human interest angle.Oh, and the editing is shocking - how long was the original cut of this film?          "}{"Title":"go buy it..","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i am quite the fan of ryan phillipe, therefore the only reason i had heard of this movie.. i had wanted to see it in the movies, but never got the chance, so i rented it.. my friend and i watched it together, and we were on the edge of our seats the whole time.. every person i recommended it to, said it to be one of their favorites.. its definately a bit of a teen flick.. but its good all around. might i add.. i am quite the fan of movies that show how horrible people that control us can be.. they interest me so.. i recommend it highly.. very suspenseful, and good cast  "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great cast, great acting, numerous surprises and twists.  Kept me very intrigued throughout the whole film, and i was def. feeling the vibes. Tim Robbins is the man and i love movies with main characters who are extra brilliant prodigy's in something.  **** "},{"Title":"Boring beyond belief","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust takes a potentially interesting topic, tortures into the shape of a teen thriller, and ends up embarrassing its audience.  Every plot development is delivered with sledgehammer subtlety, every twist and red herring glaringly obvious from the outset in a half-baked script which isn't helped by amateurish editing and direction.  Although the actors do try to make the best of it.  Ryan Phillippe brings a knowing banality to the sickeningly preachy lines his Milo has to deliver, and Tim Robbins seems to have taken one look at the script and decided he might as well have fun with this wild-eyed, murderous caricature of Bill Gates &#150; either that or he spent the whole shoot high on caffeine.  If only he'd written and directed this, it might have been worthy of his involvement.  There are at least three better ways this material could have been dramatized (1) as a serious legal drama; (2) as a sardonic mockumentary about being an intern at Microsoft, or (3) as a true psychological thriller, not about murder and mayhem, but about our paranoia that Bill Gates and his minions really are Satanists with a lust for intergalactic domination, rather than just greedy computer nerds with a penchant for bad art. "},{"Title":"Tribute to microsoft","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interesting film and leads you into a path of deciet involved with a lot of computer tech stuff. Almost looks like they had it in for microsoft. The lead bad guy seems to look like Bill Gates. A few small holes in the film but a definite must see, am surprised it was not promoted more. This film is well made and has clever twists all the way through it. "},{"Title":"Must see!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am disgusted that so many people don't like this movie. This is #2 on my favorite movie list. It has action, drama, computers, humor, and mystery. I truly love this movie.It really makes me angry that so many people bad mouth this movie, and they can't even do it correctly. Sorry, but if  you can't spell or use punctuation correctly, you have no right to insult anyone. It's just not cool.I think that you need to be a computer nerd to really appreciate this movie. It's very nerdy and that may be the reason why some of you don't like it. The other reason is because it might not be technical enough for some of you. Sorry, but Hollywood isn't known to be perfectly accurate. Ok, Hollywood is known not to be accurate at all, so this is pretty good.About the reality part... If you want it to be SO realistic, what would be the point of watching? That's the main reason for films. ENTERTAINMENT! That's the whole point.I don't think that the movie was predictable. Certain things happened that I wasn't expecting it to. There's rare for a movie now.So basically, Antitrust is a great movie. It has many aspects that most films don't, but it's not overcrowded with themes and things. It's intense too. The soundtrack is sweet, even though you can't buy it.Enjoy it! That's what movies are for. "},{"Title":"I'm Going to Watch My IT Support People More Closely","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins is one of America's most interesting actors and directors.  His role here is less deep and troubling than his Arlington Road portrayal but his nice exposition of Greed in the First Degree is well done.I have no doubt this film is full of technical errors.  My kid spotted some. We watched the film together and both of us enjoyed the suspense. A realistic drama about kid hackers and fetid programmers would have as much appeal as a remake of DOA with a dying CPA desperate to reach the IRS to report a tax fraud before expiring.The film was fun, entertainment.  Period. "},{"Title":"Technical correctness boosts geek appeal","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fine acting all round, and a noteworthy effort on the part of the director to try and get the tecnicalities correct (so often overlooked) raise the score from a worth watching 6/10 to a well worth watching 7/10.Unfortunately the up beat ending is not reflected in real life as the recent DoJ settlement with MS shows only too well. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had this DVD lying around for a couple of weeks and i wasn't really expecting to much from hence not watching this for a while. I was pleasently suprised with Antitrust in the end. Antitrust is a film about a group of youngsters who are computer experts (Geeks) who are close to coming up with a system that will change the way we will communicate for ever. The problem is that a massive company N.U.R.V lead by Gary Winston ( Tim Robbins)are also close to it.N.U.R.V headhunt one of the young men , Milo Hoffman (Ryan Phillippe) but fail to get any other of the computer experts. While Hoffman works for the company his computer friends mysteriously die and he eventually discovers that there is more to his new company than meets the eye.This is fast moving and fairly well acted although the role Tim Robbins plays is fairly simular to the one he plays in the film Arlington Road. Thoroughly enjoyable. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Call me gullible, but I thought this was a pretty cool movie","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just to get things straight, I'm on the Internet quite often.  However, I don't consider myself a computer geek.  I don't know crap about all its internal mechanisms and firewalls and all that stuff.  Nor do I honestly care about that kind of stuff.  So excuse me if there are tons of plot holes and factual errors that may have flew over my head. I found the movie to be very exciting.  I wasn't anxious about seeing Antitrust.  I wanted to rent The Forsaken, but it was on reserve.  I was very impressed.  The film has a moderately slow start, but it wasn't long until I really started to get into the plot.  And when I engaged myself, I couldn't hit the Pause button.  I just couldn't wait to find out what would happen next.  I liked the nifty plot twist.  That came totally unexpected, though the IMDB inspectors reported it as a goof/plot hole.  So maybe it didn't make complete sense.  We're permitted to suspend some disbelief.  Besides, I've seen much more ridiculous plot twists.Tim Robbins steals the show as a sadistic clone of Bill Gates.  Heck, he even looks a lot like him (in this movie, at least).  Just like in Arlington Road, he graces the role of the villain and as the film goes on, his mere appearance strikes terror in the eyes of the viewer.  For eye candy, we have Claire Forlani and Rachael Leigh Cook.  Though Rachael doesn't play a love interest, she has never looked hotter!  I wanted to kiss the screen every time she smiled.  I'm sure the chicks will dig Ryan Philippe, who's quite good in his role--even though I don't see too many computer geeks that handsome.  Still, he wasn't completely miscast.  Richard Roundtree also makes a few brief appearances.  He doesn't play a memorable role, but he's one of those guys who you just want to applaud for every time he shows up on screen.Unless you're really into computers and will be nit-picking about every possible inaccuracy, you'll probably find this slick cyber thriller very enjoyable and very exciting.  It's a fast-paced trip with, yes, a good deal of scenes involving Ryan typing really fast on the keyboard before security catches up to him (OK, maybe that was a little far-fetched).  But it's a crowd-pleaser that actually pleases, with very few lags.  Trust me.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A cybernetic thriller!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cybernetic thriller about a great industry of software programs trying to gain the monopoly of this field in America market. A young and genial programmer (Phillipe)is hired by the president of the organization (Robbins) to develop a new program called Synapse and by the by he uncovered a scheme of treason, political influence and even assassination. The plot is predictable and the discussion about the problems related to the software industry is too shallow and superficial but the movie is a mild entertainment. The character played by Robbins is clearly inspired in Bill Gates.  I give this a 5 (five).  "}{"Title":"Worth A Look","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A tight script, yoeman acting by a mostly unknown cast, and a couple of expectedly unexpected twists make this movie worth a look.  The ultimate contemporary techno-thriller has not been made yet. And most films care nothing about the correctness of the science they portray. The science in this one isn't bad. Yes, the Geniuses should have been working in assembly or at least C++ and not the HTML used here. But considering how lame most techno-thrillers are, this one does most thing right. Let's face it, aside from putting Sandra Bullock in a bikini, the producers of The Net  did not know what they were doing.So if you've got the time, give this one a chance. The look is great. The style is brisk. And the science is mostly right. "},{"Title":"Quite Enjoyable","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I enjoyed most about this movie is that it showed actual code, rather than graphic mock-ups.  There are also some strangely funny parts.  It is part whodunnit, part puzzle, but some of the surprises are easy to anticipate.  <warning possible spoilers> This movie is somewhat similar to The Firm, in my opinion, except that it involves a software company.  Overall, it is an enjoyable rental for the evening.  It is somewhere between a just for fun movie and a serious work of art. "},{"Title":"Good techno-thriller despite Anticorporate subtext","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a credible techno-thriller that goes a bit too far in its anti-corporate message, but is highly entertaining nonetheless.  Milo Hoffman (Ryan Phillipe) is a boy genius who lands a job as an elite programmer for the most prodigious technology firm in the world (clearly patterned after Microsoft).  His tech genius friends are disappointed that he sold out to the corporate behemoth.  They believe that all source code should be non-proprietary (translation programs that programmers create should be free for everyone to use).  This is where the liberal political subtext gets preachy and inane.  Corporations = Evil, Little Guys > Good.Milo is recruited by the Chairman of the company, Gary Winston (Tim Robbins) to work on developing the software for the satellite system that Winston will use to take over the world.  Milo is taken in by Winston and the entire culture, until he discovers that Winston is stealing code from other developers through the use of surveillance cameras, and that Winston had one of his best friends killed.Despite the implausible workup, the film then shifts into high gear and provides a thrill-a-minute roller coaster ride of intrigue and suspense where Milo is racing against time to prevent the satellite system from going online.  There are a lot of scenes that stretch credulity, but not so bad as to be ridiculous.  Industry insiders will enjoy the codehead jokes.The acting is mixed.  Ryan Phillipe is not terribly believable as a computer geek.  Phillipe has yet to transcend his well-earned teen idol status as the hottie from `54' and `Cruel Intentions'.  But his pouty good looks and demeanor were a mismatch with his geeky character.  His nerdy friends are far better cast than he.  Claire Forlani (`Meet Joe Black', `Boys and Girls') gives another fine performance as Milo's duplicitous girlfriend. Rachel Leigh Cook (`She's All That') is another actor who is out of her element.  She is cute, but unbelievable as a supergeek.Tim Robbins must have relished this role.  He plays Gary Winston, in an unabashed caricature of Bill Gates.  They were shameless in creating Winston's home to be identical to the description Gates gave of his own home in his book.  Robbins, who is vociferous and fanatical leftist that frequently and publicly yearns for America to become a Socialist society, threw himself into this lampoon of the techno-corporate culture.  His performance is outstanding, deftly hiding his maniacal nature with a reasonable corporate demeanor.If you can get beyond the mocking anti-corporate subtext, you will find this to be an enjoyable thriller.  I rated it a 7/10.  Software developers will probably enjoy this film greatly. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was truly a great film. I think it contained almost everything. Action, thriller, comedy some times. The plot might have been a little more ordinary, but otherwise I think it was one of the best movies this year! "},{"Title":"fun cyber thriller","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Antitrust' is yet another in an increasingly long line of cyber-techno thrillers designed to scare the be-Jesus out of the paranoiacs among us &#150; particularly those who fear that computer technology provides the perfect tool for ending personal privacy as we know it.  Certainly, `Enemy of the State' remains as the high watermark of the genre, but `Antitrust's attempt to cope with some of the same themes, albeit on a somewhat smaller scale, yields some impressive results.Like most movies made in the capitalistic US of A, `Antitrust' seems oddly derisive and suspicious of the corporate-world mentality.  Thus, we are not really surprised to find that this film, like so many others, demonizes the entrepreneurial spirit as it glorifies youthful virtue and ingenuity.  Tim Robbins plays a dark version of Bill Gates, an overgrown computer geek who has parleyed his nerdishness into a multi-billion dollar software monopoly.  Here again we have a successful business executive portrayed as a nefarious single-minded villain up against the morally virtuous youthful genius, Milo, played by a bland Ryan Phillipe.  Given the predictability of the premise, `Antitrust' scores as a generally effective thriller thanks to its many genuinely impressive plot twists and turns and its ability to generate suspense in a number of crucial scenes.  The film manages to keep us guessing at every turn.  Like Milo, we are never entirely sure whom we can and cannot trust.  And Robbins provides such a crafty villain &#150; part Machiavellian genius, part emotionally stunted adolescent &#150; that he rivets our attention in any scene in which he happens to appear.  This is more than can be said for Milo, who as a central figure and heroic protagonist, fails to engage our interest to any great extent.  Luckily, the details of the plot do that for us.I would be remiss if I did not take special note of the extraordinary art direction and set decoration that adorn the film.  The look of the film perfectly reflects the cyber-world plasticity around which these people center their lives.  `Antitrust' doesn't exactly break new ground in its rather recent but already overworked genre &#150; but the speed, energy and creativity with which the film approaches its subject make it a satisfying entertainment.  "},{"Title":"A decent thriller, but an obvious propaganda film...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As far as the movie itself (storyline, action, character development, etc.) is concerned, it was fair...about a 2.5/5 stars.But on the message end ( yes, yet, another movie which does not seek to merely entertain, but to teach), it reeks of Mac/Linux/Insert-any-open-source-guerilla tactics. It's not that the open-source debate should not go on; in fact, in many ways I agree with the premise and motivations of  pro-open-source followers, but the movie came off as a very  heavy-handed in it's approach to the issue. No debating, just bashing of anyone not making their code free for anyone.One line spoke of how information should be free to  everyone...like Shakespeare and aspirin. I understand the implication, but it comes off as naive. Shakespeare made money off his scripts. His books have to be bought and paid for, at Amazon. Movie theaters certainly don't let you in for free, regardless whether MacBeth or AntiTrust is playing. And, when is the last time aspirin was given out by Bayer?The Bill Gates analogies also came off a bit extreme. He may be cutthroat in his business practices, but by painting him as Satan incarnate, the creators looked more envious and bitter than anything.   "},{"Title":"The most grueling 6480 seconds of my life...","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This pile of c**p made it difficult for me to sit still.  I had to fight for the entire duration of the film to stop myself from grunting out loud. Let's see - where to start - no script, no plot, horrible acting (shame on you Tim Robbins), and barely there humor.  Anyone who has an inkling about computers should find this movie humorous, in that it depicts how little anyone in hollywood understands them.  Loosely based on Microsoft?  Nope. Suspenseful?  Nope.  I haven't seen a movie this bad since Godzilla.  Take your money and go home, and avoid this dung heap at all costs.  You'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable...","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My 12-year-old son dragged me to this film, which I had never heard of.  I went in only after seeing Tim Robbins' name on the poster.  Hey, I'll watch him watch paint dry!!!  Anyway, the movie really grabbed me, and I'm pretty picky.  Very suspenseful, and Tim was, as usual, different from any other character he's ever portrayed.  I'm not really a techie, so I can't comment on the plausibility of the technology, but it seemed believable to me.  I'll see it again when it comes to video and see how it stands up. Recommended for anyone who enjoys a high-tech thriller with a twist. "},{"Title":"Bill Gates without the geekiness","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Antitrust (Peter Howitt, 2001)One reviewer, the day before this opened, called this the film where Ryan Phillippe attempts to break out of the teen-movie genre and into the big time. Okay, let's think about this for a moment. The film is directed by Peter Howitt, who made his feature film debut with a teen movie that wanted desperately to be a serious flick (Sliding Doors); his co-stars are Rachael Leigh Cook (The Babysitters Club, the upcoming live-action Josie and the Pussycats) and Claire Forlani (one word, Mallrats); the movie is based on the idea that Microsoft will take over the world. So, serious art or teen flick?Tim Robbins plays Gary Winston, very obviously modeled on Bill Gates (check out the house!) without the geekiness that keeps Bill Gates from looking like the Overlord he really is. Winston is very interested in hiring two wunderkind programmers, Milo Hoffmann (Phillippe) and his best friend Teddy Chin (whose name is oddly not listed at IMDB). Chin is an idealist who believes all code should be open source, and turns down the offer; Hoffmann accepts, and soon finds that, of course, the Evil Empire really IS evil. Surprise, surprise.Still, it's not a bad little flick for what it is. One expects more depth and better plot twists from Howard Franklin (The Name of the Rose, Someone to Watch Over Me), but sometimes it's fun to watch even when you can see it coming, no? It's slick, stylish, has geeks enough to satisfy most gearheads, and as an added bonus contains a bang-up performance by rising star Tyler Labine (if you're an X-Files fanatic, you'll remember him as one of the trio of stoners who followed Mulder and Scully around for a couple of seasons, meeting their demise at the jaws of the same alligator that got Queequeg). Worth a trip to the cheap seats. *** "},{"Title":"Frightening food for thought - what REALLY goes on behind all those closed corporate doors?","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, this will not go down in history as a film classic, but it is hugely entertaining and engaging. The film has a beautiful look, thanks in part to the spectacular scenery around Vancouver. Tim Robbins (as usual) has a powerful screen presence, and Ryan Phillippe is very convincing - not to mention adorable. Tyler Labine (Breaker High) gives a strong performance and certainly demonstrates his versatility. There are plenty of armrest-clutching moments, and the film just flies by. You won't be checking your watch or thinking about more popcorn. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"A True Movie for Us Geeks!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is highly underrated! It is well produced and well acted! I highly recommend this movie to any computer lover. It is at the top of my favorite movies list. I just cannot say enough good things about this movie. It rules! Don't take anybody's word for it. Go see it for yourself! "},{"Title":"Fantastic true-to-genre flick","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  a la The Net and Hackers (Antitrust pilfers liberally from the latter film but it rarely fails to improve upon this borrowed material), Antitrust scrupulously adheres to the rules of the fledgling computer thriller genre.  fevered typing, quick claustraphobic cuts to approaching, unheeded threats,attractive people, running, homemade resistance and precious few scenes of actual programming activity -- all these elements are gainfully employed in the service of entertainment, along with the beautiful faces of a surprisingly adept cast.  Not really ever surprising, this movie is thrilling even through its predictability, and shamelessly manipulative to good effect.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"Relax and enjoy the show, please.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, the movie might not be oscar material, but hey, it was fun.  All of you reviewers who are saying that this is the worst movie of the year are way out of line.  The movie was very entertaining.  I'm not a computer genius, but i do know more than most about them, and the film did a decent enough job of keeping the computer scenes believable.  For those of you who work with computers, you will realize that it is boring work.  With that in mind, who would go to a movie about a normal guy going to work on his computer? Nobody.  The beauty of Hollywood is that they make the ordinary, entertaining.  So relax, enjoy the film, if your looking for a perfect film, well, stop looking, because there never has been one, and there never will be one. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Fabulous","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I'll admit it.  I wanted to see this movie because I think that Ryan Phillipe is gorgeous.  However, I actually went to see it because my husband wanted to.  I was pleasantly surprised that it was actually a good movie.  There was enough computer jargon to make one (who is only remotely into that stuff) feel like you were in on something, but not so much as to alienate most of the audience.     In addition, I thought that there was just the right amount of suspense.  Enough to get you excited, but they got on with it before it got old.  Also, I liked that at times even though Milo is a total computer genius, he was not able to put in the right code on the first try.  I think this made it more realistic.   All in all, I found this movie very entertaining, with a few twists and surprises thrown it.  Also, it's a great date movie that guys and girls can both enjoy. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected this movie to be another brainless vehicle for cute stars, but it was more than that. It was like minor Hitchcock in the 21st century; it had the suspense, the romance, the crime, as well as a modern-problem based plot with all of the computer stuff (which you don't have to know a lot about to enjoy the movie). 3 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Changed the way I thought of the competitive business world.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was actually a good movie. When i first seen the trailers,i thought that this was going to be some stupid Microsoft rip-off. I thought that Ryan Phillippe did a good job in this movie along with Tim Robbins. Rachael Leigh Cook was a little weak in this movie. I think the writers could have at least wrote a better roll for her character. If you like plot twists and movies that get you thinking of what could really happen then i suggest that you watch Antitrust. "},{"Title":"Information is for the Geeks.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First let me say that this movie is one of the best I've ever seen. It's a geek movie at heart. The plot focueses around Milo Hoffmann, a computer nerd right out of Stanford. He is good friends with fellow nerd Teddy Chin. They have plans to begin a start up company with open source. Nurv, standing for Never Underestimate Radical Vision, is a software company with things a little below the table. They are being investigated by the Justice Department and are known to be ruthless. Milo is approached by Gary, the head of Nurv, who wants Milo to work for him in developing Gary's pet project which will unite every sort of medium used for communication in the world. But Gary isn't all above table and hurts the wrong person, setting Milo off. What happens is great fun to watch. Ryan Phillipe is great as Milo. He really brings depth into the character. I really recommend this movie. Geek or no, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Good movie overall (Possible spoilers)","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As the subject line says there may be spoilers in this comment.I saw the movie just last night, and I thought it kicked ass in places and was really corny in other places. Part of the corniness factor was because a lot of it was filmed right here in Vancouver, BC, Canada where I live ) The NURV HQ outside shot, for example, is just Simon Fraser University, where I once attended classes )As to other aspects of it being filmed in Vancouver and environs, you have to be aware of relatively minor differences in road construction to really be able to tell )What I appreciated about the movie is that it wasn't laden with buzzwords, unlike Hackers, and the director and producer(s) tried to ensure the technical accuracy of the terminology and commands used, for the most part.The other corny part about this movie is that Ryan Philippe, although a definite cute face for the movie, doesn't really seem to be cast right. He sounds almost as though he can't say the complex words properly that his character has to rattle off with ease. Other than that, everybody else seems to be appropriately cast, and the movie works well even with Ryan Philippe's somewhat inconsistent volubility.  "},{"Title":"Should Grisham sue???","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Is it just me or does this movie seem to be just a tech'd up version of The Firm? Look at the parallels - big powerful company which has bugs planted everywhere you go. The gifted, but altruistic, young man whom the company has pursued and brought into its ranks. The significant perks provided. The individuals around you that you don't know whether they are on your side or theirs. The 'ironic' downfall of the company at the hands of the person who they pursued so fervently.The only time they really strayed from the general idea of The Firm is with Milo's wife who isn't pure from the outset ...Having said all of this.....as with the The Firm I also enjoyed this movie. The suspense was well managed and gotta love that artwork in the mansion.A good see if you liked the firm. "},{"Title":"Critics were way off","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The critics abused this movie when it came out, but they must not have been paying attention, 'cause it rocked.  The suspense is amazing, real edge-of-your-seat stuff.  The plot twists keep you guessing, but not enough to over-complicate the situation.  The acting is great too.  All in all, a top notch act.  A definite must see. "}{"Title":"Not for the computer illiterate.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just have to say that this is the best movie I have seen in awhile. Part of this is that I am in the computer field, so I believe that has to have something to do with my enjoyment.  Also I think that you can never go wrong with Tim Robbins.  Anyway after seeing c**p like Lost Souls and Eye of the Beholder, it's about time I saw something good.  "},{"Title":"Nice sentiment wrapped in clichés","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I should have known better from watching the trailer.  About 10 minutes into the film, I knew it wouldn't be good.  Fortunately I was slightly surprised to that end, because it was a little better than I suspected.  Tim Robbins plays an amalgamation of Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, which is soooooo original (sorry, mentioning Gates' name at the beginning of the film doesn't excuse it).  He is working to create software that will change the world as we know it.  He hires programmer Ryan Phillipe to speed up his deadline. Everything is sqeaky clean in the beginning, then Ryan learns that bad things are happening within the core of the company.  The film is little more than The Firm with computers.  There is a decent moralistic undertone which I appreciate as a viewer, because I'm idealistic at heart.  If you are not, don't watch this movie!! "},{"Title":"Predictable? Yes. Fun? You bet.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust could have been really bad. I mean it could have been Hackers level bad. The movie was not what I expected, but I came out of the theater very relieved they didn't botch it up.As a computer geek, I was actually amazed at the fact I couldn't pick out any technical inaccuracies in this film. Films with computers in them p**s me off because the use of computers is always depicted as some futuristic high tech thing (Hackers with their super-duper liquid mainframes. What the heck guys?!) or some guy pecking away at a keyboard at a DOS Prompt on which someone used the command prompt Enter your password It would appear to me the producers of AntiTrust actually did their homework. Thanks guys!If you've seen the trailer of the movie, the movie will be very predictable for you. The predictability doesn't ruin the flick, however. Tim Robbins must have studied some Steve Jobs and Bill Gates keynote addresses because he comes off as frighteningly similar to the two in some portions of the movie. Ryan Phillippe carries the part of Milo off well, and Rachael Leigh Cook works well as the mysterious Lisa. None of the other actors or actresses were familiar to me, but most of them worked very well in their parts.If you go into AntiTrust with an open mind you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie that portrays computers accurately","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot may have been predictable, but the story was interesting enough. What impressed me the most was the accuracy with which the world of computers was portrayed.  From the program code and commands displayed on computer screens to the debate over open source, the movie was right on the mark.  It didn't bother me that the characters could look at a program's source code for five seconds and understand its function and the elegance with which it was written or that nothing was ever password protected. The plot has to move along.I'd be interested to know what Bill Gates thought of this movie. "},{"Title":"Geeks Rejoice","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoyed Pirates of Silicon Valley then you will enjoy this.  It is a cross between that biopic and a hollywood thriller of the future.  It has similar production values and could have been done as a Made for TV except that Tim Robbins is a big name and the budget is way ahead of TV productions.Basically if you are in any way involved in the Computer Industry you will probably enjoy this.  A lot of insider technical jokes / references make it fun if you leave and breath as a geek.The acting is so-so.  The script is so-so. It is pretty ludicrous at times in its plot development.  But hey - it was never supposed to be Shawshank Redemtpion or Schindlers list.The premise makes some valid points about where the world is heading and the dominance of Corporations in our lives - very valid stuff.  There are some minor surprises and Ryan Philippe is IMHO excellent.Worth seeing.  Will not be a blockbuster and may fail because of limited appeal.  If you are a IMDB addict that probably qualifies as a geek for the purposes of this film.   "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't write reviews. In fact this is my first for many years and I don't know if it classifies as a review of the film itself but rather a critique of the incompetence and lack of thought that went into the making of this film.I feel compelled to warn anyone against watching this film if they value the time they have on this planet. Fortunately, after 20 minutes or so I turned off. If I hadn't I might have thrown something at the TV screen in disgust.The plot is naïve, unworldly and the scripting and dialogue has to be seen to be believed. How Tim Robbins got caught up in this I don't know.Even more surprising is that I see it won some awards. A golden goblet. I think a wooden spoon would be appropriate.I won't say any more except that you should give this a VERY wide berth. How it sits there with a 6 star rating at the time of writing is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Truly, it was an awesome movie","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie late night and wow. I guess I had less expectation about this movie because it was unofficially called Hackers 3- antitrust. Looking back to the previous 2 movies it was truly remarkable to me. I really enjoyed this one with my surround system as it had some cool music to it. The actresses I think was very attractive and I didn't really care about how all the casts acted because I went so deep into the story and it had an exciting feeling overall. I would really love to see its production budget if someone can find out since it was a great movie within a low funds (that's what it seems). I wanna hear some positive feedback about this movie in the near future. Thx for reading ;).  "},{"Title":"Trust me, don't waste your time","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a takeoff on Bill Gates/Microsoft with Tim Robbins playing a very evil CEO running a huge software company called NURV. The evil CEO hires a young and brilliant programmer played by Ryan Phillippe. This kid is to complete the most important software advancement in history in record time. This movie has too many ridiculous plot twists to get into. The most ridiculous thing about the movie is that this kid programmer finds out how evil the CEO is and plans on bringing down the company without a concern about all of the thousands of employees, many of whom will have their lives and pension plans ruined. This movie is not worth watching unless you want to see closeups of Ryan Phillippe every few seconds. The Director must have a thing for this kid because the closeups were so close you could almost count the pores. Dont waste your time with this one.  "},{"Title":" Who am I supposed to trust, Alice?","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ryan Philippe is cold as Milo in this thin suspense film. The remaining cast is honorable. The costumes are preppy. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Antitrust serves devoid mysteries. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hackers had way more style","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Somebody apparently decided to see if they could make a movie as good as Hackers. They even took several basic plot elements from Hackers. And they even spent some time at Slashdot learning why Microsoft is evil and hyping that tedious story. The Bill Gates analog character is this thin replace the word innovative with the word creative.But it didn't happen -- because the scriptwriters were instructed to stuff the movie full of devices older than James Bond. Worse, to play on your paranoia, they left out the humor. The movie is above average in one way you can't be stupid if you want to keep up with how all the old devices are woven together. But then your careful attention is repaid with predictability at every step of the game.An old Holly wood story talented cast turns in some wonderful performances, but can't overcome the uncreative scriptwriting. So, unlike Hackers, this is just another movie... trying to pry your bucks loose with fresh talent and up-to-date news pasted over the oldest cardboard in the business. "}{"Title":"Piece of Crap","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Obvious attack on Microsoft made by people who don't appear to understand intellectual property or market economies generally.Loony liberal tim robbins plays a painfully obvious caricature of bill gates, and is a cartoonish corporate villain ordering murders right and left.While microsoft may engage in some anticompetitive activity at times, it's unlikely they actually murder people. Therefore, the film is over the top and ridiculous from the beginning.The deeper point is apparently that major tech innovations should be free to the public, and not subject to intellectual property laws. However, this ignores the fact that most major innovations would never have been developed if not for the market incentives (and rewards) provided by intellectual property.It's one thing to be opposed to anti-competitive conduct -- that's common sense. It's quite another to be opposed to market competition in the first place, which is what the film's mantra (knowledge belongs to mankind) represents.Yet another example of Hollywood being completely out of touch with reality. "},{"Title":"A fun conspiracy movie with a good foot-tapping Don Davis original soundtrack.","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw AntiTrust (or Conspiracy.com for those of us here who are Europeans) on an International flight back to the US when it first came out. I had no idea what it was about, hadn't even heard about it, but the flight was a red eye and I had drank too much coffee. ^) I work in the Industry, so movies like Hackers (salami techniques are so Superman 3/Office Space) and The Net (Sandra Bullock just reminds me of a cheaper, less talented hack version of Julia Roberts) never impressed me much in the way that War Games had when I was young.Anyhow - I was pleasantly surprised that the writers actually did some research on the subject, the code shown was real, it didn't splash a lot of goofy futuristic computer screens into my face, and NURV reminded me of a smaller dot com I had worked for in Seattle (that has since gone belly up when the dot com bubble burst). I also worked at Microsoft around the time AntiTrust came out, so NURV's campus environment wasn't too far off for 2001.Yeah - it had a lot of Microsoft/Gates bashing in it. Gary Winston was a Bill Gates clone. But overall, I found the acting to be fine (not weak like some have stated). Don Davis did a heck of a job on the soundtrack (I listen to the audio CD when I code every once in awhile now). Most of it I could believe (as far as a movie goes) - the industrial espionage, the monopoly, the do anything to achieve your goals up to and including murder.If I had one bone to pick about the movie, it would be all the unbelievable fiber optic, fish-eye cameras that NURV used to spy on non-NURV coders. Of course, in 2001, spyware wasn't as much of an issue (wasn't even a household term) as it is today. If AntiTrust was released today - spyware and OS vulnerabilities would have been NURV's back door to those programmers' systems.Too many people look at movies like AntiTrust and pick apart them apart because of they don't portray the Industry realistically. Okay, but let's face it, the IT Industry 99% of the time is boring 8 to 5 drudge work. No more exciting that watching paint dry or ice cubes melt. And no one will go see a movie like that. I liked this movie for its entertainment value, if I wanted a movie that accurately portrays the IT Industry ... I'll just go to work in real life. "},{"Title":"Pepsi-Cola Hits the Spot on a Sesame Seed Bun","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Beautiful young Ryan Phillippe (as Milo Hoffman) graduates from Stanford University. A computer whiz, he's immediately propositioned, along with a declining college geek pal, by charismatic billionaire Tim Robbins (as Gary Winston). Mr. Robbins head-hunts the best minds, for his Internet company N.U.R.V. (Never Underestimate Radical Vision). Flattery, and the promise of financial success, help Mr. Phillippe overcome his reluctance to enter the corporate world; and, he accepts Robbins' offer of employment. At home, Phillippe is encouraged by artist girlfriend Claire Forlani (as Alice Poulson). At work, mysterious and sexy Rachael Leigh Cook (as Lisa Calighan) turns head.The Orwellian atmosphere at N.U.R.V. is&#133; well, unnerving. Phillippe's estranged friend Yee Jee Tso (as Teddy Chin), who declined joining what he considers a Fascist company, is surprised by an unfortunate event. Meanwhile, paranoiac Phillippe begins to feel something may be rotten in Robbins' computer empire&#133; Director Peter Howitt leads his cast and crew through a neat, suspenseful thriller. Sometimes, AntiTrust comes on a little too pretty; but, it's an all-around good effort. And, it definitely captures that sinking feeling you have when switching from a school-centered to a work-based lifestyle. Robbins' character isn't hard to figure out, but he plays it deliciously. Ms. Forlani is truly fascinating; Does that make me Yoko? she asks. Mr. Howitt has a terrific cameo. Three geek shout-outs! for Howitt, John Bailey, and Zach Staenberg.****** AntiTrust (2001) Peter Howitt ~ Ryan Phillippe, Tim Robbins, Claire Forlani "},{"Title":"worse than the skulls","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is whorrable, that's right, i spelled it with a 'w', it's that bad.  between the poor acting, hoaky camera work and weak plot, there really isn't much left that can salvage the film.  An example of this tripple threat of crap can be found all together in one scene, when ryan phillippe's world comes crashing down around him and the director makes this clear by having the the camra spin around him and playing little sound bites of tim robbins talking over it.  And to put the icing on the crap cake, there's a scene in the movie where tim robbins and ryan phillippe pump thier own gas, despite the fact that oregon is one of only 2 states in the entire US that doesnt have self service gas stations.  i could bear the skulls, because it was unintentionally funny, but antitrust was just too bad.  i'm sorry a spent $2.75 on this.  that is an hour and thirty-eight minutes of my life i will never get back. "},{"Title":"Get off your high horse.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Look here, why not just says it's Microsoft? We all know it, so why the smoke and mirrors crap? Do you think it makes you look more credible? If anyone needs a slap, it's you. MS is leading the market because it's the best. And when I say the best, I don't mean for everyone, but for your average John or Jane Doe who don't know squat about computers. Yes, I am sure that you have a THOUSAND arguments why MS isn't but it doesn't matter what YOU think, it's what everyone ELSE thinks. And they like a computer that you can plug and go from scratch (actually, it doesn't work that way, I know, but it's still a whole lot easier for a complete beginner to get a Windows machine working, than a Linux machine).Don't get me wrong, I like Linux and the concept it represents (open source, etc.) and I think it's the way of the future. And yes, I use Linux myself for certain things.But this semi-conspiracy crap that MS is world leading just because they sue, intimidate, etc. and therefor manage to keep Linux supporters (many of whom are obviously geeks with a much too inflated ego) down like the man does and Linux supporters from revealing to the world the awesome freedom that is Linux. Linux has been hyped by it's supporters as the new MS-killer for YEARS.It's simple - put up, or SHUT UP.PS. The movie? Beneath the OBVIOUS MS controversy crap, it was your basic generic conspiracy movie, spreading the usual alarming message about the evils of (INSERT CONSPIRACY TOPIC HERE). It's mildly entertaining at best, but not enough for me to watch the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the only movies I have seen where I have wanted to walk out of the cinema half-way through it because I thought it was so awful. The screenplay was bad, the acting was bad, the basic storyline was bad. I found this movie a complete waste of two hours of my time and I would not recommend anyone sees it unless you like boring, pointless movies. "},{"Title":"Terrible script, TERRIBLE ACTING!  Unspeakably awful.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ryan Philippe is very cute, but he certainly can't act.  The female leads (both of them) were unconvincing and wooden, at best. Tim Robbins, who is a consumate actor, was unable to save this lame duck despite giving a moderately convincing performance because the other cast members were tragically poor.The premise was weak, the tech was ridiculous and jejune, and the pacing was dreadful.All in all, this movie stank.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I see quite a few movies,  normally I love just about any halfway decent movie. Considering I am a computer programmer I figured this would be a great movie to see. Honestly it was awful, the acting was decent at best, the story line was weak, simply playing off recent news items involving Bill Gates and the DOJ. The whole Open Source rules thing was pretty sad too. Even more disappointing was the fact that I have enjoyed both Ryan Phillippe and Tim Robbins in other movies. Cruel Intentions and Arlington Road come to mind. The only person that seem to have half a clue in this movie was Racheael Leigh Cook. 1/2 was because she is incredibly cute, the other 1/2 is because they didn't give her a ton of lines. With less lines she had less chance of saying something stupid about the computer industry. Oh well its only a movie, should make a decent watch on ABC in about 4 years.  "},{"Title":"Must see for cypherpunk","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At first, I thought it would be exploitation movie like Hackers, but it is not. If cypherpunk and cryptonomicon is something for you, this movie was made for you. But don't be awaiting too much, authors decided to go with creation of general movie, not a geek one. So don't be much hunger for full connection in storyline, just look at metaphor side. You have a Matrix version, but Neo is got in a world, not artificial by nature, it is socially artificial.You can see socially artificial things around yourself everyday. Politicians knew, that when they tell us about inflation, it is more appropriate to name infoolation. Because inflation is amount of money, in multiplication sense, which politicians are made people to fool on. And all of this lie is easily covered by simple renaming. Inflation is just called nowadays emission, and people think Barack Obama (or just another liar) is a hero. So, if such lies are easily spread and covered, what else is wrong with story? Nothing, we all are actors in this story. "},{"Title":"Best Hakers Movie","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is best hackers movie. If you liked Hackers 1 and Hackers 2 movies you'll love this one. Exceptional. Characters acts very very well.I'm disappointed because of the votes. This movie must be at least 7.0 ((((((. I love this film and it has a lot of fans. We want a sequel or prequel. Is good than Social Network. I didn't like it. Antitrust also is directed very well is not a B movie. Ryan Fellipe acts very well. Tim Robbins performance is awesome. He looks like Bill Gates also his house. The garage reminds me Steve Jobs and Wozniak's garage. In movie Gary Winston says Bill Gates is primitive .I hope that will be another one. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Typical January fare","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  AntiTrust is just like what you should see in January, typical fair stuff, the movies that come out that were left over from the December pile and put on as new movies in the field of good, Oscar contending flicks.  It is way too conventional and even though it has it's info in order and Robbins makes a good supporting villain, the film just isn't that great.  Here, Robbins plays a Bill Gates clone (only missing the bad haircut) who brings Phillipe, a boy genius, into his business to change technology.  But as usual, the film turns to a thriller with all the chases and death things, etc.  If it's your first time ever seeing a thriller, you might like it, otherwise, stick to the Oscar stuff.  C "}]